Wipro Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Hundred years on to 2015 AD A century is just a blip in the planet’s history but the twentieth century saw far more fundamental changes in human society and in the earth’s environment than ever in recorded history. Global life expectancy doubled to 71 years, the world population has more than quadrupled to 7.35 billion, the The average GDP per capita has risen ten-fold to $ 15000, nearly 70 million cars are produced annually and the gravitational waves predicted by Einstein’s theory of 1915 were finally verified. And just like 100 years back, large parts of Europe seem to be in strife but this time due to migration from North Africa and terrorist strikes. shifting The twentieth century also saw changes to the natural environment of our planet that were unprecedented in the last 11500 years commonly called the Holocene period. The Holocene period is considered the most climatically stable period in the history of planet earth during which natural normal conditions allowed life and civilization to flourish. The last hundred years have seen our civilization’s triumphant onward march tempered by some very serious challenges that are entirely man-made in origin whether it is a steady rise in the global average temperature or a serious threat to coastal life systems from increased nitrogen efflux in rivers or an alarming increase in extreme weather events or a 100 fold increase in loss of species. These changes have not happened steadily though – they have accelerated rapidly in the last fifty years, concomitant with exploding technological change and economic growth after World War II. Called the Great Acceleration, scientists and thinkers suggest that the scale and intensity of these human induced effects have been of such magnitude that the Our theme for this year’s report The Shifting Normal focuses emerging trends that present era should be called the Anthropocene. are steadily changing our natural environment and the society that we live in. As a The year 2015 seems to reaffirm that we are indeed in the Anthropocene. Already declared as the part of the GRI special for this report, we present a brief historical narrative of global warmest year in recorded history, the year saw several extreme weather events severe drought in movements over the last fifty years that have tried to engage with the compelling California, intense heat waves in India, Iran, Iraq and Europe followed by record breaking rains in challenges of sustainable development. We have shared an overview on 4 specific Chennai and coastal Tamil Nadu in India as well as in Texas and Oklahoma in the U.S.A.. The year also witnessed fundamental shifts in our socioeconomic fabric record low oil prices with unpredictable themes – climate change, biodiversity, sustainable development and ozone. consequences for the global economy, large scale migration and social instability in Europe resulting from the gradual desertification of North Africa and the challenge of increasing unemployment and under-employment. The theme of this year’s report “The Shifting Normal’ brings to focus the above emerging trends that are steadily but surely changing our natural environment and the society that we live in. The report features a brief historical narrative of the global movements of the last fifty years that have tried to engage with the compelling challenges of sustainable development. Starting with ‘World Earth Day’ in 1970 and the Stockholm conference of 1972, the world has seen several important movements that seek to make our planet a better place to live in. The year 2015 will go down in history as when two Circa 1915 AD significant global agreements were signed. The first is the ‘Sustainable Development Goals’, the successor to the Millennium Development Goals. The second is the Paris agreement on climate change or COP-21 which seeks to establish a binding agreement that seeks to keep our planet’s A hundred years ago large parts of Europe were at war with each other, Albert Einstein published the average temperature rise within 2 degree C as compared to the 18th century. Together, these seminal theory of general relativity, the planet had a little more than 1.7 billion humans populating it, agreement frameworks represent humanity’s collective effort to make our society and the planet a the average GDP per capita was $ 1550 , the millionth car rolled of Ford Motor Company’s factory at vastly better place to live in. Much more will be needed however to reverse the shifting normal ; for, Michigan, global life expectancy was around 35 years at birth and the German scientist Richard real change is determined by what happens on the ground day after day….whether in schools, health Willstatter got the Nobel Chemistry prize for his research on chlorophyll, the plant chemical that care centers, businesses, citizen groups, policy bodies or just in us as individuals. In all this, what is colors trees green. Those early years of the twentieth century were tumultuous times marked as much crucial is the kind of questions that we ask ourselves constantly to guide us forward. The great German by the hope of a new era of scientific and technological progress as much as by strife and a changing philosopher Immanuel Kant in his seminal work ‘A critique of pure reason’ had suggested three social and political order. questions that can serve as inner compasses for us to navigate the right ethical path: These questions are “ What can I Know ?” , “What may I Hope ? “ and “What should I Do?”. Our collective responsibility is to find the right answers to these questions and act with a sense of urgency and purpose. Letter from the Chairman ..................... 06 Sustainability Dashboard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 About This Report ............................... 19 Report Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Materiality Determination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Organization Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Wipro and Sustainability ........................ 47 CONTENTS Sustainability Megaforces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 Overview of Wipro's Sustainability Journey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Wipro's Sustainability Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Sustainability Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 Sustainability Risks Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 Transparency and Disclosures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 Wipro and its Stakeholders .................... 69 Workplace Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 Ecological sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 Customer stewardship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140 Financial Stewardship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155 Supply Chain Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172 Partnering for social change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 183 Advocacy and Public Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204 Assurance Statement ............................ 211 Feedback and Communication ................. 215 t ne P l a U n d er th r e at At its core, global climate change should not be just about economic theory or political platforms, nor about partisan advantage or interest group pressures. It is about protecting both the human environment and the natural environment. So, is the climate changing? Global average temperature is one of the most-cited indicators of global climate change, and shows an increase of approximately 0.78°C since the early 20th Century. Our theme for this year’s report The Shifting Normal focuses emerging trends that are steadily changing our natural environment and the society that we live in. As a part of the GRI Special for this report, we present a brief historical narrative of global movements over the last fifty years that have tried to engage with the compelling challenges of sustainable development. The following pages of the insert form part of the GRI Special and address the impact of Climate Change, and Global Actions that have taken place to better understand the issue and help drive better impact. C imate hange action 1988 1992 1995 1996 World leaders meet COP 1, Berlin COP 2, Geneva IPCC established for the first time to discuss climate change at the Rio Earth Agreed that commitments were inadequate reached the Berlin Mandate, to establish a The Geneva Ministerial Declaration noted. Discussed Quantified Emissions Limitation and The Paris climate agreement: key points Scientists warn of the danger of Summit. process to negotiate strengthened Reduction Objectives (QELROs) and A historic pact, approved by 195 countries commitments for developed countries. acceleration of the Berlin Mandate. to take effect from 2020 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 Temperatures 2100 Keep warming well below 2 degree Celsius . COP 7, Marrakech COP 6, The Hague COP 5, Bonn COP 4, Buenos Aires COP3, Koyoto Continue efforts to limit the rise in temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Ensured compliance with Bonn Agreements Consensus Focused on adoption and guidelines Buenos Aires Plan of Action, focused on Kyoto Protocol, first international agreement commitments to land-use change and including capacity-building for for preparation of national financial mechanisms, development & transfer with binding emissions reductions targets for forestry (LULUCF). developing countries and countries communications, capacity building, of technologies and maintaining the developed countries accepted. with economies in transition. transfer of technology and flexible momentum in relation to the Kyoto Protocol. Finance 2020-2025 mechanisms. Developed countries to provide US$100 billion from 2020, as a floor Amount to be updated by 2025. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Differentiation COP 8, New Delhi COP 9, Milan COP 10, Buenos Aires COP 11, Montreal COP 12, Nairobi Developed countries must continue to take the lead in the reduction of greenhouse gases Reiterated the need to build on Special Climate Change Fund and Policy on development and transfer Koyoto Protocol enters into force. Adopted rules for procedure for the Kyoto Developing nations are encouraged to enhance their efforts and move over time cuts. the outcomes of the 2001 Least Developed Countries Fund of technologies, LULUCF; and Protocol's Compliance Committee. adopted to support technology transfer, UNFCCC Article 6 on education, Beginning of the shale revolution Launch World Summit. adaptation projects and other activities. training and public awareness. of the first carbon market (EU ETS) Emissions objectives 2050 Aim for greenhouse gases emissions to peak as soon as possible From 2050:rapid reductions to achieve a balance between emissions from human 2010 2009 2008 2007 activity and the amount that can be captured by CO2 sinks”. COP 16, Cancun COP 15, Copenhagen COP 14, Poznan COP 13, Bali Burden-sharing Green Climate Fund created to support The Copenhagen Summit recognizes the Adaptation Fund under the Kyoto Protocol, Adopted the Bali Road Map as a two-year developing countries. 2ºC scientific goal, but fails to reach a new to be filled by a 2% levy on projects under process towards a strengthened Developed countries must provide financial resources to help developing countries global climate deal. the Clean Development Mechanism. international climate change agreement. Other countries are invited to provide support on a voluntary basis. G20 commits to phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies Review mechanism 2023 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 A review every 5 years First world review: 2023 Each review will inform countries in updating and enhancing their pledges. COP 17, Durban COP 18, Doha COP19, Warsaw COP20, Lima Climate damage Timetable to adopt a universal climate Rulebook for reducing emissions from Pledges made by developed and developing Decided to adopt a universal climate agreement by 2015, to come into effect deforestation and forest degradation, countries prior to and during the COP took the COP21, Paris Vulnerable countries have won recognition of the need for averting, minimising agreement by 2015; work begins under the Ad Hoc working Group on the Durban in 2020. together with measures to bolster forest capitalization of the new Green Climate Fund Earth's warmest year on record. and addressing losses suffered due to climate change. Platform for Enhanced Action (ADP). preservation with a results-based payment (GCF) past an initial $10 billion target. system. Peak oil price crisis Record high global Oil price crash C imate Change Water Vapor As we warmed-up, water vapor increased by Time to Care Is happening now roughly 4% since the 1970s, making most regions vulnerable to increases and decreases of precipitation. Scientists have known for decades. They've warned us and changes are well underway. Glaciers & Ice Sheets Shrinking and losing mass faster melt rate in the past 20 years, prior to 1993 Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets have lost over four trillion metric tons in 20 years. Snow Cover The average Northern Hemisphere snow cover extent decreased 1.6% per decade from 1967-2012. Permafrost Since early 1980s, increased temperatures have led to shrinking, resulting in trapped methane and carbon Temperature dioxide release into the atmosphere, vulnerability of coastlines to erosion and ecosystem changes. Global surface temperature risen 1.6ºC over past 50 years Each of the last three decades has Sea Ice been warmer than the preceding decades. Reflects incoming radiation from the Sun Arctic sea ice has been decreasing 3.5 to 4.1% per decade (1979-2012). Multi-year ice that lasts throughout the year, has decreased 11% per decade. Shifting Seasons Impacts the entire ecosystems flowers emerge earlier while frost is a risk, resulting in fewer wildflowers and butterflies, affecting migration Ocean Heat Content patterns and causing melt to begin earlier. Oceans absorb a large amount of CO2 that react with ocean water to form carbonic acid, lowering the ocean's pH by 0.1 since the beginning of the industrial era making the ocean 26% more acidic. Ocean Ocean Acidification acidification impacts the survival of marine organisms. Over 90% of the warming on Earth over the past 50 years has occurred in the ocean. Heat already stored in the ocean will eventually be released, locking Sea Surface Temperatures in additional warming in the future. Increasing greenhouse gases not only warming the atmosphere it's warming the oceans. Water expands as it warms, contributing to sea level rise. From 1901 to 2012, sea surface temperatures rose at an average rate Sea Level Rise of 0.13 degrees per decade. Global average has risen 7.5 inches over the past century, with the rate of rise accelerating over the last two decades. Sea levels rose twice as fast from 1993 to 2010 as they did from 1901 to 2010. What Countries are doing to Tackle C imate Change Russia has pledged to limiting anthropogenic greenhouse gases Canada 70%-75% to 70-75% year 2030 of 1990 levels by the intends to achieve an economy-wide target to 30% reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 30% below 2005 levels by 2030 China has determined its actions by 2030 to The EU lower carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP and its 28 member states are committed to a binding 60%-65% by 60% to 65% from the 2005 level and to 40% target of at least 40% domestic reduction in increase non-fossil fuels in primary energy consumption greenhouse gas emissions Japan The U.S. by 2030 compared post-2020 GHG to 1990 intends to achieve an economyemission reductions is wide target of reducing its INDIA at 26.0% by 2030 greenhouse gas emissions by compared to 2013 at intends to reduce the 26%-28% emissions intensity of its GDP 25.4% 25.4% below its 2005 level in 2025 and to make best efforts 33%-35% by 33-35 % reduction compared to FY 2005 by 2030 from 2005 to reduce its emissions by 28% and has undertaken to set up Indonesia a USD 55.6 million National has committed to reduce Brazil Adaptation Fund 26% unconditionally 26% of its greenhouse gases against intends to commit to the business as usual scenario reduce greenhouse gas by the year 2020 emissions by 37% below 2005 levels in 2025 and to reduce greenhouse gas Australia 43% emissions by 43% below 2005 levels will implement an economy-wide in 2030 target to reduce greenhouse gas 26-28% emissions by 26-28% below 2005 levels by 2030 Dear Fellow Stakeholders Welcome to our eighth sustainability report, for the year 2014-15. The theme of this year’s report, ‘The shifting normal’ highlights the fact that the nature of social and ecological issues facing us is changing so rapidly that yesterday’s outliers are becoming today’s normal. Let me cite some examples: 2015, already declared as the warmest year on record by the scientific community, was witness to several extreme weather events – severe drought in California, intense heat waves in India, Iran, Iraq and Europe followed by record breaking rains in Chennai and coastal Tamil Nadu in India as well as in Texas and Oklahoma in the U.S.A.. In parallel, we have been witnessing gradual but deep structural shifts on crucial socio-economic factors – for example, the record low oil prices with unpredictable consequences for the global economy or the gradual desertification of North Africa contributing to migration to Europe. Azim H Premji Chairman, Wipro Ltd. Letter from Wipro Sustainability 06 Report 2014-15 the Chairman Climate Change and Water: LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN The climate change problem stemming from the global fossil-fuel economy has been made more complex due to its linkages with other critical issues like water scarcity, food security and biodiversity loss. At Wipro, our engagement with efforts to tackle climate change goes back several years, with 2014-15 marking the completion of our first five-year targets on greenhouse gas reductions. Over this period, our renewable energy footprint has increased four-fold comprising 22 % of our total electricity consumption today. Our energy efficiency initiatives during the same period have helped save 51 million units cumulatively. These measures have together helped avoid 92000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. While this is significant progress, we recognize acutely that these are just a few steps and a lot more needs to be done. Our targets for the next five year cycle and beyond will incorporate learnings from our journey so far and will be set on the basis of climate science templates that require the world to stay within the 2 degree temperature rise limit as enumerated in the recent Paris agreement on climate change. The impact of a warming climate on the water cycle can result in intensified drought-like conditions, changes in rainfall pattern and extreme weather events. India has been seeing examples of all the three, with the unprecedented rains and flooding in coastal Tamil Nadu being the most recent. I have written to you in my earlier letters of our integrated approach on water management that includes our proximate communities and other stakeholders. During the year, we completed a very detailed map of the groundwater aquifer spread over 33 sq km around our campus in Sarjapur, Bangalore. This is part of our larger program that seeks to evolve a citizen led model of water governance that will be informed by groundwater science, empirical data and rich exchange of good practices. Good Education and Wiproearthian: I have reiterated on different occasions that good education provides the foundation for a good society by helping build the capacity of individuals to think critically and to act responsibly. Our work in education spans a wide spectrum across school and higher education. One of our key programs, Wipro-earthian is driven by the vision that a critical dimension in addressing the challenges of sustainability, is about making sustainability integral to education in schools and colleges. Wipro Sustainability Letter from Report 2014-15 070 the Chairman The program has been growing in scale and scope since its inception, now with an outreach to over 12000 schools and colleges. These institutions participate in a set of learning activities that help them understand the issues of water, biodiversity and climate change better. In addition, we work closely with a smaller set of schools and colleges, to deepen their sustainability thinking and learning. Our engagements in Wipro-earthian and in other areas of education is reflective of the kind of sustained and deliberative work required in this space. Employees as agents of positive change: In the world of IT Services and Consulting, employees are at the heart of a company’s progress. This holds true for Wipro. Our progress is entirely the result of the effort of the more than 160,000 Wiproites, and that of employees of our partners. We believe that all individuals, and that includes Wiproites, can be powerful agents of change for the better as members of families, communities and as responsible citizens. A powerful illustration of this is Wipro Cares, a not-for-profit-trust, which runs our community programs on primary health care, education for the underprivileged and disaster rehabilitation. Aside from Wipro’s continuing significant financial support to this trust, the other source of funds is what Wiproites contribute to the trust, and which is also matched rupee to rupee by Wipro. Wiproites can also choose to work with our NGO partners on issues that concern them and they feel for. More than 51000 Wipro employees are currently active contributors to Wipro Cares, making this perhaps one of the largest such programs in the world. The imperative of continuous improvement: We have designed our sustainability program to be strategic and to be continually evolving. In doing so, we are acutely aware of the need to hold ourselves up to scrutiny and to keep improving. For example, while our progress on energy efficiency, and renewable energy has been good, we think it is imperative to accelerate the growth of use of renewable energy and to aim for newer standards in energy efficiency. On energy efficiency, we are targeting standards above and better than all current global benchmarks, for all our new campuses starting with our proposed facility at Kodathi in Bangalore. Key details of our performance on multiple sustainability parameters are available in the summary dashboard that follows this letter, as well as in the detail sections that follow Letter from Wipro Sustainability 08 Report 2014-15 the Chairman In conclusion Among other things, the year 2015 will be remembered for two significant global agreements that got ratified and signed by a majority of the 191 countries of the world. The first is the ‘Sustainable Development Goals’, the successor to the Millennium Development Goals. The second is Paris agreement on climate change or COP-21, which seeks to establish a binding agreement that will keep our planet’s average temperature rise within 2 deg C as compared to the 18th century. Together, these agreement frameworks represent humanity’s collective effort to make the planet a vastly better place to live in, and the society to become a humane, just and equitable society. We must be clear however that while such international alliances or national agendas play an important role, real change is determined by what happens on the ground day after day…….in schools, health care centers, businesses, citizen groups, policy bodies or just in us as individuals. And it’s we who must make this happen. With Best Wishes Azim H Premji Wipro Sustainability Letter from Report 2014-15 090 the Chairman i t y il a in a b r d Su s t o a h b a s D We have a structured and well defined dashboard of five year goals for Energy, GHG reduction, Water, Waste and Biodiversity ;these goals have year-wise milestones and are part of all our public disclosures We have similarly articulated statement of direction and qualitative goals on Health and Safety, Diversity, Green Computing and education. Energy and Emissions Diverse Supplier Workplace 71% of the Partnering for GHG intensity reduced 9 Mn Kwh Spend contributed to 5.2% procurement for the Social Change Sustainability from 1.77-1.74 tons saved annually of total central procurement year by value was from C02 per employee through virtualization tracked spend for local suppliers of servers in 2014-15 India operations Wipro Education Wipro Science Renewable energy Education Fellowship Program Talent engagement contributes to 20% of total electricity consumptions New domains for 6 new partnerships serving disadvantaged and empowerment for India offices Vision & Goals rural youth North-East, Maharashtra, communities in cities primary school Kerala, Karnataka 57,000 EPS Pulse 2014 mathematics, integrated and Punjab in USA to improve science & math education enterprise-wide social Engagement Scores Water ? To complete pilot assessments of significantly high social risks learning program in schools launched in networking platform users 2% Reduction in fresh water Participative ground and initiate improvement programs for our suppliers Chicago,New York demand by 7% in 2014-15 water project & Boston ? To evangelize green procurement criteria among key suppliers at1.36 KL vs. in 35 sq.km Employee Health 1.46 KL per person proximate area of Collaboration with per month saving 132 Mn Corporate Office Launched a program 5 projects 250 300 and Safety on education of UMass Boston teachers across Liters of freshwater supporting needs of children with Michigan State University 20 school 18 Occupational Health and Supply Chain 1350 underprivileged and Mercy College districts go through a locations in India 130,000 Waste disabilities children in Bangalore, 2-3 year fellowship certified for Safety trainings participants (employees, Sustainability Pune, Jaipur & Hyderabad OHSAS 18001 contractors & service providers) 90% of total waste from India operations recycled or reused earthian Mission 10X Diversity and Inclusion Campus Biodiversity Participation nationwide 14 workshops Workshops conducted Started since 2011 on sustainability Academic Women Retention 76 candidates with Phase 2 – Biodiversity Customer learning for 76 Rate post parental disabilities were hired in Wetland Park programs at two of Stewardship 3,000 schools colleges & Leadership 250+ teachers Faculty leave from FY 14-15 Totally 495 work underway in our campuses in Pune 15,000 students 1,003 Empowerment 54 Mission10X 89%-93% employees with disability Electronic City Campus, and increased Bangalore native species by Innovation 3,500 educators 91 Practitioners Technology Learning 4 times to 200 species Centers (MTLCs) Customer engagement Student now operational in Capability Building Vision & Goals Co-hosted national level symposium on 614 Engineering 12 states Thinking and Career Development Sustainability in Management Education Designated CSR “GOLD” overall ? Doubling renewable units of energy by 2020 from 65 Mn. To CSR rating (highest with IIM-B, Kenan Flagler School of Business, Thought Leader wide range of 4000 1200 135 Mn. units University of North Carolina by Verego among possible three programs technical, registered registered ? Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee) by levels) by Ecovadis behavioral, sales, mentees mentors 5% year on year leadership training in our Learning Networks ? Broad base the Participative Aquifer Mapping (PAQM) program with the community & launch the lakes study program Wipro Cares covering 16 lakes in the Sarjapur watershed 250 new Vision & Goals ? Save nearly 10% of total water consumption across campuses patent applications via ultra-filtration of waste water expected to save around 480 filed strong intellectual KL/day property portfolio ? Career enhancement of employees through internal role movements, skill-based career paths, job rotations and Primary Healthcare Access to Program in urban solid waste manager capability building management in Bangalore to ? Build customized learning programs based on specific Net Promoter Score Overall satisfaction 16 new 75,000 people which provides skills upgrading & Education program increased by 680 performance of increased through 7 projects, covering patents granted needs of key accounts to drive business outcomes Ecological basis points for from 89.7% to against existing patent 53 villages access to social security benefits benefitting 500 ? Develop meaningful HR metrics and analytics to assist Sustainability 2014-15 from 2013-14 across Maharashtra, Karnataka, to 260 informal workers migrant worker’s children strategic decision-making 91.5% in 2014-15 applications Andhra Pradesh and Uttarakhand Sustainability Dashboard We have a structured and well defined dashboard of five year goals for Energy, GHG reduction, Water, Waste and Biodiversity ;these goals have year-wise milestones and are part of all our public disclosures We have similarly articulated statement of direction and qualitative goals on Health and Safety, Diversity, Green Computing and education. Workplace Sustainability ? Launch of an enterprise-wide social networking platform to enhance collaboration and idea-sharing. Over 57,000 users with 4,700 groups ? Wipro's employee assistance and counselling program completes 11 years. Engagement scores increased by 2% in the Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Pulse 2014 survey ? Over 130,000 participants (employees, contractors and services providers) attended trainings on Health & Safety, covering Occupational health, Transportation, Hospitality, emergency response and Security domains Highlights ? 24000+ technical, behavioral, sales and leadership training programs delivered. 4000 registered mentees and 1200 registered mentors in our Learning Networks ? Women consists 30.2% of total workforce. Workforce comprising 101 nationalities in 58 countries ? We have a total count of close to 495 employees with disability, including 76 hired in 2014 15 Sign language interpretation for key employee communication. Online portal `Kinesics' for learning sign language ? Career enhancement of employees through internal role movements, skill-based career paths, job rotations and manager capability building ? Re-design and re-alignment of organizational performance management to encourage a culture of coaching and development Visions and goals ? Build customized learning programs based on specific needs of key for future accounts to drive business outcomes ? Enhance flagship leadership development programs for business and HR teams ? Develop meaningful HR metrics and analytics to assist strategic decisionmaking Sustainability Wipro Sustainability 010 Report 2014-15 Dashboard Ecological Sustainability Emissions ? GHG intensity reduced from 1.77 to 1.74 Tons CO2 eq Per employee in 2014-15 ? 100,000 tons of CO2 Equivalent emissions compared to previous year ? 9 Million KWh saved annually through virtualization of servers Energy ? Renewable energy contributes to 20% of total electricity consumptions for Highlights India offices ? Energy intensity decreased from 233 units to 224 (kWh) Per employee per annum Water ? Reduction in fresh water demand by 7% in 2014-15; at 1.36 KL vs. 1.46 KL per person per month ? 132 MN KL freshwater saved ? 35% Of water demand met through recycling Waste ? 90% of Total Waste from India operations recycled or reused ? Participative ground water project in 35 sq.km proximate area of Corporate OfficeBiodiversity ? Phase 2 Wetland Park work underway in the Butterfly Park at Electronic City Campus, Bangalore completed in 2013. ? Started Biodiversity programs at two of our campuses in Pune. ? Increased native species by 4 times to 200 species ? Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee) by 5% year on year. ? Integrate rainwater harvesting into freshwater consumption across campuses by 2017. Visions and goals ? Implement ultra-filtration and RO projects and integrate with in three large for future campuses by 2016.Broad base the Participative aquifer mapping (PAQM) program with the community and launch the lakes study program covering 16 lakes in the Sarjapur watershed.-Refer to `Energy and GHG Mitigation' for related goals. Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Report 2014-15 110 Dashboard Supply Chain Sustainability ? Diverse supplier spend contributed to 5.2% of total central procurement tracked spend for India operations ? By value 71% of the procurement for the year was from local suppliers Highlights ? To put in place an effective supply chain risk management and supplier engagement program ? To complete pilot assessments of our suppliers with significantly high social Visions and goals for future Customer Stewardship ? Net Promoter Score increased by 680 basis points for 2014-15 as compared to the previous year ? Overall satisfaction performance of increased from 89.7% to 91.5% in 2014-15 Highlights ? No substantiated instances of data privacy breaches ? An overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among possible three levels) by Ecovadis ? Designated as “CSR Thought Leader by Verego ? Set up a US$100M fund to invest in early and mid-stage startups with the ability to reshape the future of enterprises with emerging and disruptive technologies Sustainability Wipro Sustainability 012 Report 2014-15 Dashboard Partnering for Social Change Wipro Education ? New domains like primary school mathematics and integrated learning program for rural youth included 6 new partnerships in the North-East, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Punjab ? Launched a program on education of children with disabilities, supporting needs of 1350 underprivileged children through 5 projects in Bangalore, Pune, Jaipur and Hyderabad Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program Highlights ? Launched in Chicago, New York and Boston to improve Science and Math education in schools primarily serving disadvantaged communities in cities in USA ? Collaboration with UMass Boston, Michigan State University and Mercy College ? Works with 250-300 teachers across 20 school districts who go through a 2-3 year fellowship earthian ? Participation from 3,000 schools and colleges, 15,000 students and 3,500 educators nationwide since its launch in 2011 ? 14 workshops on sustainability learning were conducted for more than 250 teachers ? Co-hosted national level symposium on ‘Sustainability in Management Education’ along with IIM-B and Kenan Flagler School of Business, University of North Carolina Mission 10X ? Conducted 76 Academic Leadership, 1,003 Faculty Empowerment, 91 Practitioners and 614 Student Engineering Thinking Workshops ? 54 Mission10X Technology Learning Centers (MTLCs) now operational in 12 states Wipro Cares ? Participative ground water project in 35 sq.km proximate area of Corporate Office ? Primary Healthcare access to 75,000 people across 7 projects, covering 53 villages across Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Uttarakhand ? Program in urban solid waste management in Bangalore provides skills upgrading and access to social security benefits to 260 informal workers ? Education program to 500 migrant worker’s children Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Report 2014-15 13 Dashboard a in g le i s i o n ab re E n v st a i n F u t u Su The concept of sustainability and sustainable development, have become part of the political rhetoric in the 1980s, due to the publication of the Brundtland Commission report Our Common Future, and Leading thinkers and writers drawing attention to the relationship between economic growth and development and environmental degradation. The world is in need of an economic system, that is sustainable and capable of satisfying the basic material requirements of its people based on today's ecological system with its limited pools of resources. Our theme for this year’s report The Shifting Normal focuses emerging trends that are steadily changing our natural environment and the society that we live in. As a part of the GRI Special for this report, we present a brief historical narrative of global movements over the last fifty years that have tried to engage with the compelling challenges of sustainable development. The following pages of the insert form part of the GRI Special and provide a brief history of Sustainable and the planned goals for 2030. The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held in History of Sustainable Development in Stockholm brought the industrialized and developing nations together to 1972 delineate the ‘rights’ of the human family to a healthy and productive environment. The recognition to revitalize humanity’s connection with Nature, led to the creation of global institutions within the UN system. The United Nations RIO+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development The International Union for the Conservation of Natural Resources The United Nations Conference (IUCN) published the World Conservation Strategy (WCS) which on Sustainable Development provided a precursor to the concept of sustainable development. The strategy asserted that conservation of nature cannot be achieved The World Summit on The UN General Assembly (Rio+20) Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is Resolution A/RES/64/236 The considered to be the largest 1980 without development to alleviate poverty and stressed the Sustainable Development (WSSD) Future We Want agrees to hold conferences in the history of the interdependence of conservation and development which depends on was convened in Johannesburg to caring for the Earth. Unless the fertility and productivity of the renew the global commitment to the United Nations Conference on United Nations, establishes The planet are safeguarded, the human future is at risk. sustainable development. The Sustainable Development (UNCSD) Division for Sustainable conference agreed on the in 2012 referred to as 'Rio+20'. Development (DSD) to provide 1992 Johannesburg Plan of The Member States agreed on leadership in promoting and Implementation (JPOI) and two themes for Rio+20: green coordinating implementation of the tasked the CSD to follow-up on the economy within the context of sustainable development agenda of 1982 implementation of sustainable sustainable development & poverty the United Nations. The work of 1983 development. eradication, and institutional the Division translates into five core framework for sustainable functions: (1) Support to UN development intergovernmental processes on Rio de Janeiro the first UN sustainable development; (2) UNGASS Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) adopted Analysis and policy development; an agenda for environment and (3) Capacity development at the At the 48th plenary of the General The World Commission on country level; (4) Inter-agency Assembly, the WCS initiative development in the 21st Century. Environment and Development The General Assembly culminated with the approval of the coordination; and (5) Knowledge (WCED) was created. In 1984, it was Agenda 21: recognizes each dedicated its 19th Special World Charter for Nature. The management, communication and constituted as an independent nation’s right to pursue social and Session (UNGASS-19) to Charter stated that mankind is a body by the United Nations economic progress and assigned to design a Programme for 2002 2009 outreach. part of nature and life depends states the responsibility of General Assembly. WCED was the Further Implementation on the uninterrupted functioning adopting a model of sustainable asked to formulate ‘A global of Agenda 21 . of natural systems . development; and, the Statement agenda for change’. In 1987, in its report Our Common Future also of Forest Principles. Agenda 21 known as the Brundtland Report, reaffirmed that sustainable the WCED reaffirmed that the development was delimited by the integration of the economic, social environment does not exist as a and environmental pillars. 2012 sphere separate from human actions, ambitions, and needs, and Harmony with Nature , 1997 therefore it should not be captured the spirit of the considered in isolation from human conference and brought to the concerns. The environment is fore the first principle of the Rio where we all live; and development Declaration: Human beings are at United Nations Sustainable Development Summit 2015, Time for Global is what we all do in attempting to the centre of concerns for Action , was held in New York between 25 27 September. The summit was improve our lot within that abode. sustainable development. They are convened for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda at a high-level The two are inseparable. The entitled to a healthy and plenary meeting of the General Assembly to table the Agenda for Sustainable 1993 report wove together social, economic, cultural and productive life in harmony with nature . Development 2030: Transforming our World. This agenda is a plan of action for people, planet and prosperity; seeks to 2015 environmental issues and global Summ rth strengthen universal peace in larger freedom; recognises that eradicating poverty solutions. i UNCED instituted the Commission on in all forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global Rio E 992 a t1 Local, national Sustainable Development (CSD) to follow-up challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development. and international action on the implementation of Agenda 21. The goals and targets will stimulate action over the next fifteen years in areas of critical importance for humanity and the planet. Sustainable development is the pathway Transforming our World: to the future we want for all. It offers a framework to generate economic growth, Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Goals for 2030 achieve social justice, exercise environmental stewardship and strengthen governance. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Ban Ki-moon 8th Secretary-General of the United Nations Reduced Inequalities Reduce inequality within and among countries Decent Work and Economic Growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Sustainable Cities and Communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Affordable and Clean Energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable Responsible Consumption and modern energy for all and Production Ensure sustainable consumption Clean Water and Sanitation and production patterns Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower Life Below Water all women and girls Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable Quality Education development Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education Life on Land & promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, Good Health & Well-Being and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 8 9 7 10 Peace, Justice and Zero Hunger 6 11 Strong Institutions Promote peaceful and inclusive End hunger, achieve food security 12 and improved nutrition and promote 5 societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and sustainable agriculture 13 build effective, accountable and 4 inclusive institutions at all levels 14 3 15 Partnerships with Goals 2 17 Sustainable Strengthen the means of No Poverty 16 implementation and End poverty in all its forms everywhere 1 Development Goals revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 17 1. ABOUT THIS REPORT 1 Report Profile Reporting period for Date of most recent this sustainability report previous report April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 Wipro Sustainability report (Referred hereafter in for the fiscal year 2013-14, short as '14-15) released in March 2015 Link to the previous report http://www.wiprosustainabilityreport.com/13-14/ In accordance criteria Reporting cycle Comprehensive according Annual basis GRI G 4 Guidelines Scope & Boundry Businesses Wipro Technologies | Wipro Business Process Services Wipro Infotech | Wipro Eco Energy services Geographies Americas | Europe | India | Japan | Middle | EastAsia Pacific Scope of reporting Financial performance indicators All geographies Environmental performance indicators India (energy data reported for overseas locations) Employee metrics All geographies Social performance metrics Primarily India Other qualitative reporting All geographies (unless otherwise specified) The GRI Content Index for in accordance option ‘Comprehensive as prescribed by GRI G4 Guidelines details the coverage of relevant information. Approach Like our previous reports, we continue to adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is such a crucial cornerstone of the AA1000 and the GRI frameworks, we believe that the stakeholder format is more appropriate for focusing attention on key material aspects for each of the stakeholders. Each of the individual section on this report is structured as our response to concerns of the stakeholders identified through the materiality assessment. We have opted to conduct an independent assurance of our sustainability report as part of our company policy. DNV GL represented by DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, has been engaged to verify the content of this report. Wipro Sustainability Report Profile 19 Report 2014-15 Materiality Determination Sustainability reporting should aim to be a faithful reflection of the organization’s values, vision, plans, progress and challenges on the different dimensions of sustainability. Determining ‘materiality’ helps an organization to understand issues that are relevant to its stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. The process has to be centered at the intersection of organizational relevance and stakeholder priorities. It should be the first step for organizations in informing their sustainability charter and this is how we started our formal sustainability journey in 2007-08. But the dynamic of the fast evolving terrain of corporate sustainability demands that companies reassess their sustainability strategy and materiality determination approaches at regular intervals. It is in this spirit that we initiated our materiality recalibration exercise in early 2014. In this section, we discuss the rationale, approach and outcomes of our materiality determination exercise. Materiality Recalibration Materiality is informed by the socio-economic context in which an organization operates and the needs of its primary and/or influencing stakeholders. It requires us to keep ‘ears to the ground’ by understanding stakeholders’ perceptions and expectations, the business context, local and macro developments and changing thresholds of sustainability risks and opportunities over time. We began the process of undertaking a strategic review of our materiality framework in early 2014. The revision process involved taking a fresh look at the material dimensions and recalibrating them without assumptions or predetermined notions. Our approach was briefly presented in the Sustainability Report 2013-14. The objective of the exercise was to relook at our current sustainability strategy and identify issues which have evolved since we last revised our materiality framework. We present below the approach and progress on this exercise. The Driving Principles In addition to the classic framework that maps issues on the basis of ‘Relevance to the Organization’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, our materiality framework incorporates the following driving principles: 1. ....Incorporation of multiple dimensions: Material dimensions vary from one organization to another as the context of each company and the industry or geography in which it is operating is not necessarily the same. The issues faced by a business can be different even within the same sector and geography. The materiality determination should reflect the complexities of multiple environmental, social and governance dimensions that are relevant to Wipro as a company and to the IT Services sector. It is also important to look at the probability and impact of the issues over a long period of time. The societal and global context could shift and what would have been peripheral in the short term could eventually become central and critical. Wipro Sustainability 20 Materiality Determination Report 2014-15 2. ....Individual stakeholder view: The conventional materiality matrix typically places issues based on relevance to the company and relevance to stakeholders; however, given that a company will have multiple stakeholders who are often very different in the roles that they play, it makes little sense to talk about ‘stakeholder relevance’ as an abstract, macro notion unless it is mapped to the next level of detail to the individual stakeholder. 3... Intrinsic worth: In the conventional materiality matrix of ‘Relevance to Wipro’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, certain critical sustainability issues may not score high on either of the dimensions. And yet, they have an intrinsic worth that compels serious and deep engagement. Therefore, our new framework will look at all these three factors. Our Approach The questions ‘Who are your stakeholders?’ and ‘What are their material issues?’ are important starting steps and we consider these questions as the building blocks of our sustainability initiatives and reporting. Based on GRI G4 Guidelines and AA 1000 principles of ‘Stakeholder Inclusiveness’, ‘Materiality’ and ‘Sustainability Context’, we have adopted the following approach to determine materiality for our company. Prioritizing issues Identifying issues ? Seeking stakeholder feedback Defining ? Seeking stakeholder ? Understanding feedback sustainability context stakeholders ? Benchmarking ? Figuring in intrinsic worth ? Asessing internally Wipro Sustainability Materiality Determination 21 Report 2014-15 Stakeholder Identification Defining who an organization’s primary stakeholders are, can be relatively straightforward within the business ecosystem. But when it comes to larger social and environmental contexts, the meaning of stakeholders can assume a form that is unduly large or amorphous. Here it becomes important to understand and identify those attributes of stakeholders that makes them important to business and necessitate meaningful engagement. We began our identification by defining those attributes and then mapping our value chain to determine stakeholders who qualify the attributes. Impact Influence Those who can impact or are Those who can influence the impacted by our business way we operate Diverse Interest perspectives Those who are interested in Stakeholders who can our success or whose further organization’s wellbeing is of interest to us understanding of We also looked at three an issue additional factors while finalizing our stakeholders. Urgency Legitimacy Stakeholders with a Stakeholders with legitimate relationship or claim of a claims, either contractual or time-sensitive nature ethical These led us to identify the following eight stakeholders groups. Readers will note that, except for minor semantic differences, these are the same stakeholders that appear in our previous reports. Therefore, the materiality recalibration exercise essentially reaffirmed our earlier decision in this regard. Wipro Sustainability 22 Materiality Determination Report 2014-15 Partners & Government & Employees Investors Academic Institutes Policy Networks Customers Suppliers Communities & Civil The Young Citizen & Society Networks Future Generations While the first four have direct and operational/ business value chain impacts, the other four are part of the larger community and society that we operate in. Identification of Issues Material issues and their relative importance to Wipro and our stakeholders are not static and are likely to change with time. In line with this, we followed a threefold approach based on the Five Part Materiality Test proposed by AccountAbility. We try to present a 360 degree perspective on our business and ecosystem through this process and its outcomes. Relevance to Wipro Relevance to stakeholders Internal Assessment External Benchmarking Stakeholder Feedback Test 1: Test 2: Test 3: Test 4: Test 5: Direct Organizational Business Stakeholder Societal economic values & peer-based behaviour and norms impacts commitments norms concerns Internal assessment A significant part of materiality determination stems from the organization’s overall mission, values, commitments and competitive strategy as well as the impact of or on its economic performance. An internal perspective on risks as identified through organizational processes like risk assessment studies and audits or self-assessments using disclosure frameworks is also considered in the process. Listed below are the sources of information. Financial reports Sustainability Other risk The Young (Annual reports reports Disclosures (Dow Jones assessment Citizen and & Form 20F) Sustainability (DJSI), Carbon studies & audit Future Disclosure Project (CEP), Vigeo etc.) reports Generations Wipro Sustainability Materiality Determination 23 Report 2014-15 External benchmarking We conducted an extensive review of literature to identify issues considered as material and identified as risks by our business peers and also to understand expectations expressed in international standards and agreements. Listed below are the sources of information. Annual reports, ISO 26000 Guidance on SASB Materiality Map FICCI India Risk Report sustainability reports, Social Responsibility 2014 Form 20F of peer companies Stakeholder feedback Stakeholder inclusiveness is central to the materiality determination process. It is important to consider reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders so as to provide a balanced view of the issues that emerge. At Wipro, we engage with our stakeholders regularly to understand their concerns and develop plans to address those concerns. From the above mentioned sources, a universe of all issues or dimensions that could be material for our businesses was identified. The universe of issues considered can be viewed in page no 26. Prioritization of material issues The sustainability context of each of the issues or dimensions identified was detailed so as to understand their materiality to our business and industry. Following this, a prioritization exercise was undertaken by looking at the intrinsic worth of each issue as well as its relative priority. The stakeholder’s feedback was also taken into account by incorporating their ratings for each of these dimension against four criteria of 1) Relevance to Wipro’s business operations; 2) Relevance to stakeholders; 3) Impact; and 4) Time horizon of impact. Redefine Engage Strategize ? List all material ? Engage with larger group ? Develop a revised dimensions of internal stakeholders materiality matrix based ? Prepare a shortlist of high ? Consult key external on stakeholder feedback priority dimensions after stakeholders -customers, ? Develop programs and core internal stakeholder suppliers, community, engagement plans consultation external experts from ? Communicate to business, academia and stakeholders society Wipro Sustainability 24 Materiality Determination Report 2014-15 This consultation process is part of our ongoing materiality recalibration exercise and as of now we have covered our senior leadership, employees and experts in the field of sustainability. We had involved participation from 12 of our senior leaders and 35 employees through email based questionnaires and social media. In addition, about 11 experts from academia and industry also provided their feedback. The above exercise provided important insights into our stakeholders' priorities, concerns and expectations from the company. The next steps in our exercise will be to extend our stakeholder engagement to investors, customers and partners in order to understand their perspectives and priorities. An extensive employee engagement covering a larger group of employees is also being planned. Materiality Reporting for the Year From 2014 – 15 reporting year onwards, we are following the GRI G4 guidelines for our reporting. This is our first G4 report and in line with G4 requirement to focus on ‘what matters’ and ‘where it matters’, we undertook an exercise to determine the most material issues to include in this report from multiple dimensions of risk, returns and relevance. Our ongoing materiality recalibration exercise is the starting point for the materiality reporting for FY 2014-15. The results of survey and other interactions which took place as part of this have been extensively used. Based on the interim findings of this exercise, we adopted the following steps to identify material aspects for reporting. Mapping the identified Deciding the scope of material issues to GRI G4 reporting for other ‘Aspects’. Issues not issues/dimensions Defining the boundary of connected to aspects are each Aspect and Topic based retained as ‘Topics’ on impacts From the universe of issues or dimensions that was identified as material, a total of 18 aspects and 5 topics have been finalized for reporting. Depending on the relative importance, the other identified issues identified will be detailed in the respective sections as part of disclosure of management approach. The outcomes of the process were shared with all relevant functions for review and the consequent feedback was incorporated. This reporting year, we are disclosing management approach and next steps for aspects related to supplier assessment. We are not disclosing on the relevant GRI indicators. A visual summary of the materiality map is given overleaf. Wipro Sustainability Materiality Determination 25 Report 2014-15 Universe of Issues / Dimensions Considered Environment People – Corporate governance & Ecology Employees & community & ethical business conduct ?Biodiversity ? Corporate Citizenship & ? Accounting for ? Innovation ?Emissions Philanthropy Externalities ? Management Vision & ?Energy ? Disability ? Competition Leadership Stability ?Environmental ? Employee Health, Safety ? Corporate Governance ? Open Source Performance & & Wellbeing ? Corruption, Bribery, ? Operational Efficiency & Reporting ? Fair Labor Practices Corporate Frauds Speed ?Environmental ? Gender ? Customer Privacy ? Outsourcing Related Issues Regulations ? Human Rights ? Customer Satisfaction ? Regulatory Compliance Compliance Nondiscrimination, ? Data Security ? Service Delivery ?Natural & Man Made Freedom Of Association, ? Economic Performance ? Stakeholder Catastrophes Forced Labor Etc. ? Execution of Strategy Communication ?Urban Resilience ? Knowledge, Education ? Government Policy ? Supply Chain Management ?Waste And Skills Development ? Intellectual Property ? Tax Strategy ?Water ? Talent Attraction, Rights ? Transparency & Disclosures Development & ? IT Systems Security & Retention Operational Resilience Issues / Dimensions Identified as Material 14 aspects 6 topics Anti-Corruption Customer Privacy Campus Biodiversity Diversity & Equal Opportunity Energy Economic Performance Emissions Capacity Building & Career Development Effluents & Waste Employment Community & Education Occupational Health & Safety Customer Satisfaction Supplier Assessment for Impact on Society Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Innovation Supplier Environmental Assessment Urban Resilience Supplier Human Rights Assessment Water Wipro Sustainability 26 Materiality Determination Report 2014-15 Organization Profile Company Profile Wipro Ltd (NYSE:WIT) is a global information technology, consulting and outsourcing company with a workforce of 160,000+ serving 1050+ clients in 175+ cities across 6 continents, globally recognized for its innovative approach towards delivering business value and its commitment to sustainability. The company headquartered in Bangalore, India posted revenues of $7.6 billion for the financial year ended Mar 31, 2015. Wipro is constantly helping customers do business better by leveraging industry-wide experience, deep technology expertise, comprehensive portfolio of services and vertically aligned business model. Wipro is harnessing the power of new and emerging technologies to create breakthrough applications and solutions. Here 'breakthrough' implies products, services, processes, ideas and answers that were not possible before. We do this by mapping the future landscape; by sensing tomorrow and responding today. Values, Tenets, Vision, Policies Spirit of Wipro represents the core values of Wipro which act as the guiding principles for our culture and actions. This Spirit is rooted in current reality, but it also represents what Wipro aspires to be hence making it future ready. They bind us together and inspire us to excel in the way we think and act. In 2014, we articulated our seven core tenets that are Values Translated into Behavior / Practice / Actions. The seven core tenets define our strategic purpose and based on it, we have framed our vision of customer centricity. Our business strategy derives its strength from our values, tenets and vision. Spirit of Wipro Spirit of Wipro Intensity to Win Make customers successful Team, innovate and excel Act with Sensitivity Respect for the individual Thoughtful and responsible Unyielding Integrity Delivering on commitments Honesty and fairness in action Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 27 Report 2014-15 Wipro Tenets Wipro Tenets are articulation of specific behaviors aligned with our values that will unite us as Wiproites, and help us stand differentiated in the market place. We Live & Act With Speed, Simplicity & Customer is at The Core of Excellence We Want to be Everything WeDo & We A Truly Global Com Take Personal Responsibility Reflected in Our Mindse for Their Success – We Act Workforce, Our Leader Like Owners Our Decision Making We AIM to Create and Deliver We Strive to Hire, Retain and Business Value Proactivity to Grow Our People as We Consider Customer Through Innovation them Our Most Valuable Resource We Keep Our We Collaborate to Commitments and are Deliver Superior Trusted By Our Customers Results for Our Stakeholders Wipro’s Vision THE CUSTOMER Our To earn our clients’ trust and maximize value of their business by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading Vision technologies and best in class delivery processes Measured by our aspiration to achieve industry leading growth Policies Vision, tenets and values are the foundational cornerstones of an institution and shape its essential core i.e. ‘what it stands for’. To translate these into operating frameworks is the job of policies and codes of conduct. To be effective, policies must be comprehensive, yet simple to understand and implement. Some of our key policies are as below. Code of Ecological Corporate Health & Safety Supplier Business Conduct Sustainability Social Responsibility Policy Code of Conduct Policy Policy Wipro Sustainability 28 Organization Profile Report 2014-15 Milestones Wipro, one of the world's most trusted brands, is a name with a long history. Here's a snapshot of our journey to date: Carved out Wipro Digital business as a seperate unit. Announced its intention to acquire Designit, global strategic design firm specializing tranformative product-service experiences 2015 Wipro Ltd. demerges its ‘Diversified Business company into 2013 a seperate company to be named ‘Wipro Enterprises Ltd.’ Wipro Ltd. to focus exclusively on IT Business 2000 Wipro listed in the NYSE and enters the BPO business 1984 Wipro enters the IT Software business 1980 1945 Wipro enters the IT hardware business Incorporation of Westorn India Vegetable Products Ltd. Strategic Business Units and Service Lines Wipro invests significant resources in understanding and prioritizing industry verticals. Our IT Services business segment is organized into six strategic business units by customer industry. Wipro’s service offerings are aligned with the technology needs of our customers. While our focus is on being a strategic provider of IT Services and the system integrator of choice, we also provide IT Products as a complement to our IT Services offerings. In the India and Middle -East markets, we are a leading provider of system integration services where we provide a full suite of services such as hardware solutions, software licenses and services. To fulfill system integration projects, we provide IT hardware and software licenses. Global Infrastructure Services Business Process Services Retail, Consumer Banking, Consulting Packaged Goods, Financial Services Transportation & Insurance & Government Global Media Manufacturing & Telecom Wipro & Hi-Tech Business Analytics Application Services Energy, Natural Healthcare, Resources Utilities Life Science & Engineering & Services & Construction Product Engineering Wipro Digital Solution Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 29 Report 2014-15 Geographical Presence Asia Pacific & Other Americas Europe India & ME Emerging Markets 52.5% 25.6% 10.6% 11.3% Wipro Sustainability 30 Organization Profile Report 2014-15 Key Organizational Metrics Key Financial Metrics 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Revenue (Rs. Billion)* 318.747 374.256 434.269 469.545 Profit After Tax (Rs. Billion)* 52.568 61.684 78.405 87.059 Total Capitalization (Rs. Billion) 345.121 348.799 396.478 488.541 Equity (Rs. Billion) 286.163 284.983 344.886 409.628 Debt (Rs. Billion) 58.958 63.816 51.592 78.913 Total Assets (Rs. Billion) 436.001 439.730 502.304 600.033 Other Organizational Metrics Number of shareholders 227,158 213,603 210,471 213,588 Number of Employees 138,164* 134,541* 159,000* 142,282 Note: * Figures are only for core employees in IT business. Does not include partner employees, retainers and support service workforce. Accomplishments Sustainability Awards ? Wipro recognized as the company with Best CSR & Sustainability practices by Asian Centre for Corporate Governance & Sustainability ? Wipro recognized as World Leader for corporate action on climate change by CDP ? Wipro selected as Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), World member for the 5th consecutive year and recognized as the Global Sector Leader for the Software & Service Industry. Also selected as DJSI Emerging Markets Index member for the third time in a row. ? Wipro Limited recognized as Champion of Women’s Empowerment Principles with 2014 Leadership Award ? Wipro achieves ‘A’ level on the CDP’s supplier climate performance leadership index (SCPLI) ? Wipro awarded bronze class distinction in 2014 RobecoSAM sustainability yearbook ? Wipro selected as a member of the Euronext Vigeo Emerging Market Sustainability Index (the 70 most advanced companies in the Emerging Market Region) ? Wipro Honored as World’s Most Ethical Company by Ethisphere Institute for the Fourth Successive Year, 2015 Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 31 Report 2014-15 Business Innovation and Excellence Awards Wipro recognized as the ‘Best Company to Work For’, among supersized organizations in ? India, in the 2014 edition of a study conducted by Great Place To Work® Institute and The Economic Times Wipro ranks 12th in the Interbrand’s ‘Best Indian Brands’ study, 2014 ? Wipro recognized with the prestigious Golden Peacock Award 2014, in the category of ? ‘Innovative Product / Service’ for Wipro’s Assure Health™ solution Wipro recognized as a winner of the Global, Asian and Indian MAKE (Most Admired ? Knowledge Enterprise) awards for 2013 Wipro named a 2015 Best Outsourcing Thought Leadership Awards (BOTL) winner by The ? Outsourcing Institute Wipro accredited as a Young up-And-Coming Innovative companies by Boston ? Consulting Group (BCG) in their 2014 global innovators survey Wipro recognized as the Top 26 Most Innovative companies for the year 2014 across all ? service sectors and industries by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Wipro Ltd. was ranked 8th in the Best Companies for Leaders 2015 list in a study conducted ? by Chally Group in partnership with Chief Executive magazine Wipro ranked 8th in the Best Companies for Leaders 2015 in a study conducted by Chally ? Group in partnership with Chief Executive magazine Wipro Ltd. CEO honoured by the Women’s Empowerment Principle’s Leadership Award: a ? joint initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Compact Wipro won 1st place at the NHRD Paper Competition on Managing Gender Diversity at ? Workplace Wipro won the ‘NASSCOM Corporate Award for Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion 2014 ? for outstanding work in the Persons with Disability (PwD) category Wipro recognized as “Great Place to Work” amongst super-sized organizations (>50000 ? employees) by Great Place to Work Institute Wipro received 1st and Runners-up prize in Career Development and Planning Category ? for 2 entries submitted in the areas of Career Development and Talent Assessments in Learning & Organizational Development’s Best Talent Management Practices in Asia Awards Learning Networks at Wipro was selected amongst Best HR Practices of India at NHRD ? Conference Career Hub and Learning Networks at Wipro shortlisted in the D&B Sodexo HR Best ? Practices 2015 list Wipro won the category of “Best in Talent Assessment methodology” in the annual Talent ? Acquisition Leadership League Awards conducted by People Matters Wipro Sustainability 32 Organization Profile Report 2014-15 Good Governance and Management Practices Corporate Governance At Wipro, Corporate Governance is more than just adherence to the Statutory & Regulatory requirements. It is equally about focusing on voluntary practices that underlie the highest levels of transparency & propriety. ? ‘Wipro Cares’ contribution to society ? Corporate Internal Audit Function through education, extending human Direcly Reports to the Audit Commitee touch and facilitating employee ? Ombdusperson reporting to Audit involvement in community Commitee ? Wipro Applying Thought in Schools ? Among First Indian Companies to (WATIS) an initiative for creating adopt Sarbanes Oxley Act’s capacity on the ground for systemic Certification Process in India reform in education. (Primary & Elementary School) Corporate Social Accountability responsibility WIPRO 000 Corporate Governance Independence Transparency ? Majority of the Board comprised of ? Timely, adequate & equivalent access External Directions (7 out of 10) to information to all stakeholders ? Audi, Risk and Complaince, ? First Indian Companyto publish Nomination & Compensation consolidation and segmental accounts Commitee comprise of entirely Non? Disclosure when Exchanges are closed Executive Independent Directors (both in India and the US) during non trading hours ? Announcement of quaterly audited financial results within 15 minutes on approval by the Board of Directors ? Early adoption of standards (e.g. As30/ Hedge Accounting) Early adoption of IFRS ? Filing with SEC in line with US registrants ? Quarterly audited accounts with no qualifications. Quarterly & annual results sent by email to shareholders Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 33 Report 2014-15 Our Corporate Governance philosophy is put into practice at Wipro through the following four functional layers, namely, Governance by Shareholders Governance by Board of Directors Governance by Sub-Committee of Board of Directors Audit/Risk and Compliance Committee | Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee with the additional responsibility of CSR | Strategy Committee | Administrative, Shareholders and Investors Grievance Committee (Stakeholders Relationship Committee) Governance by Management Process Code of Conduct Compliance The Ombudsprocess Efficient corporate governance requires a clear understanding of the respective roles of the Board and of senior management and their relationships with others in the corporate structure. To ensure this, the Board of Directors has adopted `Corporate Governance Guidelines' which codifies the best corporate governance practices. These guidelines provide a systematic and structured framework for the Board to review and evaluate the Company's performance in an independent manner, while at the same time providing assurance to the Directors in terms of their authority to oversee the Company's management. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines give an overview of the responsibilities of the board, board composition, board meetings, board committees and process of management review. Board of Directors As of March 31, 2015, we had seven non-executive directors and three executive directors, of which one executive director is the Chairman of our Board. All of the seven non-executive directors are independent directors and free from any business or other relationship that could materially influence their judgment. All the independent directors satisfy the criteria of independence as defined under the listing agreement with the Indian Stock Exchanges and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance standards. Our corporate governance guidelines specify the board nomination process as well as board membership criteria. We consider different factors of expertise and experience on economic and social aspects in board selection. These factors such as independence, alignment with company's values, diversity and complementarity in terms of age, skills and knowledge, management experience, industry background, perspectives, etc., ensures selection of a Board which can act in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders. The board undergoes familiarization program and other continuing education programs which are aimed at developing and enhancing the collective knowledge of economic and social topics related to their duties as Directors on an ongoing basis to enable them to perform their duties better and to recognize and deal appropriately with issues that arise. Wipro Sustainability 34 Organization Profile Report 2014-15 Board members are not prohibited from serving on Boards and/or Committees of other organizations, except for companies that are in competition with the businesses pursued by the Company. However, members of the Board are required to comply with applicable regulatory requirements with respect to limits on number of directorships in the both the country of incorporation of the country and the country of residence. The Board Profile section in our Annual Report discloses other board memberships held by our Board of Directors. Service on Boards and/or Committees of other organizations shall be consistent with the Company's conflict of interest policy. For more information on Board Profile, refer to pages 14-19 of Annual Report 2014-15. The guidelines can be viewed at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/corporate-governanceguidelines-april09.pdf Board Diversity in Industry Experience Academia / Technology BFSI FMCG Telecom Consulting 4 1 2 1 2 Board Tenure of Directors 0-5 years 5 6-10 years 1 >10 years 4 Board Diversity in Age The board comprised of seven members who are in the age group ‘above 50 years’ and two member in the age group ’30-50 years’. Disclosures As a part of our philosophy of adhering to highest ethical standards, transparency and accountability, disclosures are considered critical in the company. Disclosures help us adhere to regulatory requirements as well as in proactively informing and engaging with our various stakeholders. Due care is taken to disclose timely, consistent and accurate information through annual financial reports, sustainability reports and other public reports to shareholders and the public regarding financial performance, liabilities, control and ownership, and corporate governance issues. Wipro is a promoter group led company with the promoters having other diverse businesses and interests. Our Annual Financial reports include disclosures on shareholding pattern of promoters as well as top 10 shareholders. Given the fact that the promoter group has occasions to engage in Related Party Transactions (RPTs), disclosures on the same are made in our annual reports in the interest of transparency. Such transactions are guided by `Policy on Related Party Disclosures', an abridged version of which is made available in our website at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/abridged-policy-for-related-party-transactions.pdf . Refer to page 63-65 (Annexure E) of our latest Annual Report for 2014-15 for details of related party transactions during the financial year. Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 35 Report 2014-15 Risk Management Risk Management at Wipro is an enterprise wide function backed by a qualified team of specialists with deep industry experience who develop frameworks and methodologies for assessing and mitigating risks. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) works in close co-ordination with Business teams, Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Quality, office of the CIO, Delivery, Internal Audit and other Functional teams. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) enables and supports business objectives through risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing reassurance to all stake holders including Customers, Shareholders and Employees. This is done by identifying, assessing and mitigating risks within key business and functional processes through a collaborative approach. As part of this, the leveraging of technology and tools for continuous monitoring and reporting of risks is crucial. ERM Framework The risk landscape in the current business environment is changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security, Information Security & Business Continuity, Data Privacy and Large Deal Execution figuring prominently in the risk charts of most organizations. To effectively mitigate these risks, we have deployed a risk management framework which helps proactively identify, prioritize and mitigate risks. The framework is based on principles laid out in the four globally recognized standards. Governance Audit Committee of the Board Oversight D Tone @ ev t The Top el Framework en op Corporate Management ov & ERM Team em r de im Standard ERM pl Risk p Framework People, oy Business Units Ownership uo i & Function us Process Technology Pol on /F ti cy n r C Risk Management am Identification Analysis Evalute Treatement Monitoring or ew k Risk Categories Governance Strategic Operational Compliance Reporting Refer to our ‘Risk Management’ section in our Annual Report 2014 – 2015 for more details on our risk management model and risk analysis. Annual Report FY 2014-15 Wipro Sustainability 36 Organization Profile Report 2014-15 Major Risk Management and Risk Mitigation Initiatives ?Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery: Focus areas for the year included enhancing the business continuity and disaster recovery planning by preparing account and location specific plans, testing them through drills and including them for review with the customer. ?Cyber Security: Assessment of Cyber Security risks in the present day context indicates threat of persistent attacks, malware and related risks. During the year, we took up strong counter measures by augmenting our monitoring and analysis infrastructure along with new technology to identify and stop attacks and advanced threats. All identified projects have been implemented; the moving forward the focus will be on sustaining controls and continuous improvement of solutions rolled out. ?Intellectual Property Protection: Focus on Intellectual Property risk management continued during the year. Additional controls have been incorporated to address the risks on account of opening of social media to the employees. The controls were further subjected to an independent stress testing for assessing implementation effectiveness. ?Employee Health and Safety with particular emphasis on Transportation and Physical Security: Employee safety continued as a core focus with enhanced measures for transportation process (24x7 operations). Employee survey, spot audits were rolled out to continuously test the robustness of the process. ?Large Program: Deal to Delivery: A Risk Management framework has been deployed for large value deals to assess solution fitness, credit risks, financial risks, technology risks among other risk factors. Risks are assessed and mitigated up-front at the deal stage and tracked during delivery of the engagement. ?Proactive anti-fraud Initiatives: Rule based anomaly detection systems were continued as pro-active measure to identify red flags and to treat failure modes. Anomaly Rule books were designed in more than 50% of the processes identified as critical. During the year, pilot automation of the Anomaly rule systems was done using Big Data analytics tools. In year 2015-16 the focus will be on production roll out of the rule base and evaluations of exceptions on a near real time basis. ?Stress testing: The process of stress testing of controls was sustained and extended to many identified key risk areas. Testing as a method of re assurance of controls, based on analytics has provided enhanced ability to assess rigor in process controls and enhance the process robustness. ?Awareness and Training: Role based training programs to enhance risk literacy covering Intellectual Property practice, information security compliance, risk management in large bids, delivery risk management, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act compliance were conducted. Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 37 Report 2014-15 Risk Governance The Board Committee on Audit, Risk and Compliance consisting of non-executive independent directors has the responsibility of periodically reviewing the company's policies for risk assessment and risk management and assess the steps taken to control such risks. The committee also reviews and approves the Strategic and Operating Plan of Enterprise Risk Management function of the Company. Concomitantly, the internal Audit function at Wipro also plays a key role in identifying and highlighting potential risks to Board Committee. High risks including concerns related to Ombudsprocess, sexual harassment prevention and critical security incidents are tracked and reviewed periodically. They are reported to the Audit committee of the board every quarter. Customer related issues and key employee engagement developments are also reviewed by the board. Code of Conduct Wipro has a corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) that provides the broad direction as well as specific guidelines for all business transactions. The COBC is applicable to all business practices and employees, contractor employees and consultants and it covers critical aspects like customer relations; protecting customer information; supplier selection; conflicts of interest; gifts, entertainment & business courtesies; communicating with the public; confidential information; intellectual property, competitive/business intelligence, protecting the privacy of employee and personal information; business records and internal controls; safeguarding company assets; insider trading; antitrust and fair competition; anti-corruption; political involvement/lobbying; global trade; human rights; diversity and non-discrimination; harassment-free workplace; safe and healthy work environment; and sustainability and corporate citizenship. The COBC is socialized at multiple points of an employee's lifecycle it is first covered as part of the induction program of new hires and subsequently, every employee has to take an online test annually to assert their familiarity with the tenets of the COBC. The code can be accessed at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/code-ofbusiness-conduct-and-ethics.pdf The COBC is the central document on which the Company’s ethics compliance message is disseminated to all employees. Hence, it is constantly reviewed by the Legal & Compliance team to ensure it stays current with trends and changes in corporate ethics, benchmarking with the best and most ethical companies in the world, and keeping up with the statutory changes. Wipro will take appropriate disciplinary action including up to termination against any employee, agent, contractor or consultant, whose actions are found to violate the terms of COBC. We have a zero tolerance policy for noncompliance with the non-negotiable aspects of COBC e.g. child labor, anti-corruption etc. 360 degree feedback process rates Wipro managers on how well they align with the principle of unyielding integrity. Wipro Sustainability 38 Organization Profile Report 2014-15 Compliance Framework Compliance processes at Wipro have the oversight of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Corporate Compliance Committee. We have a dedicated in-house Legal & Compliance team focused on compliance to identify and analyze the legal and regulatory changes resulting in creation and update of policies and processes. The team oversees compliance with local business laws and regulatory compliance in each of the countries we operate. It is important to assure the stakeholders that internal systems are fair and just. Global Immigration Management System (GIMS), Integrated Risk management and Human Resources are the main internal stakeholders with significant compliance related risks. As a result, the legal and compliance team reviews the process of these functions. Dashboards are maintained across Business Units and Support Functions and reviewed for contractual compliances periodically. For Corporate, Taxation and Labor law compliances external consulting firms are involved. In 2014, Global Compliance Management Project was started with the objective of documenting a statutory compliance policy framework and automating the framework. As part of the project Compliance Landscaping is being done under the broad categories Corporate and commercial laws; Industry specific laws; Employment, Human Resource & Immigration laws; Environment, Health & safety; and IT and Data Protection (Excluding tax laws). To ensure compliance with all laws applicable to the company a tool (SCCP Program) is being implemented to track global statutory compliance. An external service provider has been engaged for this project. Training programs on ethical compliance and the Ombudsprocess are regularly conducted at various leadership levels. At these interactive sessions, key applicable ethical policies are explained, actual company case studies and judicial pronouncements on ethical matters are discussed and statistical data on the complaints/ concerns received by the Ombudspersons and the processes adopted to address these are shared with the participating leaders. Every new hire is required to attend an ethical compliance session titled “Spirit of Wipro Session” where key aspects of ethics framework are communicated. After the session, every employee takes a test and certification for compliance to the COBC. Other modes of maintaining awareness of ethical compliance among employees include focused training sessions organized for various functionsProcurement, Operations and Administration, Human Resources, Finance and Accounts, Internal Audit. At these classroom sessions, key policies relevant to the participants are discussed and feedback is taken for addressing any changes to processes and policies. Mailers on Compliance are periodically circulated by the Ombudsprocess group through emails, posters at key employee access locations. External Trainings are organized regularly for Legal & Compliance, Finance, Accounts and Internal Audit teams on anticorruption laws of USA and UK, best practices on implementing anti-corruption processes in organizations. These sessions are conducted by US external counsel, consulting firms and peer companies. In accordance with mandatory local law, all manager-level employees located in the states of California and Connecticut within the US are required to undergo training and certification on prevention of sexual harassment. Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 39 Report 2014-15 The Ombudsprocess Wipro is committed to the highest standards of openness, probity and accountability. An important aspect of accountability and transparency is a robust mechanism that allows partners, customers, suppliers and other members of the public, to voice concerns in a responsible and effective manner. What this means in concrete terms is that whenever a stakeholder discovers information that reveals serious malpractice, impropriety, abuse or wrongdoing within the organization then the stakeholder should be able to report without fear of reprisal Anyone can report a concern to the ombudsperson online at www.wiproombuds.com In Wipro, our Chief Ombuds-person works with designated Ombuds-persons in each Business Unit. The process ensures confidential and anonymous submissions. An organization wide multi-lingual Ombudsprcess is available 24 x 7 (phone and internet enabled) for all our stakeholders. Complete details of the Ombuds process for employees is available at the following links in our website. ? For Employees http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/wipro_ombuds_process.pdf ? For non-employees http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/wipro-ombudsman-processnon-employees.pdf In 2014-15, a total of 1093 complaints were received via the Ombudsprocess and the action taken cases as of March 2015 was 88%. Based on self-disclosure data, 60% of these were from employees and the balance were mainly anonymous and from other stakeholders like vendors and customers. A total of 100 complaints of sexual harassment was raised through the Ombudsprocess, of which 92 cases were substantiated with appropriate actions being taken in all cases. The Ombudsprocess statistics for 2014-15 and earlier years are provided overleaf. This information is periodically communicated to the board. Wipro Sustainability 40 Organization Profile Report 2014-15 Break-up of Complaints received through the Ombudsprocess Types of Complaint 2012 13 2013 14 2014 – 15 % FY #s TED / HR / People Process 42% 43% 38% 413 COBCE / Security Policy 6% 7% 5% 58 Harassment – Sexual 9% 12% 9% 100 Falsification or Destruction of Information 9% 8% 11% 121 Harassment – Workplace 21% 19% 23% 256 Others 15% 11% 13% 145 TOTAL 100% 100% 100% 1093 Total Number of Complaints 795 787 1093 Type of Actions Taken Action Type 2012 13 2013 14 2014 – 15 % FY #s Separation 10% 11% 8% 91 Warning Letter 11% 10% 8% 91 Counseling / Advisory 25% 20% 17% 190 Process/Policy Change 5% 1% 2% 26 Benefits Granted 21% 15% 15% 161 Others 27% 43% 49% 542 Total 100% 100% 100% 1101 Actions Taken on Sexual Harassment Complaints Action Type 2012 13 2013 14 2014 – 15 % FY #s Separation 27% 23% 24% 22 Warning Letter 27% 33% 33% 30 Counselling 22% 22% 11% 10 Others 24% 22% 33% 30 Total 100% 100% 100% 92 Source of Complaint Action Type 2012 13 2013 14 2014 – 15 Employee 524 539 652 Anonymous 177 170 311 Others 60 49 70 Vendor 17 16 33 Contractor 13 9 21 Customer 4 4 6 Grand Total 795 787 1093 Wipro Sustainability Organization Profile 41 Report 2014-15 d UV U an w een bet E e is N th er l O A l Z The ozone layer in the upper atmosphere acts like a shield, protecting life on Earth from the sun's harmful ultraviolet radiation. In 1985, scientists observed a thinning of the ozone layer over Antarctica. Since then, research has shown that ozone depletion occurs over every continent. In 1987, world leaders signed a landmark environment treaty, the Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer. Today almost every country in the world has ratified the treaty and is phasing out the production and use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and other Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODSs). Our theme for this year’s report The Shifting Normal focuses emerging trends that are steadily changing our natural environment and the society that we live in. As a part of the GRI Special for this report, we present a brief historical narrative of global movements over the last fifty years that have tried to engage with the compelling challenges of sustainable development. The following pages of the insert form part of the GRI Special, and trace actions taken post the discovery of the impact CFCs on the Ozone Layer. 1956 1973 Discovery Ground based Scientists detect measurements of CFCs in atmosphere 1991 2000 2060 Ozone at Halley Bay, Antarctica 1985 1975 Scientists agree CFCs Japan Met. Agency 1928 1970 Scientific research are depleting the reports hole in ozone Earliest timeframe reveals stratospheric stratospheric ozone layer over Antarctic to 2006 projected for 1974 Scientists add ozone layer depletion has adverse environmental in the northern and southern hemisphere be the largest to date more than twice the ozone layer recovery bromide, used and human health effects size of the continent in fire-retarding halons and agricultural The ozone hole Scientists Synthesize Satellite Scientists discover fumigants to the is reported to be Chlorofluorocarbons measurements that CFCs break down list of ODSs the biggest ever (CFCs) of ozone in stratospheric ozone 1976 1980 1985 1989 1990 1994 2004 2015 United Nations The Environment Vienna Convention All developed countries Clean Air Act US eliminates Environmental Programme Protection Agency (EPA) identifies additional Outlines responsibilities for protecting humans and the that are party to the Montreal Protocol Amendments, including Title VI Stratospheric production and import of 35% 90% (UNEP) calls for an threats CFCs in environment against the freeze production and Ozone Protection halons All developed All developed international refrigerators, air adverse effects of ozone consumption of CFCs at signed into law countries reduce countries reduce conference to discuss conditioners, and depletion Negotiation of 1986 levels consumption of consumptions of the ozone issue industrial processes EPA an international agreement hydrochlorofluoroca HCFCs by 90% from works with NASA and controlling CFC rbons (HCFCs) by baseline levels other agencies to gather 35% from baseline a compelling, scientific levels assessment 1978 1987 1992 2002 2010 Initiatives US, Canada, Norway and 1981 Montreal Protocol on Substances That Sweden, ban non essential use of CFCs Deplete the Ozone Layer negotiated based on the Vienna US announces accelerated CFC All developing countries who are 65% Convention framework is phasing-out date of party to the Montreal All developed 1st Comprehensive UNEP develops a signed by 24 representatives nations December 31, 1995, Protocol freeze countries reduce Worldwide global convention Fostered by the United Nations in response to new methyl bromide consumptions of Measurements with the to protect the Environment Programme phase out scientific production at 1995HCFCs by 65% from Nimbus-7 satellite ozone layer by 2000 production and information 1998 average level baseline levels Ozone depleting aerosol consumption of compounds that thin/ chemicals banned within deplete ozone in the stratosphere and outside America US i.e. chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons, Congress Clean Air Act, US carbon tetrachloride, and methyl State Department starts chloroform by major producing working with other nations nations on a treaty n d UV a ee nU The Montreal Protocol etw e is b E he r t All Tackles C02 and trace-gas induced global warming O N Includes trade sanctions and incentives to ensure compliance Z Bans the import of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) from nonparties Discourages the export of technologies used in producing and utilizing ODS to nonparties perhaps the single most successful Introduces a structured and distinction international agreement to date Ozone layer threats Group 1 Ozone layer threats Group II has been the Montreal Protocol” fully halogenated CFCs Developed halons developing countries Kofi Annan countries Production reduction consumption reductions 1993 1995 1992 1997 Bangkok Vienna 1991 1998 The Copenhagen Amendment The Montreal Amendment ? Significantly accelerated the phase-out of ODSs ?Phase-out of HCFCs in developing countries, and incorporated an HCFC phase-out for as well as the phase-out of methyl bromide developed countries, beginning in 2004. in developed and developing countries in (Nairobi) 1990 ? CFCs, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl 2005 and 2015, respectively. Australia 1999 chloroform were targeted for complete phaseout in 1996 in developed countries ? Methyl bromide consumption of methyl The London Amendment bromide was capped at 1991 levels. The Beijing Amendment ? Changed to ODS emission schedule, requiring 1987 the complete phaseout of CFCs, halons, and The success of actions ?Tightened controls on the production and trade 2007 carbon tetrachloride by 2000 in developed of HCFCs countries, and by 2010 in developing countries. against the threat of ?Bromochloromethane added to the list of ? Methyl chloroform added to the list of ozone depletion has been controlled substances with phase-out targeted controlled ODSs, with phaseout in developed immediate in contrast to for 2004. countries targeted in 2005, and in 2015 for the sluggish response developing countries. on climate change. The Montreal Protocol As a result of international The Montreal Protocol Developed countries to begin cooperation, the ozone hole over Aggressively phase out HCFCs in both phasing out CFCs in 1993 and developed and developing countries. achieve a 50% reduction relative to the Antarctica is slowly recovering. 1986 consumption levels by 1998. CFCs the only ODSs addressed. Climate projections indicate that the ozone layer will return to 1980 levels between 2050 and 2070. 2. WIPRO AND SUSTAINABILITY 2 In this section we try to articulate the overarching context of relationship between business, ecology, society, the global sustainability trends and our strategic approach that is derived from this larger context. Sustainability Megaforces A thriving global society, now and in the future, depends on the stable functioning of all interacting components of the Earth System (ecology and society). Unfortunately, scientific evidence indicates that human influence has altered Earth System processes to a point that we have begun transgressing planetary boundaries that have kept civilization safe for the past 10,000 years. Scientists claim that we have entered a new geological epoch 'the Anthropocene' characterized by manmade actions interfering and changing the environment. The changes in the Earth system can be understood through the framework of nine planetary proposed by a team led by Johan Rockstrom at the Stockholm Resilience Centre, it shows that at least three planetary boundaries have been transgressed (rate of biodiversity loss, climate change, and human interference with the nitrogen cycle), while some are at risk of being surpassed (land-system change, and ocean acidification). While the world income (GDP per capita) has increased exponentially over the past century, income inequality did decrease till the 70's-80's and is now showing a rebound to levels seen near the beginning of the century (IMF). About a billion people are estimated to be living in extreme poverty today. A quarter of all children under the age of five years is estimated to be stunted. In 2013, everyday 32,000 people had to abandon their homes to seek protection due to conflict. 781 million adults and 126 million youth worldwide lack basic literacy skills, and more than 60 per cent of them are women. The World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2015 identifies food crises, pandemic, chronic diseases, income disparity, antibiotic-resistant bacteria, mismanaged urbanization and political and social instability as major risks faced by the world. Seen in this context, 2015 was expected to be a pivotal year in the history of sustainable development. This was the target year for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) (http://www.unmillenniumproject.org/goals/) set in 2000. In the 14 years since the launch, several MDG targets have been met well ahead of the deadline. For example, extreme poverty in the world was reduced by half. The Millennium Development Goals Report, 2014 says that despite substantial progress made in most areas, much more efforts are needed to reach the set targets. The continuing upward trend in global emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), loss of forest cover and renewable water sources are some of the issues still threatening the sustainability agenda. Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Megaforces 47 Report 2014-15 2015 was the year when three landmark agreements on human development were signed: the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a new framework for global sustainable development financing, and a new climate change agreement at the COP 21 in Paris. . Poverty eradication, changing unsustainable and promoting sustainable patterns of consumption and production and protecting and managing the natural resource base of economic and social development are the overarching objectives of and essential requirements of the proposed fourteen SDG's. The COP 21 at Paris concluded with a legally binding and universal agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels climate, from all world nations. No country or government can attempt to solve these complex problems without business coming on board as willing partners in this journey by bringing technology, ingenuity, enterprise, building capacities and creating markets for development of sustainable alternatives. In this, business has to collaborate with all stakeholders across its value chain and with the community to transition to a future that is equitable to all stakeholders and is cognizant of interdependent issues and planetary boundaries. What follows is an articulation of eight significant sustainability mega forces or trends and their implications for business. Global Economic System The global economic system is vulnerable to multiple risks which have the potential to undermine financial and social stability of societies. The risks include asset bubble in a major economy, failure of a major financial mechanism or institution, fiscal crises due to excessive debt burdens generate sovereign debt crises and/or liquidity crises, unmanageable inflation or prolonged ultra-low inflation or deflation in a major economy or region (World Risks Report, 2015). There is also a growing problem of structural unemployment in advanced economies. Even though the world has Current Scenario recovered from the latest financial crisis, the danger of complacency compared to other risks exists. The volatile nature of economic environment and the multitude of risks that can disrupt the financial order pose serious threat to long time sustainability of businesses. Businesses need to be alert and should proactively address critical areas of concerns to insulate themselves from any potential crises. Business implications Wipro Sustainability 48 Sustainability Megaforces Report 2014-15 Climate Change The fifth assessment report of IPCC asserts with greater certainty that climate change is a reality. The report says that the atmosphere and ocean have warmed, the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, sea level has risen, and the concentrations of greenhouse gases have increased and human influence on the climate system is evident from the increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, positive radiative forcing, observed warming, and understanding of the climate system . Climate change can directly or indirectly lead to hunger, water scarcity, health Current Scenario problems, and poverty over varying time frames. It can impact employment and livelihood opportunities thereby limiting opportunities to access education, housing and energy. It can also cause large scale migration and displacement as a result of climate change related emergencies like extreme heat, floods and droughts, tropical storms and changing patterns of infection of diseases. Cost of climate change is very high and with IPCC AR 5 predicting Global mean losses to be in the order of 1 to 5% of GDP for 4°C of warming with even higher regional losses. Inaction can create risks of major disruption to economic and social and herein lays the implications to businesses. Discussions on climate change have moved from ascertaining the probability and estimating risks and costs to developing strategies for mitigation and adaptation. The Fifth Assessment report talks about adaptation and mitigation strategies that need to be implemented. Businesses are expected to play a greater role in implementing those strategies. WRI, CDP and WWF launched ' Mind the Science, Mind the Gap' initiative to develop sector specific methodologies to help companies set science based emission reduction targets based on IPCC's recommendations i.e. what is required by companies across different sectors to limit global temperatures rise by 2 degree centigrade by 2100 from pre-industrial levels. Businesses will face a multitude of risks and opportunities related to climate change. The risks include increased energy and other resource costs and insurance costs related to extreme and adverse climate events; and potential future litigation, claims and legal action. Opportunities are in the field of emission trading, carbon credits, carbon offsetting or ecofriendly technologies or products like hybrid cars and renewable energy; process improvements that can save energy and reduce GHG emissions can also enhance brand value and reputation. The opportunities are not without Business implications challenges both scientific and political. For example, renewables face energy density, efficiency, scalability and grid integration challenges while offsetting programs like large scale afforestation bring can adversely impact other resources due to land use change like water and biodiversity. Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Megaforces 49 Report 2014-15 Water Crises Global water demand (in terms of withdrawals) is projected to increase by 55 percent by 2050. Currently agriculture accounts for 70% of the world's total freshwater withdrawal and a 19% increase of agricultural water consumption is further expected by 2050. (UN Water, 2014). But the rise in demand of water is mainly because of growing demands from manufacturing (400 percent), thermal electricity generation (140 percent) and domestic use (130 percent. Water and food security are inextricably linked. Multiple factors like Current Scenario population, shift in food consumption patterns (non-local and higher protein food) and shift towards mechanization without the application of local and traditional resources, knowledge and skills are increasing the demand for water. If this situation is not resolved, the impending water crisis can threaten food security. Urbanization supported by the increase in tertiary economic activities (services) and industrialization has also contributed to the misuse of water resources primarily driven by the shift to water being viewed as one other resource that an external entity ( the state in most cases) is supposed to provide. This situation is likely to be exacerbated further due to Climate change driven changes in precipitation patterns. The UN Water forecasts that 1.8 billion people will be living in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity and two thirds of the world population will be living in `water-stressed' areas by 2025 (UN Water, 2007). World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2015 reflects this problem and identifies water crisis as one of the top high impact and high likelihood risks. Water scarcity can lead to implementation of stringent policies on water allocation and regulation e.g. development of water markets that cap usage and stricter water quality standards. Subsidies may be replaced with full cost pricing which may increase water prices. Agricultural crises can increase food prices and this along with increased water prices can affect disposable income of consumers. This can impact profits of businesses and economic growth. Water is a commons which has strong/tangible societal and cultural connects. Business implications The very right of business to operate in a constrained context may be challenged in times of scarcity and there will be pressure to implement water saving measures, new processes technologies and products to reduce the water foot print by businesses. Disruption in water supply can directly impact continuity of business operations at a local level. Consumers are likely to consider water efficient products or from companies which are seen as water responsible. Wipro Sustainability 50 Sustainability Megaforces Report 2014-15 Urbanization Urban living is often associated with better access to employment, livelihoods, education, health care and other social services as well as greater opportunities for social and cultural participation. It is largely lead by increased mechanization in farm/rural sectors and opportunities from industries and service sectors in cities. Currently, 54% of world's population lives in urban areas, projected to reach 66% by 2050 (UN, 2014). Nearly 90% of projected increase would come from Asia and Africa. Most recent and emerging urban areas are low on livability indices. They suffer from haphazard Current Scenario planning which is mostly post facto and reactive. Accessibility of basic services is often an issue for disadvantaged sections of the society, leading to urban inequality. Cities are the ecosystems for businesses to access rich and diverse social capital. It can be argued that they have been the centers of economic growth since the past few decades and will continue to do so in the future. Poor social infrastructure impedes this possibility. While the state will continue to play a key role in creation of this infrastructure, they suffer from significant knowledge and governance deficits. Businesses must play an active role here by engaging with local governments and communities to look at solutions for some complex problems. Integration across traditional sectors like Integrated Business implications transport solutions, smart cities sharing information are some of the ways to make emerging cities sustainable. Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Megaforces 51 Report 2014-15 Biodiversity Loss Biodiversity is critical for the proper functioning of ecosystems and ensures the delivery of various ecosystem services from provisioning of clean air, water and food to decomposition of wastes and supporting pollination and nutrient cycles. Biodiversity is also an important source of flora and fauna with medicinal characteristics. Around 50000 70000 plant species are currently used in or as medicines. Given the importance of biodiversity for the sustainability and survival of humankind, biodiversity loss is found at the nexus of many risks ranging from Current Scenario food price volatility to infectious diseases. Large tracts of biodiverse ecosystems have been converted to cropland to ensure short term food security. Scientific studies have found that cropland expansion is one of the principal causes of biodiversity loss. There is also a relationship between biodiversity loss and soil degradation which in the long term could affect food production leading to food price volatility. Loss of biodiversity can also amplify environmental issues like coastal flooding and desertification. The WWF Living Planet Report has been long emphasizing that 1.5 planet Earths are required to support the current lifestyles of humankind. This figure called the ecological foot print of mankind (WWF, 2014). Ecological footprint is the sum of biologically productive land and sea required to produce the resources which human beings consumes and to absorb associated wastes and to provide space for infrastructure. More resources are being used than what is capable by Earth to regenerate and more waste is being produced than it is possible for the planet to absorb and this is referred to as ecological overshot. A study in 2008 by The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) has calculated the total annual economic cost of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation to be between 3.3 7.5% of global GDP for the year. No business sector can escape the risks associated with biodiversity loss; either direct or indirect. The type and extent of exposure to the risk could be different for different industries; the risk exposure would be greater for primary industries such as agriculture, forestry and fishing and secondary industries dependent primarily on primary produce fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) for Business implications example. Wipro Sustainability 52 Sustainability Megaforces Report 2014-15 Inequality and Inclusion According to the Millennium Development Goals Report 2014, extreme poverty has reduced by half in 2010 compared to 2010 figures a reduction of 700 million people. The fight against diseases like Malaria, Tuberculosis and HIV in poorer countries has shown good results. However, a study by the World Institute for Development Economics Research at United Nations University reports that the richest 1% of adults alone owned 40% of global assets in the year 2000. The UNDP report titled 'Humanity Divided: Confronting Inequality in Developing Countries' published in 2013 talks about Current Scenario how income inequality has significantly increased in many countries during the last two decades. The report says income inequality increased by 11 percent in developing countries between 1990 and 2010 and more than 75 percent of the population is living today in societies where income is more unequally distributed than it was in the 1990s. This global trend of inequality is left unchecked, it can undermine social and economic development. Social inequality or discrimination due to gender, nationality/ethnicity and disability further adds to this economic inequality. Diversity as a key engine of innovation and balance has been accepted by social historians and increasingly businesses. Eliminating discrimination and including disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social processes is a crucial driver of more resilient and innovative communities. Empowerment of women, for example, has shown to be closely correlated with variety of social outcomes family planning, the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor, better management of community resources like water and healthier families. Businesses action on inclusion has centered on livelihood generation, micro credit and low cost technologies for bridging the resource and information gaps. While this needs to continue, there is a force multiplier effect when diversity and inclusion programs are integrated across their own operations value chain. The business sector should prioritize commitment to promote diversity and inclusivity at the workplace and in its extended supply chain. Business action on inequality and inclusion should incorporate aspects like Business implications diversity criteria in the procurement, local or traditional knowledge and socio economic contexts, for examplethe contribution of informal economy to the sector. Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Megaforces 53 Report 2014-15 Human Rights and Labor Relations The World Report 2013 published by Human Rights Watch discusses several instances of human rights violations which happened in the previous year. The report describes companies as the most powerful and sophisticated actors on the world stage, not governments. There are instances where corporate accountability has failed and human rights were violated by companies directly or indirectly and Human Rights Watch has documented such cases of corporate complicity with human rights violations. These are not restricted to Current Scenario extractive industries (mining, refineries) but also include companies with poor human rights and health and safety compliances across other business sectors. Investors, media, consumers and communities, primarily from the developed economies, have been particularly successful in bringing the spotlight back on human rights compliance for suppliers of large businesses, many of who are based out of emerging and low-income countries. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ( OECD Guidelines ) and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ( UN Guiding Principles ) reflect the importance of proactive business interventions on upholding human rights Business implications principles. An important challenge which businesses may face is in effecting interventions where the sphere of control and influence is limited. Businesses should take efforts to ensure that business decisions and interactions are guided by the context of issues and informed consent of affected parties. Companies must set examples on transparency by reporting publicly on human rights, and the social and environmental impacts of their work. Wipro Sustainability 54 Sustainability Megaforces Report 2014-15 Pervasive Digitization According to International Telecommunications union (ITU), there are more than 7 billion worldwide in 2015, corresponding to a penetration rate of 97%. Between the years of 200 and 2015, global internet penetration grew 7 fold from 6.5% to 43% and 3.2 billion people are using the internet by end of 2015., For every internet user in the developed world there are two in the developing world. This is driving creation of new business models which strives to ake technology as well as other accessible and affordable. Current Scenario With ICT becoming ubiquitous in day to day life, several technological risks arise. The World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2015 talks about risks related to the growing role of information and communication technologies to individuals, businesses and governments. The major risks identified by the report are critical infrastructure failure/ breakdown, data fraud/theft and cyber-attacks. These technological risks are strongly connected to each other and also to risks such as terrorist attacks and global governance failure. Information in criminal cases have increased by about 120 percent since 2009. ICT companies have greater responsibility in strengthening the critical infrastructure and put in place systems to protect against disruptions or attacks as the risks associated utmost important to national security and business continuity. Companies are increasingly being subject to various government disclosures on data privacy and cyber security issues. As a result, there is onus upon businesses to put in place resilient infrastructure and communication protocols. Business implications Businesses are legally obliged to comply with lawful government demands. At the same they also have the responsibility to uphold universally accepted human rights principles. In this context, there is onus upon businesses to address this issue by balancing legal compliance with compliance with human rights principles. Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Megaforces 55 Report 2014-15 Overview of Wipro's Sustainability Journey Wipro started its formal sustainability journey in 2001 with Wipro Cares, our community care program followed by Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) in 2002, an initiative that addresses issues of systemic reforms in school education. This pursuit of Good Citizenship is a deliberative choice Wipro has made in line with the core values of Wipro. Over the years, our programs have expanded in scope and scale with significant initiatives getting added around ecology, workplace and employee engagement, customer stewardship, and suppliers. Running through these diverse programs is a common thread of thinking that reflects our position on sustainability. ¢ Business wields enormous power and influence in today's world, both, economic and sociopolitical. With this power comes the concomitant responsibility to do good in the larger canvas. For us, this starts with a set of foundational values as embodied in the Spirit of Wipro: `Intensity to Win', `Act with Sensitivity' and `Unyielding Integrity'. These values emphasize respect for all stakeholders and are the ethical bedrock of conducting business which is non-negotiable under any circumstance. ¢ In engaging with the issues of sustainability, business must do so in a manner that is consistent with its core drivers; a spirit of innovation, financial and operational rigor, a keen focus on outcomes are hallmark attributes of the business sector and these must inform business action in sustainability in equal measure. In the absence of this, the approach to sustainability is likely to be peripheral and hollow. What this also implies is that there is nothing that business must do that seems to be driven by the need to oblige or comply. ¢ Related to the previous point is our conviction that we should be deeply engaged with our partners rather than treat it as an outsourcing exercise. This involvement must manifest in a carefully and deliberately chosen set of initiatives without spreading oneself thin. For similar reasons, we prefer to avoid using the term Corporate Social Responsibility as the term can be perceived to have a patronizing connotation to it; Sustainability is a more inclusive and appropriate term that suggests a proactive, comprehensive, and future-oriented range of engagements. Overview of Wipro's Wipro Sustainability 56 Sustainability Journey Report 2014-15 During the course of our sustainability journey, we have tried to establish a formal framework for our sustainability program which address proactively the concerns of our stakeholders as well as contribute to their well-being. We identified our workforce, customers, suppliers, proximate communities, civil society networks and future generations as our stakeholders with whom we share mutual relationship of interest, influence and impact. Our engagement with our stakeholders and our materiality assessment gave us insights into issues relevant to our business as well as stakeholders and identify possible areas of engagement. For more information on our stakeholder identification and materiality assessment, refer to section on `Materiality Determination'. We have formulated eight guiding principles to guide our approach to sustainability. The principles add to the rigor of our sustainability program. The principles are listed below and is discussed in detail in the subsequent sections. Principle 8 Principle 1 Leverage the power of Set well defined & measurable partnership sustainability goals Principle 7 Principle 2 our Explore disclosures as catalysts approach to Vest formal accountability at for self-transformation all levels of leadership sustainability Principle 6 Principle 3 Focus `within as well as outside Integrate into mainstream planning, the boundary' budgeting & review processes Principle 5 Principle 4 Define progress measures that are Create organizational capacity appropriate to context emphasize the at multiple levels long term and the qualitative equally Wipro Sustainability Overview of Wipro's Report 2014-15 Sustainability Journey 57 Wipro's Sustainability Framework The principle of focusing `within as well as outside the boundary' informs our strategic choice of looking at sustainability as a boundary-less continuum and this forms the backbone of our sustainability framework. This continuum spreads across two conceptual dimensions business responsibility and social responsibility. ? Abiding by the law of the land in spirit and letter, in all its activities. ? Practicing high levels of corporate governance, ensuring transparency and diligent discharge of fiduciary responsibilities. ? Being fair, and delivering on commitments to all immediate stakeholders employees, customers, partners, vendors and investors. ? Basing operations on sensitivity for the environment, with a concomitant goal of minimizing its ecological footprint ? Managing social impacts of business and ensuring integrity of human and labor rights within the sphere of influence in the supply chain The second dimension of social responsibility is about looking beyond the boundaries of organization and contributing towards development of the larger community. Bases on the above mentioned dimensions of social responsibility, a graphical representation of our sustainability framework is shown below. Business Responsibility Ecological Sustainability Minimize Wipro's internal footprint on energy, water and waste Workplace Sustainability Promote employee diversity, empowerment & continuous learning Customer Stewardship Provide products and solutions that enable customers to become greener Supplier Sustainability Collaborate with suppliers to help them become more sustainable Social Responsibility Advocacy & Public Policy Education and Community Initiatives Work jointly with education & civil society networks on sustainability Shape policies by engaging with programs government, NGOs & industry networks Wipro's Sustainability Wipro Sustainability 58 Report 2014-15 Framework Sustainability Governance The sustainability governance mechanism at Wipro derives greatly from the above guiding principles. At Wipro, sustainability is every one's job. The responsibility is spread across hierarchies, functions and businesses with multiple functions seeing themselves as key stakeholders in its success; among these, the Global Operations team, the People Function, the Investor Relations team and the Legal team play a major role in several of the programs. However, the oversight of sustainability programs rest at the corporate level with our Chairman, Board of Governors and Group Executive Council. Board Oversight The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee headed by an independent director acts as sustainability Committee an apex body that oversees Wipro's sustainability policy and programs. The Committee comprising of entirely independent directors has the additional responsibility of reviewing the Company's policies on Corporate Social Responsibility, including public issues of significance to the Company and its stakeholders. The overarching responsibility for our sustainability charter rest with our Chief Sustainability Officer who reports to the Chairman. The CSO is also part of our Group Executive Council, the senior most executive body in the organization which comprises of a core group of corporate leaders All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the regular planning and budgeting cycles of the company and are reviewed quarterly at multiple levels by the board, by the group executive council and by the chairman. Organization Structure The operating structure of Wipro’s multiple sustainability initiatives is based on the idea of building a Coalition or network of partners – internal and external – with nodal responsibility lying with a distinct group. The initiatives are handled by four functional groups at the corporate level which carry distinct responsibility and accountability but are part of a common sustainability charter under the Chief Sustainability Officer. The operational oversight of sustainability programs as well as reporting rests with Head of the sustainability organization. This includes the responsibility of formally reviewing and approving sustainability disclosures and seeking assurance for reports. Board Sustainability Chairman Committee Chief Sustainability Chief Executive Officer Officer Head & VP Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Sustainability Governance 59 Report 2014-15 Functional Groups eco-eye Wipro Cares Ecoeye Wipro Cares Wipro Applying Earthian Thought in Schools Carries the primary Works on our Responsible to drive Wipro’s Sustainability responsibility for community our education reform education program sustainability development initiatives. agenda. for schools and programs at college brings corporate level. Also together two of our has the oversight of key concerns: sustainability Education and disclosures like GRI Sustainability. Sustainability report, Business Responsibility Collectively, these four groups pull together the different strands of our sustainability initiative and steers it in the defined direction. Responsibility Matrix Our key organizational stakeholders and their role is represented below. Planning Execution Internal External & Review Evangelizing Advocacy Board of Directors Group Executive Council Business Leadership Facilities Management Group Infrastructure Creation Group Ecoeye Sustainability Office Employee Chapters Human Resources Finance Corporate affairs, Brand & Communication Risk Office Legal and Compliance Wipro Sustainability 60 Sustainability Governance Report 2014-15 Sustainability Risks Assessment In the financial year 2013-14, Wipro, in association with Trucost, had completed its first natural capital valuation exercise which tried to quantify and monetize the global operational footprint of the companyfrom energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and, land use change, business travel, employee commute – as well as from the embedded natural capital in all goods and services that we procure from our supply chain. This exercise is being planned annually with the intention of understanding of our environmental impacts and risks of our business. We also undertook an exercise of Natural Capital Impact correlation to business portfolio at risk by applying natural capital valuation techniques with the objective to value the environmental impacts and dependencies of the customer base. For more information on Natural Capital Evaluation, refer to Natural Capital Valuation or Our Life Cycle Impacts” Transparency and Disclosures Driven by the belief that disclosures act as catalysts for continuous improvement, we have been active participants in the major frameworks that assess the Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) performance of companies, e.g., the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Carbon Disclosure Index, World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere, Vigeo Sustainability Rating etc. Wipro has been consistently rated among the leaders, both globally and in India (see Table 2). Feedback attributes this to our comprehensive and well-defined framework of goals and inclusive stakeholder reach supported by a solid governance process. Wipro Sustainability Transparency and Disclosures 61 Report 2014-15 Alignment with Sustainability charters and Networks Sustainability is a multi-stakeholder game and collective action is the only effective way to address it challenges. Since inception, we have believed that subscribing to select charters and aligning with the right networks can be a force multiplier for some of our own programs. We continue to be deeply engaged with the networks that we started out with – we provide below the updated summary of our associations and networks. Charter /Network Brief description Wipro’s engagement Association The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a Wipro has been a participant in the pioneer in climate action by trying to align Carbon Disclosure Project since 2007-08 industry, government and the investment and has been a ranked member 1 in the community onto a common vision and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index platform. It represents the interests of 655 (CDLI) India for two consecutive years investors with a combined asset base of 2012 and 2013. We were also part of the US $ 78 trillion and illustrates the growing Global CDLI in 2012, the only company Carbon Disclosure trend of responsible investment. from India in the index. Project The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Wipro has been a part of the core working Development (CESD) constituted a task group, the primary recommendations of force to study the proposed guidelines on which have been CSR from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs The ministry’s proposed 2% of Profit After (MCA). The group has been engaged with Tax spend on CSR should not be CII-ITC CESD’s the government as the voice of industry mandatory as it certain to become task force on and in trying to evolve a balanced counter-productive CSR guidelines perspective of the bill’s provisions. To keep the reporting requirement as simple and consistent as possible The committee constituted of a working Wipro was also a convener of the working group on e-Waste ; the working group’s group. goal was to bring producers, customers, recyclers and government together to a common platform in order to discuss CII Environment improvements to the e-Waste Rules 2012. Committee Wipro Sustainability 62 Transparency and Disclosures Report 2014-15 The IGBC was formed under the aegis of Wipro is one of the executive members of the CII in 2001 with the goal of ushering in the IGBC panel that evolved the Green a ‘Green Building’ movement in India. Building standards for India. India Green Building Council (IGBC) The NAPCC comprises eight missions on Wipro has partnered with Cstep in different aspects of sustainable researching and publishing a paper on NAPCC development and is India’s official charter the roadmap for the National Solar on Climate Change. Mission (NSM). India’s National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) The ISTE is a nodal group at the national Wipro’s Mission10X is a member of the level which furthers the cause of iSTE. engineering education in the right direction. Please visit http://www.isteonline.in/ for details Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) The ten principles of the UNGC act as both Wipro became a formal signatory to the a policy platform and a practical UNGC in September 2008. Our first COP framework for companies that are (Communication on Progress) was committed to sustainability. published in July 2010 and our most recent CoP was published in 2013. U.N. Global Compact The confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Wipro is part of the core committee. constituted a committee to look into issues of employability of people with disabilities into the workforce. CII committee for employment of people with disabilities Wipro Sustainability Transparency and Disclosures 63 Report 2014-15 ity v r s io d i e i ng i t ? B o o s e l e w A r Biodiversity refers to the variety of life on Earth at all its levels, from genes to ecosystems, and the ecological and evolutionary processes that sustain it. Our theme for this year’s report The Shifting Normal focuses emerging trends that are steadily changing our natural environment and the society that we live in. As a part of the GRI Special for this report, we present a brief historical narrative of global movements over the last fifty years that have tried to engage with the compelling challenges of sustainable development. The following pages of the insert form part of the GRI Special and present a series of facts that outline the outcomes of varied development has had on Biodiversity and the key initiatives that are protecting it. THREATS TO BIODIVER SITY KNOWN SPECIES THREATENED WITH EXTINCTION of ocean fisheries are of the Earth's wetlands categorized as fully Bird Species 85% exploited, over exploited 50% have been destroyed in the 20th century Mammal Species or depleted 1 8 out of 1 4 out of Species numbers & population Invasive species Nile Perch, Zebra Mussels, Water Hyacinth Black-Market Demands for wildlife illegal fishing The extinction rate have dropped by almost cost economies annually and illegal logging is valued at today is more than Amphibians Species 100X the level it was 30% in the $1.4 trillion $70.5 billion per year before humans walked the Earth. last 100 years. Conifer Species 1 3 out of WHY BIODIVER SITY MATTER S 1 4 out of 2 species have gone 75% Marine Turtle Species extinct of the world's known species may face extinction raw materials Biodiversity provides the everyday since 2010 if the world's temperature rises by fot the food, medicines and more than 3.5C industries that support life. 6 7out of Humans consume 90% of the wet lowland forests 7,000 in western Ecuador have been cleared in the last 40 years. These forests used 1/3 of reef-building corals around the world are threatened with plans species as food to be home to 10,000 species of plants, 25% of which existed only in Ecuador extinction. Coral reefs are home to innumerable species 1.6 billion of the world's 7 billion people rely on forests for their livelihood of the Climate change and habitat loss threatens the existence of atleast Studies suggest that 25% 1/2 synthetic drugs have a natural origin 25% 25% of all species on land by the year 2050 if the current trends continue of all mammal species could be extinct in the next 20 years 70% of the world's poor live in rural areas and depend directly on biodiversity for survival h' s r t Ea The Nagoya Protocol, the second supplementary agreement he ity to the 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) provides t ng a transparent legal framework for the effective implementation i 2010 e c t of fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the t r s utilization of genetic resources. The Nagoya Protocol adopted a o Pr v revised and updated Strategic Plan for Biodiversity io i e d covering the 2011-2020 period. B The International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (IT PGRFA) Madrid popularly known as the 2006 International Seed Treaty in harmony with the Convention on Biological Diversity, aims at guaranteeing food security through the conservation, exchange and sustainable use of the world's plant genetic resources for food and agriculture (PGRFA), as well as the fair and International Plant Protection equitable benefit sharing arising from its use. Convention (IPPC), Rome, aimed to secure coordinated, effective action to prevent and to control the 1951 The Cartagena Protocol, signed in introduction and spread of pests Montreal, on Biosafety to the of plants and plant products. Convention on Biological Diversity, the 2000 first supplementary agreement to the 1992. The Biosafety Protocol seeks to protect biological diversity from the potential risks posed by genetically modified organisms The Ramsar Convention (formally resulting from modern biotechnology. the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance) Iran provides the framework for national 1971 The United Nations Convention to action and international cooperation for the conservation and wise use 1994 Combat Desertification, Paris, is the only internationally legally binding of wetlands and their resources. framework set up to address the problem of desertification. The Convention is based on the principles of participation, partnership and decentralization-the The World Heritage Convention was backbone of Good Governance and adopted by the United Nations Educational, Sustainable Development. Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) General Conference at its 17th session in Paris 1972 is a successful global instrument for the The Rio de Janeiro Convention on Biological protection of cultural and natural Diversity (CBD) has three main objectives: to heritage. 1992 conserve biological diversity; to use its components in a sustainable way; to share fairly and equitably the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources. CITIES Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, Washington, DC aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and CMS Convention on the Conservation of plants does not threaten the survival of the species in the wild, 1973 and accords varying degrees of protection to more than 1979 Migratory Species of Wild Animals Bonn to conserve migratory species and their habitats by providing 35,000 species of animals and plants. strict protection for endangered migratory species. 3. WIPRO AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS 3 Organizations do not exist in silos; it can be even said that every organization is the sum total of interactions between different stakeholders so as to create value for all parties involved either directly or indirectly. In such a system of interdependencies, engagement with stakeholders is central; however over the past few decades, stakeholder engagement has become more than just interactions happening over the normal course of business. Engaging with stakeholders has a greater purpose of understanding risks and opportunities associated with the social, environmental and economic climate that a business is embedded in. Summary of Stakeholder Engagement At Wipro, we look at stakeholder engagement as a sine qua non for fostering responsible and sustainable business practices that benefit both, the organization and the stakeholders. What follows is a summary representation of our engagement with the eight stakeholders. This acts as a valuable input to our materiality determination process. Wipro Sustainability Wipro and its Stakeholders 69 Report 2014-15 Customers Employees Building relationships with customers is core to People are at the core of a knowledge-based understanding their business needs and organization like ours. Partnering with emerging trends. Close engagement helps employees to understand their expectations Wipro to communicate unique and and feedback enable us to strengthen our Rationale for differentiated value to customers. people processes and thereby strengthen our engagement talent pool and drive retention. To solicit feedback and employee perception Partnerships with customers to meet their to enhance & improve people processes and present and emerging business ICT needs. improve employee satisfaction. Strategic objective of engagement Empowerment, Continuous Learning , Quality ? Quality and timeliness of delivery of Work, Work-Life balance, Compensation & ? Impact on customer’s business goals Benefits, Workplace facilities, Health & Safety , ? Does Wipro meet the expected norms on Counseling and Advice, Diversity in the environment, labor and human rights and workplace, Career planning, Appraisal and Key issues material corporate responsibility? Feedback, Integrity and transparency at to stakeholder workplace, the company's larger vision on sustainability and social issues ? Enhanced communication and collaboration forums to voice feedback ? Deeper engagement with customer across ? Continuous review and improvements to levels Steps taken to existing processes ? Develop better reporting mechanisms address stakeholder ? Detailed analysis of employee satisfaction concerns scores and survey feedback to close gaps Open houses, Performance reviews, 360 Strategic and operational reviews, Customer degree feedback, All hands meet, Focus Meets, Formal customer feedback and surveys groups, Leadership webcasts, Blogs and Modes of engagement discussion groups, Perception Surveys Ongoing and continuous; Surveys are annual Ranges from daily (blogs) to annual ( 360 and project-based degree feedback) Frequency The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Strategy The Human Resources group, Environment Officer, Chief Business Operations Officer, the Health and Safety Chief Quality Officer, the Sales and Marketing Primary internal functions and their teams custodian Wipro Sustainability 70 Wipro and its Stakeholders Report 2014-15 Suppliers Investors Supplier engagement helps reduce risks from quality and Engaging with our investors helps safeguard our reputation, disruption of services. as well gain diverse perspectives on business strategy and performance. Partnerships with suppliers to meet diverse business To communicate our strategy and performance as well as our operations requirements views on economic environment; To seek feedback on our performance ? Ease of doing business with Wipro across the Order to ? Corporate governance Payment life cycle ? Labor & Human rights ? Ability to meet corporate responsibility requirements – ? Attrition with regards to ethical business conduct, social ? Compliance practices and environmental impacts ? Communication Strengthen our governance systems and processes ? Capacity building ? Collaboration with suppliers ? Feedback and grievance handling mechanisms Regular operational reviews, Supplier meets, Vendor survey Annual General Meeting, Annual Report, Investor meets, Analyst conferences, Roadshows, Shareholder voting, Investor complaints Will vary from monthly to annual Ranges from Quarterly to Annual ; Analyst meets and roadshows may be periodic depending on situational requirement Central Procurement Office, Wividus Shared Services, Facility Chief Strategy Officer Management Group Wipro Sustainability Wipro and its Stakeholders 71 Report 2014-15 The Education ecosystem: Communities and Partners & Academic Institutes Civil Society Networks Education is one of the strategic long term The imperative for business to engage deeply community engagement programs identified with communities and society stems from the as force multipliers for effecting social change fundamental axiom that for business to and sustainable development. It is one of flourish, the fabric of society must be strong. Rationale for Wipro's main planks of societal engagement engagement Developing a good understanding and To engage on systemic issues that are force capacity building of civil society organizations multipliers for social change and sustainable working in school education is the core development Strategic objective objective of our education program. of engagement ? Quality of education in schools ? Education for disadvantaged children e.g. children of migrant laborers, children with ? Teacher capacity development hearing disability etc. ? Understanding of good education ? Primary healthcare for rural communities ? Availability of resource organizations and Key issues material ? Environment issues that affect people in specific areas in school to stakeholder disadvantaged communities e.g. Water education ? Long term rehabilitation for disaster affected area ? Facilitating mutual learning among partner organizations through annual partners’ forum ? Cross-leveraging the learning from diverse Designing programs to address the specific Steps taken to par tner experiences through our needs of the communities with whom we are address stakeholder engagement with partners associated. concerns ? Enabling established partner organizations to play resource organization role to younger organizations Periodic visits, conference calls, email, reviews, Periodic meetings with partners, open meets reports of workshops or events, annual with community, Partner newsletters forums Modes of engagement 34 times a year for each partner/project Varies from monthly to quarterly Frequency Wipro's CSR group , WATIS the school Wipro's CSR group, Wipro Cares, Location education team leadership Primary internal custodian Wipro Sustainability 72 Wipro and its Stakeholders Report 2014-15 Government and The Young Citizen Policy Networks and Future Generations Corporations must engage with government as part of the The young citizen has enormous potential as a change agent larger charter of bringing about systemic changes in society and and creating lasting positive impact to the environment through legislation, policies and directives and society. Trying to safeguard the interests of future generations who, technically do not have a voice is a fundamental act of responsibility leading to intergenerational justice. To participate meaningfully and to influence policy directions To ensure a safe and sustainable planet for future for larger social good generations. ? India's policies on climate change, energy efficiency, water, e-waste, biodiversity and ICT for social change ? Ecological sustainability of our planet at a local, national ? Legislation policies on workplace inclusion, labor and and global level human rights ? Issues of inclusiveness and fairness ? The role of corporate social responsibility ? Meaningful work and livelihoods ? Taxation legislation in the countries we operate in Active involvement in both, policy formulation and in a more Design and execution of several projects that addresses general process of debate and dialog on various challenges societal and environmental problems beyond the scope of of development and sustainability business Planned meetings, workshops, taskforces and steering Indirect inference from our school and college committees of industry network bodies interventions as well as with Wipro's employees Varies from monthly to annual Corporate Affairs group, Senior Leadership, Wipro Human Resources Group, Wipro's Sustainability Group, Sustainability team Wipro-earthian team Wipro Sustainability Wipro and its Stakeholders 73 Report 2014-15 Report Map Given below is the mapping of aspects, topics and their reporting boundaries to respective sections and primary stakeholders. Respective Stakeholder Aspects Topics Aspect/Topic Boundary Sections 1. Employment Career Employees People supply chain Workplace 2. Occupational health & development (primary and secondary) safety 3. Diversity & equal Sustainability opportunity 4. Capacity building & Career development 1. Energy Energy, Water, Waste, Biodiversity – ? 2. Emissions Operations in India as they constitute Ecological 3. Water 80% of overall footprint and higher 4. Effluents & waste Urban resilience impact Current & Responsibility 5. Campus biodiversity Emissions – Global Supply Chain ? future (includes Business Travel and 6. Urban resilience generations commute) contribute to X% of overall environmental impact. 1. Customer privacy Innovation All our customers and businesses Customer s Customers 2. Customer Satisfaction tewardship 3. Innovation 1. Economic performance Economic performance: Across the ? Investors value chain, primarily India Financial Stewardship Supply Chain Sustainability 1. Supplier environmental Social aspects of Supply Chain: India ? assessment based suppliers 2. Supplier assessment for Environmental aspects of supply ? Suppliers* labor practices chain: Categories based on life cycle 3. Supplier human rights assessment of services and products Workplace Sustainability assessment (see natural capital accounting) 4. Supplier assessment for impact on society Social Community Community & Education Communities in India and other ? & civil society counties where we have significant networks; The Responsibility operations. Other countries include education South Africa, United States of ecosystem America etcetera. * As described in the section ‘Our Value Chain’, our suppliers are of three category – Human resources, service providers and materials & equipment providers. We are covering aspects and topics related to our primary supply chain (contractors directly engaged in customer delivery) in the section ‘People Sustainability’ and product and services supply chain related aspects in the section ‘Supply Chain Sustainability’. Wipro Sustainability 74 Wipro and its Stakeholders Report 2014-15 Workplace Sustainability EPS Pulse 2014 57,000 Engagement Scores Talent engagement & empowerment enterprise-wide social networking platform users 2% Occupational Health & Safety trainings Employee Health & Safety 18 130,000 locations in India certified participants (employees, for OHSAS 18001 contractors & service providers) Women Retention Rate post parental leave from 76 candidates with disabilities were hired in Diversity & 89%-93% FY 14-15 Inclusion Totally 495 employees with disability wide range of programs registered Capability Building & technical, behavioral, 4000 mentees Career Development sales, registered leadership 1200 mentors training in our Learning Networks ? Career enhancement of employees through internal role movements, skill-based career paths, job rotations and manager capability building ? Build customized learning programs based on specific needs of key accounts to drive business outcomes ? Develop meaningful HR metrics and analytics to assist strategic decision-making Vision & Goals Workplace Sustainability People are at the core of a knowledge-based organization like ours. We firmly believe that we cannot build a great business without nurturing talent from within. We are committed to partnering with employees and strengthening our talent pool by providing them with growth and career enhancement opportunities. Today we have a large and diverse workforce (140,000+ employees in 58 countries as on 31st March 2015) and we continuously design and implement processes and programs to foster people development, leadership development and skill enhancements among our global team. Organisation Context The dynamic business landscape shapes our talent management approach and is geared to deliver transformation, change and growth. The strategy is built on the foundation of our values and informed by globally recognized principles of business responsibility. Some key trends that are shaping our people strategy are ? Complex marketplace, characterized by rapid transformation of business models and technology landscape. The high demand for automation and digitization has reduced technology cycles and skills are becoming commoditized more rapidly than before. ? The IT services marketplace is also a highly competitive one, with an ever-increasing focus on talent and innovation. Meeting rapidly evolving customer requirements requires a high level of competence, expertise and learning agility. Co-innovation, collaborative working and crowd sourcing are capabilities which are fast becoming the norm. ? Difference between talent that is sought and talent that is available. ? Changes in workforce patterns and legal regulations: Our employees are located globally, at Wipro offices and across client locations. A significant portion of our management focus is invested in engaging with our employees; thus creating the need to build managerial and leadership capabilities in the context of an increasingly virtual work environment. In the recent past, changes to immigration laws & regulations and risks to offshore business models have also made an impact on our people strategy, particularly in our approach to attract local talent. We strongly believe that in order to prepare for this dynamic business environment, we need to continue building a best-in-class organizational culture to attract, build and retain talent across levels, globally. Understanding the Stakeholder – Global Workforce A majority (79%) of our employees are based in India while more than 30,000 employees work in other countries. A significant portion of our employees based overseas (outside India) are locals (40%). Our overall employee base comprises of 101 nationalities. Our gender ratio continues to be over 30%. As on March 2015, 439 employees had voluntarily declared their disabilities through our online self-declaration form. The average age of our workforce is 30.3 years and a significant portion (over 57%) is under the age of 30. Wipro Sustainability 76 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Understanding Material Aspects Apart from values and global frameworks, inputs received from various sources also act as influencers, to shape specific aspects of the strategy and identify potential risk and opportunity areas. While our values are at the core of our actions, we believe that it is only through focused and continuous engagement with our stakeholders that we can build a truly inclusive and empowered enterprise. These inputs are gathered as part of our materiality determination effort, as well as from feedback received from social audits and assessments. Aspects that stand out as most critical and vital to the organization as well as stakeholders, are identified as the top areas of materiality, for action and reporting. What follows is the summary of key platforms of engagement & issues identified for aspects pertaining to human capital. Influencing Current and Emerging Areas Material Aspects Stakeholder of Focus and Impact and Topics Identified ? Simplification of people processes to enhance workplace experience ? Skill building to address emerging technology capability areas ? Career growth opportunities ? Capability building of managers Employees ? Comprehensive compensation & benefits ? Well-being and safety ? Helping customers solve their business problems and create competitive differentiation for them in the market. ? Enhanced focus on operational efficiencies in the immediate term ? Driving expertise and reskilling towards technologies of the future ? Talent engagement & ? Diversity & Inclusion retention ? Need for collaboration, co-creation and learning agility Customers ? Capability building & ? Employee well-being and safety Career development ? Heightened focus on social aspects of supply chain ? Employee well-being ? Increased focus on compliance with Global standards and safety ? Diversity & Inclusion ? Alignment with sustainability frameworks like Dow Jones Sustainability Index Investors ? Heightened focus on sustainable organizations ? Talent attraction & retention strategy Peer ? Talent Pool availability organizations ? Macro-economic and financial systems, government, civil society, regulatory bodies ? High dependency on US and European markets ? Emergence of multiple low cost English-speaking Others destinations ? Risks to offshore business models ? Changes in immigration laws / regulations Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 77 Report 2014-15 Organizational People Strategy Our people strategy is designed to fulfil organizational strategy in the current and emerging business context. We have taken an integrated talent management approach that spans the complete employee life-cycle, through processes and functions like hiring, onboarding, continuous engagement, assessment & capability building, career development & career planning, leadership development, employee well-being and benefits & rewards. Our analysis of employees' perception, expectation and feedback forms a primary input in designing our talent management processes. Our approach to soliciting and acting on this feedback determines our performance in processes like talent attraction, engagement, and retention. Additionally, our customers, investors and peer organizations also influence our people value chain and provide perspectives on material issues & risks. Finally, the geo-political situations, particularly in markets where we have high dependencies also form a vital input to our people strategy. (Refer to the section Understanding Material Aspects) Commitment to Human Rights ? Spirit of Wipro values & Tenets Engaging the ? Code of business conduct & etnics Equality, Diversity ? Ombdus process extended workforce & Inclution ? Prevention of Sexual Harassment policy ? Global diversity & inclution policy ? Non-discrimination & meritocracy at ali stages ? Partner Employee of employee life-cycle Engagement Framework ? Woman of Wipro’ gender equity program ? Persons with Disabilities program ? Global workforce Careers & Employee WellCapability being & Safety ? Employee development ? Workplace safety & & training security ? Managerial capabilities Our People ? Comprehensive medical & assessments benefits ? Leadership development Strategy ? Progressive ? Specialist frameworks compensation & benefits ? Counselling support On boarding Employee engagement & advocacy ? Feedback platforms to capture voice of ? Structured orientation employees for all new joinees ? Employee advocasy ? Project readiness Group and employee program for campus participation in location recruits level communities ? Online on-boarding ? Freedom of Association portal Wipro Sustainability 78 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Governance It is our belief that long-term sustainability requires a structured approach to identify, monitor and measure indicators of performance and drive higher accountability. With this in view, we have built people indicators like attrition, employee satisfaction scores, employee engagement initiatives, talent development initiatives into the goals and targets of people functions and leaders who have maximum influence in impacting them. This has created a higher level of accountability and drive in improving people indicators. The resultant performance further determines the leaders’ merit salary increase, variable pay-out, promotion eligibility and long term incentives like bonuses and RSUs; further driving individual responsibility and accountability. The indicators provide key insights into the effectiveness of people strategies and are reviewed regularly both at organizational and individual business unit levels through oneto-one performance reviews and team reviews. Developmental plans are formulated based on previous year’s performance feedback, 360 degree feedback survey etc. Mid-year course corrections are made based on the observations of these reviews. We have also established committees like Health & Safety Committee, Diversity Council, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee, Audit/Risk & Compliance committees to review progress and formulate strategies. Material issues pertaining to compliance, human rights, diversity & inclusion and employee engagement / attrition are also presented to the board & its relevant committees at their quarterly meetings. Driving accountability towards people procsses through managers & Human Resources teams Indicators Performance ? Formal annual ? Attrition appraisal process ? Linked to meet salary ? Employee satisfaction ? Ongoing performance increase scores feedback through ? Linked to quarterly ? Employee engagement formal reviews and performance linked initiatives manager meetings pay ? Talent development ? 360 degree feedback ? Linked tp long term initiatives survey for middle incentives like RSUs for management & above Senior Management Tracking Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 79 Report 2014-15 We believe that an informed workforce is an empowered workforce and only when employees are aware of the policies and processes that impact them, can they truly participate in the consultation process. With this in view, we have institutionalized various channels that create awareness, foster dialogue, and provide opportunities for employees to give feedback. These include awareness campaigns through mailers, Webchats, webinars, policy sessions etc., group announcements for key organizational changes/updates, quarterly `Wipro Meets' session with the CEO and senior leadership teams, all hands meet with business leaders and group and individual connect sessions with the human resources teams. Last year, we introduced an organizational-wide online social networking platform. This has further enabled employees to crowd source ideas & suggestions, provide real-time feedback and ask queries directly to leaders / functional teams. The adoption of these forums by employees (as indicated by participation levels/usage) indicates how well ingrained they are into the organizational culture, We also conducted our biennial Employee Perception Survey (EPS) to gather employee feedback, and a shorter EPS Pulse Survey between 2 EPS cycles. The Engagement score recorded in each EPS survey is considered as an indicator of organizational performance. Based on feedback from these forums, existing programs are enhanced and new ones introduced. Our focus is on continuous improvement and we aim to incorporate more insightful indicators to track our performance at different stages of the employee life-cycle. Talent Engagement Attraction & On-boarding Wipro follows a well-established approach to hiring and on-boarding. Our talent sourcing strategies include employee referrals, direct applications through the career section of our website, channel partners, job fairs, campus placements, and internal job postings. We also partner with various universities to build teams in accordance with client expectations. We are an equal opportunity employer and drive meritocracy at all stages of the hiring and ongoing deployment process, including role-mapping and remuneration. A robust onboarding process is a vital step in ensuring smooth assimilation of new joiners into the organization. Our onboarding process is expected to provide timely flow of information, role-based induction, and familiarization with organizational culture & values. With this in view we had launched the ‘Onboarding Portal’ in 2013. However, we observed that the utilization of this portal was low, with only 33% of the new joiners accessing the portal in FY 14-15. In order to improve the utilization, in FY 13-14 we launched a new portal on a cloud-based application. This tool will allow us to start the onboarding process as soon as the candidate accepts the offer, host multimedia content on key organizational information and track completion status more effectively. In phase 1, the portal is being used for new India-based recruits in middle manager and above positions. In phase 2, the portal will be extended to all new hires across roles and geographies. Our technical campus recruits undergo a 3-month onboarding process with technical and behavioural training sessions. An induction process is also held for lateral hires and includes sessions on business structure, policies and various programs and initiatives. Additionally, new joiners also undergo customized induction at project / businessunit level. Wipro Sustainability 80 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Talent Engagement and Empowerment With the advent & deep influence of social media, we have witnessed a dynamic shift in the way employees communicate and seek information. Over the years, our focus on participative engagement has increased and our programs have been more closely aligned to cater to our diverse and multi-generational workforce. In FY 14-15, we launched an online enterprise-wide social platform. This has allowed employees across the globe to network and collaborate, thus removing the physical boundaries of a geographically widespread workforce and increasing the feeling of connectedness in a global organization. It has also allowed employees to provide real-time feedback through online polls & directly connect with senior leaders or functional teams. Additionally, employees have been able to network, form special interest groups, seek role opportunities and work on collaborative projects without location or team constraints. Over 57,000 Wiproites currently (As on close of FY 14-15) use this platform, with over 4700 public and private groups. Our employee engagement programs are driven at multiple levels – organizational, unit/team and individual. Key organizational changes and announcements are cascaded through emails, online posts, posters, kiosks, on-floor sessions and through business and HR teams. The leadership team engages with employees throughout the year through online chat sessions, Leader blogs, organizational level ‘Wipro Meets’, business unit level ‘All Hands Meets’, round table discussions and functional review meets and offsites. Another important enablement to engagement is through business managers and HR teams who meet employees through one-to-one meetings & team discussions. Additionally, customized engagement frameworks are used by business units to address needs specific to employees in that unit or to that business/domain. Employee Engagement Avenues Yammer Employee Perception Employee Advocacy Survay Group Mailers, Posters, Blogs, Announcements, Social Media, Intranet Yammer Feedback in Action Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 81 Report 2014-15 Employee Feedback Forums Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Employee Perception Survey is a biennial survey through which we capture employee engagement & feedback. Additionally, a shorter EPS Pulse survey is conducted in the interim period to provide a stock-take on actions implemented as a result of the main EPS survey. Both surveys are open to all employees, irrespective of career level and location and is administered in multiple languages. With 66% participation, EPS Pulse 2014 showed an increase of 1% in participation over EPS 2013, and also an increase of 2% in the overall engagement score. Discrete questionnaires for EPS and EPS Pulse limits us from presenting a comparative analysis on the strengths and areas of improvement on the individual engagement drivers; such a comparison can only be presented for two EPS surveys, and the next report would include the findings for EPS 2013 vis-à-vis EPS 2015. Key focus areas identified through EPS Pulse 2014 include the revamp of Unified Competency Framework (UCF), Simplification of processes like appraisals, variable pay policy and resourcing, and changes to the promotion process to create more growth opportunities. Deployment of actions identified to address these areas is in progress with functional and leadership teams. Employee Perception Survey is a biennial survey through which we capture employee engagement & feedback. Additionally, a shorter EPS Pulse survey is conducted in the interim period to provide a stock-take on actions implemented as a result of the main EPS survey. Both surveys are open to all employees, irrespective of career level and location and is administered in multiple languages. With 66% participation, EPS Pulse 2014 showed an increase of 1% in participation over EPS 2013, and also an increase of 2% in the overall engagement score. Discrete questionnaires for EPS and EPS Pulse limits us from presenting a comparative analysis on the strengths and areas of improvement on the individual engagement drivers; such a comparison can only be presented for two EPS surveys, and the next report would include the findings for EPS 2013 vis-à-vis EPS 2015. Key focus areas identified through EPS Pulse 2014 include the revamp of Unified Competency Framework (UCF), Simplification of processes like appraisals, variable pay policy and resourcing, and changes to the promotion process to create more growth opportunities. Deployment of actions identified to address these areas is in progress with functional and leadership teams. Employee Advocacy Group (EAG) The Employee Advocacy Group (EAG) is a 120 member representative group managed by Wiproites to voice employee suggestions. EAG Members aim to pool employee ideas and provide recommendations to improve company policies and processes. EAG was formed in Sep 2011 and has received about 6148 suggestions since inception. EAG team consists of a feeder group which includes employees at various levels across the organization. The feeder group assess suggestions logged into the system based on feasibility & impact, and applicability of benefit in terms of employee base affected. Shortlisted suggestions are further discussed with the core group consisting of functional SPOCs. Suggestions which are generic, repetitive or are not believed to benefit a substantial set of Wipro Sustainability 82 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 employees are closed via clarification to the employee. During 2014-15, 1053 inputs were received, of which 706 did not fall under the purview of new suggestions and were closed via clarification. The balance 347 inputs received were screened by the EAG team and then by functional representatives. Shortlisted suggestions were further discussed with functional heads for implementation. Of these, ~43% are under consideration by EAG, ~50% are work-inprogress and ~6% have been implemented as process/policy improvements. HR, Recruitment, Training, Facilities & Security Information Systems Wividus-Shared Services & related functions ** 44.69% 25.96% 11.52% EAG Suggestion Distribution EAG Suggestion Distribution EAG Suggestion Distribution Finance, Marketing, Business Operations Quality & related functions # 3.73% 14.10% EAG Suggestion Distribution EAG Suggestion Distribution Suggestion Number of Suggestions Under consideration by EAG 150 Work-In-Progress 175 Implemented in FY14-15 22 ** Information Systems, Infrastructure Management Group, Information Risk Management and Policy Compliance. # Business Operations, Workforce Management Group and Overseas Operations Cell. Wipro Business Process Services (WBPS) Integrated Employee Support Centre (IESC) Taking into consideration the operational dynamics and unique needs of WBPS employees, a 24x7 helpline was launched in 2013 for faster query resolution and enhance employee care. The Integrated Employee Support Centre (IESC) has enabled resolution of queries in the first call for over 80% of the queries logged. In FY 2014-15, the IESC assumed additional responsibility of outbound services in the form of calls, emails and text messages to new joiners for onboarding support. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 83 Report 2014-15 WBPS Engagement Index (EI) Wipro BPS launched the Engagement Index (EI) in 2010, to enhance engagement effectiveness for first level and midlevel people managers from business across operations. Managers own engagement targets for engagement and retention of talent, reward and recognition and fun-at-work; performance data is tracked and translated into an EI score for each manager. Over the years, EI has been internalized as an integral responsibility of people managers and is linked to their variable pay as well. Engagement Index achievement levels for 2014-15 closed at over 90%, consistent with 2013-14 levels. Comprehensive Benefits & Rewards Wipro’s compensation and benefits program takes an integrated approach and provides a range of options for better financial and social security including tax-managing options, insurance & medical packages, assistance in managing financial and personal issues, retirals, etc. Our programs are reviewed intermittently to ensure relevance to today’s changing workforce and mirrors the latest industry offerings, based on the region’s local regulations / laws and norms. Allowances and benefits are further customized for employees who travel outside their home country for short-term project deputation, to suit immediate financial / settling-in needs. Standard benefits like leave plans, insurance, retirals (contribution to / provision of retirement plans / superannuation schemes in accordance with local laws & industry practices) and other emoluments are provided to our full-time and fixed-term employees, based on the country of operation and law of land. Our benefits & rewards programs are customized as per local regulations, expectations & norm and range from assistance in money management, performance & behavioural based rewards, time-off/work-life balance related benefits, medical and insurance options and retirals. The compensation & benefits programs available in each geography are outlined in detailed policy documents and are available to all employees on the company intranet. In order to familiarize the human resources teams on the compensation philosophy and benefits across geographies and empower them to answer employee queries, an inhouse Compensation and Benefits (C & B) certification program is held every year in multiple batches. The program consists of a workshop facilitated by Wipro’s C & B experts and is followed by an exit test which leads to the certification. Additionally, organizational / business-unit level sessions are also held to create awareness amongst employees through avenues like HR-facilitated workshops, chat sessions, webinars, teleconferencing and mailers. The table summarizes the range of benefits offered to our employees. While several of these benefits are available to full-time employees globally, the applicability of individual programs depends upon the country of operation. Expats in select countries like Nigeria, middle-east, Latin America etcetera, and or/non-English speaking countries also receive benefits like assistance for children’s education, assistance to visit home country etc. Wipro Sustainability 84 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Financial Assistance Rewarding Work-life Medical & /Benefits Performance & Behavior balance Insurance Benefits Tax-saving / customizable Winner’s Circle, our points Leave options like Health and Life insurance salary components. based rewards platform for maternity, paternity, options provided even top-down and peer-toextended maternity, annual where not mandated by peer recognition was leave, sick leave, adoption law / not provided by local revamped in FY 14-15. leave, leave without pay. government. Along with Locally curated catalogue employees, option to with over 5 million products enroll family members may globally for employees to also be provided. redeem their points. Availability of detailed Customized business unit Sabbatical leave program Disability / income statements on earnings, rewards & recognition (unpaid study leave for protection / continuity of deductions, benefits etc. mechanisms. maximum 2 years). salary for specified for better planning & durations when on analysis. disability covered under insurance policies. Interest free loans / salary Along with performance, Half-day half-pay working Group personal accident advance for defined behaviors like arrangements on-review insurance, survivor benefit purposes and emergency collaboration, teamwork, basis. program may also be requirements. etc. are recognized and provided. rewarded. Forex advance / settling Reasonable Option of Top Up allowances for employees accommodation policy was insurance Covers at on deputation. extended to all employees negotiated price. in FY 14-15 to request workplace / work-time / dress code adjustments. Retirement Saving Scheme(s) to help employees plan and invest for their retirement. Wipro Advantage – An online, in-house shopping portal providing employees with special price tie-ups for various products, lifestyle, health & financial categories. The portal has an enrolment of 59,000 employees since inception and 4500 new enrolments in FY 14-15. Key Metrics For all data linked to people demographics headcount, training days, new hires and attritions refer to our website: http://www.wiprosustainabilityreport.com/14-15/?q=interactive-graphs Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 85 Report 2014-15 Employee Health and Safety Wipro regards high standards of safety and health as a cornerstone of a successful business. A healthy workforce not only leads to higher productivity and cost saving, but also develops an engaged and happy workforce. With medical care expenses growing the world over, our effort in preventing health hazards is seen as a vital element in reducing employees’ financial burdens. Our comprehensive wellness programs and insurance offerings is also a value proposition for prospective candidates. Driving high commitment to health & safety is not only a core responsibility, but also a strategic lever in attraction, engagement and retention of talent. Policies, Principles and Commitment A safe workplace is a fundamental human right and we are committed to providing this to all our employees, partners and visitors to Wipro facilities. Through our programs, we believe in influencing all aspects of an employee’s life – including physical, mental and emotional well-being. Every year, through the mandatory certification of our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, we reinforce our commitment towards a healthy, safe and harassment-free workplace and evangelize individual responsibilities of each employee. We have also institutionalized key policies like health and safety policy, prevention of sexual harassment policy and a robust grievance redressal system. Governance Taking cognizance that employee well-being and safety is an aspect which impacts at various focal points, the overall responsibility for health & safety is assumed by the HR, EHS, ERM, Audit /Risk & compliance team. At global locations, the location operations, facilities management and human resources team assume joint responsibility of the employee health & safety aspects. Around 80% of our workforce works in locations across India and majority of them work from Wipro facilities. Taking this into account, we have established a core EHS team with city-wise EHS coordinators who drive compliance to standard procedures defined at a corporate level. The EHS Team along with stakeholder & service providers organize awareness programs on health & safety, thereby impacting performance on health & safety aspects. Safety committees are formed at major locations and consist of cross functional members from senior management, stakeholder, service providers and employees. Major locations exceeding 2000 employees have safety committees which meet quarterly & participate in risk assessments, safety inspections, incident investigations and hygiene audits. Remaining locations report work place hazards in the HSE portal and get discussed in city-wise committee meetings. Decisions taken during these meetings are communicated along with corrective actions and target dates in order to minimize risks. These committees bring together stakeholders at various levels to promote positive occupational health & safety culture. The safety committee meetings represent 100% participation from the representative employees. We have an integrated Risk Assessment in place of Initial Environmental Review and Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment. The risk assessment is evaluated every year and also as and when the accidents / incidents / near misses are noticed. Employees, stakeholders and Service providers are part of this risk assessment. Wipro Sustainability 86 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Our internal audit team conducts checks on the effective implementation of ISO 14001 / OHSAS 18001 standard requirements every 6 months by involving cross functional teams. 18 locations in India are certified or ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Apart from the Internal Audits, the corporate internal audit team also conducted the audit at selected locations to check the effectiveness on the closure of the gaps identified in internal audits and the report is submitted to the senior management as part of the Management Reviews. In addition to this, we also participate in client audits and provide information and data related to health & safety. As part of hazard communication / recognition, employees also record their observations on Environment, Health and Safety under various categories like Major/ Minor/ First-Aid / Near-misses etc. through our intranet portal. The incidents are further investigated and the root cause is analyzed for implementation of corrective and preventive actions to avoid recurrence. This has resulted in reduction of work related injuries across the locations. Focus Areas Our approach to health & safety is multi-pronged. Protection of employees from injury or occupational disease is a major continuing objective. To this end, we continued our effort to enhance safety & security at the workplace by prescribing policies & procedures, creating awareness and imparting trainings. Focus Areas for Key Actions / Performance FY 2014-15 Highlights Ergonomics Ergonomics was identified as a significant risk in risk assessment reports due to the sedentary nature of IT roles. Wipro has therefore set-up Ergonomic center at all major locations to assist employees on postural problems. Based on the Ergonomic cases reported at the ergonomic center, sessions were conducted for employees with emphasis on Repetitive strain injuries (RSI) that may be caused by workplace activities. Workplace ergonomics consultants assist in preventing and managing work related injuries and work related stress. Work place evaluation was organized and corrective actions prescribed to employees on optimal positions & postures at the work stations. Ergonomic services has helped employees to identify risk factors & understand measures on preventing injuries at their workstation. Enhance workplace safety and security Emergency preparedness As part of Health and Safety objective on with additional focus safe work place, mock drills were organized for identified potential on Women's Safety threats like fire/ electrical shocks / medical emergencies etc. across locations. This enhanced awareness among the employees and the staff working at critical areas to respond and follow the procedures in real scenarios, thus reducing the probability of negative impact on employee safety. In accordance with law, fire safety systems are regularly tested to ensure 100% functionality to handle emergencies. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 87 Report 2014-15 Women's safety Our security teams were trained on gender sensitization as a part of their on-job training and induction. Cab pickup and drop facility with security escort is available for women employees travelling late in the night or early in the morning. Women of Wipro committees were formed to discuss concerns and suggestions on women’s safety. Over 1700 women participated in women employee security awareness sessions and self-defense sessions. Food safety Our focus on food safety is considered significant as major locations have cafeterias run by food business operators (FBOs). This is one of the core areas where hygiene practices are monitored and inspected to avoid the risks on employee health. We have started the inspection of FSSAI requirement implementation at one of the locations through a competent outsourced agency. The observations and corrective actions taken are communicated to other locations and as a proactive measures, other locations have started the daily monitoring and inspecting of the cafeterias to ensure FSSAI practices are adhered by the FBOs. Employees are also consulted on food safety concerns during the food safety / cafeteria meetings and corrective actions are initiated. The results of the food safety/ cafeteria meetings are showcased in management reviews as part of Health and Safety performance. Workplace safety We consider indoor air quality as a significant risk on employee’s health aspect as employees work in air conditioned offices. The risks are assessed with adequate controls and environmental parameters are monitored in cognizance to ASHRA standards. Where ever indicators deviate from permissible levels, root cause analysis is done and corrective measures undertaken to avoid injuries / illnesses. This ensures a safe workplace for the employees and align with the health and safety objective of employee wellbeing. Mitr Our Employee counselling and Support forum, Mitr was established over 11 years ago. It enables employees to reach out to counsellors 24x7 in-person and on phone and seek assistance for issues pertaining to personal or professional life. Mitr counsellors include professionally trained and volunteer Wiproites as well as external counsellors from an Employee Assistance Program service provider. In addition to this, Mitr also includes counselling on legal and financial matters rendered by experts. The program is free of cost for employees Sustain a balanced and their family members and is completely confidential. Awareness is approach to employee created through intermittent email campaigns and posters as well as well-being with focus through webchats on common issues. The online portal also has on physical & emotional health insightful self-help modules for employees to refer. In 2014-15, 305 employees reached out to Mitr counsellors. Wipro Sustainability 88 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Fit for Life The online portal provides employees’ access to tools such as health calculators, diet and nutrition advice from experts, access to health counsellors and a plethora of articles, blogs and success stories from employees. Online chats, awareness sessions are also conducted under the aegis of Fit for Life. At several locations, through Fit for Life, employees can also find Yoga classes, fitness class and health club memberships at subsidized rates. Work-life balance Wipro offers multiple time-off options in the form of leaves, sabbaticals, half day working, flexible work arrangements, reasonable accommodation etc. Employees are encouraged to avail vacation time and mailers are intermittently broadcasted as reminders to plan their leaves. Medical insurance All employees globally are covered under a health and life insurance plan. In countries where local governments do not provide for such insurance or where it is not mandated by law, these plans are offered by Wipro through prevalent insurance companies. Employees’ family members may also be covered. Additionally, employees may also have options to avail top-up insurance coverage at special negotiated rates to cover for any additional medical expenses. Clauses related to disability provide income protection / continuity of salary for defined periods. Safety Awareness: 44th National Safety Day The facilities management group organized various activities to commemorate National Safety Day. These included pledges, rewards, and mock scenarios on emergency preparedness, trainings and talks on safety. Safety day awareness campaigns helped the organization in proactive reporting of hazards by the employees to eliminate risks and in adopting the safe work place practices in order to reduce work injury rate. Health awareness initiatives We have OHCs set up at major locations and these provides services ranging from basic health care to emergency care units. Medi-Assist Healthcare services manages the Occupational Health Centre Management at all major locations with Evangelize Wipro's qualified medical staff. OHC’s are operated 24/7 at major campus commitment on health locations and aim at monitoring and managing adverse health effects & safety through that may occur at the work place by promoting good workplace health awareness and training practices, imparting health education, conducting employee awareness programs, capturing illness trends and by developing a framework to interpret employee health statistics to drive fitness and align with the health and safety objective of wellbeing. Daily dash boards are monitored at OHC to check for major ailments and thus help in identifying and mitigating risks proactively through awareness sessions. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 89 Report 2014-15 Pandemic preparedness & vaccination camps During the H1N1 pandemic outbreak, Wipro initiated pandemic awareness sessions among employees as per the preparedness plan. An awareness campaign on hygiene practices was carried out during the H1N1 outbreak and included vaccination camps at locations like Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Delhi where the incidence of H1N1 was suspected / reported high. Timely awareness/ vaccination camps helped in managing this outbreak and preventing loss of productivity and customer escalations. As part of food safety management, Typhoid vaccination camp was organized for food handlers across Wipro India who are involved in the food preparation at our cafeterias. Organizing such vaccination camps helped the organization to eliminate food borne diseases affecting the employee’s health. As part of continual competency development, job specific trainings are identified for different functions to make our contractors and sub-contractors adopt to the safe work culture in the organization. These trainings include Electrical Safety, Elevator Rescue of Passengers, Safe driving, Accident Prevention & Accident Reporting, Office Safety, Computer Safety , Ergonomic Awareness, Personal Protective Equipment, Hazard Recognition, Hazardous Communication, Waste management, Awareness on Bio-Hazard, First Aid and Emergency response etc. Capacity building Over 130,000 participants (employees, contractors and service providers) for service providers attended Occupational health & safety trainings in FY 14-15. Though the through function trainings are additional controls as identified in Occupational health and safety specific training risk assessment, this helped the staff working at critical areas to follow safe working procedures and further resulted in reduction of work injuries. Trainings and awareness on Health and Safety is one of the proactive measures in enhancing the safety culture among the contractors/ service providers. Critical resources are trained on professional development on “ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001” approved by IRCA and “NEBOSH certification on Occupational Health & Safety”. Key Metrics Data 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Incidences of Industrial Injury (excl. personal transport) 198 254 257 Incidences of Industrial Injury (incl. personal transport) 548 483 530 Cases of Occupational Diseases – Ergonomic 697 549 Industrial Injury Lost Days (excl. personal transport) 503 760.5 Industrial Injury Lost Days (incl. personal transport) 8141 8918.5 Wipro Sustainability 90 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Diversity and Inclusion A diverse workforce is a reflection of a changing world and marketplace. Our client portfolio is diverse in composition in terms of locations, culture, industries and technologies they deploy. In order to address the increasing complexities and intangible problems of such a diverse clientele, it is imperative to cultivate a workforce which can generate a rich mosaic of ideas and practices and enhance innovation. We are committed towards embracing a heterogeneous workforce which brings forth an amalgamation of demographics, culture and thought in order to enhance customer delight. Nurturing diversity and making inclusivity a part of Wipro's culture has remained a key focus area for the organization and is a strategic enabler to ensure business growth and performance. Our D & I Program was formally launched in 2008 to give shape and direction to this commitment. Policies, Principles and Commitment Wipro is committed to being an equal opportunity employer and diversity and inclusion principles are embedded in our organizational values, culture, policies and processes. Our commitment towards non-discrimination and meritocracy is explicit in our COBC and Global Diversity & Inclusion Policy. Executive commitment, an engaged community and its participation is instrumental in shaping a vision that drives action. The impetus for the D & I charter thus comes from the top, with our chairman, Mr. Azim Premji as the key signatory and the CEO, Executive Vice President Human Resources and the Legal Council forming the D & I Council. As the Chair of the Catalyst India Advisory Board and a member of the Catalyst global Board of Directors, our CEO influences global stakeholders to promote gender inclusion in the larger society. The CEO also launched and led the evangelization of Tenets which are Wipro’s guiding principles and behaviors critical to organization success. Diversity & Inclusion is evangelized as key behavioral component in the Tenets. This makes D & I a mainstream business driver and a must-have trait, rather than a stand-alone / aspirational initiative. As signatories to UNGC & U.N. Women’s Empowerment Principles, we express our commitment to becoming a responsible business leader & role model. Management Approach and Governance The focus of our D & I program is multi-dimensional and consists of four pillars – gender, persons with disability, nationality and underprivileged communities. Worldwide, research has indicated that there has been slow progress in these areas as indicated by low work participation rate for women in organized sector, under-representation of women in leadership positions, high unemployment rate of persons with disabilities, etc. Over the years, Wipro’s diversity agenda has focused on driving initiatives to address these areas. Senior leaders assume leadership of individual diversity pillars. Our collaboration with research partners and industry platforms like CII, NASSCOM, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Centre (DEOC) bring to fore focus areas and industry trends which help in shaping our D & I charter. These focus areas/goals are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the D & I committee and the Board of Directors. We understand that the success of transformational initiatives depends on how much the larger organization believes in the strategy and the strength of the initiative and its success in trickling down to the lowest levels in the organization. With this in mind, our D & I charter and agenda is supported by a framework of systems & processes, awareness & training, collaborative participation and cross-functional project teams. Our commitment to D & I is also extended to Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 91 Report 2014-15 our Suppliers through the Supplier Code of Conduct and we encourage engagement with qualified suppliers owned by persons of disabilities, women or minority communities. Focus Areas Wipro is an equal opportunity employer and merit in qualification, performance & capability form the sole criteria for selection, remuneration and promotions for new applicants and existing employees alike. We believe that numberbased targets / percentages to increase diverse workforce can impact meritocracy and deviate from our holistic approach of ensuring meaningful employment across different functions and levels. . We have therefore consciously refrained from integrating such targets into the goals & objectives of leaders and relevant teams. We believe that creating an organizational culture in which employees feel included and secure to report concerns and violations without fear of retaliation, is the key to preserving human rights and fostering a culture of inclusion. With this in view, we have focussed on creating policy and process frameworks that support an inclusive work environment. We have zero tolerance towards retaliation and this encourages employees to report concerns & discrimination issues to managers, senior leaders and the human resources team. Additionally, we have a longstanding whistle-blower process (Ombuds system) and helpline which is available to employees 24/7 in multiple languages. Concerns raised are investigated by a neutral Ombudsman. Last year, 7 cases of discrimination were reported through our Ombuds system and appropriate actions were taken for all. Women of Wipro (WoW) Program Recognizing that at different life-stages the needs & expectations of women employees are different, Wipro adopted a life-stage based approach to its gender equity initiative and ‘Women of Wipro’ program was launched in 2008. Over a period of time, a number of initiatives under the WoW program have resulted in higher engagement levels for women as measured by our Employee Perception Survey (EPS) and we have maintained Gender Diversity with over 30% of our employee strength being women. No. of women who started leaves in FY 14-15 or those whose leaves continued in FY 14-15 or later 3134 An employee whose leave has ended but exits No. of women who attrited in FY 14-15 392 the organization within 3 months of leave end date, is assumed to have not returned to work. RATIONAL/CALCULATION No. of women who attrited within 3 months of leave end date 187 No. of women who were still employed with No. of women who returned to work after parental leave = A-C 2947 Wipro, either on leave or resumed work & employed after 3 months of leave end date. No. of women who returned to work who attrite 187 attrited employees did not return to work. in FY 14-15 = B-C 205 Therefore, 392-187 did return but left. No. of women who returned to work after parental leave and were still active as on 31st March 2015 = D-E 2742 Return to work = D/A 94% *Those who were retained in FY 14-15 are *Retention rate = E/D 93% considered retained Wipro Sustainability 92 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 1750 4884 36% No. of men availed leaves Total employees who of employees who availed parental availed parental leaves leaves who were men = G/H While our return to work ratio for women employees has dipped slightly from around 96% to 94% in FY 14-15, our retention rate for women who return after parental leave has increased from 89% to 93%. Our return to work rate for male employees availing parental leave is close to 100%. We provide maternity benefits to all women employees, in accordance with applicable country laws and organizational policies. Additionally, we also provide extended leaves for child-care and adoption leave. In FY 14-15, 3134 women availed one or more of our parental leave options. Additionally, 1750 male employees availed parental leave globally, forming almost 36% of all employees who availed these leaves. Focus Areas Strategic Key Actions / for FY 14-15 Lever Performance Involvement of business leaders and Launched a Six-Sigma project to drive higher gender Drive crossfunctional teams would enable us to balance in key metrics like hiring, project proposals, functional align our D & I initiatives to larger training & development etc. The project team involvement in business strategies and drive higher comprised of representatives from functions like gender equity focus on tracking and monitoring of talent acquisition, workforce management group, initiatives key indicators learning & development, performance management, compensation & benefits, operations, quality etc. A detailed analysis of past data was conducted to identify touch-points that impact decisions. Findings of this project are currently being evangelized with Functional Heads. Data trends across industry show International Women’s Day was celebrated with the Increased focus lower representation of women in theme of 'Women in Technology’ and included on 'Women in core technology areas. Gender sessions by eminent women leaders from technology Technology' balance in technical roles will bring firms. Session included participation from male and out diversity in thought and women employees. innovation. By bringing focus on this 'Reverse mentoring' session held for mid-level area, our endeavor is to assist in women technologists to enable them to hone their informed decision making and technical skills through knowledge sharing & provide career enablers for aspiring mentoring peers or senior leaders in non-technical women technologists. roles. Women CXOs from client organizations were invited to address male & women employees under the 'WoW Speaker Series' banner. 3 such sessions were held in FY 14-15, bringing the total to over 25 since launch. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 93 Report 2014-15 Representation of women reduces Our online mentoring tool 'Learning Networks' was Sustain Wipro's from junior to middle to senior used for the first time for this program and allowed flagship 'Women management. A forum for high the invited mentees to choose their own mentors in Leadership' potential women in middlebased on their aspirations, expertise and preferences. mentoring management to connect with 45 women chose mentors under this program. program senior leadership team allows in addressing concerns, developing per spectives and managing aspirations. Our participation in industry forums Wipro hosted BP’s D&I Community of Practice FaceBuild helps in evangelizing our D & I to-Face quarterly meet at our London office in June, Wipro's thought philosophy amongst our peer 2014. Participants included D & I practitioners from 15 leadership on organizations. We believe that technology firms. gender diversity sharing & embracing best practices Senior leaders in Wipro participates as speakers / is the key to developing an inclusive panelists in events like landscape. ? Gender Quality Webinar by Maplecroft ? Cisco Diverse Leadership Forum 2014 ? Sodexho organized D & I event ? NHRDN Summit 2015 ? 'Gender Equity Means Business Women's Empowerment Principles' by CARE India ? Women in Technology forum by Microsoft ? Inter-company D & I forum by Mondelez ? 'Gender Stereotyping & biases at work place' by Godrej & Boyce ? Participated in research initiatives led by Persons with Disabilities (PwD) Program Our inclusion framework for Persons with Disability (PwD) focuses on 6 key themes of Policy, Accessible Infrastructure, Accessible Information Systems, Recruitment, Training and Awareness. We have institutionalized a reasonable accommodation policy for employees with special needs. Around 110 of our intranet applications and Wipro.com website are accessible, complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 guidelines. This effort is supported by a specially trained team of engineers and Subject Matter Experts and field community testers. In FY 1415 we initiated the effort to transition to a new interface compatible with mobile technology. This new portal is currently not accessible for persons with disabilities and we have initiated effort to address this issue. Accessible infrastructure at our campuses includes hand rails, ramps, lifts, designated parking spaces and customized workstations. Technology assistance is available in the form of modified laptops, voice activated programs and other assistive applications. We also provide contingency loans to employees with disabilities for hire/purchase of assistive aids. As on 31st March 2015, 439 employees had voluntarily declared their disabilities through our self-identification form. At various locations, on 3rd December, we celebrate International Day for People with Disabilities to build awareness & sensitivity amongst employees. Wipro Sustainability 94 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Focus for Strategic Lever Key Actions / FY 14-15 Performance Collaboration with NGOs open ? Job fairs held in collaboration with CII and NGOs like Collaborate with up pre-hire opportunities for Sarthak, Ability Foundation and Enable India. NGOs / institutes training & mentoring to improve ? Participated in inclusive campus hiring from to active seek employability of persons with organizations like JSS Polytechnic for Physically deserving candidates disabilities and expands the Handicapped (Mysore), Dr. Ambedkar Institute of for employment talent pool. Technology for Handicapped (Kanpur) and National Institute for Speech & Hearing (Trivandrum). ? Interview certification program which trains interviewers on inclusive hiring practices. ? 76 candidates with disabilities were hired in FY 14-15. Supporting an accessible 'entry? ’Breaking all barriers' contest was held for Barrier-free to-exit' enables employees with employees to review Wipro's physical infrastructure workplaces disabilities to navigate with ease and suggest improvements. and creates a more inclusive ? Wipro’s Building Standards (earlier based on workplace. National Building Code 2005) have been modified to include international norms developed by United Nations ‘Accessibility for the Disabled, A Design Manual for a Barrier Free Environment’ and the latest draft of the Building Code prepared by National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) and Accessability, India. These standards lay the foundation for compliance for all new buildings. Creating inclusive communication ? Sign language interpretation continued to be systems & accessible software featured for all key employee communication and Barrier-free applications enables us to Wipro Webcasts. All our image-based email communication effectively engage with all communication is accompanied by a text-only employees & create an document to enable our visually impaired environment of equal opportunity employees to use text-to-speech functions & harmony. seamlessly. ? Our ‘Winclusive’ initiative was integrated with our online enterprise social networking platform to enhance communication and interaction between employees. Winclusive is a vibrant community of employees with disabilities that discusses the ITenabled applications’ accessibility and provides suggests and change requests. 58 policies have been reviewed by this group so far for inclusivity. ? Our ‘Kinesics’ portal provides employees across the globe a medium to learn the basics of sign language and apply it to terminology prevalent in IT environment. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 95 Report 2014-15 Nationality While serving global customers, employing people across the globe is an equally important aspect of our vision of becoming a truly global company. Our global workforce consists of employees in 58 countries and from 101 nationalities. We have more than 30,000 employees outside India, of which 40% are locals, creating a strong ‘local national’ footprint in our international geographies. In FY 14-15, we stepped-up effort in hiring business school graduates and graduate engineers from major universities in US and Europe. We have invested in specialized online tools such as ‘Globe Smart’ to develop sensitivity towards various cultures. Additionally, employees travelling to overseas locations are expected to participate in a 2-day classroom based ‘Onsite Readiness Program’ which includes a module on cultural sensitivity. While promoting a culture of meritocracy, we also take cognizance of global legal requirements and regulations with respect to diversity and inclusion. In the United States of America, we realigned our diversity framework to the Affirmative Action Plan and a dedicated task force has been put in place to run Affirmative Actions across the geography. We also have a partnerships with key private talent management vendors to assist us in developing action plans. Currently we are in the process of formalizing these plans & develop metrics to track these on an ongoing basis. Persons from underprivileged societies We believe that creating opportunities for people from underprivileged societies will not just expand our candidate pool, but also add a highly committed workforce into the organization. In FY 14-15 therefore, we revitalized our focus in this area and recruited 100 employees from underprivileged societies. In FY 14-15, our plan is to focus on three key strategies to increase our foothold: ? Collaborate with colleges/universities in small cities to drive recruitments. ? Collaborate with NGOs/Foundations which impart skills trainings to graduates from underprivileged societies. ? Collaborate with state governments in areas like the north-east to impart expertise and training to trainers. It is expected that though focus on these 3 areas, we will be able recruit 300 more employees in FY 15-16. Our Rural BPO sustained operations and increased headcount to 170 employees. Our initiative in South Africa, Project Siyapha expanded wings and added more rigor to enhancing employability of local communities through various initiatives. Rural BPO Wipro’s rural BPO centre was launched in 2011 as a Back Office to Back Office Model as the result of a tie-up with Swami Dayananda Education Trust. The trust strives to provide quality education to the economically backward regions of Tamil Nadu. The centre started as a pilot initiative with 50 employees, but soon grew to a strength of 100 employees at its 1st anniversary. By the 2nd anniversary, night operations were started at the centre and at its 3rd anniversary in Aug 2015, the strength had grown to 150 employees. The centre has a seating capacity of 300+ seats and supports key processes for 2 clients. Wipro Sustainability 96 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 The centre benefits from a large number of colleges in a relatively small radius. More than 13,000 students graduate from these colleges annually, thus providing a large talent pool. The growth witnessed in the last 3 years is testimony of how such a model can play a crucial role in the development of villages and preventing large scale migrations into cities. The vision of this centre is to create more job opportunities for the rural talent pool by bringing in new business to this location. In FY 14-15, we added 20 employees to the operations at this location, bringing the strength to 170 as on March 2015. Senior Directors from our client organizations visited this centre and provided excellent feedback. The centre celebrates its 4th anniversary in August 2015. Project Siyapha Wipro is mindful of the impact our operations have on society, and to create a difference in local communities, we realized the need of a consolidated approach rather than isolated measures. In South Africa, the community responsibility effort has been aligned under a single initiative called ‘Siyapha’, which means ‘we give’ or ‘to share’ in the local language Xhosa. Project Siyapha aims at providing skill development for youth, computer literacy in rural schools and creating sustainable jobs in the country. The focus and content of these programs is driven by current and expected skill levels and has resulted in increasing the employability of individuals who undergo these programs. ? Library and computer learning incubators: Digital is the way of the future, and skills development in the technology space lies at the heart of sustainable economic transformation and job creation. Wipro has set up learning incubators across South Africa and has invested in rural projects. ? Modilati Secondary School: Upgraded a computer lab at Modilati Secondary School in Hammanskraal, Gauteng through Adopt-A-School Foundation. The computer lab will benefit 1350 learners and 40 educators from the school. ? Imfolozi Junior Secondary School: A shipping container was used to build a library and internet café at Imfolozi Junior Secondary School, which is located at an under resourced community of Bizana in the Eastern Cape. The project enables 954 learners and 23 educators to have access to library and computer resources on their school premises. A local SMME from the community was selected to run the facility and provide training to users. ? Slovo Centre for Excellence: Wipro continues to supports The Slovo Centre of Excellence which is located in the Slovo Park informal settlement, which has approximately 5000 residents who live in shacks. The centre identified an urgent need to support pre-school and after school activities in the area, supported by a group of volunteers and a small team of paid staff. In 2015, employees donated non-perishable food items to commemorate Nelson Mandela Day. Other donation drives include toys and books for the children at the centre. ? Internship programme: Internships enable graduates to gain both skills and experience in work place, and also provides them an opportunity to explore different roles. In 2015, 50 interns took part in the six-month programme. The programme was based on an intensive training curriculum that goes beyond developing technical skills competency, assisting interns with interpersonal, communication and teamwork skills. Post the internship, Wipro offered employment to 42 Interns. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 97 Report 2014-15 Capability Building and Career Development In today’s highly competitive and dynamic business environment, it is imperative that workforce capabilities constantly evolve to keep pace with the demanding business environment. In the face of rapidly changing client expectations and the advent of rapidly changing technologies, it has become imperative to have a platform that equips the organization with futuristic skills and competencies. Anticipating and defining future needs and developing these competencies in the employees is vital to organizational sustainability. Wipro offers multiple learning & development opportunities to employees at various stages of their career. These are aimed at up-skilling, cross-skilling and re-skilling through a slew of training programs in technical, domain, soft skills and leadership aspects. Wipro’s ‘Leadership and People Sciences (LPS)’ team and the ‘Talent Transformation (TT)’ team assumes primary responsibility for driving training & development initiatives across Wipro. While LPS focusses on leadership development, talent analytics, organization culture & change and team effectiveness, the TT team focuses on building technical and behavioral capabilities. A detailed and comprehensive competency framework and engagement with customers enables both teams to gauge the present inventory of skills and design initiatives to bridge the gap towards future needs. Our infrastructure supports both traditional and ‘new-gen’ ways of learning. While dedicated facilities like learning centers, training labs are used for instructor led classroom sessions, enterprise solutions like 24 x7 access to eLearning modules, Webex, Video Based learnings, simulation based learning, etc. are being widely adopted, providing convenient and flexible learning environment. Wipro’s online Learning Networks platform allows employees to connect to experts across the organization and seek mentorship. Since its launch in 2013, Learning Networks now has close to 4000 registered mentees and over 1200 mentors. Policy, Principles and Commitment At Wipro, learning and development is a continuous process and employees take equal responsibility for it. While dedicated teams identify learning needs at an organizational level, employees partake in identifying their individual learning needs through appraisals, feedback surveys and career tools. Our annual succession planning process for key positions also helps in aligning business needs with individual needs and aspirations. Wipro’s performance management methodology is a structured process of formally and objectively evaluating one’s performance against defined goals & objectives. While half yearly appraisals and continuous feedback allow employees to formally take stock of their performance against the goals defined and report on milestones achieved, the annual performance appraisals helps set new goals and identify developmental needs through the individual development plan (IDP). Wipro Leader ’s Qualities (WLQ) is a 360 degree survey which enables middle managers and above to get feedback on qualities defined as vital for all managers. These qualities are derived from the Spirit of Wipro values and linked to the Tenets. The survey assists managers in identifying strengths and developmental areas and thereby build leadership competencies. Wipro Sustainability 98 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Manager Excellence Framework was launched as an outcome of EPS 2011 survey to build manager capability and includes a reportee ‘manager insight’ feedback survey, HR process workshops, mentorship and on-demand access to articles, research material etc. Insight surveys have been initiated for close to 6000 managers, with 1600+ surveys initiated in 2014-15 and 2300+ managers covered in one or more HR process workshops. Manager in junior management cadre can also access this framework and initiate surveys for themselves. Career Hub, an online tool empowers employees with the information needed to steer their career, build plans and assume a systematic approach towards achieving career goals. Over 18000 logged in to career hub in FY 2014-15 and over 2300 created action plans. Wipro’s ‘My Opportunities’ platform allows employees to view and apply for open positions across the organization. Wipro BPS has its own People Advancement & Career Enrichment (PACE) platform which allows eligible employees to apply for lateral, vertical and/or cross domain openings within WBPS. Focus Areas In 2014-15, our organizational capabilities were strengthened through 24000+ training deliveries. While we continue to report our average training days per employee, we recognize that the metric is becoming increasingly less relevant as in a knowledge based organization, a significant part of the learning takes place outside classrooms through onjob trainings, peer learning, online courses and experiential learning. The trainings included for average training person days calculations do not include e-learnings, project-specific trainings and external trainings. Our aim is to incorporate more insightful indicators to track our performance at different stages of the employee life-cycle. Year 2014-15 saw an impetus on training and assessments for key roles and specialists; and enablement of the sales teams through sales training workshops. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 99 Report 2014-15 Wipro’s Learning and Development Landscape Program Program Program Overview / FY 14-15 Area Name Goal Outcomes Pioneering initiatives in the field of higher education Wipro Academy in India. It offers graduates the opportunity to of Software immediately take up a postgraduate course in Education Excellence (WASE) / Wipro Software Computer Science without having to complete an 854 engineering degree. Students gain invaluable enrollments in WASE Technology Academy and 1187 in WiSTA (WiSTA) industry exposure and develop their technical skills by working on live projects on weekdays for the duration of the course. Through collaboration with reputed institutions 390 Education employees were given the opportunity to enroll in employees enrolled NOTCH UP for this program in courses leading to a post-graduate degree. its maiden year. To equip fresh recruits with necessary skills and knowledge to make their ‘campus to corporate’ Technical Project Readiness Program (PRP) transition smoother and get them ‘project-ready’ 13,000 freshers participated faster. The curriculum is updated every year to address the changing needs of clients & the industry. Online virtual training platform delivered globally 25+ sessions conducted Technical Future Ready using WebEx tool catering to the rising demand of with 5000+ futuristic skills employees participating Uplift Skills & Competencies through A structured approach to multi-skill the workforce by 19,000+ Technical training employees on a set (cluster) of related skills employees trained Accelerated Learning around core technologies. to acquire skills in at (UPSCALE) Program least one cluster All Round Capability The framework provides a step by step approach to 19000+ employees have Technical Model of Excellence develop skills across 5 dimensions of technology, undertaken ACM e-learning courses (ACME) domain, function, quality and behavioral skills. and over 14200 have cleared the associated assessment. To create an architect talent pool through capability ~325 Technical Architect Academy building and expertise enhancement employees went through the program and its related certification Wipro Sustainability 100 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Distinguished Member To identify, recognize, enable and retain a pool of ~300 Technical technical experts in senior and top management employees applied of Technical Staff (DMTS) program cadres of which 67 were selected To provide opportunity to be current and dive deep 1200+ Technical Cutting EDGE into new technology areas to through in-depth employees participated training and hands-on experience To strengthen the project management capability at Wipro by preparing aspiring project managers for a career in project management. This is an integrated 700+ Project Lead project leads were Leadership training program covering process, tools, project certified through Certification Program this program (PLCP) management concepts and soft skills which enables the Project Leads to manage small-medium complexity projects. To provide a comprehensive in-depth training Project Manager required by a project manager. The program is Leadership Certification Progra specifically tailored to address the nuances of large 280 (PMCP) certified project execution and distills unique Wipro experiences necessary to deliver success. To equip Technical Leads with knowledge in key Leadership Technical Lead areas which result in overall improvement of a TL's 75+ Enablement Program work output certified (TLEP) To provide in-depth understanding about ‘Delivery Leadership Delivery Manager Readiness Program Management’ to senior Project managers 125 certified (DMRP) To develop world class Program Managers through a structured certification program. The program identifies top performers from a pool of Senior Leadership Program Managers Project Manager who aspire to pursue a career in 200+ Academy (PgMA) certified Program management and grooms them to lead large transformational programs. In addition to the above programs, the learning team also offered programs focused on behavioral aspects of leadership development. These programs focused on strengthening aspects of Spirit of Wipro values and tenets. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 101 Report 2014-15 Behavioral Programs Summary Total No of Training Programs delivered 2536 175 327 Customer Centricity Spirit of Wipro 199 Execution Excellence 559 457 Effective Collaborative Communication Working 238 Strategic Perspective 556 25 Nuturing People Passion for Results Total No of People Trained 69027 Spirit of Wipro Effective Communication Strategic Perspective Passion for Results Nuturing People Collaborative Working Execution Excellence Customer Centricity 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 14000 16000 Some key programs that got launched in the year 2014-15 for WBPS employees are: Key Metrics Training For training related metrics, refer to our sustainability website http://www.wiprosustainabilityreport.com/14-15/?q=key-metrics-1 Wipro Sustainability 102 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Responsible People Supply Chain Contract Employee Engagement Wipro’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contains our stated commitment to human rights and through our Supplier Code of Conduct, we also encourage our suppliers to do the same. Our focus on responsible people practices extends across our people value chain, and covers over 28200 contract employees and retainers, primarily located across our operations in India. Around 54% of these are skilled technical employees who are engaged in IT service projects. Many of them are deployed at our client sites, and a customized Partner Employee Engagement team (PEET) in our Global Infrastructure Service is responsible for building an engaged and motivated contract employee workforce. The PEET team consists of human resource professionals and undertake responsibilities like induction & orientation, performance management, engagement, retention, rewards & recognition, training & career development etc. for contract employees deployed on IT delivery projects. The PEET team drives various initiatives like client-site visits to meet contractor employees to understand needs and concerns, driving programs to build capacity, facilitating conversion of contract employees into retainers or full time employees etc. In Q2 of 2014-15, an initiative called ‘Meet Matters’ was launched with an intent to have formal and structured partner employee connects to address queries and concerns. Over 15 such partner employee connects were held in 2014-15. Attrition percentages for contract employees have lowered steadily over the past 3 years. The focus of the PEET program will continue to be on enabling career growth, training and competency development in order to enhance retention possibilities. Acknowledging that non-compliance to fair labour practices has a serious impact on business continuity and engagement of partner employees, we also have Partner Relations Officers (PROs) who interact with partner organizations and handle responsibilities like audit & compliance. Audits are conducted both at the time of new partner empanelment and subsequently once every year to check for adherence to the checkpoints identified. The audit checklists are reviewed and updated every year based on prevalent laws & regulations and customer requirements. Audit requirements are communicated to partners in advance and all documentation is audited by a third party consultant with facilitation by the PRO team. In FY 14-15, 45 out of 55 partner organizations were audited. Audit observations and trend analysis is shared with the partners and a root cause analysis is done to identify financial and/or compliance risks. Compliance and improvements demonstrated form a key input for contract renewals. In addition to audit & compliance, the PRO team also communicates and tracks contract employee grievances to partners. Their performance on handling employee issues also forms an input in contract renewals. Wipro Sustainability Workplace Sustainability 103 Report 2014-15 Commitment to Human Rights We believe that economic value cannot be sustained unless it is created on a foundation of ethics and responsibility. Creating a safe and empowered workplace with a culture that drives equal opportunity, non-discrimination, meritocracy and one in which employees feel ‘listened to’ are therefore our core priorities. We imbibe these principles in all our processes like hiring, compensation, access to training, promotions, etc. and do not engage in or support discrimination based on ethnicity, nationality, race, caste, religion, age, disability, gender and sexual or political orientation. Our people practices are shaped by the Spirit of Wipro values, our Tenets, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBC), as well as principles of the U.N. Global Compact, U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and International Labor Organization’s declaration on Fundamental Principles & Rights at Work (1998). While these provide the guidelines and direction for responsible business conduct at a global level, our policies are shaped and customized by local regulations and law of land. Our COBC imbibes our commitment for human rights and zero tolerance for discrimination at all stages of the employee lifecycle (ProtectRespect-Remedy of UN principles). Our values and code of conduct are socialized at multiple times in the employee life-cycle through touchpoints like induction & onboarding, classroom sessions, all hands meets, awareness mailers/posters and through our mandatory online COBC certification which all employees undertake every year. All employees are entrusted and empowered to highlight concerns and grievances via the Ombuds process and Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee. The Ombuds process also extends to all our stakeholders and is accessible 24x7 through the online portal and helpline number which is published publicly on our website www.wipro.com. The policy also assures all stakeholders that a concern raised in the spirit of the policy will not be under risk of retaliation/retribution, even if unsubstantiated upon investigation. The focus of our social aspects is on our core people supply chain that includes our full-time employees and contractors/retainers on core IT delivery projects. Our approach to our extended people supply chain is discussed separately under the Supplier Engagement Framework. Freedom of Association In India, employment and livelihood of unorganized and casual labor is a priority due to the uncertain terms of employment. IT services organizations however, adopt good practices with respect to employment terms, compensation and benefits and are leaders in talent management. With the emphasis on innovation and learning, the workplace provides a meaningful experience to employees, with good working conditions and progressive people practices. Trade unions are therefore not sought after in the Indian IT sector. We do however recognize the right of our employees to free association and union representation, without fear of reprisal, discrimination, intimidation or harassment. A small proportion of our employees (~1%) are represented through registered trade unions, local employee representative groups and work councils in Ireland, Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Germany, Austria, France, Poland, Romania and Australia. The HR function meets these groups periodically to inform and consult on any changes that can impact work environment and terms and conditions such as change in job functions or structures. The consultation discussions include a structured approach involving intimation of change, impact, redeployment / re-skilling approach if required, number of affected employees, criteria used for selection of employees for the change, etc. Wipro Sustainability 104 Workplace Sustainability Report 2014-15 Ecological Sustainability Energy & Campus Water Waste Emissions Biodiversity GHG intensity Reduction in reduced from fresh water demand by 7% 90% Phase 2 – 1.77-1.74 in 2014-15 at of total waste from Wetland Park work C02 per Tons India employee in 2014-15 1.36 KL vs. operations recycled underway in Electronic City Campus, 1.46 KL or reused Bangalore per person 9 Mn Kwh per month saving saved annually through virtualization 132 Mn Started Liters of freshwater of servers Biodiversity programs at two of Renewable energy Participative our campuses contributes to ground water project in Pune and increased 20% electricity of total in 35 sq.km proximate area of native species by 4 times to 200 species consumptions Corporate Office for India offices ? Absolute emissions reduction of around 35000 tons by 2020 ? Doubling renewable units of energy by 2020 from 65 Mn. To 135 Mn. units ? Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee) by 5% year on year ? Broad base the Participative Aquifer Mapping (PAQM) program with the community & launch the lakes study program covering 16 lakes in the Sarjapur watershed ? Save nearly 10% of total water consumption across campuses via ultra-filtration of waste water expected to save around 480 KL/day Vision & Goals Ecological Sustainability Wipro recognizes the environmental challenges that face humanity today are as integral as are economic drivers and hence ecological sustainability is an essential part of our approach to responsible corporate citizenship. The concerns of ecological Sustainability have become so central to all our lives that the debate has moved beyond discussing the causes and is focused on finding urgent solutions to the several problems that face us. Understanding Life Cycle Impacts Companies best positioned to compete in the future will be those that are able to decouple growth from unsustainable dependency on vulnerable natural resources. . And the first step is to measure and understand full life cycle impacts across the value chain and how it can inform program design and stakeholder engagement. Through the natural capital valuation exercise (covered under the sub section “Lifecycle impacts”), we have attempted to get an overall integrated environmental impact assessment of our operations and upstream suppliers. We continue to explore additional and specific quantitative and qualitative metrics to evaluate water (see sub section “Responsible Water Framework”) and waste management in our campuses. We also would aim to baseline and set specific goals to reduce footprint of key Scope 3 categories (like emissions from Business Travel and Commute), Ozone depleting refrigerants, indoor air quality and noise pollution. Natural Capital Impacts Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. The overall objective of the project, completed in association with Trucost, is to quantity and value the natural capital impacts and dependencies of Wipro’s IT Services operations and supply chain for the 2014-15 financial year. The valuation looks at all our global operational footprint (from energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and management, land use change) and upstream value chain sources like business travel, employee commute and the embedded natural capital in all goods and services we procure. Operational data, business data and employee commute valuation mainly relies on actual data, extrapolated for a few global locations and environmental categories. The natural capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Trucost's econometric Input-Output model which takes into account spend across different sub-categories of procurement. Wipro Sustainability 106 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Summary of Natural Capital Valuation Impact Contribution by Percentage GHG Water Air Land Use Category Water Waste Emissions Pollution Pollution Change Operations 39.2 43.3 61.8 47.0 19.2 15.6 Business travel 19.7 34.1 Employee commute 18.2 Purchased goods and services 17.5 30.2 25.1 2.8 41.6 (Scope 3) Fuel and energy related activities 5.3 26.5 13.1 53.0 44.0 42.8 (Scope 3) Total Impact 799 K 5.26 19819 1.98 9428 2427 ha by Value tons Mn. Liters tons Mn. Liters tons Understanding Material Aspects for Stakeholders The feedback from our stakeholders help us identify material aspects to our business. Given below is an articulation of stakeholder concerns and corresponding material aspects and sections in the report. Stakeholders Emerging Concerns Material aspects Water scarcity in the vicinity of our operations is a major concern for our employees. A large section of our Responsible employees stay close to offices. Demand management Water Program is required for water sustainability and this requires user (employee) centric behavioral interventions Reducing footprint at point of generation and Pollution and segregation at source requires user (employee) centric behavioral interventions Waste Management Employees In-campus biodiversity programs are a platform for employee engagement in conservation and citizen Campus Biodiversity science areas Investor led sustainability frameworks like Carbon Disclosure Project and the Dow Jones Sustainability All the sections Index (DJSI) cover environmental aspects. Investors Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 107 Report 2014-15 Customers extend the boundaries of responsibility through their supply chain sustainability programs which requires companies to improve their social and All the sections environmental footprint. Customers Trucost study on natural capital valuation points to the fact that externalities account for nearly 50% of the total environmental impact for Wipro. This is across All the sections emissions, water abstraction and pollution, air pollution, land use and waste. Supply chain engagement hence is Supply Chain a core element of operational environmental programs. Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC), renewable Energy Efficiency & energy procurement and generation are increasingly GHG Mitigation being covered in regulations. Biodiversity conservation and ecosystem services are Civil Society primary interest areas with civil society organizations. Campus Biodiversisty Government Future Generations Program Areas Wipro’s ecological sustainability program directly addresses four of the eight mega forces. It is an integral part within many of our key programs, internal and external and across stakeholders. Our programs focus on the following aspects: Pollution and waste management Water efficiency Campus and responsible Biodiversity sourcing Wipro’s ecological sustainability program Energy efficiency Urban resilience and GHG mitigation Wipro Sustainability 108 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Our journey in ecological sustainability reinforces some foundational principles: ecological sustainability foundational principles Both the environmental The need to assess impacts and outcomes programs though of measures we different measurements, implement are multiple metrics and rigorous and interrelated goal setting Acknowledge issues, explore alternatives and prioritize responses specific to the context We continually assess operational risks to the environment and apply the precautionary principle in our approach to get insights and plan our environmental programs. Environmental Management Systems We have been following the guidelines of the ISO 14001 standard for more than a decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental Management System (EMS). The standard, progressively implemented across all of our large campuses, has provided a framework to create an environmental policy, identify key aspects and set goals, ensure regulatory compliance and enable the right governance structures for effective review and feedback. Over the years, the ISO14001 system has been embedded into the internal practices and processes and is now being consistently applied across the smaller and/or leased office space operations. 18 of our campus sites in India and 2 leased sites in Australia are certified to the standards of ISO 14001:2004. EMS Certification: 9% Client Offices by Employee 10% 76% Leased Offices Occupancy Certified Locations 5% Due for certification Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 109 Report 2014-15 Environmental Expenditures We shifted to an integrated facility management sourcing (IFMS) arrangement with third party (partners) across our key owned locations. The IFMS outsourcing contracts also include Operations and maintenance of pollution control equipment, hence from this reporting year we are not able to separately delineate these expenses. In Mn Rs. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Treatment and disposal of waste 2.14 1.71 2.01 1.36 Treatment of emissions 3.60 2.04 3.89 2.90 Operation and Maintenance of Pollution 21.99 14.44 3.62 4.05 control equipment Training and Education 1.07 0 0.05 0.10 External certification of management systems 0.22 0.37 0.17 1.60 Research and development 0 0 0 0 Other environmental management costs 2.77 2.9 4.53 5.40 Compliance Wipro complies with all applicable environmental regulations and in the reporting period, there were no instances of environmental fines imposed or negative consequences due to our operations. Financial Implications of Climate Change At Wipro, the implications of climate change are of deep interest and we have been engaged with the multiple questions on this for the past seven years. We have studied and identified risks and opportunities that have the potential to generate a visible change in our business operations, revenue or expenditure. The risks and opportunities have been identified in the context of regulatory changes like introduction of fuel / energy taxes, physical climate parameters like changes in precipitation extremes and droughts, and other climate related developments like increasing humanitarian demands. We have followed a comprehensive approach for identification of risks and opportunities and estimation of their financial implications. Our analysis outcomes are detailed in our response to Carbon Disclosure Project every year. The quantification of some key impacts is provided below. For more information, visit www.cdp.net and search for the Wipro response. ? An aggregate impact of USD 63 Million of increased operational costs over the next five years ( 2015-16 to 2019-20) on account of increase in electricity and diesel costs. ? An estimated impact due to employee absence caused due to disruption in city infrastructure and tropical diseases is estimated to be $ 32 Mn over 5 years. Wipro Sustainability 110 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 ? An estimated impact of depleting water resources is estimated to be $ 1.4 Mn over 5 years considering the increase in the cost of private sourcing of water. ? A total financial impact of $ 2.5 Mn. per year and $ 12.5 Mn. over 5 years considering the increased employee absence from work, increased electricity costs resulting from higher cooling demand due to changes in temperature extremes ? An aggregate revenue opportunity of $ 165 Mn over the 5 year period, 2015-16 to 19-20 in the spaces of Energy Management Services, Smart Grids and Utility Systems ? The total revenue opportunity of $ 179 Mn over the 5 year period; $125 Mn from the finance portfolio which includes solutions in financial modeling/pricing for climate insurance, natural resources valuation, carbon /embedded water trading and $54 Mn from the healthcare portfolio which includes solutions for health monitoring. Scope of Reporting The environmental reporting covers all our operations globally. ? India: 58 office locations comprising of 27owned and 31 leased facilities. As compared to last financial year we moved out of 11 small locations, out of which 10 were leased and 1 is our owned locations. We have consolidated the employees in our campuses. We are operating 3 data centers in India. ? Overseas: 150 offices in 48 countries and 8 customer datacenters. All the Wipro overseas offices operate out of leased facilities – we have energy consumption data available for 38% of the facilities by seat capacity while for the balance 62% we have used done extrapolations based on assumptions to arrive at best estimates. The uncertainty due to these extrapolations is estimated to be less than 1% (See our CDP 2014 report for more details Wipro CDP Response). We report only energy consumption from purchased electricity for overseas offices as the energy consumption under other heads like heating and cooling is negligible. Since these are multi-tenanted leased spaces, utility data is being tracked at Wipro level for the location. Aspect India* Overseas Based on actual consumption data Based on actual consumption for 60% of our Energy overseas locations and remaining estimated based on regional intensity figures Water Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures Waste Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures Commute Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures *The energy, water and waste reporting for India accounts for 80% of our impact from all operations Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 111 Report 2014-15 Energy efficiency and GHG mitigation Approach Our five year GHG mitigation strategy consists of three key elements – Baselining energy and Setting ambitious, scientifically Developing robust emissions parameters valid and traceable goals mitigation programs There is no reiterating the fact that a robust mechanism of measuring and reporting performance metrics is a primary requirement to set scientifically valid, traceable and accountable goals. We have standardized the process for accounting of Scope 1 and 2 emissions and also have completed the valuation of externalities (all Scope 3 heads). In our set of goals which ended in 2015, we aimed to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 people emissions intensity reduction figures by half from the 2010 baseline. This financial year, we undertook a target setting exercise to propose targets running from the current year to 2019-20. Over the last couple of years, different frameworks have evolved for setting GERTs (GHG Emissions Reduction Target). Once such framework is the science based target setting from WRI (World Resource Institute) that tries to align itself with the 2 degree imperative i.e. global emissions by 2050 to be 20% of 1990 levels so as to stay within the threshold of 2 degree rise in average surface temperature. While we have studied and incorporated the WRI framework to the extent that is relevant, our methodology has also been driven by empirical considerations that are more pertinent to the IT industry sector and to India. We propose our next phase of targets running from the current year to 2019-20; we have suggested targets for 2025 and 2030 also but these will be subject to revision when the next five year target setting exercise is done in 2020. Our goals comprise five sub-targets, two on GHG and three on energy: Absolute Scope 1+2 GHG emissions Scope 1+2 GHG emission intensity on Floor Absolute emissions reduction of around Area (FAR) basis Cumulative reduction of 35000 tons. 33 % in GHG intensity from 140 Kg / Sq. Mt (kpsm) to 94 kpsm of CO2-eq Absolute Energy Consumption Energy Intensity in terms of EPI Renewable Energy Doubling the Cumulative reduction of 11% in EPI over present 65 Mn. units to a target of 135 5 years Mn. units in 2019-20 Wipro Sustainability 112 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 For Energy Efficiency, in line with industry standards, we are shifting from ‘Per Employee’ based metrics to Floor Area (FAR) based metrics. The accepted standard is EPI or Energy Performance Indicator which is equivalent to Energy Per Unit of Floor Area for a defined number of working hours per day. We have deliberately not set a Carbon Neutral goal or an offset program for reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions due to the externalities involved in most alternatives like embedded carbon and water footprint, land use change and broader ecological and social sustainability issues involved in such programs. For example, mass afforestation of a single species over a large area may help achieve a carbon reduction goal but have a high negative impact on water sustainability, biodiversity and livelihoods. The full trajectory of Wipro targets till 2050 is given below. Carbon intensity ( Kg CO2 per Sqm ) 140 94 62 27 14 2015 2020 2030 2040 2050 Absolute emissions ( Scope 1 and 2, Mt CO2 ) 250000 210873 200000 175000 150000 140172 100000 67495 50000 39769 0 2015 2020 2030 2040 2050 Our goals, which ended in 2015, aimed to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 people emissions intensity reduction figures by nearly half from the 2010 baseline. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 113 Report 2014-15 Mitigation Programs Our five year GHG mitigation strategy consists of three key elements Energy Efficiency Renewable Energy Captive RE (RE) Purchase Of these, strategic RE procurement will contribute the maximum to GHG emission reductions. The visual below depicts a graphic representation of this strategy. 5% Renewable Energy-Generation 15% 80% Energy Renewable Efficiency Energy-Purchase Energy Efficiency Over the preceding five year period, we have implemented a variety of energy efficiency measures ? Green Buildings: We were one of the early adopters of Green Building Design with 19 of our current buildings certified to the international LEED standard (Silver, Gold, and Platinum). ? Server virtualization: Since 2007, we have been working on a server rationalization and virtualization program, through which we have decommissioned old physical servers and replaced the processing capacity with virtualization technology on fewer numbers of servers. As of March 2015, we have 2088 virtual servers running on 147 physical servers – contributing to an energy savings of approximately 9 Million units annually, an increase of 3% over the previous year. This assumes a saving of 0.75 KW/hour for every physical server avoided. This, we believe, is a conservative estimate considering that many servers run for 7 days a week and the power rating ranges from 0.75 Kw to 1 Kw (we have considered the lower power rating for the savings estimate calculation). Wipro Sustainability 114 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 ? Operational Efficiency Measures: Over the years great impetus has been given on reducing our energy consumption of our location by bringing in various operational efficiency in our operation, switching over to energy efficient lighting across our campuses, automating our utility operations, correcting our design inefficiency through regular audits and roll out of energy savings initiatives. In the guest rooms facility at our campus, we have streamlined our energy consumption portfolio and we have been successful in reducing our energy consumption through various initiatives by adopting energy efficient lighting, streamline our utility operations through automatized control, improving our maintenance methodology there by achieving a significant reduction of energy consumption year on year. Renewable Energy ? Strategic procurement: For the reporting period of 2014-15, we procured 66 Mn units of Renewable energy through the PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with private producers, which amounted to approximately 22% of our total office space energy consumption. Over the past one year we have increased our renewable energy portfolio from the state of Karnataka to Chennai, Pune and Hyderabad and we have currently taken up the target of 80 million for the financial year 15-16. The key challenges envisaged whilst our journey for the procurement of renewable power has been infrastructure and regulatory issues which differ from state to state. ? In-situ renewable energy use: We have piloted solar installations totaling 200 kilowatt in 3 of our locations. We have also installed solar water heaters across 9 of our locations where we have our guest houses. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 115 Report 2014-15 Business Travel and Commute: The IT services outsourcing model require frequent travel to customer locations, mainly overseas, across the delivery life cycle. Business Travel and commute together contribute to around 21% of our overall emissions footprint. Policies on usage of different modes of travel based on distance and time taken, need based travel approval and shift towards processes which enable travel planning by employees themselves are some of the cost and process optimization measures implemented over past few years. Employees have various choices for commuting informed primarily by distance, flexibility, work timings, costs, city infrastructure and connectivity in the case of group or public transport. In addition to company arranged transport (30-35%), employees utilize public transport (40-45%), and own vehicles. Highlights of Energy and GHG Emissions Related Performance Absolute Energy Consumption Fuel (MwH Equivalent) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Biogas (m3) 52 39 45 Charcoal (Kg) 207 244 235 LPG (Kg) 8296 7565 7555 Diesel (L) for Elec 51297 42067 40766 Purchased Electricity (Grid) 293064 289817 305591 Purchased Electricity (Renewable) 62882 70934 65681 Solar Heater 1332 1332 1332 Solar PV 280 281 281 TOTAL 421487 412279 421487 Wipro Sustainability 116 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Energy Intensity of Office Spaces In India, energy consumption per employee showed a 4.5 % decrease over the previous year, from 233 units in 13-14 to 224 units per employee per month in 14-15. At a global level, the comparative figures were 231 units for 13-14 and 223 units for 14-15 registering a 3.6% decrease over the previous year Unit KwH 3500 3235 3106 2982 2862 2748 3000 2500 2000 1500 3235 3091 2952 2799 2686 1000 500 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 India Actual Energy (PEPA) 3235 3091 2952 2799 2686 India Target Energy (PEPA) 3235 3106 2982 2862 2748 Emissions Intensity of Energy Used in Office Spaces 2.00 1.83 19.00 CO2 eq. Tons Per Employee Per Annum 1.80 CO2 eq. Kg per square feet per annum 1.76 1.77 1.72 1.71 1.67 1.60 17.00 1.40 15.00 1.20 11.95 11.54 13.00 1.00 11.51 0.80 11.00 0.60 9.00 0.40 7.00 0.20 0.00 5.00 2012-13 (incl RE) 2013-14 (incl RE) 2014-15 (incl RE) Emission Intensity-India 1.83 1.77 1.71 Emission Intensity-Global 1.76 1.72 1.67 Emission per Square feet-India 11.51 11.95 11.54 Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 117 Report 2014-15 Absolute GHG Emissions: Comparative 3 year analysis The three year Absolute Emissions Profile (includes comparable scope 3 categories from previous years) Units CO 2 Eq. Tonnes 3 Year GHG Profile (IT Business) 600000 500000 400000 300000 200000 100000 0 Purchased Generated Fuel Fugitive Waste Employee Business Downstream Transmission Total Electricity Electricity (LPG and Coal) Emissions Commute Travel Logistic and Distribution ( HFC, PFC) 202371 42106 2027 9088 703 91757 91446 1008 440506 243819 42106 2027 9088 703 91757 91446 1008 481954 171107 32380 1892 7228 588 85860 103100 134805 536960 214743 32380 1892 7228 588 85860 103100 134805 580596 176495 32639 1870 6726 579 102704 141790 90987 553893 227779 32639 1870 6726 579 102704 141790 90987 605177 2012-13 2012-13 2013-14 2013-14 2014-15 2014-15 Wipro Sustainability 118 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Scope 1 and 2 emissions Tons of CO2 eq, Percentage 58244 Data Centers 256032 19% Office Space 81% Absolute GHG Emissions: Scope 1 and 2, Split by Geo and Office / Data Centers 191,638 Emission split (by office space and Data Centers India and rest of World India 189,871 187,129 9,346 Row 11,801 15,045 11,391 India 16,916 22,005 32,101 Row 28,535 36,239 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 GHG (Tons of CO2 equiv.) Emissions 12-13/incl RE Emissions 13-14/incl RE Emissions 14-15/incl RE Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 119 Report 2014-15 Scope 3 Emissions A break-up of our Scope 3 categories (other indirect sources) reporting is provided below. Out of the 14 categories of scope 3 reporting as per the new GHG corporate value chain standard, we are presently reporting on 09 applicable categories. Sources of Evaluation Metric Emissions calculation Scope 3 emissions status tonnes CO2 E methodology Purchased goods Relevant, calculated 65000 Estimated based on category spend data. Refer to Notes and services on Calculation Methodology in our online report www.wiprosustainabilityreport/14-15 for explanations. Capital goods Relevant, explanation Included under ‘Purchased goods and services” provided Fuel-and-energy-related Relevant, calculated 90987 Well to tank and Transmission and Distribution losses. Refer activities (not included in to Notes on Calculation Methodology in our online report Scope 1 or 2) www.wiprosustainabilityreport/14-15 for explanations. Upstream transportation Relevant, calculated 1674 From import of ICT equipment. Refer to Notes on and distribution Calculation Methodology in our online repor t www.wiprosustainabilityreport/14-15 for explanations. Waste generated Relevant, calculated 579 Based on emission factor for nearly 35 categories of waste in operations under broader categories of organic, inorganic, e-waste, hazardous and other mixed wastes. For computing GHG emissions from Waste, we have applied the conversion factors available in the WARM (Waste Reduction Model) tool from U.S. EPA ( Environmental Protection Agency) Business travel Relevant, calculated 141790 Employee commuting Relevant, calculated 102704 Upstream leased assets Not relevant Incorporated under Scope 1 and 2 reporting Downstream transportation Not relevant and distribution Processing of sold products Not relevant End of life treatment of Not relevant Through our e-waste take back program we have collected sold products 140 tons of electronic end of life in 2013-14, which also includes some non-Wipro products sold as part of integrated IT services projects. The emission from the ewaste disposal is estimated at 1.40 tons of CO2 equivalent (as per US EPA’s WARM tool emission factor). All e-waste is collected and recycled by authorised recyclers. Downstream leased assets Not relevant Franchises Not relevant Investments Not relevant Total 402734 Wipro Sustainability 120 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Total GHG Savings A summary of the above GHG mitigation programs, excluding direct commute and travel reduction, is provided below. Measures across Energy efficiency, RE, travel substitution and virtualization have helped in GHG savings of nearly 141031 tons. Mitigation Programs Renewable Energy 53858 Procurement Renewable Energy Generation (inch Solar 1290 Water Heating) Energy Efficiency 17076 Measures Travel Substitution initiatives (Live meeting, 32480 Virtual conferencing) Total (Tons) 104704 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 160,000 180,000 Estimated GHG Savings in the reporting period in tons CO2 Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 121 Report 2014-15 Responsible Water Program Approach At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated goals are therefore predicated on these three dimensions. Water efficiency Responsible Sourcing Water security Improve water efficiency To ensure responsible Recognizing water availability (fresh water use per sourcing and responsible as a business risk, to employee) of our water management in proactively assess and plan operations. proximate communities, for the water security of the especially in locations that organization in a manner are prone to water scarcity. that is congruent with other two objectives. Goals ? To improve fresh water use per employee by 5% ? Responsible stewardship: To ensure responsible water management in proximate communities, especially in locations that are prone to water scarcity Water Efficiency We launched a program in 2013 with the aim of minimizing freshwater consumption by 20% over the following two years through an integrated approach as articulated below: ? Implementing Standard metering infrastructure and procedures across campuses ? Demand side optimization (improving efficiency through flow restrictors across campuses and arresting leakages) ? Improving recycling levels through ultra-filtration with eventual use for non-contact applications other than landscaping and sanitation ? Integrating rain water harvesting into the consumption side of the campus water cycle ? Improving water governance by building user awareness and involvement of water plumbers ? Importantly though, we have attempted to go beyond the standard notions of water efficiency to something that is more holistic and inclusive of non-business stakeholders from civil society, government and academia. This is described in brief overleaf. Wipro Sustainability 122 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Responsible Water Framework The Responsible Water framework, developed in association with one of our water partners provides a set of quantitative and qualitative metrics that provide a wider framework which also evaluate aspects of campus design and people density, harvesting of endowed water (rainwater), embodied energy of different sources of water and aspects of knowledge, transparency and governance in campus management. An integrated framework like this helps consider and evaluate water decisions from economic as well as ecological contexts. ? Responsible Siting (RS) is the freshwater demand that can be potentially met by rainwater. This metric is reflective of the rainfall endowment of the campus, campus design (with respect to harvestable surface water from rooftops) and the current/expected demand profile of the campus. ? Water Sustainability (WS) is amount of total demand met by rainfall and treated water. Water Responsible Location Sustainability Comments Siting (RS) (WS) Low RS due to higher campus density/footprint. RWH implemented SJP-2 0.45 0.26 for two buildings and integrated with fresh water lines. RS would drop significantly after planned new development in PDC-2 0.62 0.39 campus. Scope for increasing rain water harvesting exists. External assessment in progress HDC 1/5th of annual freshwater demand can be met by rainwater. Low RS 0.35 0.45 Manikonda due to lower rainfall in region. Planned High potential for rainwater; nearly half of annual fresh water CDC-5 1.03 0.30 demand can be met by rainwater from rooftops. Civil work challenges due to marsh land/ low water table. Planned Responsible Sourcing Ground water, municipal water supplies and private purchase contribute to nearly 99% of the total fresh water consumption. The water supplied by the municipal bodies and the industrial association are sourced by them in turn from river or lake systems. Water that is purchased from private sources can be traced to have been extracted from local aquifers. We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies that are recognized to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a support source for endangered species. None of our operations impact any nationally or internationally designated water conservation areas. 31 of our 58 locations in India are leased and located in prime city areas. For these locations, waste water is discharged to CSTP’s (Common Sewage Treatment plants) and to the municipal sewerage systems. We take care not to discharge waste water into any subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead directly to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water. The treated water from our sewage treatment plants are tested and are in conformance with the parameters specified by the respective local pollution control boards. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 123 Report 2014-15 Performance Water Withdrawal by Source (Kiloliters) 2000000 1800000 1600000 1400000 1200000 1000000 800000 600000 400000 200000 0 Ground Municipal Private Industrial Rainwater TOTAL Water Water Supply Purchase Association Utilized 350344 815028 799090 240 6240 1970943 253262 729873 883832 0 10206 1877173 266973 695612 825332 0 10098 1798017 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Wipro Sustainability 124 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Water Consumed Vs Water Recycled (Kiloliters) 1970943 2012-13 839389 1877173 2013-14 888828 1798017 2014-15 959956 0 500000 1000000 1500000 2000000 2500000 Total FW Recycled The per employee water consumption for the reporting year is 1.36m3 per month, a 7.1 % reduction when compared with 1.49 m3 in year 2013-14. The reduction in freshwater consumption has been primarily through better water accounting, demand side optimization and increasing water governance through involvement of facility teams. · We recycle 959956 m3 of water in 26 of our major locations, using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs). The percentage of this recycled water as a percentage of freshwater extracted is around 55%. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 125 Report 2014-15 Pollution and Waste Management Pollution of the air and water poses one of the most serious threats to community health and welfare and industry which is one of the principal sources of pollution holds special responsibility for effective mitigation and abatement. Approach Our approach to waste and pollution management extends beyond the organizational boundaries to what happens downstream all the way to the landfill. Our waste management strategies are centered around either i) recycling the waste for further use or ii) arranging for safe disposal. ? Segregation of waste into organic, inorganic-waste, hazardous, packaging, bio medical and other categories ? Recycling segregated waste either in-house or through outsourced vendor arrangements. ? o 90% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. ? o A majority of the balance mixed solid waste is also handled through authorized vendors however its trail is not entirely known to us or verifiable and therefore, we have adopted a conservative approach of classifying it as untreated waste. ? o Segregation is to be done at source (point of generation) with the intent of ensuring recyclability of segregated waste. Further segregation of MSW within campus may not be attempted as the segregated waste will be soiled and is not (or cannot be) segregated. This may ultimately disposed in landfills – as the vendors will see no value recoverable from waste. ? o Enable better segregation in work areas by removing individual single bins and ensuring segregated waste is put in separate bins. ? o Location Hospitality team to work with Cafeteria and tuck-shop vendors to ensure use of reusable cutlery and to report all waste, total generated in the campus and its disposal. Mandating suppliers/vendors to take back waste generated inside the campus without a view on its traceability (handling and final destination) does not absolve us of our responsibility. ? o Vendor awareness on waste to be centered on product design, packaging etc. ? Comprehensive and independent waste assessment audits audit across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams. ? o The comprehensive external waste assessment we conducted across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams pointed to areas of improvement in governance and traceability of waste streams across the recycler ecosystem. We would work with our partners and vendors in driving better practices and behaviors keeping in mind both human and ecological impacts of any changes. Wipro Sustainability 126 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Goals Waste Management The below goals have been set on the basis of an extensive independent audit done during 2012-13. While our earlier goal centered on only the aggregate level of recycling, the recalibrated goals seek to be more granular and are set at a category level. This will require close working of operations teams with partners who have differentiated capabilities across the different waste streams and jointly explore areas of improvement. ? 100% of organic waste to be handled in-house at owned locations by end of 14-15 ? 100% of paper, cardboard, hazardous and e-waste, mixed metals/scrap and plastics to be recycled/ handled as per approved methods by end of 14-15. ? Reduce Mixed solid waste intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to 13-14 ? Reduce landfill intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to 13-14 ? E-waste audit recommendations to be actioned Air pollution Air pollution is closely linked to energy reduction goals, especially from Scope 1 sources (Generated power through DG sets). Performance Waste Management The series of figures below provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories of waste generation, recycling and disposal pertaining to our operations. Other waste includes broken furniture, tiles, worn/torn carpets – which is largely recycled. ? Internal Recycling: Almost all of the organic waste is completely handled within our campus operations through various methods: Organic waste composter, Bio gas generation and Vermi-composting. ? External Recycling: Waste other than organic category is mainly recycled externally by vendors. For details of methodology and data source, please refer the table in page 129. ? Landfill: Largely a portion of mixed solid waste, scrap and biomedical waste is landfilled through approved processes ? Incineration: Mainly for biomedical waste Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 127 Report 2014-15 7.52 7.52 Landfill Incineration 25.49 66.92 External Recycle Internal Recycle Waste Disposal by categories in tons 210.7 Inorganic 419.2 362.4 2367.6 Organic 2201.0 3054.1 245.9 Hazardous 188.0 110.4 119.2 Packaging 347.2 134.9 247.0 E-waste 195.3 316.8 0.19 Bio Medical 0.20 0.3 268.4 MSW 347.4 308.3 280.1 Other Waste 760.5 279.5 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 92.4% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. Details of different categories of solid waste disposal (All figures in metric tons unless mentioned specifically) Wipro Sustainability 128 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Handling methods Disposed Provided by Organizational Category 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Directly contractor Defaults Garden Waste 475 664 756 RECYCLED 100% Food Scraps 574 673 907 RECYCLED 100% Dimensional Wood/ RECYCLED 100% 34 81 81 Lumber STP Sludge 1284 754 1309 RECYCLED 100% Organic Waste(Total) 2368 2173 3054 Magazines 5 2 5 RECYCLED 100% Newspaper 10 20 10 RECYCLED 100% Office Stationary 11 12 2 RECYCLED 100% Paper 98 230 161 RECYCLED 100% Tissue Paper 86 156 185 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Inorganic Waste 211 419 362 (Total) Cardboard 101 168 128 RECYCLED 100% Styrofoam 2 1 1 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Thermacol 16 5 6 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Packaging Waste 119 174 131 (Total) Bio Medical Waste 192 Kgs 204Kgs 399 Kgs LANDFILLED 50% Electronic Items 247 195 317 RECYCLED 100% Tube lights & CFL's 6 3 12 RECYCLED 100% Used Oil 48 36 44 RECYCLED 100% Batteries 189 148 52 RECYCLED 100% Oil soaked cotton 1 267 Kg 434 kgs INCENERATION 100% waste DG Filters 2 1 2 INCENERATION 100% Ink Cartridges 664 Kgs 5 Kgs 73kgs RECYCLED 100% Hazardous, Biomedical 493 384 428 E-waste (Total) Mixed Metals 125 47 157 RECYCLED 100% Mixed Mis. Solid 263 349 308 RECYCLED 60% LANDFILLED 40% Waste (MSW) Mixed Plastics 39 34 36 RECYCLED 100% Other Scrap 121 126 87 RECYCLED 60% LANDFILLED 40% Other Waste (Total) 549 555 588 Total Waste 3739 3705 4567 Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 129 Report 2014-15 Electronic Waste During FY14-15 the total end of life E-waste collected and recycled through authorized vendors was 317 tons. During the reporting year we ramped down our hardware manufacturing business and closed operations effective March 2014. While we continue to still offer product take back service for our B2B customers, we foresee a continued drop in the quantum of EOL from consumers over the next 3-4 years. Oil spills There were no incidents of significant spills of oil or chemicals during inbound transportation in the reporting period. Air emissions We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 44 of our locations, this helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), oxides of Sulphur (Sox) and particulate matter. A scheduled PPM (Planned Preventive Maintenance) is in place for carrying the maintenance of the DG sets to check the efficiency of the DG sets. Monthly stack monitoring is also carried out to check NOx, Sox and SPM levels to ensure the emissions are within the regulatory norms. The weighted average of stack emissions of 100 DG’s at 18 of our larger locations is as follows. This is the average of emission quality reporting as of March 31, 2015. The age of DG’s is a significant factor which can impact emissions. SOx : 28 mg / Nm3 (Norm : 80 mg / Nm3) SPM : 56 mg / Nm3 (Norm : 100 mg / Nm3) We also have hired DG’s at some locations running for extended periods of time, in some cases for 24X7, due to insufficient supply of grid power. This leads to reduction in efficiency of combustion over extended period of time. Indoor Air pollutants Indoor air quality is seen to have a correlation with health of employees and can be a cause of some respiratory ailments. We regularly monitor presence of Indoor air pollutants like VOC (Volatile organic compounds), POP (Persistent organic pollutants) and other hazardous air pollutants. The data across few campuses in March 2014 shows negligible detection of such pollutants. In the next year, we plan to set up comprehensive mechanisms to monitor and audit indoor air quality and report aggregate values of the same across campuses. Controlled emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) The quantity of refrigerants, including R-22 in 2014-15 was 6.9 metric tons for 34 locations. Out of that, R-22, a ODS substance under Montreal Protocol amounts to 3.6 tons. Wipro Sustainability 130 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Campus Biodiversity IT Services is predominantly an urban-centric sector and the impacts on biodiversity are rarely direct and not of the same order or scale as in biodiversity zones in the hinterland e.g. the Western Ghats reserve. Therefore, our approach since inception more than five years back has been to turn our focus inward on our own campuses, many of which have reasonably large non-built up spaces. Our goals are twofold To convert five of our To design all our existing campuses to new campuses on biodiversity zones biodiversity principles Existing campus retrofits We have initiated two programs in the last three years to convert existing campuses to biodiversity zones (i) our Electronic City campus in Bangalore (ii) our campus in Pune. Electronic City campus biodiversity project The first stage of our campus biodiversity project the butterfly park was completed in March 2013. The park is witness to hundreds of migratory butterflies who stop over in the park for nearly a month in their 400 Km pre monsoon annual migration from western to the Eastern Ghats in India. The second phase of the project, a ~3 acre Wetland park, is currently underway and expected to be completed in mid-2016. Pune campus biodiversity project We have started work on biodiversity retrofit projects at our two campuses in Pune with a baseline assessment of flora and fauna biodiversity. This project envisages thematic gardens aesthetic and palm garden, spring garden, Ficus garden, spice and fruit garden through plantations of native spaces specific to the local geography. For one the Pune campuses, the total number of native species has nearly trebled from 49 to 167 in the first year. The Electronics City biodiversity project was featured as case study in a CII publication released at Conference of Parties at Korea. Wipro is one of the five member companies in India of “Leaders for Nature (LFN)”, a joint initiative of IUCN, Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), Hivos, and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI). In all these programs we work closely with expert partners in biodiversity, conservation, ecological design and communications. Building employee connect through expert talks, workshops and field visits to community research centers in forests, is a critical aspect of the program. As part of this larger advocacy, we arranged for industry workshops that were facilitated by International Union of Conservation Network (IUCN) at Kolkata and Bangalore on Wetlands and Urban Biodiversity. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 131 Report 2014-15 Urban Resilience The growth of Indian cities has been widely studied and analyzed. Driven by industry led growth and the structural shifts in village based economy of agriculture and animal husbandry, we are seeing a significant shift in population towards urban centers. According to a study by McKinsey and Co, there will be 69 metropolitan cities by 2025, each with a population of one million or more, which collectively will be home to 78 percent of India's urban population. Gandhi had written then that India is to be found in its 7 million villages. It may not be too presumptuous to say now that the future of India lies in how well it manages it cities. Cities are seen as magnetic hubs of modern social development, that attract enterprise through access to skills and markets, engender social diversity through cosmopolitanism and trigger technology led innovation and improvisations. However unprecedented growth, lack of foresight, political will and rent seeking behaviors have exposed the weak foundations of many urban cities. Water, solid waste, mobility, maintenance of commons like lakes/water bodies, ground water, parks and playground, public health, inequality (slums comprise a fifth of the total population in Indian cities) get inadequate attention from policy makers and public executive bodies. A resilient city would seek to engage on important urban aspects with all its key stakeholders. Wipro through its community programs is working closely with industry, government and communities in creating platforms that enable working on some fundamental and sticky issues. Themes of Engagement ? Water ? Participative ground water project: To develop understanding of ground water and how it can inform community led management ? KSWN – Karnataka state water network: In association with CII, a platform to bring together different stakeholders to work on urban water issues. Since its inception in 2014, it has facilitated interventions and exchange of ideas between five water sustainability zones/areas in the city. ? Mobility ? Working with urban public transport body in Bangalore for better adoption of public transport by employees. ? Enabling employee groups on cycling and car pooling ? Waste ? Access to social security and benefits for city’s informal waste pickers ? Facilitated sessions on waste segregation and composting for employees and their families ? Working on an e-waste program for the Electronics City Industrial Township Authority (ELCITA) cluster Wipro Sustainability 132 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Participative Ground Water Management (PGWM) Ground water is a primary source of water in Bengaluru, especially for peripheral areas of the city which are not connected to the city municipal supply (BWSSB). Around 40% of total water requirement of the city is met through ground water, which is largely unregulated. It is a scarce resource and many areas including the South east areas (Electronics CitySarjapur-Bellandur-Whitefield corridor) are severely stressed. There is a high reliance on private supply (tanker) of water, the source of which is again mostly ground water. Ground water being a shared common pool resource, the governance choices are complex – from unregulated to centralized responses to community centered management. Data plays a crucial role in assessing groundwater resource and then in planning towards managing the resource. However, groundwater resources continue to be a ‘blind spot’ in urban planning on one side and ‘Groundwater Management’ on the other. Through the three year Participative Ground Water Management (PGWM) Project, we aim to pilot a community centered participatory approach to management of ground water. The watershed area selected for this program, is part of the Yamalur watershed, and extends for approximately 34 square kilometers around Wipro’s corporate office. A central idea of the program is to build advocacy with government organizations and city authorities through community centered engagement. The following are the broad outputs of the first year of the program (2014-15). ? Conversations/engagements with diverse stakeholders – residents, government bodies, and academia through events, conducted tours ? Preliminary understanding of certain characteristics of aquifer: possible water level zones, relationships with land use and surface water (lakes) ? Documentation of best practices, potential uses of treated water, treatment solutions and understanding of change enablers and levers. This has been done based on quality and quantitative studies of around 16 water bodies (lakes), 100+ bore-wells, wells, land use, geology of the region and case studies and responses at a reasonably granular level. The two websites http://aquifer.mapservices.in/ and http://urbanlakes.org contain detailed information from the first year work. The next phase of the program starting from Nov 2015, will continue to focus on community engagement through communication and action research projects. It will broadly comprise of two tracks – hydrogeology science track and the social track. Both of them reinforce and inform each other. ? Facilitate implementation of identified projects in the community on use of treated water for lake, ground water recharge and creation of wetland for a lake Social ? Creation of water literacy material and on-ground community events (public spaces, schools, conducted tours) – Social Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 133 Report 2014-15 ? Facilitate implementation of identified projects in the community on use of treated water for lake, ground water recharge and creation of wetland for a lake Social ? Creation of water literacy material and on-ground community events (public spaces, schools, conducted tours) – Social This program is being anchored by BIOME Environmental Solutions based in Bengaluru with hydrogeology expertise from ACWADAM (Pune) and mapping-IT solutions from Mapunity (Bengaluru). Urban Waste Management and Welfare of Waste Pickers The informal economy workers have long compensated for inadequate waste management systems in the city by collecting discarded materials that have zero value and convert it into a tradable goods through their labor in extraction, collection, sorting, grading and transporting. These informal economy waste workers (numbering 1500020000) are also among the most vulnerable populations in the city. According to one CHF survey a significant number of waste pickers are women who belong to socially marginalized populations, including backward castes (conducted by Global Communities (formerly CHF International) and MSSS (Mythri Sarva Seva Samithi)in 2010). The survey found a significant number of young (18 to 40 years), illiterate and economically and socially disadvantaged people engaged in waste picking in the city. In addition to traditional waste pickers, a significant proportion of the migrant population in the city is working with waste. The waste pickers’ access to water, sanitation and housing facilities in the city still remains inadequate with the situation being worse among migrant waste pickers living in temporary accommodation and lacking basic identity cards, no services public and civic amenities. The working conditions of waste pickers are also deplorable. Safety gear is not a priority for formal economy waste workers and in the informal economy; it is not even a possibility. Armed only with old shoes and clothes picked out from waste heaps and a stick to sort through trash, the working conditions of informal waste pickers leaves a lot to be desired. The Hasirudala project aims to organize waste workers, i.e. waste-pickers in Bangalore to enhance and upgrade their skills for innovation in waste management services leading to their increase in income by 10-40%, their formal inclusion in the waste management market approved by Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagar Pallike (BBMP) and increased access to social, nutrition and environmental security measures provided by state and other institutions. Wipro Sustainability 134 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Annexure Details of Natural Capital Valuation What follows is the detailed summary of impacts as identified through Natural Capital Valuation. GHG Emissions Impact Contribution % Rank C at e g o r y (Physical quantities in contribution Kilo tons of CO2 equiv) 1 Operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 280 K tons 39% 217 K tons (India) ? Actuals for India Contributed by: 62 K tons (Overseas) ? Partially extrapolated for overseas 2 Business Travel (Scope 3) 141 K tons 20% 3 Employee commute (Scope 3) 130 K tons 18% 4 Fuel and energy related activities (Scope 3) 125 K tons 17% Estimated based on econometric models: 5 Purchased goods and services (Scope 3) 38 K tons 5% Other Scope 3 – Waste, Upstream logistics Minor TOTAL 799 K tons Operational energy footprint, directly and indirectly through upstream energy related emissions, contributes to nearly 39% of total emissions footprint, with business travel and employee commute contributing to nearly 38% of emissions. Purchased good and services contribute to a relatively lesser proportion (5%) of the life cycle carbon impact. We have discontinued our manufacturing operations in 2013 and hence not accounted for from this financial year onwards. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 135 Report 2014-15 Water Impact Contribution % Rank C at e g o r y (Physical quantities in Mn Liters) contribution 1 Operations 2.27 Mn Liters 43% 1.79 Mn Liter (India) Actuals for India ? Contributed by: 0.48 Mn Liters (Overseas) Extrapolated based on ? number of employees for overseas Estimated based on econometric models: 2 Purchased goods and services (Scope 3) 1.58 Mn Liters 30% 3 Fuel and energy related activities (Scope 3) 1.39 Mn Liters 26% TOTAL 5.26 Mn Liters Waste Impact Contribution % Rank C at e g o r y (Physical quantities in tons) contribution 1 Operations 5786 tons 29% 4562 tons (India) Actuals for India ? Contributed by: 851 tons (Overseas) Extrapolated based on ? number of employees for overseas Estimated based on econometric models: 2 Purchased goods and services 2352 tons 11% 3 Fuel and energy related activities (Scope 3) 1223 tons 59% TOTAL 19819 tons Wipro Sustainability 136 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Water Pollution Impact Contribution % Rank C at e g o r y (Physical quantities in Mn Liters) contribution 1 Operations 0.93 Mn Liters 47% of grey water equivalent Based on amount of 0.74 Mn liters dilution required on grey water equiv (India) water discharged to Contributed by: environment to bring it 0.2 Mn Liters to acceptable standard grey water equiv (Overseas) (Grey water Footprint) 2 Purchased goods and services 1.05 Mn Liters 53% of grey water equivalent TOTAL 1.98 Mn Liters Air Pollution Impact Contribution % Rank C at e g o r y (Physical quantities in tons) contribution 1 Operations 1806 tons of air pollutants 19% ? Calculated based on 1424 tons (India) quantity of fuel used Contributed by: 382 tons (Overseas) and LCA emission factors for India 2 Purchased goods and services 262 tons 3% 3 Fuel and energy related activities 4,144 tons 44% 4 Business Travel and Employee Commute 3216 tons 34% TOTAL 9428 Tons Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability 137 Report 2014-15 Land use change Impact Contribution % Rank C at e g o r y (Physical quantities in hectare) contribution 1 Operations 379 ha 16% 275 ha(India) Actual operational ? Contributed by: footprint for India 78 ha (Overseas) Allocated based on ? over seas facility footprint 2 Purchased goods and services 1010 ha 41% 3 Fuel and Energy related activities 1038 ha 43% TOTAL 2427 ha Wipro Sustainability 138 Ecological Sustainability Report 2014-15 Customer Stewardship Designated Net Promoter CSR Score increased by Thought Leader 680 basis points for by Verego 2014-15 from 2013-14 Overall satisfaction performance of increased “GOLD” from 89.7% to overall CSR rating (highest among possibl three levels) by Ecovadis 91.5% in 2014-15 Innovation 250 new patent applications filed 16 new patents granted against strong intellectual existing patent property portfolio applications Set up a US$100M fund to invest in early and mid-stage startups with the ability to reshape the future of enterprises with emerging and disruptive technologies Vision & Goals Customer Stewardship Information and communication technologies now play a central role in driving efficiency and productivity improvements through dematerialization and automation for most businesses. This trend is being further strengthened with the continuing influence and adoption of new disruptive technologies like Big Data, Analytics, Internet of Things and Mobility. The trend of disintermediation is changing the way customer and business interactions takes place. Disintermediation gives consumers direct access to information that otherwise would require a mediator. As a result, new business models are being created and e-commerce is gaining wide acceptance. Unique opportunities for product innovation made possible by IT is resulting in democratization of ICT making technology more accessible and affordable to customers. All these trends contribute to IT becoming ubiquitous in everyday life addressing different needs of end users. However, technology is not without any associated risks and challenges. The pervasive nature of the technology also raises concerns related to data mismanagement, increase in surveillance, loss of privacy, and possible abuse. WEF Global Risks Report 2015 lists large-scale cyber-attacks and major data fraud/theft among the top 10 in terms of likelihood. Customer stewardship hinges on meeting customer expectations by being responsive to the emerging trends and offering portfolio of products and services which integrate resource efficiency, dematerialization, organizational transparency, connectedness and collaborationto meet changing customer needs. Engaging with customers is critical to meet customer expectations and engagement is the foundation on which stewardship rests. Understanding the Stakeholder Customers Wipro has been helping clients across industries and geographies create seamless customer experiences in this digital world. Today Wipro has 160,000+ workforce serving 1050+ clients in 175+ cities across 6 continents. Wipro is listed on the New York Stock Exchange since 2000 and earns 50% of global revenues from the US market and 30% from the Europe Market. Number of customers in Year ended march 31 Customer Revenue distribution (USD) 2015 2014 2013 > 1 million 542 501 490 > 3 million 311 278 291 > 5 million 231 220 213 > 10 million 150 143 133 > 20 million 86 82 76 > 50 million 31 29 26 > 75 million 15 14 16 > 100 million 11 10 10 Wipro Sustainability 140 Customer Stewardship Report 2014-15 At Wipro, strategic partnerships constitute a central plank that help our customers `Do Business Better'. As a vendor, partner and a customer, the `Wipro Winning Together' approach is aimed at delivering outstanding value to our clients. In delivering value to our customers, our technology partners play a crucial role. Our major alliance partners include: Adobe, Salesforce, Oracle, SAP, Microsoft, IBM, HP, EMC, CISCO etc. For more information on our service lines, industry verticals and operating geographies, refer to section Organization Profile. Also refer page 25 30 of our Annual report for FY 2014-15. Understanding Material Aspects for Customers The Annual risk assessment exercise conducted by Enterprise Risk Management Function has identified Cyber security, Data Privacy, Information Security and related Business Continuity and Service Delivery as major areas of risk management. For more details, refer to Organization Profile or Financial Stewardship sections of this report. The materiality assessment and stakeholder feedback have identified customer privacy, data security, customer satisfaction, innovation and open source as material issues to our business. Stakeholder feedback from our customers clearly indicates Customer Privacy, Data Security, Customer Satisfaction, Innovation and Open Source as the most material issues to our business. GRI Aspects / Topics Section Customer Satisfaction Customer Engagement Customer Privacy Data Privacy and IT Security Innovation Next Gen Technologies Open Source Next Gen Technologies Wipro Sustainability Customer Stewardship 141 Report 2014-15 Strategic Approach and Policy The Wipro Strategy is based on our vision of delivering maximum value to our customer businesses based on a solid relationship of trust, collaboration and competence. This we ensure by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class delivery processes. Collaborating with customers to ‘Do Business Better’ Deep Industry Innovation Culture Insights Network Differentiation Uncovering Delivery Engage, 360 deg Collaboration at the Front key models retain, relationship; with through characteristics targeting develop for Collaborative customers; industry and of industries faster, efficient enabling offerings and employees; client insight and offering and business transformation innovation partners and unique aligned KPI’s . Investment in with product community solutions next gen partners technologies Differentiated Standardization Strategic Client Engagement of Delivery Partnerships ‘Delivering on commitments’ and ‘Making customers successful’ as stated in ‘Spirit of Wipro’ is our stated commitment towards customer stewardship. Responsibility Customer Advocacy Group in Wipro is part of quality organization and drive customer satisfaction improvement initiatives for the organization. This group is responsible for enabling early warning system and address alerts before this becomes customer issue. Team is also responsible for driving effective closures of customer escalations and action plans. Wipro Sustainability 142 Customer Stewardship Report 2014-15 Customer Engagement According to a research conducted by Harvard Business School, a 5% increase in customer retention can result in a profit increase of up to 75%, depending on the industry. The key to retaining customers is building strong relationships with them and this requires prolonged and sustained customer engagement. Efforts towards customer engagement are justified by the lifetime value (LTV) of the retained customer. A retained customer is cost effective as it will require comparatively less service, at the same time providing more business. It is revenue enhancing as a satisfied customer may contribute to customer acquisition by offer positive referrals. Approach of Customer Centricity The Customer Centricity framework is unique to Wipro and is used in all key accounts to drive appropriate actions that continually help customer satisfaction. The key objectives of our framework are detailed below. Customer Value Creation: Value creation to customer, over and above contracted Dissatisfaction Reduction: Actions on stated areas of dissatisfaction Assure hygiene: Actions to ensure standards are maintained and avoid future dissatisfaction Experience enhancement: Actions related to engagement and relationships We implement this framework by way of two channels. Voice of Customer (VOC) Voice of Customer surveys Employee Customer connect Voice of Customer The Voice of the Customer is heard at various levels i.e., at project level, program level, account level and through direct feedback, informal meetings, governance meetings and senior management interaction with the client. The processes include Program Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSAT), program CSAT, Quarterly pulse surveys and the Annual CSAT conducted through third party surveys. These are conducted formally and at appropriate intervals to capture customer feedback on Wipro. The Strategic Marketing Group conducts surveys on brand perception where they also understand customer's expectations of Wipro and Wipro's position relative to its competitors. Wipro Senior Leader visits to customers are another key source of information. We also conduct webinars with our alliance partners to capture the customer voice. Wipro Sustainability Customer Stewardship 143 Report 2014-15 Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSAT) Conducted annually for all customers Annual Survey Administered by across all strata to capture voice of Third-Party (NPS and Average customer and align to customer Survey score for other key questions) business requirements Short Pulse survey for Q1, Q2 Pulse Survey Survey Administered by and Q3 for focused accounts Third-Party (Average Score) (Quaterly) Project CSAT, Programme Survey Administered by mile stone feedback Project Feedback Wipro Tool (Average Score and % of 6+ projects) Tool Administered Ticket level feedback End User CSAT survey (Feedback typically on scale of 1 to 5) ? Annual CSAT survey is administered annually to get feedback on various facets of engagement including core delivery, presales, people engagement and Wipro’s value addition to customers from CXO, Senior and Middle managers of customer organization. ? Quarterly Pulse Survey is administered once in a quarter for the Q1, Q2 and Q3 of the financial year to get feedback predominately from Senior and Middle manager and few CXOs. ? Project CSATs are obtained to enhance customers experience while dealing with Wipro. Customer feedback is obtained on Projects and Programs at different points of time during execution on different aspects like Delivery, Quality, Service and Project Management sections. ? End user CSAT feedback is administered to customer respondents who are end users. These feedbacks are analyzed by respective program teams. Wipro Sustainability 144 Customer Stewardship Report 2014-15 The Customer Connect Process Wipro communicates and connects with its customers through a matrix framework. Every Mega/ Gama account has a dedicated Client Partner to own and manage the relationship. Client Partner profiles the account and proposes/ offers solutions that are strategically relevant to customers. An execution process document and system maintenance technical document for each engagement ensures that all customer needs are documented and agreed between the two parties. Business Unit heads interact and engage with customers via monthly governance meetings, quarterly business review meetings, and client-visits every quarter. Service Line heads visit and attend all the important meetings. The CEO visits clients’ mega/gama accounts regularly. Executive sponsors are assigned for all mega accounts to maintain and build the relationship. The Wipro Leaders survey an annual 360 degree feedback mechanism. In this ‘Customer Centricity’ is a key leadership attribute on which a leader is given feedback by his peers, managers and reportees. This feedback is both quantitative and qualitative and is analyzed and shared with employees. This is integrated with the performance appraisal process to ensure that right actions are put in place to improve customer satisfaction. The Customer Satisfaction (C-SAT) Action Planning Framework CSAT is an important business objective and it is linked to employee performance linked payouts on a quarterly basis. We follow the following framework to seek, understand and analyze customer feedback. The customer feedback obtained through the surveys is analyzed and improvement opportunities are identified. Once actions are identified, the value creation actions (CVI) and Dissatisfaction Reduction Actions are communicated to the customer. Frequent updates on progress, through quarterly business reviews and other appropriate forums are provided to build customer confidence in the process, and ensure that the actions taken truly have a positive impact on customer satisfaction. Senior leaders review feedback reports at regular intervals in different forums such as Quality Improvement Councils and Management Review Meetings. Governance The Customer Advocacy Group (CAG) in Wipro is part of the Quality organization and drives customer satisfaction improvement initiatives for the organization. This group is responsible for enabling and tracking the early warning system and for addressing alerts before they can potentially become serious customer issues. The team is also responsible for driving effective closures of customer escalations. Key Metric 1: Client Retention Revenue generated from existing customers / retained accounts is a good indicator of customer satisfaction and retention. Data for the last four reporting periods is given below. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 98.1 97.9 98.4 98.1 Wipro Sustainability Customer Stewardship 145 Report 2014-15 Key Metric 2: Net Promoter Score Net promoter Score (NPS) measures customers’ engagement with Wipro and is measured on a 10 point scale. The respondents based on their ratings are categorized as ‘promoters’, ‘detractors’ or ‘passives’. This measure is widely used across industries. Our Net Promoter Score shows a continuous improvement trend as it has increased by 680 basis points for 2014-15 as compared to the previous year. Key Metric 3: Customer Acquisition The number of new customers acquired by Wipro in 2014-15 increased from 174 to 194 where as the number of active customers increased from 986 to 1054. Number of New Customers 2010-11 155 2011-12 173 2012-13 192 2013-14 174 2014-15 194 0 50 100 150 200 250 Number of Active Customers 2010-11 904 2011-12 943 2012-13 978 2013-14 986 2014-15 1054 800 850 900 950 1000 1050 1200 Wipro Sustainability 146 Customer Stewardship Report 2014-15 Sustainability Expectations from Customers Apart from technology driven value creation, our global customers also expect transparency and compliance on different sustainability aspects within our operations and in our extended value chain. Responses to most customer proposals and contract renewals require an extensive disclosure of sustainability programs and performance. In many cases, customers require acceptance and alignment with their supplier code of conduct. Third party supply chain CSR raters like Ecovadis and Verego regularly assess and profile our sustainability performance in their platform which is used by more than 30 Wipro customers. In the recent assessment by Ecovadis, we have achieved an overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among possible three levels). Verego has rated us “Best in Class” across all the 5 areas (Leadership, Ethics, People, Community and Environment) and designated us as a “CSR Thought Leader”. We have been assessed by customers for industry consortium developed sustainability protocols like the JAC (Joint Audit Consortium) of Europe based telecom companies and the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI). We also have been benchmarked against over 4000 other companies that responded to CDP's 2015 supply chain information request sent on behalf of 74 CDP supply chain members with over US$2 trillion spend and received a disclosure score of 100. Data Privacy and IT security With cloud services such as SaaS, PaaS and IaaS becoming increasingly important to the way businesses operate, the resilience of critical information infrastructure becomes critical. It is crucial to ensure access to systems and data at all times. Any service disruptions or suboptimal system performance can lead to businesses incurring higher costs and suffering reputational damage. It can even become business continuity issue, especially for organizations whose business models are technology centric. Such systemic failures can negatively impact industrial production, public services and communications. The breakdown of IT infrastructure could be triggered by technical failures, weather events, natural disasters or terrorist attacks. The World Risk report identifies large scale state-sponsored, state-affiliated, criminal or terrorist cyberattacks as a significant risk which can cause an infrastructure breakdown and/or loss of trust in the Internet. The magnitude of data managed by today’s organization is of gigantic scale. This abundance of data opens door to many opportunities in all spheres of lifeeconomic, social, and political. But with ‘big data’ comes big responsibilities. Globalized nature as well as the intensive virtual interactions and extensive data storage makes this a significant risk to corporate organizations. Any leakage or misuse or unauthorized access of information could expose companies to legal and reputational risks. Insufficient protection of database and network, unclear management of personal information and vague database access rules are the main reasons behind any data breach. The nature of the IT services industry does not require Wipro to store any customer proprietary data in its systems and networks. In rare circumstances where, as part of project requirement, it is needed to view Customer data, it is accessed remotely with the data being stored and hosted in customer’s systems. This avoids the risk of customer information vulnerability in Wipro's systems. Wipro Sustainability Customer Stewardship 147 Report 2014-15 Policy on Protection of Data Privacy 'Protecting Customer Information' is a key section of Code of Business Conduct of Wipro and communicates our stand on the protection of personal information of our employees, customers and relevant stakeholders. Wipro mandates compliance to this code through periodical certification and company -wide awareness and testing of the code every year. In addition to the section in Code of Conduct, Wipro has also defined Privacy policy and this policy is published in the website (URL: http://www.wipro.com/privacy-policy/ ). This policy communicates Wipro’s approach to protection of personal information collected electronically. There is an internal Data Protection and Privacy policy defined under Information Security Management System (ISMS) with the objective –‘to define collection, protection and usage of personal data and company confidential information as per applicable laws and regulations’. We have also established and implemented Security Incident management policy that covers procedures for reporting and handling policy violations and data breaches. Our policies are in compliance with globally accepted data protection principles. Wipro’s ISMS is published on an intranet portal ISMS which provides applicable IT security and privacy policies for different target segments (Employees, Third Party Contractors, Leadership team System Administrators and Sales teams and contains all relevant details on policies, standards, procedures and guidelines related to information security. Policy in Action through the Information Security Management System To ensure effective implementation of privacy policy within Wipro, a comprehensive and mature framework of systems and processes have been evolved. Applicable statutory regulations are identified and documented with supporting compliance procedures and policies to manage the legal and regulatory compliances. For example, generally accepted Data Protection (DP) principles pertaining to fair and lawful purpose, adequacy, accuracy, retention of data, safeguards for processing and data transfers are mapped to the processes and practices of Wipro's Information Security Management System (ISMS). Privacy risk assessments are undertaken with the objective of identifying potential areas of risks relating to privacy of employee data collected, processed and stored within Wipro’s internal Information Systems within various geographies. The mitigation measures in-line with ISMS practices are implemented to address the risks. Compliance verifications are performed through regular internal and external audits. (ISO27001:2013 for Information Security and other Business Continuity framework principles). Changes to applicable privacy laws, regulations, and policies space across various geographies are monitored and assessed for their impact on the enterprise from Information Security/ Business Continuity perspective. Necessary inputs are sought from the Legal team to assess the impact for any legal risks involved while undertaking key enterprise level initiatives. Automated monitoring tools and detective controls have been implemented for detecting leakages of confidential data from Wipro. The data breach notification procedure template, which is deployed specifically for each customer account/program/project, is also provided. A security incident notification form is also designed for notifying the data breach incidents and published on the intranet portal accessible for all employees. Wipro Sustainability 148 Customer Stewardship Report 2014-15 Data privacy specific training programs are designed and imparted to employees of customer accounts on all applicable privacy regulations. In addition, innovative methods are employed to spread Information security and privacy awareness amongst all Wipro users such as e-mailers, blogs, and theme based awareness campaigns. Wipro's technology infrastructure in various locations of operation ensures in effective resilience in the basic IT infrastructure, which helps critical business operations run during disaster situations. Technology disaster recovery planning includes Physical infrastructure, Computing infrastructure and Communication infrastructure. Wipro's corporate (i.e. non-customer data) data assets residing in our enterprise information systems and applications are backed up on a regular basis and the backup integrity tests are periodically performed as per Wipro Information Security Policy. Governance The Security Organization in Wipro is established with clear roles and responsibilities for implementing information security and business continuity in the organization. General Counsel of Wipro is the authority to review the effectiveness and progress of information security and business continuity programs. Information Risk Management and Policy Compliance Group (IRMC) headed by the designated CISO (Chief Information Security Officer), a group that holds the overall responsibility of governing the Information Security risk and compliance practices within Wipro. Further, on the Risk Management initiatives, IRMC works closely with Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) team headed by Chief Risk Officer (CRO), which holds the responsibility for data privacy and reports to General Counsel as well as Wipro Board of Directors. It is generally understood and accepted internally that Information security and privacy is a joint responsibility of multiple stakeholders from various departments/functions such as Information Risk Management, Legal, Human Resources, Enterprise Risk Management office, senior leadership, Global Delivery Organization and the internal Information Systems teams. Performance on Data Privacy and Information Security Wipro is certified under the ISO 27001:2013 standard which provides assurance in the areas of information security, physical security and business continuity (ISO27001 certificate is attached as reference). Wipro has a welldocumented Business Continuity Management System in line with BS25999 standard. This is a management sponsored program through which preparedness for handling emergencies is addressed at business unit, location and corporate cross functional levels. We report any breaches of privacy policy through our public reports (Annual Financial Report) and in our filings with the SEC. There were no incidents in the reporting year for which Wipro had to pay penalties or revenue losses. Wipro Sustainability Customer Stewardship 149 Report 2014-15 Next Generation Technologies Human experience in interacting with machines is rapidly evolving. Breakthroughs in Man-Machine Interfaces (MMI) using acoustics, gestures, biometrics, body movement and virtual reality coupled with context-aware applications are introducing higher levels of user engagement. Such interactions are dynamic, flexible, personalized, responsive, realtime and data driven. Growing project complexities, competitive pressures, operational challenges and the need to maintain and grow margins compels companies to adopt technologies that will help run business as usual, improve operational efficiency and provide competitive differentiation. In essence, this will prepare organizations to fundamentally change the way they do business. Next generation digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Big Data Analytics and emerging collaborative development methodologies like Open Source are driving this change. These emerging technological innovations can drive sustainability by way of digitalization and dematerialization, system integration and optimization. ? Digitalization and dematerialization can reduce or eliminates the need for an emissions-intensive product or process ? System integration improves efficiency across organization ? Optimization of process, activity, and functions improves efficiency through simulation, automation, redesign or control ? Analytics enable better and smarter decision-making Technology Themes for Innovation Wipro is playing a key role in fostering innovation at the intersection of technologies and creating new products, services and breakthrough applications. Here 'breakthrough' implies products, services, processes, ideas and answers that were not possible before. We do this by mapping the future landscape i.e. by sensing tomorrow and responding today. The following are the technology themes on which we are focused currently. Artificial Intelligence At Wipro, we are working towards delivering solutions that are dynamic, adaptive and are designed to learn, anticipate, think and support decision making. Wipro has invested in developing a TM artificial intelligence platform Wipro HOLMES (heuristics and ontologybased learning machines and TM experiential systems) which is built on Open Source technologies and addresses key domains in cognitive computing. Everything Digital With Wipro Digital we are working on reengineering customer journeys by using a design thinking approach centered on users' needs and preferences. This requires bringing together end-to-end digital capabilities to design and deliver digital transformation. Wipro Sustainability 150 Customer Stewardship Report 2014-15 Internet of Things Enabled by connected objects, Wipro is capturing business insights in industrial applications and analyzing these in 'near real time', in order to provide actionable insights and create delightful customer experiences. Big Data Analytics Wipro has been helping clients across industries and geographies create seamless customer experiences in this digital world by enabling real time insights, and improving business outcomes through data-driven decisions. Wipro has invested in a strategic partnership with Opera Solutions, a company that applies its machine learning science to the world's Big Data flows to extract predictive patterns or signals. Open Source Open Source software is changing the way the world builds software. This collaborative, iterative, and transparent development method is powering everything from reconstruction efforts in the aftermath of natural disasters like earthquakes to the design of electric cars, along with countless other projects. Open Source is emerging as an important tool as business growth and bottom-line success. Enterprises are increasingly looking at Open Source and Open Stack applications for end-to-end business collaboration, greater productivity, speed and efficiency. Open Source applications are also being used to promote growth for Adaptive Enterprises. There is a shift from the conventional application architectures that rely on individual enterprises to Internet technologies and services that are more open. The Next Generation of IT systems will address the challenges of availability on scale, moving from efficiency to effectiveness and erasing the boundaries between personal and enterprise computing. To keep pace with the rapid changes, organizations need to be nimble. Also, they need to adopt Open Source that offers lower cost of ownership, faster developer centric innovation driven by large communities, flexibility, no vendor lock-in, greater security and quality. Our investments put us in a strong position to help customers start their Open Source journey. Wipro has identified Open Source as a core technology initiative and the company's investments in building a large cadre of skilled personnel, including world class Open Source industry veterans and community experts, is beginning to reap dividends as reflected by increasing customer interest. Wipro’s services include the development and implementation of Open Source policies and processes, advisory and strategy consulting, roadmap development, integration, community engagement, legacy migration, governance, risk mitigation and support. Wipro also helps customers build Open Source platforms on Applications (Middleware, Security, Customer Experience Platforms, Mobile Frameworks), Big data, Infrastructure (Operating Systems, Databases, Virtualization, Cloud Technologies, Software Defined Infrastructure), Internet of Things (IoT), Hardware and Testing. For more information on our technology themes for innovation, refer to our Annual Report for FY 2014-15 http://www.wipro.com/microsite/annualreport/2014-15/next-gen-technologies.html Wipro Sustainability Customer Stewardship 151 Report 2014-15 Strategic Approach to Innovation Wipro has a two pronged approach to innovation – external and internal. Externally, we work jointly with our customers and with various academic institutes, research organizations both from a recruitment perspective as well as from a partnership perspective. For joint innovation with customers, Wipro has primarily four models: Enterprise Innovation Lab Targeted Consortium Innovation Program as a Service Initiative approach Each model has specific use situations depending on the amount of investment and the nature of the innovation problems that are addressed. We also assess maturity levels of participating stakeholders while proposing these different engagement models. Wipro understands the necessity of having a strong Open Innovation Network and invests into building, supporting and participating in various such networks and forums. The bulk of the company's Open Innovation activity is aligned to the focus themes driven by the CTO Office and the strategic areas as identified by the respective individual business units. On the Internal Innovation side, a number of initiatives have been started that are designed on concepts of Open Innovation to inculcate a culture of Innovation in people. They span the lifecycle of Idea Management from Ideation to Development. Some of them are Directed Idea Campaigns sponsored by business units (BU) which may want to crowdsource ideas around a defined Use Case or Problem Statement. Ideas coming in as part of these are further taken up by the Sponsoring Business Units or the Idea Author is given a chance to develop it wherein CTO Office supports in the form of infrastructure and mentoring. Technology training and enablement initiatives like CodeStorm enable people to learn and become proficient in new and emerging technology and languages by participating in Coding Contests and Hackathons. Wipro Ventures Wipro has set up a US$100M fund, Wipro Ventures to invest in early and mid-stage startups with the ability to reshape the future of enterprises with emerging and disruptive technologies. These will impact fundamental growth drivers in areas such as education, energy, finance, healthcare, manufacturing, infrastructure, consumer goods and government. We will leverage our expertise in the areas of Big Data, Cloud Computing, Internet of Things, Cognitive and Datacenter technologies along with breakthrough products of the startups in delivering innovative services to our customers. Wipro is committed to supporting tomorrow's buyer and reimagining business while driving operational excellence and scale. Improved quality, capabilities, hyperautomation and Intellectual Property assets are turbocharging our core to secure the future. Wipro Sustainability 152 Customer Stewardship Report 2014-15 Governance Wipro follows a federated model for innovation with innovation being driven through multiple structures. The CSO (Chief Strategy Officer) and his group invests in long term solution building and aids the investment efforts of the Business Units /Service Lines by supporting some selected seeding initiatives that are designed to create new business services for Wipro. The CTO (Chief Technology Officer) and his group drive innovation through investing in a set of technology themes that can be applied to create services in different industry verticals. The CTO Office also anchors innovation crowdsourcing and open execution processes within and outside the organization through internal innovation programs and by driving an external program that connects with the ecosystem of startups, academia and research institutions. Business units (BU's) and Service Lines (SLs) also drive innovation within their respective industry or technology domain develop solutions and service products within their remits. The internal process transformation group invests in tools and frameworks that help improve costs and productivity of our delivery processes for both infrastructure and application management services. Intellectual Property and Patents in Wipro Our considerable R&D efforts have helped build our Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio substantially. In FY 2014-15, the company continued to strengthen its IP portfolio with 250 new patent applications filed and the company was granted 16 new patents against the existing patent applications. These applications cover invention disclosures in various exciting and emerging areas such as Energy Management, Cognitive Computing and Machine Learning, Digital Enterprise, Digital Marketing, Cloud Computing, Internet of Things, Intelligent Networks, Smart Systems, Storage Management, Data Management, DevOps, Identity Management, Testing and Verification, Enterprise Security, Device Security, Home Entertainment, Knowledge Management and Fraud detection, among others. A significant portion of the portfolio is in the Telecom, Consumer Electronics and Semiconductor verticals. Wipro Sustainability Customer Stewardship 153 Report 2014-15 Financial Stewardship Consistently rated among the leaders Wipro Among the best-in-class th companies for the Consecutive Year in the 6 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index! Wipro has been ranked No1 in the carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) India for the third time in succession. Wipro selected as a member of the Euronext Vigeo Emerging Market Sustainability Index (the 70 most advanced companies in the Emerging Market Region) Financial Stewardship and the Investors The history financial disclosures through annual and financial reports can be largely attributed to the voluntary disclosures of business performance from a few companies in the U.S. and U.K. to their providers of financial capital in the 19th century. Over the subsequent decades, accounting and reporting methods were refined and institutionalized. In the last couple of decades, progressive calls for transparency and accountability have led, listing stock exchanges to enforce a number of requirements for corporate disclosures. The King Report on Corporate Governance (1994, 2002, and 2009) is widely regarded as the first integrated reporting framework on corporate governance and performance, covering both finance and sustainability. Compliance with Kings Report is required by companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Similarly, in India, the National Voluntary Guidelines released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs have been adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for listed companies. The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, the accounting profession and NGOs, is facilitating adoption of integrated reporting framework <IR> as the new corporate reporting norm. One of the core elements of the framework is accountability and stewardship of the stocks and flows of the six forms of capital: financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and natural. The first two forms of capital are covered in almost all annual reports while the others are covered to varying degrees by some organizations depending on their context and understanding of impacts to significant stakeholders. The increasing recognition that social and environmental risks can affect a company’s operational strength and continuity has prompted active engagement from investors, regulators and government. Investors are increasingly incorporating ESG criteria (Environmental, Social and Governance) into their investment decision frameworks. Over the last decade, this has manifested in at least four different ways as shown in the chart on the next sheet. Stock Exchange ESG Assessments by Investors DJSI, MSCI, FTSE4 Good, BSE Listing requirement, CDP, Vigeo, Oekom Greenex and Carbonex Subcription to Custom assessments Principles & studies Lifecycle impacts, Natural Capital Accounting and Social risk assessments In this section, we primarily focus on our engagement with the investor community and how accountability and good business conduct are integral implements of financial stewardship. Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 155 Understanding the Our Stakeholder Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile. Profile of Wipro Shareholders Particulars 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 – 15 No. of shareholders 227,158 213,603 210,471 213,588 ADR holders 11,813 11,162 10,146 9,725 Total shareholders 238,971 238,971 220,617 223,313 Shareholding Pattern Promoters and Promoter Group 73.39% Mutual Funds/UTI 2.41 Banks, Financial Institution, Insurance companies, Central and State Govt. 1.95 FIIs/ Foreign bodies/ Foreign Portfolio Corps 10.71 Private Corporate Bodies 2.69 Indian Public 5.03 NRI/OCB/Foreign Nationals 1.09 Trusts 0.71 Shares held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued 1.96 Others* 0.06 TOTAL 100% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 *Others include shareholding of Clearing Members and Non-Executive Directors, Executive directors and Relatives. Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 156 and the Investors Report 2014-15 For more information, refer to the notes given page no. 50 of Annual Report for FY 2014-15. Our investors are increasingly getting aligned with ‘The Principles of Responsible Investment’ (PRI). PRI was developed by an international group of institutional investors under the umbrella of Principles for Responsible Investment Initiative (PRII), reflect the increasing relevance of environmental, social and corporate governance issues to investment practices. UNEP Finance Initiative and UN Global compact are partnering with PRII in this initiative. As of 2014, there are over 1300 signatories to PRI. The table below represents alignment of Wipro's investors to PRI. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Signatories To PRI 1,122 1,204 1,304 1,395 Investors in Wipro * >30% >30% >40% 35% * % of PRI signatories to Domestic Financial Institution, FII and FPI investors only. Understanding Material Aspects for Investors Risk Assessments Timely identification and management of risks is critical for the success of any business. At Wipro, risk assessment is an extensive exercise overseen by ERM Enterprise Risk Management function. The following Risk Model is used by the company to identify risks which are material to the business. ? Risk Register is created for each of the key business process in the organization. ? Risks and controls are mapped to the business objective of each process. ? Risks are collated from all known internal and external sources. ? Each risk is captured with a measurable Key risk indicator (“KRI”) indicating gross, current and target risk levels with mapped with the risk appetite and suitable mitigation plans. ? Periodic reports and dashboards are published to track risk levels. ? Risks and mitigations are tracked jointly with concerned business or functional owners to enhance accountability and focus. ? Periodic risk dashboards are placed for review with Senior Management and Audit committee. During 2013-14, two new dimensions were added to the Risk Management Model to identify and prioritize the critical risks: a) Stakeholder Mapping: Expectations of each stakeholder (Direct and Indirect) on key risk areas specifically with the lens of reputation risks was done and the Top Risk Map for 2015-16 was enhanced. The key findings of the risk analysis are covered in our Annual Report. Form 20 F also details risk factors risks related to our Company and our industry. The materiality assessment process also helped us understand business risks from sustainability perspective. Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 157 Identified Material Aspects for our Business Based on the risk areas identified, topics or areas relevant to the stakeholders and business to be reported were decided. Cyber Data Information Security Intellectual Service Economic Accounting for Security Privacy and Business Continuity Property Delivery performance externalities Customer Stewardship’ section Financial Performance Workplace Environment Regulatory Corporate Behavior Anti-corruption Anti-competitive and Culture Compliance and Governance Behavior Workplace Sustainability Organization Profile Ethical Business Conduct Economic Performance Enterprises are increasingly outsourcing their technology and IT services requirements to global IT services providers who can deliver high quality service on a global scale and at competitive costs. According to Gartner report Forecast: Enterprise IT Spending by Vertical Industry Market, Worldwide, 2013-2019, 1Q15 Update, worldwide IT Services spending in 2014 was $948 billion, a growth of 1.8% over the previous year. Global IT service providers offer a range of end to end software development, IT business solutions, research and development services, business process services, consulting and related support functions. Over the past two decades, India has risen to become the leading destination for global IT services sourcing, business process services and research and development services. Global IT services providers, based in India, have a proven track record for providing business and technology solutions, offering a large, high quality and English-speaking talent pool and a friendly regulatory environment. These factors have facilitated the emergence of India as a global sourcing hub. Global IT sourcing from India offers significant cost advantages as well as productivity gains on account of access to highly skilled and competent talent at lower wage costs. According to the National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM) Strategic Review Report 2015 (“NASSCOM Report”), India-based IT services providers have been able to maintain their cost competitiveness by deploying various cost control strategies including the delivery networks in Tier II/III cities, recruiting on college and university campuses as well as experienced professionals, and offsetting wage inflation with operational gains and productivity measures. Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 158 and the Investors Report 2014-15 India has a large, highly skilled and English-speaking talent pool. According to the NASSCOM Report, the IT – Business Process Management industry in India employed over 3.5 million software professionals as of March 31, 2015, making it one of the largest employers in the global IT services industry. Business favorable policy decisions of the Government of India have played a key role in the development of robust IT and business process management (“BPM”) sectors in the country. The Software Technology Park (“STP”) Scheme and the Special Economic Zone Act also played a critical role in the emergence and development of the IT and BPM industries by providing incentives in the form of tax holidays. India-based IT companies have proven their ability to deliver premium IT services and business process management that satisfy the requirements of international clients who adhere to exacting quality standards. According to the NASSCOM report, revenues for fiscal year 2015 for the IT-BPM industry based in India is estimated to be US$146 billion, which would represent growth of approximately 13% over fiscal year 2014. According to the NASSCOM Report, IT export revenues from India, including hardware, are expected to grow at a year-on-year rate of 12% in fiscal year 2015, driven by greater demands for social, mobile, analytics and cloud based solutions. While exports remain the focus area for the IT industry in India, the IT services market in India represents approximately 18% of the total business of India-based IT services industry and is also expected to be a key growth driver. According to the NASSCOM Report, the domestic Indian ITBPM market is expected to have grown by 14%, a growth rate that is faster than export markets in fiscal year 2015, driven largely by e-commerce. Business Strategy Industries worldwide are re-witnessing significant transformations in the Business Model and Technology landscape. The client business models are changing with the IT spend mix on 'Change' (IT resources consumed and focused on developing and enhancing IT systems in support of business growth or to enable the enterprise to enact new business models) part of the business getting more importance over 'Run' part of the business ('Run' – IT resources consumed and focused on continuing operation of the business). Technology landscape is changing with IDC predicting over 65% of Enterprise IT organizations committing to Hybrid Cloud technologies before 2016. Gartner forecasts that the number of Connected Devices will be nearly 25 Billion by 2020, or over three times the number of humans on earth driving the need for Data Analytics and Insights services. Need for newer Models of Service Delivery will be prompting enterprises to seek integrated solutions and services – implying the need for service providers to adopt newer commercial and delivery constructs. 80% of incremental investments of enterprises are expected to be in and around Digital, driving the need for business to go 'Digital' to address the consumer. Our strategy for ‘Change’ business focuses on ? Investing in Digital ? Dedicated and separate unit called Wipro Digital ? Focus will be to Re-imagine 'customer journeys' ? We will engineer and automate processes to increase velocity and productivity of these processes and build cross-industry utility solutions for Enterprise Process Digitization Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 159 ? Investing in future growth and leveraging Next-Gen Technologies for driving efficiency gains and cost-take out for our clients ? AI, IoT, Big Data Analytics and Open Source will be the technology bets for the future ? Investing in building Data Discovery Platform for Marketing and Digital as a productized offering ? Open Stack focus e.g. Open Datacenter, Open Apps and Open Network ? Ecosystem focus to drive thought leadership through Community and Industry foundation partnerships ? Leverage Wipro HOLMESTM (Cognitive training highly skilled employees, service providers and leaders. Computing Platform) to solve customer use cases and drive automation in Service Delivery ? Building a World-class ecosystem ? Corporate Venture Capital Fund – ‘Wipro Ventures’ a dedicated $100M fund will invest in early to mid-stage cutting edge start-ups. Focus is on companies that will complement Wipro’s businesses through next generation disruptive products and solutions ? Industry and research partnerships like those with NASSCOM with the objective of working with and leveraging the start-up ecosystem for striking GoTo-Market and Solution Partnerships ? M&A – focus on Digital Assets and areas around Big Data, Mobility and Cloud Our Strategy for Run business is centered on ? Driving revenue growth in our core businesses through services and solutions in prioritized verticals, service lines and geographies. ? Drive superior Farming and sustain momentum in Hunting ? Drive Cross-service line collaboration and Integrated Process and Technology Service offerings ? Investments to drive growth in ? Verticals: Healthcare, Retail and Consumer Goods, Banking Financial services and Insurance, Media and Telecom, Energy, Utilities and Manufacturing ? Service Lines: Infrastructure services, Product Engineering Services, Analytics and Application Services ? Significant Cost Optimization through Hyper automation while ensuring quality and efficiency in delivery, leveraging a range of Automation tools in Infrastructure and Applications Delivery e.g. ServiceNxT (Integrated Managed Services framework). Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 160 and the Investors Report 2014-15 ? To enable effective implementation of the RUN and CHANGE’ strategies, we are making focused investments in brand building, creating the right organization structure, processes, technology and people. For example, we continue to aggressively build awareness of the Wipro brand name among clients and partners. As an IT services business, we seek to position ourselves as a Strategic Solutions Provider with the resources and capabilities to offer a comprehensive range of IT services. ? Driving differentiation and leadership through our people We believe that our employees are the backbone of our organization and a key differentiator in the global market for IT services and IT products. We are committed to recruiting and our aim is to build a best-in-class global leadership team and provide our employees with attractive opportunities for career enhancement and growth. We continue to design and implement processes and programs to foster people development, leadership development and skill enhancements among our global team. It is our aim to be a diverse global company that not only serves clients but also empowers our employees worldwide to enhance their expertise beyond their industry peers. Assessment of Financial and Economic risks The annual financial report and the Form 20-F filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission lists a number of external factors or risks that may impact our business. These externalities are assessed regularly and inform business strategy. We present here a summary of the key external risks identified and our approach towards them. The engagement is informed by three primary factors (i) the different timescales in which they play out, (ii) the relative influence business has and (iii) meeting the concurrent and diverse needs of its various stakeholders. ? Currency fluctuations: A significant portion of our revenues from this segment is derived from transactions are in foreign currencies, from our wide international customer base ; these currencies include including the U.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar while a large portion of our costs are in Indian Rupees. The exchange rate between the Rupee and foreign currencies has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. As our financial statements are presented in Rupees, such fluctuations could have a material impact on our reported results. We also undertake hedging strategies to mitigate exposure of exchange rate risk relating to foreign currency borrowing, including entering into cross-currency interest rate swaps. ? Restrictive mobility legislations: Some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived connection between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs domestically. With high domestic unemployment levels in many countries and increasing political and media attention on the outsourcing of services internationally by domestic corporations, there have been concerted efforts in many countries to enact new legislations to restrict offshore outsourcing or impose restrictions on companies that outsource. Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 161 ? Global economic crisis: We derive approximately 51% of our IT Services revenue from the Americas (including the United States) and 28% of our IT Services revenue from Europe. If the economy in the Americas or Europe continues to be volatile of uncertain or conditions in the global financial market deteriorate, pricing for our services may become less attractive and our clients located in these geographies may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly. Reduction in spending on IT services may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our clients are concentrated in certain key industries. Any significant decrease in the growth of any one of these industries, or widespread changes in any such industry, may reduce or alter the demand for our services and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. For instance, the drop in global crude oil price has significantly impacted the companies operating in the energy industry, impacting revenue and profitability of our Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities industry vertical. ? Disruptions in telecommunications: The offshore development center model necessitates maintaining a resilient and active voice and data communications infrastructure between our offices in India, our clients' offices, and our software development and support facilities overseas. Redundancy and business continuity measures are critical in the event of a telecom disruption. ? Taxation Risks: Our profits for the period earned from providing services at client premises outside India are subject to tax in the country where we perform the work. Most of our taxes paid in countries other than India can be applied as a credit against our Indian tax liability to the extent that the same income is subject to taxation in India. Currently, we benefit from certain tax incentives under Indian tax laws. These tax incentives include a tax holiday from payment of Indian corporate income taxes for our businesses operating from specially designated Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”). Changes to these incentives and other exemptions we receive due to government policies can impact our financial performance. ? Wage Pressure: Our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the U.S. and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees over the long term, wage increases may reduce our profit margins. Furthermore, increases in the proportion of employees with less experience, or emerging low cost locations, like Eastern Europe, China or Southeast Asia could also negatively affect our profits. ? Intellectual Property: Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and design laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require employees, independent contractors and, whenever possible, vendors to enter into confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These confidentiality agreements generally provide that any confidential or proprietary information being developed by us or on our behalf be kept confidential. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed to third parties in the course of our business be kept confidential by such third parties. However, our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software we develop for them. Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 162 and the Investors Report 2014-15 Financial Performance Wipro's economic value add and distribution among its constituents is broadly consistent in FY 13-14 when compared with FY 12-13. u e 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 en ev R Rs. in Mn. 318,747 374,256 434,269 469,545 Action Type 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 – 15 Rs. in Mn. % Rs. in Mn. % Rs. in Mn. % Rs. in Mn. % Operating cost 113,813 27% 127,283 23% 141,706 24% 152,921 24% Employee Wages and benefits 148,350 27% 179,627 33% 206,568 33% 224,838 33% Payments to Government India 12,995 4.1 16,576 4.5 21,767 5 25,087 5.3 Others 4,065 1.3 5,314 1.4 2,293 0.5 5,913 1.3 Payments to Providers of Capital Interest 937 0.3 863 0.2 868 0.2 768 0.2 Dividend 14,836 4.7 14,188 3.8 19,920 4.6 29,455 6.3 Economic value retained 23,751 7.5 30,405 8.2 41,147 9.5 30,563 6.5 The India IT sector has been a leading generator of direct and indirect employment as illustrated in the India IT sector overview. Also it has been a generator of foreign exchange for the country. In light of such contributions to the economy fiscal incentives have been provided by the Government to the sector. Wipro has benefitted from such incentives extended to the IT sector as illustrated in the table below. We have not received any other direct or indirect financial assistance beyond the scope of the state policy. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Benefit from Income tax exemption (in INR. Mn) 10,501 11,077 13,987 14,471 Percentage of tax benefit to Profit Before Tax (PBT) 15% 14% 14% 13% PBT (in INR. Mn) 69,814 78,688 101,143 112,241 Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 163 Engagement with Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile. We have multiple channels of communications to keep the investors informed about various development and events. Communication through voluntary proactive disclosures in our financial statement has been the bedrock of investor engagement at Wipro. Our senior management leaders along with our dedicated Investor Relations team participate in various forums like investor conferences and investor road shows, in addition to hosting investors who visit us. Our quarterly results, regulator y filings, transcripts of our earnings call and media presentations are available at http://www.wipro.com/investors/ Engagement Approach The figure below reflects the breadth of our engagement with Investors. Inform Website ? Press Release ? Quality Eaenings Release ? Investor Presentation ? Annual report ? Financial Information ? Breadth of Listen Engagement Dialogue ? Investors Road Shows ? Annual General Meeting ? Meeting with Individual ? EGM investor/analytics ? Board IndependentDirectors ? Investor Conference ? Press reports ? Analyst Meet-INDIA and US ? Feedback on Annual Report Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 164 and the Investors Report 2014-15 We view the trend of responsible investment from two distinct angles. ? As a catalyst for making the business sector more responsible and ? As a driver of internal rigor, innovation and improvement in a company's operations. Therefore, we have been a conscious and keen participant in multiple such disclosure frameworks; this has helped us continuously calibrate our sustainability program and enhance it through step changes. Our commitment is reflected in the recognition of our leadership in various global ESG rating programs. Details of Engagement The following table details the different types of engagement exercise undertaken by the company in 2014-15. Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Investor Meetings 22 19 16 10 67 Conferences attended 3 9 5 8 25 Road shows conducted 5 3 4 4 16 AGM Held 1 1 Press Releases 24 27 19 25 95 Our goal is to have zero pending complaints or queries at the end of a period. The table below presents the number of complaints/ queries received and the number of queries responded to. Particulars Nature Received Replied Pending Non receipt of Annual report Complaint 181 181 0 Non Receipt of Dividend Warrant Complaint 404 404 0 Correction / Revalidation of Request 1705 1705 0 Dividend Warrants Non Receipt of Securities Complaint 24 24 0 SEBI/ Stock Exchange complaints Complaint 22 22 0 Others Request 0 Total 2336 2336 0 Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 165 Communication with Stakeholders in the Annual Report – A Chronological Journey Year of first appearance ? Comparative financial information of 5 year and 10 years 1977 ? In addition to 'About the Company' now titled 'About the Corporation', a two page statement titled 'Chairman's Statement' included. 1983 ? This statement included a paragraph on 'Research and Development and Wipro team'. ? Consolidated financial statement. ? Chairman's Statement content enhanced to include a paragraph on 'Finance, Future Policy and Wipro beliefs'. 1984 ? One page on the directors, senior executives of the company and manufacturing locations. ? Segment reporting on business performance. ? Graphs on trends of key financial indicators. 1993 ? Earnings per share. ? Shareholders' return over ten-year holding period. ? Wipro Leaders' qualities. 1995 ? Vision for the year 1999-2000. 1996 ? Cash flow statement. ? Letter to the stakeholders. 1998 ? Reconciliation of profits between Indian GAAP and US GAAP. ? Theme-based annual reports: 2001 ? Customer testimony on the quality and nature of service offerings. ? Business Responsibility Report (BRR) section as per the National 2012 Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) the first company to include an independently verified report in the Annual Report Illustration presents a summary of the main highlights of the evolution of our disclosures’ journey through the Annual Report. Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 166 and the Investors Report 2014-15 Ethical Business Conduct Policy Our corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) provides the broad direction for all business transactions. The COBC is Wipro’s central and comprehensive compliance policy document and manual to ensure ethical conduct on our part as well as all the stakeholders with whom we engage with. The COBC applies to all employees and members of the Board of Directors of the Company, also all individuals who serve the Company on contract, subcontract, retainer, consultant or any other such basis. Suppliers, service providers, external professionals, agents, channel partners (dealers, distributors and others) serve as an extension of the Company and their conduct and behavior while carrying out business dealings with Wipro or on behalf of Wipro can have an impact on Wipro and its reputation. Other than COBC, we also have other policies like the abridged Policy on Related Party Transactions, Wipro Supplier Code of Conduct, Code of Independent Directors and Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, which contextualize the communication for relevant stakeholders. Approach From anti-bribery compliance perspective, Wipro has the following processes internally to ensure ethical conduct across operations. ? A payment due diligence process where payments made by and on behalf of Wipro are reviewed to ensure adherence to anti-corruption and anti-bribery ? A Standard Operating Procedure to enable employees understand and comply with the requirements for specific purposes like business courtesies, gifts, entertaining, charitable contribution, sponsorship, etc. Employees are advised to avoid transactions which might give the appearance of offering or accepting an improper payment, bribe or kickback. ? Due diligence mechanisms, internal controls and assessments on its third parties such as channel partners, dealers, collection agents, lead finders/hunters etcetera which includes a specific undertaking from identified vendors, service providers, consultants to affirm compliance to our Code of Business Conduct and more specifically to our anti-bribery policies ? An Ombuds process for receiving and redressing employees’ complaints, through which employees are encouraged to report any fraudulent financial or other information to the stakeholders, any conduct that results in violation of the Company’s COBC, to management (on an anonymous basis, if employees so desire). For more information, refer to Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 167 Investors expect ethical conduct from businesses. They are concerned about loss of management time and resources dealing with such issues, legal liability and damage to reputation due to unethical practices like bribery, corruption, anti-competition and anti-trust. Even though large businesses have formal systems to ensure compliance and avoid unethical businesses, they are exposed to such risks from their supply chains. Corruption and bribery are significant risks to businesses, and they are more pervasive in the supply chain. This makes business functions dealing with suppliers and business partners vulnerable to such risks. As part of COBC training, Wipro conducts entry-level training to all its employees worldwide on corporate policies on Business Relationship, Gifts and Entertainment, Business Courtesies and Conflict of Interest. Compliance with Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, the Indian Prevention of Corruption Act, are included as part of leadership training programs and focused training programs. The trainings are conducted within the Company across all levels and it is also displayed on Wipro’s intranet and on Wipro’s website at www.wipro.com. In addition to annual test and certification of Code of Business Conduct, a certification process is enabled for employees travelling to High Risk Countries and employees working in certain functions. Also, communication of COBC and their significance to Wipro are being done through emails, posters, class room trainings and online training. Compliance Wipro has a continuing good track of ethical conduct and we comply with all relevant legislations. There has been no instances related to bribery, corruption, anti-competitive or anti-trust practices in the reporting period across our business divisions. Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 168 and the Investors Report 2014-15 Natural Capital Valuation Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. They depend on natural non-renewable resources (for example, fossil fuels and minerals) as well as natural renewable ecosystem goods and services (for example, freshwater and pollination). Businesses also rely on natural capital for its ability to absorb by-products of production such as pollution and water. Business extraction and production activities can damage natural capital with long term economic and social consequences. These economic and social consequences manifest themselves as physical, regulatory and reputational risks for companies. One of the most useful ways for companies to account for these risks is to quantify and value the environmental impacts generated across their value chains in monetary terms. Traditional ‘single parameter’ environmental metrics such as cubic meters of water or hectares of land provide an indication of the scale of dependency on ecosystem goods and services or environmental impacts. However, they often fail to identify optimization opportunities for business. Natural capital valuation, on the other hand, provides a deeper insight because it factors scale alongside critical environmental parameters such as regional water scarcity and the ecosystem services provided by land. There are several global and country led projects underway which aim to develop environmental accounts and integrate them with traditional national accounts (GDP) including India. UNPRI, in 2010, estimated the environmental costs due to activities of top 3000 companies at US$ 6 Trillion per year. The Natural Capital Coalition (NCC), for example, is developing a Natural Capital Protocol to provide a standardized approach to natural capital accounting and valuation for businesses. Wipro, in association with Trucost, completed its first natural capital valuation exercise for the financial year 2013-14. The valuation looks at our global operational footprint from energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and, land use change, business travel, employee commute – as well as from the embedded natural capital in all goods and services that we procure from our supply chain. The natural capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Trucost's econometric Input-Output model which takes in spend across different sub-categories of procurement. Monetization of impacts is based on emerging models and a selection of global and local factors hence certain assumptions and accounting rules are inherent to the exercise. In the 2014-15 financial year, the natural capital valuation of the environmental impacts relating to Wipro’s operations and supply chain was equal to INR 10,075 million (2.3% of Wipro’s revenue in the same period). This is in line with the global average for the ICT sector (GreenBiz, 2014). The largest contributions came from GHG emissions (51%), air pollution (20%) and water consumption (18%). The operational value chain stage accounted for 36% of Wipro’s total environmental cost. From a geography perspective, as expected, India accounts for 82% of the overall environmental cost. The above figures are net of our positive valuation that are attributable to our environmental initiatives in emissions reduction and water recycling. For Wipro, this study provides useful indicators to understand impacts and assess the value of our environmental programs. For external stakeholders like customers and analysts, these data points provide a completely transparent full life-cycle understanding of our environmental footprint. Wipro Sustainability Financial Stewardship Report 2014-15 and the Investors 169 Chart 1: Consolidated Natural Capital Valuation Enviromental indicator Valuation (INR million) % Contribution GHGs 5.108 51% Sir pollution 2.049 20% water consumption 1.775 18% Water pollution 772 8% Land use 200 2% Waste 170 2% TOTAL 10.075 100% Chart 2: Natural Capital Valuation by Value Chain Stage Value Chain Valuation (INR million) % Contribution Operational 3.580 36% Supply chain purchased goods and services 792 8% Supply chain Fuel and energy related activities 3.196 32% Supply chain Business travel 1.249 12% Supply chain Employee commuting 1.258 12% TOTAL 10.075 100% Financial Stewardship Wipro Sustainability 170 and the Investors Report 2014-15 Supply Chain Sustainability Diverse Supplier Spend contributed to 5.2% of total central procurement tracked spend for India operations Supplier Engagement 71% of the procurement for the year by value was from local suppliers To complete pilot assessments of significantly high social risks and initiate improvement programs for our suppliers To evangelize green procurement criteria among key suppliers Vision & Goals Supply Chain Sustainability The impacts or externalities of businesses are frequently influenced and informed by their supply chain processes. Managing the environmental and social impacts of supply chain are interlinked to economic outputs over the long term they can help businesses avoid disruptions; protect company's reputation and brand value; meet evolving customer and business partner requirements and, foster innovation and protect company's reputation and brand value. It can also help further the business imperatives of efficiency, cost effectiveness and resilience in the supply chain. However, the fundamental and compelling reason for sustainability engagement in our value chain stems from our belief that it is the right thing to do. The context, scale and complexity of modern supply chains pose challenges for business to identify, influence and control these impacts. Our supply chain management program is influenced by our understanding of the multiple drivers as well as the challenges associated with it. Understanding the Stakeholder Our Supply Chain The supplier ecosystem of Wipro can be broadly categorized into two broad heads. One category can be called as our `primary supply chain' which comprises of our workforce or employees involved in core delivery of IT Services and Solutions., Such employees typically who have gone through a minimum of a graduate degree program qualification and are experienced, with in specialized technology and consulting skills or have undergone aided by an intensive inhouse capability building program. While a majority of them are permanent employees, we also have people on contract in a customer engagement. Category Nature Male Female Total Permanent 99292 42990 142282 On Wipro projects On contract 14095 2040 16135 The second component of our supply chain is `product or services supply chain' or `secondary supply chain' which comprises of suppliers who provide products, business support services and utility management services for our operations. Wipro Sustainability 172 Supply Chain Sustainability Report 2014-15 People Numbers for Secondary Supply Chain Category Male Female Total Other Functions 2199 925 3124 Global Security Group 3991 180 4171 Non Tech contracting Facilities Soft Services, Engineering, Hospitality, Transportation, 3795 1057 4852 Operations Support Staff Total 9985 2162 12147 We refer to our high proportion of contract staff both, people involved in core delivery as well as skilled or unskilled support staff who work in campus operations as ‘people supply chain’. In this section, we will primarily address the secondary supply chain as the ‘people supply chain’ aspect has been covered in detail in ‘Workplace Sustainability’ section of our report. Procurement Categories Split by Spend New infrastructure and Civil 1% 9% Facilities* 15% Transport and logistics 4% Technology Contracting (Part of primary supply chain) Direct materials 1% Telecom 6% 10% Non Technology Contracting (Part of primary supply chain) 11% Finance and legal 31% 7% IT software and services Marketing 5% IT Hardware Operations and facility management require a diverse set of support services ranging from hospitality, housekeeping, physical security, landscaping, transport, catering, to equipment maintenance among others and for these services we largely rely on outsourced facility management service providers. Recently, we have transitioned to a model where for large locations, the entire responsibility for facility services is outsourced to a single property management organization (Integrated Facility Management Services IFMS). Wipro actively encourages diversity in the supply chain and sourcing from the local economy. At an aggregate level, nearly 79% of our suppliers are based in India; by value 71% of the procurement for the year was from India based suppliers. For 2014-15, supplier spend from women and minority owned enterprises contributed to 5.2% of total central procurement spend for India operations. Diversity classification is based on supplier self-disclosure and is not verified. Wipro Sustainability Supply Chain Sustainability 173 Report 2014-15 Supplier Segmentation Wipro has a formal process to identify suppliers who are strategic to its sustained business performance. The suppliers are classified into three categories: Wipro Elite suppliers, Preferred suppliers, and Tactical suppliers. The Global Procurement Group finalizes the supplier categorization based on annual performance evaluation. Elite suppliers are defined as suppliers dealing in more than one category/region and who are global in nature. Preferred suppliers are suppliers with presence in a single country and who account for a fairly significant proportion of Wipro’s spend. Tactical suppliers are suppliers with who Wipro does not have regular business. Understanding Material Aspects Supply Chain Risk Assessment In determining material issues of a stakeholder, a structured risk assessment exercise is very useful. Wipro's approach to identifying sustainability risks in the supply chain includes cross functional analysis of the risks involving pertaining to different organizational functions. Enterprise Risk Management function owns the supplier economic risk assessment process and their focus is on ensuring continuous and non-interrupted supply of services/goods. Vendor Risk Assessment is a formal evaluation of an Individual or a vendor company's financial health which indicates is determined by many factors like theirincluding operational efficiency, susceptibility to corruption risks all of which determines their ability to provide services or productsetc,. The Group Sustainability Function partners with Central Procurement Organization, Facilities Management Group and other relevant stakeholders to in identifying environmental and social risks in Wipro's supply chain through independent studies conducted periodically. Wipro commissioned Fronesys and Trucost in 2012 to conduct a preliminary risk assessment study of environmental and social risks in its supply chain. These studies provided valuable insights for the initial risk mapping exercise and prioritizing areas of supplier engagement. Trucost quantifies the natural capital impacts and dependencies of Wipro's operations and its supply chain using primary activity data and accepted valuation methodologies. Fronesys undertook hot social spot assessments for Wipro and identified high risk suppliers for engagement in terms of social risk for Wipro. The Ombuds process is also available to suppliers through a 24X7 hotline and on the internet. The concerns raised through Ombuds also trigger identification of risks in the supply chain. Wipro Sustainability 174 Supply Chain Sustainability Report 2014-15 Given below is the condensed outcome of risk assessments in our supply chain. Impacts identified in Supplier categories for the supply chain whom the impacts are significant Economic Probability of Default ? All supplier categorie ? Bankruptcy ? Corruption risks ? High Waste Footprint Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation ? Petroleum and Coal Products ? Manufacturing and Telecommunications ? Environmental High Waste Footprint Utilities ? Telecommunications ? Transit and Ground Passenger ? Transportation Telecommunications ? High Waste Footprint Computer and Electronic Product ? Manufacturing Administrative and Support Services ? Human Rights and Labor practices ? Office Services (Security, casual labor, food ? (Forms of bonded labor, Statutory suppliers) Social Benefits Denial, Working Hours, Facility Services ? Discrimination, Work Place Travel ? Harassment, Child Labor) Consumables ? Corruption ? Energy ? Based on Trucost’s ‘Natural Capital Valuation’ which studied Stakeholder Feedback Feedback from our various stakeholders indicated the following issues as relevant to our supply chain. Society and Customers Employees Investors Business Community Global ? Demand for ? Investors ? Competency ? Externalities ? customers comfortable requesting gaps due to requesting and safe information on Financial ? operations information working our supply prudence Employment ? and assessing environment chain and Local sourcing ? our supply medium and Diversity ? chain long term Business impact ? issues due to operations impact Wipro Sustainability Supply Chain Sustainability 175 Report 2014-15 Identified Material Aspects The understanding of risks in supply chain and also stakeholders concerns informed the outcomes of our materiality determination exercise. Based on the identified risks, we have identified the following GRI aspects as material. GRI Aspects / Topics Section Supplier environmental assessment Supplier assessment for labor practices Supplier Engagement Supplier human rights assessment Program Supplier assessment for impacts on society (Corruption, Anti-competition) Procurement Practices Strategic Approach Based on our understanding of risks in our supply chain, our supply-chain approach is based on the principles of Integrity, Ecological and Workplace Responsibility. we have adopted the following framework to manage risk in our supply chain. Ethical Ecological Responsible Wipro expects its suppliers We expect suppliers to Wipro expects its suppliers to adhere to similar supply products and to adhere to principles of standards of ethics and services that exceed human rights, employee integrity as itself environmental standards welfare, health and safety, and to establish a program minimum wages and of ecological sustainability maximum working hours. in their own operations We encourage sourcing from the local economy and supplier diversity Wipro Sustainability 176 Supply Chain Sustainability Report 2014-15 The Procurement Organization The responsibility of managing procurement related activities of Wipro rests with the Global Procurement Group. The goal of the Procurement Group is to provide high quality products and services on a timely basis, consistent with organizational objectives and policies and at the same time by adhering to the highest ethical standards. The responsibility is divided among the buyer groups who handle different procurement categories. The Procurement Group works along with Enterprise Risk Management, Internal Audit, Legal teams to ensure compliance and to proactively address risks in the supply chain. Supplier Engagement Program To add few points At Wipro, we believe that a supply chain program should take into account the socio-economic realities in the geographies where we operate. The supply chain sustainability charter should go beyond legal compliance and take into consideration emergent debates and issues. Fundamentally, our supply chain program is driven more by responsible engagement and commitment as informed by our values, rather than a compliance/check box mindset. Policy and Guiding Principles Our Code of Business Conduct which provides the ethical guidelines and expectations for conducting business on behalf of Wipro also directs Wipro’s relationship with its suppliers and is applicable to all suppliers, agents, service providers, channel partners, dealers, distributors and vendors (“Suppliers”). The Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) of Wipro reiterates our unyielding commitment to integrity. This document further strengthens the intent of COBC regarding the key requirements in the environmental and social aspects of the business practices, expected from our supply chain. SCOC covers key risks in the supply chain like forced or compulsory labor; prohibition on child labor; equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination/ no harassment; minimum wages; environment, health and safety; and compliance with anti-bribery laws. The document also gives an overview of the process followed by by Wipro so that it provides a ready reference template for the interest of suppliers. The SCOC is communicated to all suppliers and it is mandatory for suppliers to accept and sign it. Wipro also has a procurement policy which acts as an internal decision making guide related to procurement. This policy details the procurement principles that the Global Procurement Group is expected to adhere to as well as other aspects of procurement like supplier selection, supplier diversity etcetera. Our supply chain governance program is informed by four guiding principles Wipro Sustainability Supply Chain Sustainability 177 Report 2014-15 ? Understanding of the socio-economic context: We are mindful of the fact that while one may have ambitious policies, commitments and codes of conduct in place, it has to take into account the complex socio-economic realities in which it has to be operationalized. For example, in developing economies, supplier staff may not be aware of the nuances of human and labor rights. In certain cases, the practice may be due to livelihood issues – for example, excessive working hours in some cases may be the norm to secure additional income. Children in family owned or sole proprietorship could sometimes be employed (or “helping”) in the business. Enforcement of unilateral actions in such cases, does not change the practice on the ground but only diverts attention from the problem at hand. ? Ability to monitor, influence and control: The ‘secondary supply chain’ in many categories of procurement extends across multiple branches/levels/tiers. Due to the factors mentioned in the first principle, it would be naïve of us to claim compliance across all the tiers. In many cases, our visibility is limited to the first one or two tiers. For supply chain entities not critical or strategic to us – where suppliers are not a core part of our business or where our spend does not contribute to either a reasonable proportion of the suppliers’ revenue or the available market supply. our ability to influence supplier practices is that much more limited. Industry bodies and large government procurement programs have a larger role in influencing change. ? Regulatory Compliance: Given the spread of supply chain across different geographies as well as sectors, the compliance landscape can be quite complex. The impact of supply chain on different stakeholders is dependent on the nature of business and operational context. As a result, the compliance requirements of one supplier category can vary from another. However, it is often found compliance is not driven by context and not reflective of the ground reality. At Wipro, we try to uphold all the regulations and wherever there is a conflict, our best efforts are to minimize any dissonance. ? Integrating best practices in supply chain engagement: Managing supply chain externalities is of key interest to business with the deepening of complexities in the supply chain and the resultant risks. Customers and investors are looking at compliance levels and ethics of organizations as a key differentiator in their decision process. Industry forums like Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, Sedex, Ecovadis etcetera are working towards indirectly driving continuous change in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. Industry ratings such as Dow Jones Sustainability Index and CDP are increasingly giving importance to the supply chain performance of organizations. There are many emerging standards and frameworks dedicated to this cause. We intend to adopt and integrate best practices from all of these sources to drive sustainability in our supply chain. Wipro Sustainability 178 Supply Chain Sustainability Report 2014-15 Supplier Engagement Approach Wipro has a multi-pronged approach towards supplier engagement which is represented below. Communicate intent and Inform requirements to our suppliers Understanding the context and current compliance of our suppliers and developing policies and processes Collaborate Engage Engage with the suppliers to improve their capabilities in managing their sustainability Understand performance Educate our suppliers on environmental, social and governance best practices to be incorporated in their Audits and business assessments of suppliers Assess A significant feature of our engagement is how we try and align our community or CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) programs with supplier engagement wherever it is possible. This can address some of the fundamental issues at hand for example our bridge program in education for children of migrant laborers is an emerging area of engagement for our new infrastructure projects in in Bengaluru. Some specific requirements like eliminating “conflict minerals” in ICT equipment is difficult to monitor given the complexities in the supply chain. In this context, our program is largely about seeking disclosures from some of our key suppliers. Wipro Sustainability Supply Chain Sustainability 179 Report 2014-15 Programs and Processes We effect our supply chain engagement strategy through a range of programs and processes across the supplier engagement life cycle the details of which are articulated below. ? Procurement protocol: We are currently are in the process of identifying material issues for our main procurement categories and thereof develop specific requirements that will serve as the basis for developing audit protocols for evaluating vendors/suppliers. ? Contractual requirements: It is now mandatory for the suppliers to accept and sign the Code of Conduct which includes requirements in business practices as well as in environmental and social aspects. Our Master Service and Products Agreement requires the supplier to comply with all applicable regulations and legal requirements concerning the manufacture, packaging, packing and delivery of the products including, but not limited to, all the applicable safety, environmental and export regulations of the United States, European Union and all other relevant countries and regions. ? Supplier Connect: A supplier connect portal which is a single window system for vendor empanelment was launched in 2011 with the objective of providing an easy, user friendly, and transparent on-boarding experience with Wipro. The portal is designed as one stop shop for vendor processes in Wipro.As of March 2015, 4061 suppliers have registered in the portal which also includes a questionnaire evaluating social, environmental and governance performance of the vendors. ? Supplier meets: One of the primary objectives of our annual supplier meets is to communicate Wipro's BusinessVision, Codes of Conduct and our sustainability approach. In 2014-15, delegates from about key 100 suppliers constituting the top spenders in various categories of FMG, IT and Telecom, Civil Infrastructure and Business support attended the meet. As part of the Meet, Supplier Awards have been constituted to recognize the key contributions made by Suppliers. Sustainability is one of the special categories for which suppliers are rewarded. ? Periodic reporting requirements: Wipro requires suppliers to mandatorily provide documentary evidence of statutory compliance as part of the payment process. For example, for manpower services, we require suppliers to provide documentary evidence of statutory compliance on wages and other applicable social benefits. ? Audits and assessments: In the past year, we completed independent audits of security service providers, waste recyclers and other facility management service providers. We also piloted food safety audits at two of our campuses. ? Vendor helpdesk: A dedicated vendor helpdesk handles supplier queries on payment issues, policy clarifications and provides the initial contact for grievance redressal. The Helpdesk received a total of 3152 of vendor queries between January and March 2015, which reflects the reach and effectiveness of our initiative. The feedback from our vendors received through this initiative help improve our processes and initiate new steps like the automation of sharing payment advices, periodical validation of vendor credential in our database as well as the exchange of ideas between critical vendors and our organization on possible process improvements. Wipro Sustainability 180 Supply Chain Sustainability Report 2014-15 ? Ombudsprocess: Wipro’s Ombudsprocess allows and encourages any affected stakeholder including suppliers and contractors to report breaches of the COBCE and any other matter of integrity to the concerned Ombudsman. While a good proportion of Ombudsprocess cases are anonymous, based on self-disclosure, we know that there were 33 complaints reported by suppliers during the year. There was an instance of serious supplier breach of our code of conduct as a result four vendors have been blacklisted from our end. The Path Ahead Our Supply Chain Engagement is an journey where sustainability increasingly becomes central. Our focus for the next couple of years will be the following: ? Conducting pilot assessments across the identified material categories of facility management service providers and construction vendors. The assessments will help us identify improvement areas and inform our future engagement with suppliers. ? Green Procurement criteria for IT hardware (computing and printing equipment) products: We will continue to drive advocacy of criteria with our key suppliers. ? Supplier Diversity Program: Identify priority areas for proactive sourcing from women and minority owned enterprises. ? Evaluate and participate in third party sustainability assessment frameworks Communication is the key plank of our program and we will continue maintaining a strong connect with our suppliers. We will also step up our support for our vendorpartners in their efforts to improve systems and processes related to sustainability. Wipro Sustainability Supply Chain Sustainability 181 Report 2014-15 Partnering for Social Change Wipro Science Education Fellowship Wipro Education Program earthian Mission 10X New domains for serving disadvantaged Participation nationwide Workshops conducted rural youth communities in cities since 2011 Academic primary school 76 Leadership in USA to improve schools & mathematics, integrated science & math education 3,000 colleges Faculty 1,003 Empowerment learning program in schools launched in Chicago,New York 15,000 students & Boston 91 Practitioners 6 new partnerships 3,500 educators Student North-East, Maharashtra, 614 Engineering Kerala, Karnataka Collaboration with Thinking & Punjab UMass Boston 14 workshops Michigan State University on sustainability Launched a program & Mercy College learning for 54 Mission10X on education of 250+ teachers Technology Learning Centers (MTLCs) children with now operational in disabilities, 250 300 teachers across Co-hosted national 12 states level symposium on 20 school Sustainability in 5 projects districts go through a supporting needs of 2-3 year fellowship Management Education with IIM-B, Kenan Flagler 1350 School of Business, underprivileged children in Bangalore, University of Pune, Jaipur & Hyderabad Wipro Cares North Carolina Primary Healthcare Access to Program in urban solid waste 75,000 people management in Bangalore to Education program through 7 projects, covering 53 villages which provides skills upgrading & access to social security benefits benefitting 500 migrant worker’s children across Maharashtra, Karnataka, to 260 informal workers Andhra Pradesh and Uttarakhand ? Expand location chapters to other locations in India and overseas in the coming years ? Start initiatives in North East India as part of our larger strategy of focusing on underserved areas Vision & Goals Partnering for Social Change At Wipro, we think that it is critical for business to engage with the social and ecological challenges that face humanity. Such engagement must be deep, meaningful and formed on the bedrock of long term commitment; for that is the only way by which real change can happen on the ground. This is also reflective of the fact that such an approach serves both, enlightened business interest and social good. We try to run our social programs on a strong foundation of ethical principles, good governance and sound management. This includes, among other things, holding ourselves up to public scrutiny through a framework of transparent, rigorous reporting. Understanding the Stakeholder In the social space, our stakeholders are multiple and can be differentiated on the basis of domains and the overarching objectives of engagement. For example, in ‘Education’, some of the work that we do has direct impact on disadvantaged communities while a parallel strand is targeted at partners and teachers in the education ecosystem. ? Communities: – An important stakeholder for us is disadvantaged sections of communities, especially those that are proximate to our operations. Our operations and facilities are situated in both urban and rural areas. Our domains of engagement are in the fields of Education, Primary Health Care, Disability and Disaster Rehabilitation. Within these domains, we choose to focus on those areas that have direct impact on the community. The geographies of community engagement span India, the U.S.A, South Africa, Latin America, Australia and select countries of Europe and South – Asia. ? Entities in the Education Ecosystem – Another key stakeholder is the education ecosystem which is a complex interplay of multiple players -schools, regulatory and support structures, civil society organization and communities. ? NGO and Community Organization – Non-governmental organizations and civil society networks are important implementation partners for our different community initiatives. We engage with them from at different stages of the Planning-Implementation-Review cycle. ? Employees Employees play a significant role in our community initiatives by way of monetary contribution and voluntary participation. Our social transformation initiatives are now nearly fifteen years old. We decided to focus on Education and Communities when we started twelve years back. The reasons for this deliberate set of choices have the same compelling validity today as they had then. Education is probably the most important catalyst of social development which can bring about change that is truly sustainable and durable over the long term; and it is a fundamental Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 183 Report 2014-15 responsibility and tenet of corporate citizenship that every business should engage deeply with its proximate communities and to try to address some of their biggest challenges. Over the years, partnering with our stakeholders has given insights into their concerns and requirements. This has also helped us to engage in critical social issues with sensitivity, rigor and responsibility. This has also helped us to engage in critical social issues with sensitivity, rigor and responsibility. Understanding Stakeholder Priorities Rural Urban communities communities Healthcare, livelihood, Mobility, waste, pollution, primary education, water education, health Future Engagement generations partners Environmental Capacity building, sustainability education institution development Policy and Strategy Our approach to social responsibility and sustainability rests on three important pillars. ? The Strategic: We choose domains and issues to engage with that are force multipliers for social change and sustainable development. Social responsibility is as much about being a sustainable organization as it is about external initiatives. Therefore, some of our areas of engagement lie at the convergence of business goals and social purpose. ? The Systemic: Within the chosen domains, we choose to engage on systemic issues that require deep, meaningful and challenging work. Given the nature of social change, this implies commitment over the long term, typically for several decades because real, genuine change does that long to happen ? The Deliberative: Our emphasis on depth and on long term commitment implies a deliberative approach that precludes spreading ourselves thin or engaging in ‘cheque book philanthropy’. By implication, this also means that we are wary of expanding and growing our social programs as ends in themselves. We will continue to adhere to this approach going forward. Wipro Sustainability 184 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Domains of Engagement Wipro's social initiatives center on the following dimensions. ? Community Care: Engaging with the community on issues of utmost concern to them ? Education: Engaging in deep and meaningful systemic work in the area of school and college education Community Care (Wipro Cares) ? Primary Healthcare ? Education for Underprivileged ? Disability ? Environment ? Disaster Rehabilitation Wipro’s social Ecology initiatives Education ? Energy and Carbon ? School Education in India WATIS ? Water ? School Education Outside of India ? Waste USSEF ? Biodiversity ? Sustainability Education earthian ? Engineering Education Mission 10X , WASE, WiSTA *Refer to section on ‘Urban Resilience’ and Advocacy and Public Policy for more information on our engagements in Ecology domain. Social Programs Expenditure The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Expenditure CSR spend as disclosed in Director’s Report of Annual Report 2014-15 is Rs. 1327.04 Mn. The spend on SEF program for 2014-15 of Rs. 79.1 Mn is not accounted in the report as the CSR guidelines in the Companies Act 2013 does not allow reporting of spend in countries outside India. Wipro’s actual spend on CSR initiatives for 2014-15, including this, amounts to Rs. 1406.14 Mn. Of this, Rs. 854.5 Mn. is spent on programs related to the education and community care domains. Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 185 Report 2014-15 Governance The review of our social programs is done at multiple levels. Every three to four years, the program strategy is reviewed with the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), and revised as needed. Every year, an annual review and goal setting exercise is done with the CSO and presented to the Chairman and Group Executive Council (GEC). Every quarter, the progress is reviewed by the CSO and presented to the Chairman as well as to the Board Committee on CSR. Our work with organizations is usually in the nature of programmatic support. They typically span a period of three years and may be extended further, if needed. We work closely with our partners and review the progress and participate in important decisions along with them during the lifecycle of the project. Community Care Wipro has a presence in more than 57 countries around the world; of our workforce of more than 145,000 employees, 11% of which comprise nationalities other than Indian. We think that it is crucial to engage with proximate communities wherever we have significant presence. In line with this, we will continue to expand and strengthen our community programs in all the geographies where we have significant presence. This is a reaffirmation of our belief that at its core, social responsibility and sustainability must transcend boundaries whether organizational or national. It is important to point out here, especially in the context of rural communities, that seeing the larger integrated picture is important when executing programs in individual domains. Issues of healthcare, education, access to energy, water and sanitation and livelihoods are often closely inter-linked. If executed well, the outcomes in individual domains can impact the larger canvas of community development. For example, the work that we do for long term rehabilitation after natural disasters helps strengthen the resilience of the affected communities in different ways e.g. intervention in livelihoods, access to education. Community Engagement through Wipro Cares Most of our community care initiatives are channeled through Wipro Cares, our not-for-profit trust that engages with our proximate communities on the issues of education for the underprivileged, primary health-Care, disability, environment and disaster rehabilitation. The Wipro Cares funding model comprises employee contribution which are matched by Wipro. The Wipro Cares model is a great example of where employees play a key role both in terms of volunteering and contribution. The number of employee contributors in 2014-15 stood at more than 48000, making this the largest such example in India and possibly in the world. In the past year, more than 1600 employees contributed nearly 4000 hours of volunteer efforts. Wipro Sustainability 186 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Domains and Engagement Model Wipro Cares work in the following domains. ? Primary health care: Wipro Cares works with partners in the delivery of good quality health care services to underprivileged communities. Apart from providing regular preventive and curative health services, the emphasis is also to build the capacity of the communities in terms of higher awareness and developing a higher degree of self-reliance to handle their own primary health care needs. ? Education for underprivileged children: The Wipro Cares work in education supports educational opportunities for underprivileged children. ? Children with Disability: Started in 2014, we plan to expand and strengthen our focus on education for children with disability, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds. ? Environment: Wipro Cares addresses Environment projects that have direct benefit for underprivileged communities. Examples are (i) social forestry in rural areas which provide livelihood opportunities to poor farmers and (ii) Initiatives on social welfare and improved working conditions of waste pickers in the urban waste space. ? Disaster Rehabilitation: Our disaster rehabilitation projects focus on long term rehabilitation of the affected communities after a natural disaster. The nature of engagement varies depending on the individual context of the geography, culture and larger socio-economic realities of the region. The execution is done in partnership with credible civil society partners who we select based on track record, institutional strength and alignment with our values. Program Outcomes and Impact 2014-15 was exciting milestone year for Wipro Cares as our projects expanded in numbers and scope. We added Children with Disability as a new domain. The number of projects grew nearly threefold over previous year, from 11 to 29. Of the 29 projects, five were projects started in the `Children with Disability' domain. Our primary health care projects typically provide quality preventive and curative health Primary care services to underserved communities. Through seven of our health care projects, Healthcare covering 53 villages across Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Uttarakhand, more than 75000 people access to primary health care. The emphasis of these projects is also to build the capacity of the communities to handle their primary health care needs and leverage existing government infrastructure and schemes as a part of their health rights. Of the seven health care projects, two new projects that were started in 2014-15 were in Haridwar in Uttarakhand and Amalner in Maharashtra. In 2014-15, we started supporting programs and partners in non-proximate areas provided they were backed by an outstanding track record. Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 187 Report 2014-15 Education for Wipro Cares supports educational opportunities for underprivileged children, from Underprivileged marginalized communities. E.g. children of migrant laborers working at construction sites. More than 50000 children have benefited from our ten education projects in the cities of Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Bangalore and Chennai. Of the ten projects, six were added in 2014-15. Children with In 2014, we extended our long running program on disability at the workplace to the Disability social domain where our focus is on `children with disability'. During the year, we initiated support for the educational and rehabilitative needs of 1350 underprivileged children with disability through five projects in the cities of Bangalore, Pune, Jaipur and Hyderabad. Our focus is on early intervention to ensure that the degree of disability is mitigated and on inclusive education and their experience at school is one of dignity. Our project in social forestry has helped plant more than a lakh trees which provides Environment critical livelihoods to nearly 80 farmers . In 2014 we added the aspect of adult literacy as a part of the social forestry project in rural Tamil Nadu. In 2014, we initiated projects in solid waste management where the focus is on providing social and nutritional security to waste workers along with the upgrading of their skills to assist them in augmenting their livelihood. This project has been started in Bangalore. Natural disasters are an unfortunate regular reality globally. Our approach since inception has been to focus on long term rehabilitation of affected communities in Disaster preference to short term relief. Over the years we have supported the causes of Rehabilitation communities affected by Karnataka Floods, Bihar Floods, Japan Tsunami, Hurricane Sandy and the Philippines Cyclone. In 2014-15 we supported communities affected by the Uttarakhand Floods and the Odisha Cyclone. In Uttarakhand, our work is with 1000 families in Uttarkashi district and focuses on exploring alternative modes of livelihood to reduce their economic dependence on tourism and thereby increase their resilience as a community. In Odisha, we helped restore the livelihoods of 250 families of the fishermen community by providing them with fishing nets and increasing their awareness on various existing social security schemes. Employee engagement continues to be an integral part of Wipro Cares with Employee employees volunteering in several community initiatives, acting as catalysts of Engagement positive change. We currently have 15 volunteering chapters, seven in India and nine overseas. Nearly 5006 employees contributed more than 6856 hours of volunteer work. Wipro Cares organized a blood donation drive for thallasemics where 3256 units of blood were collected. We also continued celebrating `Joy of Giving @ Wipro, 2014' across WT, WI, WBPO, WIN, WCCLG in 11 locations in India and UAE. Wipro Sustainability 188 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 The Path Ahead The Wipro Cares will continue to see further expansion in all the domains in the next three years atleast. With the entrance of Wipro Enterprises Limited (WEL) as a key funder of the Wipro Cares Trust, our activities will expand in all the proximate communities where WEL has its factories. We foresee a doubling of projects across the country during this period. Our key focus on underprivileged children and their education at our urban projects will continue to be a primary area of engagement with focus on the domains of Children with Disability, Children of Migrant Laborers and others. With a view to encourage employee participation in our projects we will expand the location chapters to other locations in India and overseas in the coming year. In the immediate future, we will start new initiatives in North East India as part of our larger strategy of focusing on underserved areas. Community Initiatives in South Africa – Wipro Siyapha In line with Wipro’s principle of ‘good citizenship’, Wipro in South Africa has instituted a set of policies, practices and initiatives which contribute towards the social goals of South Africa. These initiatives are also in line with the BroadBased Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Act of South Africa, which aims to distribute wealth across as broad a spectrum of previously disadvantaged South African society. The Act is centered on 5 elements ownership, management control, skills development, enterprise and supplier development, and socio-economic development. Companies are expected to have a social strategy that spans all these areas. The BBBEE Act aims to enhance the economic participation and representation of previously disadvantaged South African communities in the economy. Wipro South Africa strives to contribute towards these goals through policies and business practices. Towards this end, there is a strong focus on localization of the workforce in South Africa. We also have a procurement policy in place to ensure that we procure as much as possible from companies that comply with the BBBEE Act and all other regulatory requirements. Wipro Siyapha brings together the initiatives under the pillars of skill development, enterprise development and socio-economic development. These initiatives span areas of education, skill development and employment generation. Skill Development through Internship programs Wipro is extending its global expertise in IT services to South African nationals through its WEESA (Wipro Employability Enhancement for South Africa) program. Interns are selected following an intensive process consisting of aptitude tests and personal interviews. Upon selection, interns undergo 6 months training which includes a rigorous 3-month technical and soft skills training at Wipro’s Centre of Excellence in Johannesburg and a 3-month onthe-job training at client sites. Interns who do well in the program are offered employment in Wipro South Africa. Wipro Overseas Internship Program also offers a few of these interns the opportunity for further 2-months training in India. We also offer a 1-month graduate training program in Wipro’s Bangalore, India facility for the associates of one of our banking clients in South Africa. Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 189 Report 2014-15 Enterprise and Socio-Economic Development In line with Wipro’s abiding commitment to education as an area of social change, Enterprise Development (ED) and Socio-economic Development (SED) initiatives in South Africa have a strong focus on education. Under ED and SED pillars, Wipro has supported the setting up of computer learning incubators and libraries in schools and community centres in rural areas. We have also supported after-school centers in urban disadvantaged areas. We are currently in the process of devising a long term strategy to contribute to improvement in education in South Africa. In addition to this, employee contribution through volunteering and donation drives are organized to encourage a culture of giving and participation by employees. Program Outcomes and Impact Existing initiatives over the last two to three years include: Completed four batches of internships between 2012 and 2015 covering 113 students. Close to 40% of these students are currently working with Wipro in various projects in South Africa. In 2014, 5 Interns from the first batch traveled to India for further training. Completed 4 batches of graduate training program for one of our leading banking clients from 2010 till date covering over 200 + South African associates. Supported the setting up of 4 library and computer learning incubators at rural schools/community sites; Selected and trained 5 SMMEs to run the facilities and earn an income from the projects. Supported the establishment of a toy library at an after-school learning center located at an urban community in Brixton, Johannesburg. Education Our work in education is driven by the belief that education is a key enabler of social change and a better society. We believe in a social vision of democracy where each citizen is not only capable in an individual sense but who also sees the ethic of equity, the essentiality of diversity, the ethos of justice, and is thus driven by social sensitivity. Schools have to be spaces that nurture these principles, capabilities and values. Our notion of good education derives from these anchors. Good education is that which enables the growth and development of the child in multiple dimensions, so that she is able to fulfill and expand her potential, as also to become an active, contributing and concerned citizen of the world. These multiple dimensions of development of the child are cognitive, social, emotional, physical and ethical. Good education develops the abilities of learning-to-learn, critical thinking, problem solving, conceptual understanding etc. and is not based on rote. We are involved in various initiatives over the years in education which try and address this across different groups in schools and colleges in the country. Over the years, these programs have evolved in scale, scope and maturity as captured in the highlights. Wipro Sustainability 190 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Highlights ?School Education in India: We work on systemic issues in school education in India through a network of partner organizations. Over the past 14 years, we have associated with 60 organizations at different levels and have worked closely with 35 organizations working in improvement of school education. This has been through organization-level and project-level support for 67 projects till now. These organizations have in turn contributed to systemic improvements at multiple levels including state and central government level educational reforms in addition to reaching out directly to schools and teachers. ? Wipro Applying Thought in Schools A social initiative of Wipro’s that aims to build capacities for school education reform in India. ?Sustainability Education: Started in 2011, our program Wipro earthian brings together two of our key concerns: school education and sustainability. This is national level program through which we have reached out to more than 3000 schools, 3500 educators and 15000 students since inception. ?Wipro earthian A program for schools and colleges integrating two of our key concerns: school education and sustainability. ?School Education outside of India: The overarching goal is to contribute to improve Science and Math education in schools that primarily serve disadvantaged communities in US cities. The program, Wipro Science Education Fellowships is currently active in Chicago, New Jersey, New York and Boston. ?Engineering Education: Developing workplace relevant engineering and technology skills that is also up-to-date and relevant is critical for a country like India where the IT Services industry contributes to nearly 8% of the GDP. Our efforts in this direction go back several years and address two important dimensions ? Skills development for students that is based on a comprehensive framework of postgraduate level education. ? Work Integrated Learning programs (WASE / WiSTA) A unique program that blends rigorous academic exposure at the graduate level with practical professional learning at the workplace. ? Capacity building among the faculty of engineering colleges. ? Mission10X Mission 10x, started in 2007 has the goal to systemically improve education in India’s engineering colleges Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 191 Report 2014-15 Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) Context The challenges in school education in India could be broadly classified as issues of access and quality, with equity being a cross-cutting concern. There have been significant strides made in the matter of access. While there are still pockets in many parts of the country where schools are not available, majority of the population today have access to public schools. However, inadequate staffing and other resources in the schools remains an areas of concern. A large number of children continue to stay out of school drop out after enrollment. Rote learning is still a predominant feature of our education system. While on the one hand, classroom and lessons disconnected from the child's life and context alienate the child from learning with understanding, the focus on attaining higher grades pushes out holistic development of the child as an educational aim. Affluent parents invest significant amount of personal resources to provide education for their children. Inadequate resources and capacities in public schools (and low fee paying private schools), where a large majority of the children study, add to a growing inequity in the educational system. These and our other concerns in School Education are articulated in a document titled “Our Concerns on School Education”. The multitude and complexity of these issues make for slow progress in education being an effective instrument of human development and social change. There have been many efforts at the Centre and the States in the areas of policy, legislation and curricular and examination reforms in education. Civil society organizations have been working consistently on the ground to improve access and quality. All these efforts have led to many changes and improvement in education. The National Curricular Framework 2005 recognizes holistic development of the child, learning with understanding and connecting the learning to the lives and contexts of the children as some of the key tenets of education. Right to Education Act 2009 made elementary education a right of all children up to the age of 14. However, effective implementation of these policies and reforms requires systemic capacities across all levels in the education system. Overview of Our Work Wipro Applying Thought in Schools was setup in the early 2000s to work towards addressing these issues in education. These issues are complex and systemic and require deliberate, long term and sustained efforts. We believe that civil society organizations have an important role to play in bringing about such an educational transformation. Our core strategy has therefore been to develop capacities in civil society organizations to work towards education reform in a systemic manner. Over the past 14 years, we have associated with 60 organizations at different levels and worked closely with 35 organizations. We have supported 67 educational projects and initiatives, involving over 2300 schools and 13,250 educators across 17 states reaching out to about a million students. Wipro Sustainability 192 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Approach We work in partnership with civil society organizations in the following ways: Providing financial and other support to organizations to gain experience and practical understanding of working in education and to build greater capacities to work towards long-term and sustained educational improvement across different contexts and geographies in the country. Supporting organizational learning and development by facilitating a reflective learning network of educational organizations, and by nurturing early stage organizations with the support of established ones. Our support to organizations typically span a period of 3 years and may be extended further, based on the need and potential. We involve closely in the work by staying in touch with our partners and the field, through visits, review meetings and calls, and participate in key decisions. At the end of the support period, a comprehensive review is carried out along with the partner, the need and potential is assessed and a decision is taken about further support. Program Outcomes and Impact The issues and challenges in education are deep-rooted and complex, sustained work is required at all levels of the education system to address these issues. We have chosen capacity building of civil society organizations who do such sustained and systemic work as our lever of change. Such an approach does not produce immediate visible impact in education. The impact of our work in education is in many ways, indirect, non-linear and manifests only in the longer-term and often in unforeseeable ways. This is important because it represents strengthening of institutional capacity for reforms in education. The outcome we aim for through our program is the growth in capacity of our partner organizations. Many of our partners have grown significantly in their impact in education at the state and national levels, enhanced their capabilities and effectiveness in areas and domains they have been working in and developed new capabilities over the years. Another important outcome has been our partner network itself. Our Annual Partners' Forumhas emerged as a unique annual gathering of educational community, where practitioners get together to engage in reflective discussions and exchanges. New possibilities emerge, key educational issues are discussed and learnings and experiences from different contexts cross-leveraged in these gatherings. Some of the more specific outcomes and outputs from our work over the years have been listed alongside: Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 193 Report 2014-15 ? Associated with 60 organizations at Published 8 books, booklets and reports ? different levels of engagement. eg: Water Stories, Why the Sky is Blue ? Worked closely with 35 organizations and Developed Learning Standards and ? supported 67 projects. Curriculum Map for primary classes ? Developed strategic focus on a few themes Developed a video series on Student ? and areas like ecology, social sciences, Misconceptions languages, affective education, creating education material and public advocacy. ? Supported 18 Fellows for individual work in Education; eg: for writing a book on Learning Psychology of Children, documenting our projects etc Organizations Educational and People Material & Literature ? Overall we have worked with over 2300 Student Learning in Metros Study results ? schools and 13,250 educators across 17 widely shared; appeared as a cover story states, reaching around 1 million students. of “India Today” ? The indirect reach of our work through our Student Misconception videos ? partners is manifold the number of schools disseminated to 10,000 schools that we have reached out to (between 25Quality Education Study becomes the most ? 50X). cited study in 2011-12; large-scale advocacy campaign SLIM Study 2006 brought out the need to ? go beyond rote memorization to conceptual understanding QES 2011 highlighted quality in education ? to be broader than academic learning Public Advocacy School Reach out Wipro Sustainability 194 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Understanding Impact IOOI (Input, Output, Outcome and Impact) is a framework often used for Impact Assessment in social interventions. Since the intended long-term impact of our work is educational change at the systemic level and our strategy operates in a non-linear fashion, Impact in education is not something that can be easily assessed. Instead, we focus on Outcomes at the level of capability building and growth of our partners. The Outcomes as we report them are based on our interactions with our partner organizations, field visits, review meetings and reports from partner organizations. They have not been verified through independent assessments. In this section, we look at the following: Input, Output and Outcome for this year at a program level captures the overall financial outlay for the program (Input) and the key Output and Outcomes. Organization-wise Output and Outcomes using a few representative examples. Case studies which bring out the growth in capacity of organizations. Input, Output and Outcome at Program level (2014-15) Output Outcome ? Established par tnerships in newer ? Enhanced capacities of partner organizations geographies through 6 new partnerships and in their areas of work in school education such 9 new projects. as social science, mathematics, multilingual ? Expanded support to domains such as education, ecology etc. primary school mathematics and integrated ? Increased availability of diverse children’s learning programs for rural youth. literature and educational material. ? Continued support to existing partnerships through 28 organization grants, 5 fellowships, and 3 publications grants. ? 2 children’s books in North-eastern languages (Khasi and Mishmi), a first of their kind brought out by Tulika. ? A collection of stories on boyhood, “Being Boys” were brought out by Tulika. ? Kamala Mukunda’s well-acclaimed book on child learning “What did you ask at school today?” brought out in Hindi by Eklavya. ? Kamala’s book in Hindi and English distributed to DIETs and education organizations Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 195 Report 2014-15 Input, Output and Outcomes (Organization-wise) – Some examples Below are some examples of organizations whom we have supported for 3 years or more. These include a diverse range of organizations, such as one working with first generation tribal learners developing a multilingual pedagogy, another one working for the education of street children developing a comprehensive education support model for care homes, an ecological conservation organization building their capacities to bring conservation and ecology education to schools and children and so on. Our inputs to organizations are common across board and include: financial support regular engagement through to focus on their meetings, field visits and planning key objectives and review at important stages Centre for Equity Studies/Rainbow Foundation Rainbow foundation works in the area of education and comprehensive care of street children till they reach independent adulthood. Center for Equity Studies setup and managed the homes in Delhi for many years; this is now completely managed by Rainbow Foundation. Output Outcome ? Baseline and progress-level of each child ? Rainbow Foundation (spun off from Center mapped and developed through the year. for Equity Studies) has developed into a high ? Surveys, reviews and planning meetings capacity organization to build and conducted for and between children, implement a Comprehensive Education teachers and education and project teams to Program for vulnerable children living in care understand and improve teaching-learning homes, particularly open homes for street processes, share updates and plan ahead. children. ? Weekly sessions on life-skills to help children ? Rainbow Foundation has evolved into a develop skills and attitudes they would have resource organization supporting the naturally imbibed from normal homes. implementation of this model in 42 homes in 7 cities through partnerships ? Sports, dance, theatre, craft and other activities conducted regularly for children. Wipro Sustainability 196 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Vikramshila An established resource organization in elementary education in the country, works towards capacity building at various levels of the school system and in a variety of issues and subjects in school education. Vikramshila is trying to strengthen and develop an interdisciplinary and integrated approach to social science learning Output Outcome ? Textbook analysis conducted to identify gaps ? Vikramshila has consolidated their work in between West Bengal and national level text Social Science and is building capacity in books in the light of NCF 2005. curriculum and pedagogy in Social Science. ? Resource material developed around themes of ? Their understanding and ability to produce Gender and Diversity for contextualized use. integrated and contextualized material on ? Capacity building sessions for in-house team social science themes such as gender, media, were held with experts giving their suggestions diversity etc. are improving as well. ? They are is in the initial stages of building ? Workshops were conducted with teachers in capacity to work with teachers on an West Bengal and Tripura to contextualize Social integrated approach to social science. and Political Science textbooks in the state ? Their work in Social Science is being included in Life skill modules in different curricula, and is being trialed in Tripura Govt. schools. Shikshamitra Works as a resource organization in primary education and an open learning space for children, teachers, parents and others working in education. Output Outcome ? Language (Bangla and English) training and ? Shikshamitra is evolving into a resource dissemination workshops held for teachers, organization for Bangla, English and NGOs etc. Mathematics for primary schools in West ? Library established at Shikshamitra and 3 sets Bengal supporting other civil society of early reader story cards published. organizations working with children/education as well as for teachers/schools. ? 3 items of documentation produced on Shikshamitra's past programs.Team expanded. ? Curriculum, materials and methodology developed to effectively teach Bangla and ? Research study initiated on understanding or English under difficult circumstances decoding the errors in children's writing. ? Resource centre and library at Shikshamitra has ? Sessions conducted for children who could not expanded. read, write or do basic arithmetic. ? A study on various ways and spaces that story cards were used was undertaken and another one on the impact of the Bangla reading and writing programme being used in govt. schools was also undertaken. Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 197 Report 2014-15 Nature Conservation Foundation Works in the area of scientific research and on-ground action in understanding and conserving wild nature. In school education, they aim to work towards bringing this understanding and the wonder of nature into schools. Output Outcome ? New educational material developed. ? NCF is a highly capable organization in the ? Consolidated and digitized all of NCF’s ecological conservation domain. It is educational outputs including books, evolving into an organization seriously and booklets and posters produced so far by genuinely engaging with school education in NCF’s different programmes. the areas of conservation and nature education. ? Articles and themed nature activities published on ecology in The Hindu in Schools edition and children’s magazines like Chakmak and Brainwave. Muskaan Works with marginalized urban communities to develop appropriate educational models and methods for first generation learners. Given the multilingual nature of the communities and the contexts, Muskaan is developing and strengthening a multilingual approach to education Output Outcome ? Team attended capacity building workshops ? Muskaan is developing capacity to conducted by Eklavya. systematize their classroom practices into ? Workshops held with tribal communities to methodologies for multilingual education share and document people’s journeys over and also adapt and develop new the years. methodologies based on theory and research from elsewhere ? Different kinds of material developed for use in class, including material in Pardhi and ? The organization is gaining capacity in Gondi. developing curriculum and pedagogy for multilingual education for first generation ? Work with children in their tribal languages, learners. English and Hindi in the 4 multilingual learning centres. ? They are also developing capacity to create learning resources for children from their ? Story telling events held at different own contexts and culture. platforms where community members of different ethnicities shared stories. ? Developing capacity to create learning resources for teachers and other ? Language materials developed with organizations on multilingual education. involvement from community membersparents and childrenand teachers. ? Muskaan is developing into a resource organization for multilingual education. Wipro Sustainability 198 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Wipro earthian Our long years of work in systemic issues in education as well as in ecology helped us realize that there is urgent imperative for sustainability education in schools and colleges. This was the genesis of the Wipro-earthian program, the first edition of which was launched in April 2011. This program runs in an annual cycle with two distinct phases. In the first phase, schools and colleges submit an entry on a sustainability theme with the ten best entries each from schools and colleges selected for a subsequent three year engagement wherein we, in collaboration with our partners work with the schools and colleges on different tracks of sustainability education. Wipro earthian’s 3 phase continuous engagement program’s (CEP) primary objective is to devise multiple platforms for meaningful engagement with earthian awardees. It would require initiating action on sustainability issues and help them build institutional sensitivity and awareness on an ongoing basis. This is accomplished through a set of rich and diverse programs. What follows are the highlights of our engagement with schools and colleges. School Engagement Workshops: This year, CEP has undergone a structural and conceptual shift that looks to address two key areas. ? Institutional buy-in: In a departure from earlier years, the engagement will now be undertaken primarily on the school premises, rather than off-site. This is to ensure that we have a larger captive audience and the management’s engagement is deeper. ? Phase-wise integration of sustainability education: The need to develop concrete deliverables, outcomes and document the impact. There will be two main phasesIntroductory and Curricular. While the curricular phase is in development, the introductory workshops in Phase 1 are what we refer to as the ‘conceptual’ phase. It has no hard outcomes and deliverables, instead the main agenda is to engage faculty and together embark on a journey of exploring sustainability from different perspectives. This exercise is expected to build capacity for institutionalizing sustainability in schools during the curricular of engagement. Interesting audio visuals and activities and discussions enable participants to understand sustainability in natural systems to imagine how we could integrate the same in human systems. Theatre in Education (TIE): Methodology Development Lab Our partner, Bangalore Little Theatre is running these labs in two of the winning schools. The focus of the Lab is to develop TIE techniques particularly relevant for Sustainability Education. Theatre-in-Education (TIE) refers to the use of theatre methodology to create a range of techniques for enhancing learning in the educational space. Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 199 Report 2014-15 College Engagement Internships: For students from winning institutes, Wipro earthian offers a diverse and unique range of sustainability related internship opportunities that can be undertaken for a period of two months. These internships are offered in partnership with our partner organizations who are domain experts in sustainability and related areas. The internship provides a unique learning opportunity to engage with interesting paradigms, schools of thought, innovations and specializations in the sustainability arena. Business School Sustainability Symposium: As a part of our long term vision to further sustainability education at all levelsin India, Wipro and IIMB have been closely exploring ideas and possibilities for strengthening sustainability in management education. As part of this, we hosted the first national forum of leading Business Schools from across the country on the topic of ‘Symposium on Advancing Sustainability Research and Education’. This forum brought together academics and researchers, highlighted specific case studies and promoted the transformative role that sustainability education can play in management education. It also acted as a platform for Business school faculty to share their learning experiences in sustainability. Wipro Sustainability 200 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Program Outcomes and Impact Input Output Outcome earthian Awards ? Partnered with CEE(Centre for ? Total ground outreach to over ?Participation from over 350 Environment Education) for 10000 schools and colleges schools and 170 colleges mass outreach and teacher ? CEE orientation workshops in 6 ?Participation of 982 school orientation workshops across states and 26 districts teachers India ? College campus outreach to ?20 best winning entries from ? Wipro Recruitment Team: over 150 institutes across India schools and colleges selected Outreach though campus ? Social media reach of over ?100 students from 10 college recruitment program across 35000 educational institutions and 10 school winning teams India felicitated at earthian award ? Social Media: Promotion ceremony on 7th February through social media like Facebook, twitter, Linkedin CEP( Continuous Engagement Program) ? 20 earthian winning schools ? 1 day ‘introduction to ?Participation of 250 plus and colleges inducted into the sustainability’ workshops teachers Continuous Engagement completed in 14 schools ?5 internship papers submitted Program (CEP) ? 80 teachers registered on ?Participation from 25 college ? Development of introductory portal 5 students interned with teams sustainability workshop 3 partners( CSTEP, BIOME, ?Ongoing development of modules TRUCOST) publication of symposium ? Design and development of a ? WIPRO vertical hosted a proceedings CEP portal for school faculty sustainability business plan ? Financial support and competition and panel identification of partners or discussion college sustainability ? Participation of top 13 Business internships schools in India represented by ? WIPRO sponsored a core faculty. sustainability vertical at the EXEMIUS entrepreneurship and innovation fest at IIMB ? WIPRO and IIMB co-curated a Sustainability Education forum for B-schools titled ‘Symposium on’ Advancing Sustainability Research and Education’. Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 201 Report 2014-15 Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program in the U.S.A. The Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program (SEF) launched in March 2013 is focused on improving Science and Math education in schools primarily serving disadvantaged communities in US cities. The program has been initiated in Chicago, in the New Jersey area, New York and in Boston. We have partnered with Michigan State University (MSU) in Chicago where 250 350 elementary and secondary teachers will be chosen over the next 3-4 years, and the University of Massachusetts (UMass) for the Boston program in Boston, Mercy College for New York and Montclair State University for New Jersey. The goal of the two year capacity development program is to improve teaching capacity among participating teachers and promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education in their respective schools and school districts. There will be specific mechanisms and activities for each of the teachers to institute change in the school and involve other teachers at their schools. The process of selection of teachers for the Chicago program began in Q1 of 2014. The selected teachers started training under the fellowship for a year which will be followed by another year of follow-up sessions. 37 teachers (19 from New Jersey and 18 from Boston) from the first cohort of the Boston program which began in March 2013 have successfully completed their 1 year training and have worked on their ‘Growth Plan Systems’ with their UMass advisors. Cohort 2 teachers from New Jersey and Boston and Cohort 1 teachers from New York underwent intensive training through classroom discussions and presentations, monthly Vertical Collaborative Coaching and Learning in Science meetings, periodic full-day workshops, retreats etc. The faculty/staff at all three sites have come together to form a common group to hold monthly review and planning meetings. Recruitment for Cohort 3 teachers from the northern New Jersey and Greater Boston region are underway and planning has begun for a combined Science Teacher Leadership Conference to be held in Q2 15 (June) at Michigan State University. Mission 10X Mission10X was started on 5th Sept 2007 towards building the employability skills of engineering students by training engineering college teachers. The first phase of Mission10X focused on training teachers on Pedagogy while the second phase has focused on “smaller and deeper engagement” philosophy where a set of selected Engineering colleges have been given a deeper educational interventions. The focus has been on creating 21st Century skills amongst the learners who are predominantly hired by the IT industry. The following three essential attributes of a `Graduate engineer' are covered in all Mission10X interventions: ? Communication: Ability to communicate with others for shared understanding in technical, behavioral, logistical and practical concern. ? Collaboration (Team work): Ability to work collaboratively to explore possibilities to address the stated problem by drawing knowledge from diverse professionals and backgrounds. ? Deeper Learning: Ability to learn deeply to articulate a problem statement and analyze given data. Wipro Sustainability 202 Partnering for Social Change Report 2014-15 Program Outcomes and Impact 76 Academic Leadership Workshops, 1003 Faculty Empowerment Workshops, 91 UTLP Practitioner’s workshops and 614 Student Engineering Thinking workshops were organized in FY 14-15 Out of the 54 Mission10X Technology Learning Centers (MTLCs) operational in 12 states, 10 were established last year Overall 27,482 Engineering College Faculty have been trained and 1,300 colleges across the 29 states were covered through Mission10X interventions. Wipro Sustainability Partnering for Social Change 203 Report 2014-15 Advocacy and Public Policy Given the fundamental axiom that sustainability is about maximizing social and environmental ‘good’, it requires an engagement template that emphasizes informed advocacy of the underlying issues amongst all stakeholders. Each stakeholder – Business, Government, Academia, and Civil Society – brings a dynamic and energy to the table that is unique and complementary. We think that industry’s role must go beyond its own boundaries and should be one that seeks to vigorously promote advocacy of sustainability challenges. In doing so, the conscious emphasis must be on the difficult and the long term in preference to the easy and the short term. Our areas of focus on policy and advocacy have centered on Water, Energy and Climate Change, e-Waste, Education and Diversity. We work through industry platforms like CII, NASSCOM as well as with research partners who carry expertise in these domains. Our primary identified stakeholders for public policy and advocacy are ? Relevant government ministries and departments, both at the center and the states where we operate in; Our interactions have been largely with the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, and Ministry of Corporate Affairs ? Industry networks and associations play a crucial role as catalysts for awareness, advocacy and action on the multiple dimensions of sustainability; by providing a common platform for industry representatives to share and exchange ideas and practices, industry association can help foster a virtuous cycle of feedback led improvement. Industry networks also lend strength and credibility in the dialogue process with government on important matters of policy and directives. The industry networks that we have been an integral part of are: ? The CII-Godrej Green Business Center (GBC) ? The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development ? CII National Environment Committee ? The Nasscom working groups on Gender Diversity ? The TERI-BCSD forum ? The CII led Indian Business for Biodiversity Initiative (CIIIBBI) ? The Leaders for Nature (LFN) framework of the India ? Chapter of the International Union of Conservation Networks (IUCN) ? Research and Advocacy NGOs: Issues like Energy, Climate Change, Water, Biodiversity, Community Education, Health etc. require strong civil society involvement as the third pillar along with government policy and business engagement. NGOs and academic institutions, by combining the right blend of field work and academic rigor can generate valuable insights that can inform the work of practitioners, policy makers and industry professionals. Illustrative examples of such organizations that we work with are : Carbon Disclosure Project in the area of Climate Change, BIOME and ACWADAM in the area of Water, ATREE and IUCN ( India chapter) in the areas of Biodiversity , and our network of nearly 30 education partners across the country. Wipro Sustainability 204 Advocacy and Public Policy Report 2014-15 Advocacy Engagements Domain Brief highlights Energy: (i) In partnership with Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and IIM ? Bangalore, a research study was done on the role of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector in combating climate change. The study report was released in October 2014 (ii) As a member of the TERI-BCSD ( Business Council for Sustainable Development) India program, we participated in the program track on Energy Efficiency that seeks to advance best practices on energy management and efficiency in Water, Energy, different industry sectors Biodiversity, Waste Water continued to be a major area of collaborative focus for us in 2014? Management 15. The two major advocacy platforms that we have been deeply involved in are summarized below Advancing the agenda of the Karnataka State Water Network (KSWN) ? along with the CII Karnataka chapter. The KSWN brings together stakeholders from government, academia, civil society and business to address the most pressing issues in water in Bangalore and surrounding areas. Five area-wise clusters were formed with specific action plans drawn up for each The Responsible Water program seeks to address the pressing issue of ? ground water in the Sarjapur area in Bangalore. It does this through a combination of scientific hydrogeology and the involvement several citizen groups as part of a unique decentralized governance framework Biodiversity: Our participation in advocacy on biodiversity issues was ? through two national levels forums – the CII-India Business for Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) and the Leaders for Nature program from the India chapter of IUCN. Our case study was featured in the IBBI publication that was released at the COP on Biodiversity in Korea in October 2014, Along with IUCN, we hosted an industry interaction on the Kolkata wetlands in our Kolkata center. A similar interaction with civil society was hosted at our Bangalore campus Waste Management: In collaboration with InfoActiv, an Australia based ? NGO organization that focuses on e-Waste, we helped create a platform in the Electronic City Industrial area in Bangalore, India. This zone hosts a significant majority of IT companies and is therefore a source of sizable amounts of e-Waste. The platform will help align common interest areas and streamline the processes involved in the collection of e-Waste from bulk consumers. Apart from this, we continued to be part of the subcommittee on ‘Waste’ in the CII National Environment Committee Wipro Sustainability Advocacy and Public Policy 205 Report 2014-15 We continued to strengthen our participation in advocacy on the cause of corporate sustainability as a whole ? As Co-Chair of the CII-GBC Greenco forum (Bangalore chapter), the goal is to drive the adoption of the ‘Greenco’ framework by industry at large in Bangalore and surrounding areas. The Greenco framework encourages Horizontal areas in Sustainability companies to establish a multi-dimensional framework of ecological and CSR sustainability that spans the areas of Energy, Water, Waste, Biodiversity and Product Stewardship. ? We continued to actively participate in the debate around the CSR provisions of the Companies Act 2013. Our primary position has been that CSR as a mandate may not be the most effective means of getting industry to engage on larger social issues. We also believe that business sustainability plays a critical role in moving the needle forward and must be included as part of the provisions of the CSR rules. Third, as a global corporate citizen, we think that CSR must include community programs of all the countries that a company operates in and should not be restricted to India ? We supported a multi-state comparative study which is providing insights into how the textbook markets operate in India; the outcomes of this study are expected to inform later advocacy efforts. ? Our work with partner organizations such as EZ Vidya to develop capacity in understanding and supporting schools to do Continuous and Comprehensive Assessment (CCE) and SeasonWatch, a national citizen science initiative, were covered in popular media School Education ? Our social science program with Vikramshila was lauded as an exemplar way of imparting life skills at a joint meeting organized by Jadavpur University and UNICEF ? The proceedings of the 14th annual Partners’ Forum on the topic of ‘Textbooks and Education’ and of the 13th Partners’ Forum on ‘Assessments and School Education’ have been published & distributed. Summary videos of Forum sessions were also disseminated online through a YouTube channel ? Kamala Mukunda’s acclaimed book on child learning, ‘What did you ask at School Today’, was brought out in Hindi by Eklavya with our support. The books has been distributed widely among educational NGOs and also to over 500 District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) across the country. Wipro Sustainability 206 Advocacy and Public Policy Report 2014-15 ? earthian, Wipro’s flagship program in sustainability education for schools and colleges, tries to catalyze advocacy on sustainability learning among young students across the country ? The scale of earthian’s outreach is significant: over a four year period of 2010-2014, the outreach has been to 3000 schools, 15000 students and 3500 educators,90000 Facebook fans, 45000 Youtube views and 25000 Sustainability Literacy and Education unique website visits ? We co-hosted – along with IIM Bangalore and the Kenan Flagler School of Business, University of North Carolina – a national level symposium on ‘Sustainability in Management Education’. The meet was attended by faculty from more than 15 premier B-Schools from across the country ? We also hosted a Business Plan competition on ‘Sustainable Public Transport in Bangalore’ as part of IIM-Bangalore’s annual student-led event ‘Eximius’ ? 14 workshops on sustainability learning were conducted for more than 250 teachers from selected earthian schools from across the country ? During 2014-15, we also participated in industry research and advocacy on key Diversity and Inclusion themes. We continued our engagement with external stakeholders where we hold advisory board / core committee positions, namely with Catalyst, NASSCOM and CII ? Wipro is part of the core CII committee for employment of people with disabilities and also part of the NASSCOM working group on gender Diversity inclusion ? Catalyst is a leading nonprofit organization which works on expanding opportunities for women and business. Wipro CEO is on the Catalyst Board of Directors and is also the chair of Catalyst India Advisory Board ? Our work on Persons with Disability was featured as one of the five case studies globally in a special report that GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) released in Madrid, Spain in March 2015 Speaking engagements in public forums play an important role in building sustainability awareness and advocacy. We actively participated as speakers in several events all through the year, some examples of which are: University of Pennsylvania, Wharton Business School, the Annual CII Greenco Summit at Chennai, the CII-IBBI national conference on Biodiversity, the annual summit of IUCN-India, the annual conference of the India Green Building Council and the National HRD network annual summit. Wipro Sustainability Advocacy and Public Policy 207 Report 2014-15 The Path Ahead 1. Promoting decentralized, community-centric governance and management models that involve a wide range of stakeholders 2. Providing carefully crafted inputs policies on government policy and (iii) Increasing awareness and fostering exchange through 3. Participation as speakers in a variety of forums, events and workshops the right direction. Our approach will be to continue to work with our network of academic and civil society partners as well as with industry networks. We will strengthen and expand our partner network as appropriate. The areas of focus for 2015-16 will be ? Energy and Climate Change ? Water ? Biodiversity ? E-Waste ? School Education, Sustainability Education and Education for Children with Disability ? Gender ? Horizontal areas of Sustainability and CSR Wipro Sustainability 208 Advocacy and Public Policy Report 2014-15 Wipro Sustainability Advocacy and Public Policy 209 Report 2014-15 4. ASSURANCE STATEMENT 4 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNV GL’) has been commissioned by the management of Wipro Limited (‘Wipro’ or ‘the Company’) to carry out an independent assurance engagement of the Company’s sustainability performance (qualitative and quantitative information) disclosed in its Sustainability Report 2014-15 (‘the Report’) in its printed format against the ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (GRI G4). This assurance engagement has been conducted against the reporting requirements of GRI G4 Reporting Principles and Standard Disclosures and DNV GL carried out this assurance based on DNV Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ available on request from www.dnvgl.com). The verification was conducted during September 2015 – February 2015, for the years of activities covered in the Report i.e. 1st April 2014 to 31st March 2015. The intended user of this assurance statement is the management of the Company. The management of the Company is responsible for all the information provided in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, analyzing and reporting the information which shall be presented in the printed and web-based versions of the Report, including the maintenance and integrity of the website. Our responsibility in performing this work is regarding the verification of sustainability performance reported in the Report only, in accordance with the scope of work agreed with the management of the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. We disclaim any liability or responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based on this assurance statement. Scope, Boundary and Limitations of Assurance The scope of assurance included the review of Economic, Environment and Social information in the Report. In particular, the assurance engagement included: ? Verification of the application of report content principles set out in GRI G4 and quality of information presented in the Report; ? Review the Report against the requirements of VeriSustain with a moderate level of assurance; ? Review and assessment of the processes and tools for collecting, aggregating and reporting qualitative data inside the Report and verification of the reliability of performance indicators reported; ? The verification of the qualitative and quantitative information on sustainability performance disclosed in the Report covering economic, environmental and social performance of the activities undertaken by the Company over the reporting period 1st April 2014 to 31st March 2015 and based on GRI G4; Wipro Sustainability Assurance Statement 211 Report 2014-15 ? Evaluation of the disclosed information in the Report both General and Specific Standard Disclosures – for ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive reporting requirements of GRI G4; ? Confirmation of the fulfillment of the ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive criteria of GRI G4, as declared by Wipro. The reporting boundary covers Wipro’s IT business covering Indian and global operations. The Aspect boundaries have been established based on the requirements of G4-18, considering the internal and external impacts of material Aspects, and set out in the Report in the section ‘About this Report’. During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement except General Standard Disclosures where the Company is in the process of implementing systems to track and report data. The financial disclosures in the Report are based on the audited financial statements issued by the Company’s statutory auditors. No external stakeholders were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. Verification Methodology This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with VeriSustain. The Report has been evaluated against the principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Materiality, Responsiveness, Completeness, Reliability and Neutrality as detailed in VeriSustain and AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 (AA1000 APS). During the assurance engagement, we have taken a risk-based approach, i.e. we concentrated our verification efforts on the issues of high material relevance to Wipro’s business and its stakeholders. We have verified the statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management systems, information flow and controls. In doing so, we have: ? Reviewed the approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality determination process; ? Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the data management system, information flow and controls; ? Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by Wipro and visited the Corporate Office at Bengaluru, India and four sites, i.e. Development Centres at Chennai (CDC-7) and Greater Noida (GNDC) and operations at Airoli in India, and operations at Reading, England. ? Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and decision-makers from different functions of the Company; ? Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the sustainability related policies, as described in the Report; ? Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report. Conclusions In our opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement, the sustainability performance disclosures reported, including the referenced information provides a fair representation of the sustainability related strategies, management systems and performance. The Report meets the general content requirements of GRI G4 i.e., ? General Standard Disclosures: We are of the opinion that the reported disclosures generally meet the GRI G4 reporting requirements for ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive, based on GRI G4, and the reason for nondisclosures are adequately explained. ? Specific Standard Disclosures: We are of the opinion that the reported disclosures generally meets the GRI G4 reporting requirement for ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive based on GRI G4 covering generic ‘Disclosures on Management Approach’ (DMAs) and ‘Performance Indicators’ for identified material Aspects as below: Wipro Sustainability 212 Assurance Statement Report 2014-15 Economic Social Economic Performance G4-EC1, G4-EC2, Labour Practices and Decent Work G4-EC3, G4-EC4; Employment – G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3; Environmental Occupational Health and Safety – G4-LA5, Energy G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-LA6*, G4-LA7, G4-LA8; G4-EN7; Diversity and Equal Opportunity – G4-LA12; Water – G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10; Society Emissions – G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN21; Anti-Corruption – G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5; Effluents and Waste – G4-EN22, G4-EN23, G4-EN24; Product Responsibility Overall G4-EN31; Customer Privacy G4-PR8. Supplier Environmental Assessment – G4-EN32*, G4-EN33*; *This indicator have been reported partially and reason for omission of Absenteeism has been explained. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Wipro has formal and informal processes of stakeholder engagement in place to identify issues and concerns of stakeholders and respond to sustainability issues which have been identified through various channels. The key concerns form inputs to the materiality determination process, and the results and responses from stakeholder engagement are adequately brought out across the Report. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Materiality: The Company has identified fourteen Aspects and six topics as material from a diverse list of issues and reported on ten significant material Aspects by evaluating the internal and external impacts, external benchmarking and feedback from select stakeholder groups. The Report fairly prioritises material Aspects and topics considering the sustainability context; and the materiality determination process has not missed out any known key material issues. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Responsiveness: Responses to significant stakeholder concerns, through Wipro’s policies and management systems including governance are fairly reflected in the Report including disclosures related to sustainability in supply chain management. Wipro is in the process of developing its supplier engagement programme for strengthening its existing supplier sustainability process. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Reliability: The Report contains data that is measured and estimated; the majority of the data and information verified at the Corporate office and at sites visited by us were found to be fairly accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process for the sampled sites were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been corrected. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Wipro Sustainability Assurance Statement 213 Report 2014-15 Completeness: The Report has fairly attempted to disclose the General and Specific Standard Disclosures including the Disclosures on Management Approach covering the sustainability strategy, management approach, monitoring systems and sustainability performances indicators against the GRI G4 – ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive option, and covering impacts of aspects relevant to its significant operations and key value chain activities. Reasons for omission, wherever any information has not been disclosed, have been brought out. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Neutrality: The disclosures related to sustainability issues and performances are reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content and presentation. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and further opportunities for improvement reported to the management of Wipro and are not considered for drawing our conclusion on the Report; however, they are generally consistent with the Management’s objectives: ? Wipro may further strengthen the existing systems for fully capturing and reporting the disclosures and performance indicators where information has not been fully disclosed. ? Wipro’s operational sites may further strengthen the existing management systems to enable periodical review of sustainability information and data and review of achievements with respect to targets. Our Competence and Independence We are a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental and social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV GL states its independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. While we did conduct other third party audits work with Wipro in 2014-15, in our judgment this does not compromise the independence or impartiality of our assurance engagement or associated findings, conclusions and recommendations. We were not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report, with the exception of this Assurance Statement. We maintain complete impartiality toward any people interviewed. For DNV-GL Kiran Radhakrishnan Nandkumar Vadakepatth Project Manager Assurance Reviewer Associate Assessor Regional Sustainability Manager – India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh DNV GL Business Assurance DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. IndiaPrivate Limited, India. 12th February 2016, Bengaluru, India. Wipro Sustainability 214 Assurance Statement Report 2014-15 FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION We welcome our readers' feedback, points of view and suggestions on Wipro's Sustainability Report 2013-14 in particular and on our sustainability program in general and look forward to hearing from you. It is your honest feedback that will enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program. You may write to us at any of the following contact points: Name Contact Details Wipro Sustainability Team sutain.report@wipro.com Mr.P.S.Narayan Wipro Limited Vice President & Head Sustatinability Doddakanelli, Sarjapuyr Road, Bangalore 560 035, India Tel: +91 080 25056766 Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. Abhishek K. Jain Wipro Limited Senior Manager Investor Relations East Brunswick, Tower 2, New Jersey, USA Tel: +1 978 826 4700 Email: abhishekkumar.jain@wipro.com Mr.Santhosh Karagada Wipro Limited Vice President & Head HR Americas & Europe East Brunswick, Tower 2, New Jersey, USA Tel: +1 818 620 6506 Email: santosh.karagada@wipro.com Mr.Aravind Vishwanathan Wipro Limited Head of Corporate Treasury and Investor Relations Doddakanelli, Sarjapuyr Road, Bangalore 560 035, India Tel: +91 080 39916143 Email: aravind.vishwanathan@wipro.com Index http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/14-15/?q=gri-index Glossary http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/14-15/?q=glossary Wipro Sustainability Feedback and Communication 215 Report 2014-15 WIPRO LIMITED, DODDAKANNELLI, SARJAPUR ROAD, BANGALORE 560 035, INDIA TEL : +91 (80) 2844 0011, FAX : +91 (80) 2844 0256 WWW.WIPRO.COM
