Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility 2015 WE BUILD THE FUTURE WITH IT ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 2 Letter from the CEO At Atea, our mission is to build the future with IT. We believe that access to technologycan improve people’s lives and enable society to reach ever-higher living standards. To fully realize our mission, it’s not enough for Atea to offer world-class IT solutions. We must ensure the long-term sustainability of our business and take responsibility for the impact we have on our planet. This means recognizing our obligations and continuously improving our performance in areas such as responsible sourcing, business ethics, environment and Steinar Sønsteby human rights. (born 1962) CEO This Corporate Sustainability report summarizes the initiatives and activities Atea has carried out during the fiscal year 2015, to enhance our sustainability and meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Our efforts are guided by the UN Global Compact and its ten key principles, to which we became a signatory in 2010. Steinar Sønsteby joined Atea in 1997 and was managing director of Atea in Norway in 2006-2012. Since October 2012 Steinar Over the past year, we’ve learned how to further improve our internal processes. As a result, we have enhanced our monitoring system for the has been Executive Senior Vice President supply chain, and have sent teams to factories in China and to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to gain a deeper understanding in Atea ASA and was appointed to CEO of of the reality in which we operate. We have also established a new organization with compliance officers, updated our Code of Conduct and Atea ASA in February 2014. Before joining Atea he was the CEO of Skrivervik Data AS. introduced a mandatory program of e-learning related to business ethics and the fight against corruption. Overall, the challenges we faced in 2015 have made us even stronger and better equipped for meeting future challenges related to corporate responsibility. Steinar Sønsteby holds a degree in Mechanical Design from Oslo College of Engineering Also during 2015, we were awarded Excellent Sustainable Supplier 2015 by the Swedish Competition Authority. Atea won this prize and a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical thanks to extraordinary efforts within the environmental field and its approach regarding responsible sourcing. We are grateful for this Engineering from University of Utah (USA). He also has a finance degree from Norwegian recognition and see it as an acknowledgement our achievements are moving both Atea and society in the right direction. School of Management (BI) and for Training in Management and Human relations from In 2016, we are committed to continuing this important work: reviewing and improving management practices throughout our group, and Dale Carnegie Institute. incorporating a sustainability perspective in everything we do. We will set bold targets on a group level to enhance the positive impact of our work, and reduce the risk of harm to society and the planet. Our goal is to further strengthen Atea’s position at the forefront of IT vendors in the area of corporate sustainability. President & CEO ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 3 Content Letter from the CEO 2 Performance Highlights 4 About Atea 5 Stakeholder dialogue 7 Materiality Assessment 8 People9 Responsible Sourcing 12 Society18 Environment20 Ethics and Governance 23 Implementation of our Code of Conduct 24 Key Figures Group (2014-2016) 25 Communication on Progress 26 With support from EY’s Climate Change and Sustainability Services team. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 4 FY 15 Performance Highlights Responsible sourcing Environment Society Ethics and Governance Atea was awarded Excellent Sustainable Our recycling operation “goITloop” processed Atea is engaged in measures to fight poverty A new Code of Conduct was launched in July Supplier 2015 by the Swedish Competition more than 300,000 functional units last year, and to provide children with the opportunity for 2015, with mandatory training and acceptance Authority. using only the most secure and effective an education. The company supports several by all Atea employees. Atea has also updated recycling procedures. organizations such as the Red Cross, and also its whistleblower procedures for employees on We have also developed an enhanced framework carries out its own charitable projects including reporting violations of this Code or relevant laws. for the in-depth assessment of our suppliers, Around 50 % of all IT equipment received was sponsoring a village in India, a girls’ high school based upon the OECD guidelines. reused or resold. Of the equipment which could in Sierra Leone, and sponsoring children through Also in 2015, a compliance function was launched not be reused or resold, we recycled 99.8 % and BØRNEfonden in Denmark. across the Atea Group, to monitor and review As part of gaining a better understanding of our disposed of the remaining 0.2 % in an environethics, control and social responsibility issues. supply chain, we visited a number of factories in mentally responsible manner. The organization includes: a Compliance Officer China near Shanghai and Hong Kong, as well as People in each country, a Group committee to manage mines in eastern Congo (DRC) during the year. Since 2014, we reduced our CO2 emissions per compliance issues across Atea, and a Board employee by 13 % on a group level.* Our employees are the key to our success, and subcommittee to monitor compliance on behalf our engagement index indicates we have earned of the Board of Directors of Atea ASA. Most subsidiaries within the Atea Group also hold high ratings from our employees. They are proud an ISO 14001-certification. to work at Atea and have confidence in our The compliance function will ensure all employees management. have the necessary knowledge and information regarding the Code of Conduct, and guide Award: Excellent Sustainable Supplier 2015 employees on difficult issues. The function will follow-up on reports of violations to the Code of Conduct. Finally, the function will regularly review the Code’s effectiveness and update it as necessary to ensure governance objectives are met. * According to Carbon Footprint Report 2015. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 5 About Atea Atea is the leading Nordic and Baltic supplier of IT infrastructure with approximately 6,800 employees. Atea has offices in 89 cities in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Atea is the leading Nordic and Baltic supplier of IT infrastructure with approximately 6,800 employees. Atea has offices in 89 cities in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. We deliver IT products from leading vendors and provide highly skilled IT infrastructure support, with approximately 4,000 consultants and 7,500 technology certifications. In 2015, Atea had revenues of nearly NOK 28 billion. The company is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. About this report The objective of this report is to inform our stakeholders of Atea’s strategies and initiatives related to sustainability and responsible business development. The approach we have taken in corporate sustainability is to examine the entire value chain for opportunities to prevent social, ethical and environmental risks, and to make a positive impact on the societies in which we operate. We strongly believe sustainability actions can benefit both our business and our society. Atea has been a member of the Global Compact Initiative since 2010, and we report according to its criteria. We also report according to the requirements of the Norwegian Accounting Act. By supporting the UN Global Compact, we support the Eight Core Conventions of the International Labor Organization, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the guidelines of the OECD. Our Code of Conduct is aligned with the UN Global Compact Code of Conduct. The report covers the whole Atea Group and all data and activities reported have taken place between January 1st, 2015 and December 31st, 2015, unless otherwise stated. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 6 1st largest in Nordic region 2nd largest in Europe 17% share of the market + 6,779 + 4,000 service consultants + 7,500 27,500 technology certifications customers public & private full-time employees 89 offices + 130 countries delivered to 27.9 NOK billion WE BUILD THE FUTURE WITH IT. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 7 HIGH Assess and engage Actively address and engage Stakeholder dialogue 14 Engaging with stakeholders is an 13 15 20 Interest to stakeholders 4 inclusive and continuous process 17 that allows us to build relationships and 8 21 create mutual understanding. 18 9 7 10 24 3 19 2 6 Atea’s main stakeholders include customers, employees, suppliers, 5 11 22 partners, investors, public institutions, media, and the civil society 16 1 and communities. 12 23 Assess Address and engage when appropriate We maintain an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders on corporate sustainability through a broad range of interactions, including LOW Importance to Atea HIGH events, meetings, fairs and joint audits. We also receive direct feedProduct and Employee Supply chain Own operation back by means of formal surveys in areas such as customer and service offering employee satisfaction. By communicating with stakeholders, we enhance our perspective on corporate sustainability and discover Own operations Our employees Own supply chain Products and service offering 1. Energy use reduction within 7. Employee’s benefits and 11. Energy use reduction in Atea’s 21. Customer privacy, ensuring opportunities for improvement. Atea’s own operations terms of employment within supply chain data security, e.g. at Atea 2. Minimisation of transport Atea’s own operations 12. Water use reduction in Atea’s servers, is never breached to reduce the environmental 8. Healty and safe working supply chain 22. Managing risks of Since the challenges we face are complex and difficult to overcome impacts of product distribution environments for Atea 13. Health and safe working technology disruptions as a sole actor, we believe in joint efforts with other organizations and employee travel employees environments at Atea’s suppliers 23. Product energy use during 3. Reduction of greenhouse 9. Training, education and 14. Ensuring no child labour is used the user phase where possible. Therefore, we collaborate on issues related to gas emissions within Atea’s career opportunities in Atea’s supply chain 24. Ensuring appropriate corporate sustainability as a member of groups such as the own operations for Atea employees 15. Ensuring no forced or compulsory management of 4. Anti-corruption and bribery 10. Diversity and equal labour is used in Atea’s supply chain electronic waste at Sustainability Council of IT and Telecom (Sweden) and Grønt Punkt within Atea’s own operations opportunity for Atea 16. Freedom of association and end-of-life (Norway). 5. Mitigation of anti-competitive employees collective bargaining in Atea’s behaviour within Atea’s supply chain own operations 17. Minimisation of hazardous We also base our work on international frameworks such as the 6. Social engagement and substances and chemicals CSR initiatives in products UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 18. Reduction of greenhouse gas Human Rights, and ISO 26000. We are currently initiating the emissions in Atea’s supply chain 19. Reduction of water and air process of reporting our sustainability work according to the Global emissions in Atea’s supply chain Reporting Initiative, G4 and have carried out a stakeholder dialogue 20. Ensuring sustainable sourcing of tantalum, tungsten, tin and gold and a materiality assessment during 2016. Performance metrics (so called conflict minerals) from within each of the prioritized areas will be developed during the high risk human rights problem areas including for example the first quarter of 2016. Democratic Republic of Congo ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 8 Materiality Assessment People The results of our materiality assessment are central to our future corporate sustainability strategy, and enable us to set targets and risks from an environmental, Responsible Sourcing social and economic perspective. Material aspects Through this process, we prioritized our most important material aspects as follows: Society • People; • Responsible Sourcing; • Society; • Environment; and • Ethics and Governance. Environment The results of the analysis will be used when developing targets and action plans during 2016. Atea will regularly review our materiality analysis based on new information to ensure it captures the aspects most vital to our business. This report is based upon the results of the analysis and, in each Ethics & Governance section, Atea´s position and approach will be elaborated upon. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 9 People Our employees are our most important asset and our biggest competitive advantage. To attract and retain the best employees, we need to offer a creative, Discrimination Act for the prevention of discrimination. Our Our employees in numbers flexible work environment in which they can develop. With a management promotes equality of opportunity within its loyal, committed and diverse workforce, we are equipped to meet employment practices. future opportunities and challenges. We encourage sustainable Gender management practices across the organization and aim to have Women comprise 20.7 % of the workforce at Atea, which is 2015 1,200 1,000 a workforce with a good work-life balance and an open atmosphere. consistent with the IT industry overall. Atea strives to recruit women at all levels and promotes activities to retain its female Women 800 Our employees are the key to our success. Our engagement index employees. We also encourage the recruitment of people with Men 600 indicates we have achieved high ratings: given to us by employees disabilities or special needs and make the necessary modifications 400 who feel proud to work at Atea and who have confidence in our to the physical environment to enable them to perform their work. 200 management. 0 < 24 Atea is involved in initiatives to increase diversity within the IT Empowerment sector, such as supporting programs that encourage more women Atea has created a culture that values creativity and the contributions to choose an education within engineering and technology. Our employees in numbers Gender of each individual: one that instils confidence and passion in its workforce. Health and Safety Age Breakdown Atea Group As an IT company, Atea employees spend many hours of the day 2014 – 2015 Atea has a learning culture and our employees receive ongoing 1,200 in front of the computer. For this reason, Atea encourages our 1,200 training in management and IT infrastructure topics. We frequently employees to exercise as a way to improve health and well1,000 1,000 invite our technology partners to participate in training sessions being. This includes organizing physical activities such as bicycle 800 800 featuring their product lines. and running events, and arranging memberships with local 600 600 training centers. 400 400 In 2015, Atea Academy was launched: an e-learning platform for training employees. Training related to our Code of Conduct and 200 Atea employees have the right to a healthy and safe work200 to IT security has been carried out with the help of this platform. 0 place, 25-29 < 24 and our30-34 working conditions 35-39 40-44 meet 45-49 exceed55-59 or 50-54 both the > 60 legal 0 < 24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 > 60 requirements of the countries in which we operate as well as the 2014: 6,555 2015: 6,862 Diversity and Inclusion conventions of the UN Global Compact and ILO. Hazards are Our gender Diversity and employeesequality are core values at Atea: we strive in numbers identified and monitored to prevent accidents and occupational Age Breakdown Age Breakdown to provide Gender a work environment that is free from all kinds of illness and guidelines for the workplace are monitored to ensure Atea Group Atea Group discrimination or harassment. To that end, we follow the Antia healthy and safe environment. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 10 About Atea Woman Ahead (AWA) South, Sweden ? How and why did Atea Women Ahead (AWA) start? AWA is a network that started in Denmark with the aim of attracting, retaining and developing female employees within Atea. The network was replicated in Sweden and AWA South was established in 2012. I got involved in the AWA network because I have worked in this industry for many years and therefore felt I could contribute with my experiences. ? What kind of activities do you engage in? We invite our members to network lunches and have also organized work groups to promote gender equality within Atea. The network has raised awareness of issues such as recruitment, career development and well-being at the work place. The network is open to both women and men. ? What results have you reached so far? The network has contributed to a decrease in turnover among female employees and also increased the proportion of women at all levels in our region. But there is still room to do more. ? What will happen in 2016? The first activity of this year will be to invite our local HR Department to meet with the network to share experiences and discuss issues with our female employees. We will also continue our networking activities and discuss efforts relating to recruitment and development of female IT professionals within Atea. Stina Berggren Regional Business Area Manager/ AWA South Stina Berggren joined Atea Sweden AB in 2011 as a consultant manager. During the last 3 years she has been working as Regional Business Manager within the collaboration area. Prior to joining Atea, Stina worked at the IT security company Nexus Technology AB in various roles. Stina has a bachelors degree in Business Administration and IT from Uppsala University. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 11 In 2013, Atea Sweden carried out an ambitious health project called “Sverigestafetten” (The Sweden Relay). During this project, Atea´s employees traveled 3,600 km in a combined team effort from Luleå in the north, to Malmö in the south, solely by using muscle power. During 2015, Atea Sweden implemented a spin-off project of the Sweden Relay called “Next Step”. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 12 Responsible Sourcing In 2015, Atea visited mines in DR Congo and factories in China to better understand our supply chain. We also implemented new procedures based upon OECD guidelines. Today, there is greater pressure on companies to take responsibility ness, respect and dignity; to eliminate all forms of compulsory labor collating information from different sources including suppliers´ for the social, environmental and ethical impact caused by their and discrimination; and to follow practices that protect the health self-assessments, audits and data collection using key performanufacturing processes. Since our suppliers operate in some of and safety of employees and ensure the freedom of association. mance indicators for issues related to social and environmental the highest risk countries in the world, it is important that we work responsibility, as well as engaging other key stakeholders who to continuously improve conditions in these locations. Atea’s supply Monitoring the supply chain regularly monitor the industry. chain is complex and involves many steps before our products reach We monitor our supply chain for compliance with corporate sustainour customers. Thus, it is a challenge to have full control of working ability guidelines based on the Electronic Industry Citizenship • Audits: To better understand the complexities, challenges and conditions across four continents, including matters related to Coalition’s (EICC) code of conduct. We have also developed a new necessary actions within our supply chain, we will conduct an excessive working hours, violations of freely-chosen employment, method of assessment based on the OECD’s 2015 guidelines. increasing number of audits, and/or take part as observers the existence of child labor, environmental pollution and business Our suppliers are expected to deliver goods and services that are during industry audits at our sub-suppliers´ factories. ethics. Nevertheless, we remain committed to being at the foreproduced in accordance with the EICC guidelines, and monitor that front of ethical and sustainable production. these guidelines are followed by their subcontractors. • Risk assessment and remediation: We will regularly update the risk profiles of our suppliers and make decisions on how to We will continue to cooperate with our suppliers throughout the world address potential risks: demanding corrective action plans and In our Code of Conduct, we state: to make sure we have the correct knowledge and understanding other follow-up activities based on the findings of audits and Atea does not condone, or conduct business with of the laws and labor practices in the countries in which we operate, self-assessments. organizations that are complicit in, human rights abuses. and ensure that human rights are respected. As part of our efforts to promote human rights, Atea actively monitors our supply chain for the use of • Stakeholder engagement: We work to maintain close dialogue “conflict minerals” from areas where human rights violations In 2016, our approach will include continuous work with: with our suppliers, sub-suppliers, NGOs, public institutions and may occur. All employees should notify their manager clients regarding how we jointly improve both transparency and or Compliance Officer if they have any concerns about • Setting expectations: By establishing a suppliers´ code of responsibility in the supply chain. human rights abuses within Atea’s supply chain. conduct, we will explain to our suppliers how we expect them to live up to core industry sustainability standards. • Capacity building: We will continue to invite our stakeholders to attend training sessions and seminars that focus on a reWe expect our suppliers to support our commitment to the funda• Performance assessments: We will establish mechanisms sponsible supply chain. mental human rights of all people: to treat their employees with fairto assess how our suppliers live up to sustainability standards: ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 13 In 2015, Atea played an active part in highlighting challenges the industry faces regarding conflict minerals and also visited mines in DR Congo. Conflict Minerals • Transparency and traceability: Instead of banning minerals Minerals — such as tantalum, tin, tungsten, gold and related derifrom a certain region, we believe it is better to improve transvatives — can be found in almost every piece of technology upon parency in the supply chain. We also have a dialogue with the which society is reliant. These are referred to as conflict minerals suppliers to ensure the quality of the data available so that we because their mining can be linked to the funding of armed conflicts can determine the location from which these minerals originate. in countries such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), with consequences for human rights (e.g., child labor and sexual • Partnerships and stakeholder dialogue: In 2013, Atea violence). The minerals are refined in smelters all over the world began collaborating with a number of organizations, NGOs (such before they end up in different products. The electronics industry as Swedwatch) and suppliers regarding conflict minerals. We is highly dependent upon these minerals since they are important also visited a number of organizations, suppliers and potential components. Thus, conflict minerals are a key focus of our sustaisuppliers in DRC in 2015. In many ways, this has been an eyenability work. opening experience. It has reinforced for us the importance of establishing collaborations between the private sector, public Since there are many tiers of suppliers between mines and the sector and civil society to tackle these issues. We believe a broad, IT marketplace, it is necessary to establish broad cooperation in cooperative approach is the only way to achieve meaningful, the industry. sustainable change in this area. One milestone has been Atea’s petition regarding conflict • Industry cooperation: The EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship minerals, designed to raise awareness about the situation in DRC. Coalition) is at the forefront of efforts to address the lack of During 2015, Atea hosted a number of events and seminars to transparency in this sector. Atea intends to start a dialogue with discuss the use of conflict minerals in ICT. We have taken an active this organization to explore how we can contribute to these role in raising the profile of the topic in newspaper articles, on efforts social media (Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn) and on television. Atea in DR Congo, December 2015 ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 14 Atea in DR Congo, December 2015 ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 15 Atea in DR Congo, December 2015 ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 16 In 2015, Atea visited factories in Zhongshan (near Shanghai), and in Shenzhen (near Hong Kong). The aim of the visits was to gain a deeper understanding of the working conditions and the context in which suppliers are active. As with the majority of our suppliers, this specific supplier is a member of EICC. That body carries out audits according to a Code of Conduct developed with the IT sector focusing on social, ethical and environmental requirements. During one of these visits mentioned above, we were able to participate in Atea in China, the social audits carried out by EICC, which was an exception to the standard August 2015 protocol. The visits helped build deeper trust and contributed to an improved dialogue with our partners. It was a great learning experience and gave us a deeper understanding of the challenges and conditions that exist in these locations. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 17 Viewpoint on Atea´s sustainability agenda ? Why do both your management and stakeholders think responsible sourcing ? Besides the supply chain, what future challenges do you see for Atea related should be a top priority for Atea? to sustainability? Because it reflects what we stand for. Atea wants to be a responsible actor within society First of all, we need to set targets for the areas we’ve decided to prioritize as a result of our and we don’t want our products to be linked to negative social or environmental impact. This materiality assessment. There are also hygiene factors we will continue to focus on, because includes taking responsibility for which minerals are used in the products we sell, and ensuring they are important to Atea. One example is that we need more women in the IT sector. This is human rights are respected in the factories manufacturing the products. a challenge we share with other partners in our industry. We will also continue to reduce our carbon footprint. ? You do not produce any hardware, so why does Atea carry out audits and risk assessments in the supply chain? This is the start of a journey and we’ve a lot to learn. It is important for us to maintain an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders, especially NGOs since they often have deeper access to That is correct. We don’t have our own manufacturing. But since many of our suppliers operate information about the reality on the ground. They also play an important role in the identification in some of the highest risk countries in the world related to human rights and working of risks. conditions, it is important that we continuously work to improve the situation. We need to — as much as possible — ensure our products are not manufactured in a way that harms the environment ? What will happen in 2016? or that has negative impact on human rights. This is why we apply the guidelines of the OECD and conduct audits and risk assessments within our supply chain on a regular basis. To see and hear about all the great things we are doing within Atea makes me really proud. We will continue working systematically within this area. Besides activities that are already ? Were your visits to China and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) ongoing, we are about to develop a long-term strategy based upon the areas mentioned in the in 2015 part of this work? materiality assessment. By doing so, we will further strengthen our position as a forerunner of sustainability in the IT sector. Yes. To actually be there gave us a deeper and new understanding of the realities in which we operate and what the situation is like in our supply chain. In China, we participated in audits and met with factory workers. In DRC, we met with local authorities, mining companies, mine workers, and also visited mines. Andreas Rydell Head of Quality & Environment It’s one thing to read about the complexity of our supply chain, and another to actually be there Andreas Rydell joined Atea Sweden AB in 2012 as Head of Quality and experiencing it. We prefer to do the latter. Environment. He is also Vice Chairman of the Sustainability Council at Swedish IT and Telecom Industries. Prior to joining Atea, Andreas worked as Quality and Environmental Director at MTR (Metro). He holds MSc and BSc degrees from Luleå University of Technology. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 18 Society Atea is engaged in measures to fight poverty and to provide children with the opportunity of an education. The company supports several organizations and also carries out its own projects to collect donations. Atea’s products and solutions can make a difference in improving village of 1,600 inhabitants located in Tamil Nadu in Southern long, unsafe journey to get to school. The dorms will be able to the efficiency of public institutions, communities, private entities India: focused on alleviating poverty. Through Atea Helping host 40–60 girls. and the quality of life for people around the world. Whether it’s Hands, we also donate money to Save the Children. In 2015, about improving the learning environment in schools, contributing we donated money to UNHCR to support their work providing • Atea Global Services (AGS) operates from the Baltic countries. to economic growth or job creation, we contribute with innovative humanitarian aid for Syrian refugees. To help the local community, AGS has, for the past two years, solutions. By providing IT infrastructure of the highest quality, Atea been organizing and conducting a summer event for orphans. creates the foundation for a smarter, more innovative Europe. • Atea Norway supports Prosperity Girls’ High School in Sierra In 2014, 180 children and 29 teachers from seven different Leone, located in one of the poorest countries in the world. While orphanages were invited to a day of activities, including creative Creating greater access to technology can help both people and the attendance rates for boys and girls in primary school are workshops, a treasure hunt, concerts and dancing. The event societies to reach their full potential. Sadly, that access remains fairly equal at approximately 69 %, there is a high dropout rate has now become a tradition that AGS plans to repeat in the elusive for a large portion of the world’s population that lives in poverty. for girls in secondary school, with an attendance rate of only coming years. Atea wants to help address that access gap. Granted, this is a 19 %. Of the more than 400,000 children currently not enrolled complicated area: no single entity can address this challenge alone. in schools in Sierra Leone, the majority of these are girls. Key • In Finland, Atea continued its cooperation with the Red Cross Therefore, we have established a number of partnerships globally. reasons for this include child marriages, pregnancies, health and continued to help poor families by donating money to the To that end, Atea is engaged in measures to fight poverty and to and sanitation issues and poverty. Christmas Spirit Campaign. provide children with the opportunity of an education. The company supports several organizations and also carries out its own projects • The project we support in Sierra Leone is coordinated by • Atea Denmark has supported BØRNEfonden since 2007. This to collect donations. Foreningen Norge. The school was originally a Junior Secondary group focuses on improving the quality of life and providing a School but our contributions have resulted in the construction of safe, secure childhood for children primarily in Western Africa Atea supports different projects through the different country a Senior Secondary School. As a result, the number of students (e.g., Benin and Burkina Faso). The foundation has supported offices, such as: has increased from 120 to 200. The students supported more than 73,000 children and their parents. As a result, Atea in the project are between 12 and 18 years old. has contributed to the following projects: the sponsoring of 50 • Atea Sweden has initiated the Atea Helping Hands fund, school children, the construction of new school facilities, the conthrough which a number of social projects and initiatives are • Construction of a 1,000 square meter dorm building is underway. struction of latrines, offices and warehouses, and the installation sponsored. One of these is the sponsorship of Meledayalam, a This is designed to lessen the daily burden on female students of solar panels on schools and health clinics. who are also mothers, as well as those who otherwise face a ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 19 ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 20 Environment Our recycling operation is lean and effective, with a significant focus on re-use, re-marketing and waste management for both Atea and all the Group’s customers. The best way for us to minimize the environmental impact of Recycling means new opportunities for our customers: they can Since that involves addressing every stage of our product’s lifecycle computers is by extending their lifespan — through complete or parsave money, help protect landfill space, reduce litter and illegal and not only inside our business, we are increasingly cooperating tial reuse. Atea has a deep commitment to environmental care and is dumping. Just as important: it generates goodwill. with our suppliers, partners and customers on how to minimize the dedicated to helping customers recycle used IT-equipment and damage caused by our products, and also to inspire them to make electronic waste in a cost-effective manner, in line with best Carbon Footprint responsible and climate-smart choices. industry practices. Our focus in this area has generated a number Atea has long recognized the importance of preserving the of new, innovative services connected to sustainability. environment and sustaining the conditions for life on the planet A big part of our CO2 footprint derives from logistics. Thus, we are for the generations to come. We also recognize the use of fossil initiating a dialogue with our distribution companies to explore Recycling fuels as a contributor to rising greenhouse gases in the earth’s more efficient and more environmentally friendly alternatives for Atea’s Goitloop is now the leading recycling center in Nordic and atmosphere. That’s why for many years Atea has integrated an transport. Baltic countries. Our recycling operation is lean and effective, with environmental focus into our corporate strategy. a significant focus on re-use, re-marketing and waste management for all the Group’s customers. Goitloop has a capacity of approTo monitor our emissions, a carbon footprint report is produced ximately 310,000 functional units per year, using only the most on a yearly basis, covering all of Atea´s operations. The report is 310,000+ units recycled or re-used secure and effective recycling procedures and tools. based on the international standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Since 2014, we reduced our CO2 emissions per employee by 13 % By joining in our recycling effort, our customers can extend the on a group level. We will continue our efforts to reduce our emis-13% CO2/employee since 2014 lifetime of any obsolete equipment in their company. About half sions further and set tough targets ahead. of the equipment which cannot be reused or resold, we recycle 99.8 % and dispose of the remaining 0.2 % in an environmentally Tackling climate change is a challenge for all of society. Atea responsible manner. The Goitloop concept makes perfect busirecognizes the impact our operations have on the environment 96B CDP-Score 2015 ness sense because it has become everyone’s business to save and we are determined to take the necessary actions to reduce resources and energy. our impact. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 21 1 5 Goitloop is how Atea Next, Kristoffer addresses the challenge of managing end-of-life Lundvall uses dry ice and high-pressure tools Recycling on the rise IT products. There are to remove ID labels, various services here anti-theft tags and The number of people using — known as loops — for scratches. Atea’s GoItloop for recycling and recycling and sales. It all sales has increased steadily for the starts with an order at past five years. an Atea eSHOP. 6 Of the 310,000 devices per year Secure transport handled by Atea Logistics in Växjö: Products to be recycled are transported securely This is where computers and smartphones to Atea’s subcontractors. • 55% are recycled and sold to schools, companies and orgaare given a second life. They are broken down further here and componizations. nents are recycled. • 45% are scrapped and sent to subcontractors for recycling. • From this scrap, 99.7% of the material is recycled and 0.3% is sent to landfill. Worldwide, hundreds of millions of computers, tablets and mobile • 10,000 loops are managed. phones are bought every year. More people want to help improve our The trend is clear: more people environment and also boost their IT budgets by recycling and selling today realize the value of recycling. used IT products. We visited Atea Logistics, the biggest provider of But security is equally important. Edson Rodriguez GoItloop business developer configuration and recycling services in the Nordic region. fills a safe with Joachim Aronsson notes: new computers. “Information falling into the wrong hands can have devastating consequences. Our customers feel 2 3 4 7 secure in the knowledge that all of Your safe arrives Sorting ID removal Advantages for their data is deleted securely. We and is filled At Atea Logistics in David Thorell deletes all everyone also make sure their hardware is Delivered to your office, Växjö, tablets, smartof the user information More and more IT this safe is where you put phones, monitors, serfrom products to be departments are dealt with in an eco-friendly way.” end-of-life equipment. vers and computers are resold. choosing to save time After ten days, it is collescanned, registered and and by having Atea in The true value of reused products cted and transported to sorted. Products that Växjö configure new IT is regularly underestimated. As Atea Logistics in Växjö. work and have a used products when recycling Aronsson explains: “Customers value are forwarded to old ones. One of the often get a nice surprise when they the sales group. A price services involve supplysee how much they get back after list provides details on Hanna ing a safe full of new selling their used products.” what each product is Salomonsson products which are worth and how much configures configured and ready to will be paid. Unusable iPhones so use. The customer then products are sent to new customers fills this safe with the Atea’s subcontractors can start using older products to be for crushing and rethese products recycled and sold on. cycling, and later turned right away. The circle is closed. into new products. TEXT: Ulrika Nybäck FOTO: Anna Nordström ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 22 Electric Car Pool at Atea Global Services, Riga ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 23 Ethics and Governance Atea remains committed to increasing transparency on sustainability issues. Measuring and sharing our progress in this area will help us to improve continuously. During 2015, a Compliance Officer was appointed in each country the Atea brand and company reputation. At the time of publication, • Atea believes in fair competition, and is firmly opposed to all of the Atea Group. This will ensure all employees have the knowledge the investigation into this is still in progress but neither Atea nor forms of corruption. Employees must never offer or provide imrequired about the Code of Conduct, our internal guidelines any of its current of former employees have been prosecuted or proper benefits to business contacts, government agencies or and processes concerning risk mapping, as well as of Atea’s core convicted in any cases regarding bribery. other third parties in order to influence a business decision or values when it comes to business ethics. We also encourage our facilitate a legal/regulatory process. Nor should employees solicit suppliers to implement anti-corruption programs and monitor their Atea takes an absolute zero-tolerance approach to bribery and improper benefits as the basis for transactions with Atea. compliance through a systematic risk-based approach, including corruption and we are committed to conducting our business in an Atea Code of Conduct 2.3 ongoing dialogues and site visits. Finally, Atea has launched whistlehonest and ethical manner. As a result of the incident, there has blower procedures for employees on reporting violations of this been an increased focus on business ethics and clearer policies Data Privacy Code or relevant laws. regarding how to behave in a responsible and ethical way. Atea • The use of IT has led to increased productivity and has been has updated its internal Code of Conduct with more detailed rules recognized as a key source of economic growth, the empowerAnti-corruption governing relations with customers. All employees are required to ment of people, and greater access to information and training. Atea’s reputation is dependent upon work performed by our emtake part in training and to take an examination on the Code of However, the internet is borderless: a challenge to international ployees on a daily basis. Atea therefore places great weight on its Conduct, and must agree to comply with the Code. Atea is also law, and raises questions about the commercial value of personal employees acting in accordance with the company’s core values, sharpening its control routines regarding expenses and customer data as well as risks to privacy. At Atea, we value the privacy of work methods and ethical guidelines. In June 2015, Atea received events to ensure that these are in compliance with the law and with our customers. Our privacy specialists are devoted to maintaining information about a possible bribery case, involving Atea Denmark good business practice. To date, more than 95 % of employees our internal procedures and processes to protect the privacy of and a competitor. Charges have been placed against three current have completed the training. the people who use our products. executives of the competitor, which previously held leading positions within Atea Denmark. Since the charges were announced, Atea The Code of Conduct states that: • We work in compliance with the national laws of the countries in management has cooperated fully with Danish law enforcement in • Atea believes in fair competition and is firmly opposed to all which we operate, as well as with the EU Directive 95/46/EC. the investigation. Atea has given transparent reports on the case to forms of corruption. Atea will work to fight against corruption We are currently also in the process of adapting our operaclients, suppliers, shareholders and governmental agencies. Atea in all forms, including extortion and bribery, in accordance with tions in accordance to the new EU General Data Protection has also intensified corporate communication activities on the basis the UNGC principles. Atea Code of Conduct 4.4 Regulation, which is expected to be approved in April/May of of being a transparent company and with the purpose of protecting 2016 and will come into effect during the spring of 2018. ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 24 Implementation of our Code of Conduct • Overall responsible for corporate governance Atea ASA Board • Annual review of compliance function • Approves changes to «Code of Conduct» At Atea, our vision is to be a place where employees, customers and technology • Oversees group compliance function, on behalf of the Board partners collaborate to build the future • Receives reports from Compliance Committee on compliance with IT. This collaboration can only Atea ASA Audit Committee events and «whistleblower» cases • Reviews reports from local compliance officers on compliance succeed if we have a trusted relationship events, and reports to Audit Committee • Recommends changes to «Code of Conduct» (to Board) with the people who bind us together with a commitment to social responsibility. • Responsible for ongoing assessment of compliance programs and their communication / effectiveness Group Compliance • Final line of guidance to employees Committee • Reviews reports from local compliance officers on compliance events, and reports to Audit Committee During 2015, a new compliance organization was implemented • Follows up on «Whistleblower» events and reports to Audit at Atea. Committee • Responsible for following up that local organizations The outcome: an updated Code of Conduct, which covers personal (country BU + service centers) are acting in compliance with conduct, internal control and corporate social responsibility. Code of Conduct Local Compliance Officers • Second line of guidance to employees with questions on Code • Reports ongoing compliance events and risk factors to the All employees must participate in training, demonstrate knowledge group (quarterly report) of the Code and sign a document indicating they will abide by it. The compliance organization routinely follows-up on matters pertaining to the Code of Conduct, and its effectiveness in promoting ethical behavior, internal control, and corporate social responsibility. • First line of guidance to employees with questions on the Code Local management of Conduct, and how it applies to specific situations ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 25 Key Figures Group (2011-2015) Atea’s objective is to provide a competitive long-term return for shareholders, Robert Giori relative to the underlying risk of the Company’s operations. (born 1970) CFO of Atea ASA NOK in million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Robert Giori joined Atea as Chief Financial Revenue 20,228 20,930 22,096 24,588 27,904 Officer in 2014. He has extensive experience Contribution 4,855 5,062 5,320 5,717 6,403 in financial management for public companies within the IT industry. Prior to joining Atea, Contribution margin (%) 24.0 24.2 24.1 23.3 22.9 Robert spent over five years as Chief Financial EBITDA 1) 871 824 800 958 951 Officer of Nordic Semiconductor ASA. He gures, nøkkeltall Key figures, nøkkeltall EBITDA-margin (%) 1) EBITDA nøkkeltall 4.3 858 3.9 811 3.6 701 3.9 929 3.4 924 has also worked as Chief Financial Officer of TeleComputing ASA and as Finance Director for Dell’s operations in Norway. In addition, 2015 EBIT 651 560 355 584 514 he has previously been a consultant with Earnings per share (NOK) 5.96 5.08 3.33 4.14 3.76 McKinsey & Company. Diluted earnings per share (NOK) 5.90 5.04 3.31 4.10 3.71 Dividend per share (NOK) 2.00 5.00 9.50 6.00 6.50 Robert Giori has an MBA from Harvard Net financial position 283 49 -419 -829 -750 University and a Bachelor degree from Cash flow from operations 1,023 783 874 959 1,287 Stanford University. He has completed the Certified Public Accountant (CPA), Liquidity reserve 2,061 1,834 1,326 1,628 1,573 Certified Management Accountant (CMA) Equity ratio (%) 37.9 38.9 31.6 28.1 25.3 and Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) examinations in the United States. Number of full-time employees at the end of year 5,781 6,185 6,280 6,504 6,779 Revenue Revenue per country EBITDA 1) 2011 – 2015 (NOK in million) 2015 2011 – 2015 (NOK in million) 30,000 30,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 25,000 25,000 750 750 750 20,000 20,000 2011: 20,228 Norway: 26.0 % 2011: 871 15,000 15,000 500 500 500 2012: 20,930 Sweden: 36.9 % 2012: 824 10,000 10,000 2013: 22,096 Denmark: 27.5 % 2013: 800 250 250 250 5,000 5,000 2014: 24,588 Finland: 6.6 % 2014: 958 0 0 2015: 27,904 The Baltics: 3.4 % 0 0 0 2015: 951 11 12 13 14 11 15 12 13 11 14 12 15 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 11 15 12 13 11 14 12 15 13 14 15 1) Before share-based compensation, expenses related to acquisitions, and restructuring costs. Revenue, Konsern Revenue, KonsernRevenue, Konsern Revenue per country Revenue per country Revenue per country EBITDA, Konsern EBITDA, Konsern EBITDA, Konsern ATEA CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 26 Communication on Progress This 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report, which has been signed by our CEO, together with the information about sustainability found on Atea’s webpages, serves as our Communication on Progress. Our Self-Assessment work to that end has been submitted on the UN Global Compact website. Area Principle In this report Atea Policies & Guidelines Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Page 5, 12 • Code of Conduct 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Page 12, 13 Labor Rights 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Page 12 • Code of Conduct • Supplier Due Diligence 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Page 12 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Page 12, 13 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Page 9 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Page 20 • Code of Conduct • Environmental policies 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Page 20, 21 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Page 20 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery . Page 23 • Code of Conduct • Governance Documents for the Companies in the Atea Group (including Ethical Guidelines) Atea supports the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption. We operationalize the principles through guidelines, policies, reporting and internal/external trainings and seminars. This document is provided as is. Information and views expressed in this document may change without notice. You may copy and use this document for your internal reference process. Please consider the environment before printing this report. Version 1.0.published March 16, 2016 Holding Norway Sweden Denmark Atea ASA Atea AS Atea AB Atea A/S Atea ASA Brynsalleen 2 Kronborgsgränd 1 Lautrupvang 6 Brynsalleen 2 Box 6472 Etterstad Box 18 DK-2750 Ballerup Box 6472 Etterstad NO-0605 Oslo SE-164 93 Kista Tel:+45 70 25 25 50 NO-0605 Oslo Tel: +47 22 09 50 00 Tel: +46 (0)8 477 47 00 Org.no 25511484 Tel: +47 22 09 50 00 Org.no 976 239 997 Org.no 556448-0282 info@atea.dk Org.no 920 237 126 info@atea.no info@atea.se atea.dk investor@atea.com atea.no atea.se atea.com Finland Lithuania Group Logistics Group Shared Services Atea Oy Atea Baltic UAB Atea Logistics AB Atea Global Services SIA Jaakonkatu 2 J. Rutkausko st. 6 Smedjegatan 12 Mukusalas Street 15 PL 39 LT-05132 Vilnius Box 159 LV-1004 Riga FI-01621 Vantaa Tel: +370 5 239 7899 SE-351 04 Växjö Tel: +371 67359600 Tel: + 358 (0)10 613 611 Org.no 122 588 443 Tel: +46 (0)470 77 16 00 Org.no 40003843899 Org.no 091 9156-0 info@atea.lt Org.no 556354-4690 rigainfo@atea.com customercare@atea.fi atea.lt customer.care@atea.se ateaglobal.com atea.fi atealogistics.com
