1 Sustainability Report 2015 2 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Letter from The CEO 45 5 Value Chain of Genomma Lab Internacional • Sustainable Supply Chain 5 Genomma Lab Internacional Sustainability Report • Vendor Selection 6 1 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional 49 6 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality • About Genomma Lab Internacional • Quality in the personal care products • Sustainable Strategy • Quality in Over-The-Counter Medications (OTC) • Consolidated Statements of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income • Quality in our supply chain • Milestones in our history: Genomma Lab Internacional • Sale of Grupo Marzam 54 7 Responsibility for Our Products • Our products and operations • Knowledge and satisfaction of our consumers • Corporate profile of Genomma Lab Internacional • Attention to our consumers • Information to the consumer 13 2 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional • Labeling of products • Materiality and Stakeholders • Advertising Communication • Key Stakeholder of Genomma Lab Internacional • Responsibility in our advertising • Communication with stakeholders • Incidents • Participation in Initiatives and Associations • Acknowledgments and certifications 58 8 Generation Of Social Value • Volunteering Genomma Lab International 19 3 Corporate Governance • Volunteering in our supply chain • Board of Directors • Health and Wellness Projects • Steering Group of Genomma Lab Internacional • Supporting groups in vulnerable social conditions • Committees • Appointment processes and functions of the supreme governance body and senior management 63 9 Environmental Care And Protection • Corporate Ethics • Environmental responsibility • Ethics Committee • Our Environmental Policy • Update of the Code of Conduct and Ethics • Energy in Genomma Lab Internacional • Anticorruption measures and protection of Human Rights • Our Carbon Footprint • Ethics in our supply chain • Sustainable management in our supply chain in terms of GHG emissions • Sustainable solutions in our supply chain in the area of water development and energy 32 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional • Use of Materials and Waste • Generation of value in our workforce. • Waste management in our supply chain • Integration of our workforce • Materials • Diversity and Inclusion • Success story in our supply chain Zero Waste • Gender equity • Resource use in our supply chain • Equity in our supply chain • Sustainable forest management in our supply chain • Talent management and professional development • Commitment to Water Use • Training • Sustainable water use in our supply chain • Employee benefits • Occupational Health and Safety 74 Contact • Health and safety in our supply chain 3 Sustainability Report 2015 Letter from the CEO (G4-1) (G4-2) We present with great pride our fifth Sustainability Report, Transparency, equity, accountability and adherence to laws and in fulfillment of our objectives that go hand in hand with our regulations are part of our culture and the actions we undertake commitment with the transparent disclosure of information and to generate value and our permanence in the long term. Our the strengthening of corporate policies and procedures that are corporate governance framework is essential for achieving characterized by high demands with strict supervision aimed to proper risk management, performance assessment, transparent achieve the strategy for the future. communication, collective decisions and for the prevention of conflicts of interest in the performance of our operations. Therefore, This report reveals the main challenges, achievements and impacts we promote an ethical and professional conduct among all those of Genomma Lab Internacional in economic, environmental and with whom we have a professional or business relationship. This social issues throughout 2015, in which we have experienced major year our Ethics Committee launched the program “EGE” The transformations. With a sustainable approach, in the third quarter Genomma Team Listens to receive and follow up on any matter of the year, we announced the strategy of our operations, focused relating to the improvement and compliance with our Code of on the diversification of our geographical presence, a sustainable Conduct and Ethics. approach in our “core” brands, the restructuring of operations and the establishment of mechanisms to achieve long-term profitability. We endorse our commitment to the development and strengthening of the industry and the national economy through our involvement Two of the strategic imperatives associated with this process in major chambers and agencies at national and international level. are the creation of value for our shareholders and a sustainable Our impact on the ethical, economic, environmental and social business model with stronger brands. The transformation process spheres is reflected in the commitments we have with them and that we look forward to consolidating at the end of 2016, implies an with other key stakeholders to our business. inventory adjustment resulting in the strengthening of our business model, the secured positioning of our brands and the increase of Our new Steering Group is currently integrated by executives of our penetration in international markets, which generate greater high technical expertise and advanced skills that define them as value for our shareholders. leaders in their area of specialty. As part of our strategy focused on efficiency, the incorporation of highly specialized staff and the With the acquisition of Grupo Marzam in 2014, we improved the development of advanced capabilities, we made changes in our distribution service within the pharmaceutical industry, achieved workforce which is currently composed of 878 collaborators. increased growth of net sales and higher profitability. However, in line with our strategy, we announced in 2015 a definitive agreement to sell the majority stake of our distribution company, this with the aim of improving our capital structure and increase shareholder value. 4 Sustainability Report 2015 • Carta del Director General Our commitment to the development of our staff resulted in the technovigilance. Thus focusing, on the compliance with local and migration to a new performance-based culture and the drive to international standards that allow us to increase the quality, safety develop of our human capital, which has been strengthened by and efficacy of our products by means of an increased investment the formalization of growth plans to establish professional goals. in research and development, at internal level and through our We continue adding achievements in the field of sustainability and supply chain. social responsibility, since Genomma Lab Internacional maintains its recognition as a Socially Responsible Company, the certification To achieve a key position and the preference of the consumers for of the Gender Equity Model, the distinction as Inclusive Company our products, we adhere to guidelines that ensure our responsibility and Family Responsible Company and our commitment to the in the development, handling, labeling, sale and promotion of our Global Compact; also joining the initiative of the Global Compact products. Call to action: Anti-corruption, to prevent or avoid the practice of corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We maintain our commitment to protection programs for vulnerable groups, support to social causes aimed at health and empowerment After entering the Sustainable Index of Prices and Quotations of people, in marginalized areas, to develop productive projects. (IPC, for its acronym in Spanish) of the Mexican Stock Exchange In addition, our commitment to environmental protection is (BMV, or its acronym in Spanish) in 2013, we made a commitment, reflected by our responsible waste management, measuring our which we endorse each year, to seek to strengthen our sustainable carbon footprint and the measures we implement year after year performance throughout the value chain. to mitigate the negative impact of our operations. At Genomma Lab Internacional, we are committed to our value Each one of the areas that integrate Genomma Lab Internacional chain, integrated by suppliers, partners, customers and consumers; drives significantly, from its area of expertise, the development of each of which we consider to be an essential link to run our business the company, allowing us to walk in synergy toward the achievement model effectively and successfully. of our objectives with a sustainable approach and long term vision. Therefore, we continue identifying and promoting sustainable practices in our supply chain. In each one of the sections of this report, we detail the contribution that our suppliers have in matters of health and safety, ethics, quality, volunteering, water management and emissions management, among other aspects, that reflect the sustainability commitment of our supply chain. The quality of our products is our main thread, so the positioning of our brands is the result of a process focused on quality, productivity, Máximo Juda delivery, safety, cost, and ethics. In view of this, we seek to CEO of Genomma Lab Internacional, S.A.B. DE C.V encourage the spirit of innovation in our employees and promote a culture of continuous improvement, evaluating the legal compliance of our products through the programs of pharmacovigilance and 5 Sustainability Report 2015 Genomma Lab Internacional Sustainability Report (G4-5, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33) Our fifth Sustainability Report reveals the commitment we have The present report provides information on the period between 1 with the clear and transparent disclosure of the main challenges, January and 31 December 2015, and in some cases, a comparison achievements and impacts of Genomma Lab Internacional in of our performance in relation to the year 2014. The information economic, environmental and social matters. The determination presented here shows the performance of our operations in Mexico of the content of this report is based on the principles of and incorporates relevant data on our international operation materiality, completeness, stakeholder participation and context in cases where so stated. The countries in which we operate at of sustainability, which are essential to ensure transparency in the international level, are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, information disclosed. Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, United States of America, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Paraguay, Through the first three principles, we disclose information on Dominican Republic and Uruguay. the aspects of our Organization that reflect significant economic, environmental and social effects, and, on those that are substantially Aligned to the demands of the agencies that set the guidelines influencing the decisions and assessments of our stakeholders, for the disclosure of sustainability reports, we continue developing informing our performance and, communicating issues that our report under the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative respond to their expectations and reasonable interests. (GRI). For the second time we report under the version of the GRI G4 Guide under the essential compliance option, remembering Also, through the context principle of sustainability, we present our that our reporting processes remain aligned to the principles vision and sustainable performance regarding the conditions of our of inclusiveness, relevance and response capability defined by environment, business strategy, risks and long-term opportunities AccountAbility AA1000APS (2008). Likewise, we endorse for the ninth that we have identified, communicating the extent of our impact consecutive year our adherence to the Global Compact initiative and our contribution in the relevant geographical contexts in which of the United Nations, reaffirming our commitment to responsible we operate. practices that strengthen the observance and protection of human rights, care of the environment and working permanently with the This exercise is the product of a strategic transformation that principles of anti-corruption. responds in an innovative way to the changing environment in which we operate. In addition to the information that we present year after year, we reveal the importance of each of the internal areas that integrate our Organization, and under an external perspective, we emphasize the practices of our supply chain, aimed at promoting sustainable development and driving social responsibility in our value chain. 1 6 Sustainability Report 2015 Profile of About Genomma Lab Internacional We are one of the leading companies in OTC pharmaceuticals and Genomma Lab Personal Care products’, dedicated to the development, sale and promotion of a wide variety of products that are successfully positioned as leaders in sales and market share in their various categories. We are an organization with a growing international presence and a Internacional strong position in Latin America. Our business model has changed and our focus on continuous innovation is centered on the development and marketing of products of high quality, efficacy and safety. Our growth strategy is oriented to the consumers’ health, their personal satisfaction and the well-being that our brands provide. Our products’ positioning is achieved through an extensive distribution network and an operational model of supply chain highly committed (G4-DMA, G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-13) to sustainability in their operations, which are based on quality, growth and expansion of our operations. QUALITY GROWTH EXPANSION SATISFACTION DEVELOPMENT SAFETY Source: page Genomma Lab Internacional: http://www.genommalab.com/es/index.html We are permanently committed to scientific research for the enhancement of the consumer satisfaction with our brands, their further development and safety. 7 Sustainability Report 2015 1 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Sustainable Strategy With a sustainable approach we announced the strategy for the turnaround process of our operations The strategy focuses on: in Mexico, focused on the diversification of our geographical presence, a central focus on our “core” brands, the restructuring of operations and the establishment of mechanisms to achieve profitability 1. The creation and use of the valin the long term. ue of our “core” brands. 2. The implementation of efficiencies and improvements in the Stages of the turnaround process¹ margin, as well as a significant inventory adjustment in the channel in Mexico, which will Pillars of the new Stronger policies and Strategic Imperatives strategy disclosure of information result in an improvement of the cash conversion cycle and in free cash flow generation. • Creation of value for our shareholders • Brands: Focus on core brands . Strength• The stronger corporate policies and ening the value and sustainability of procedures resulted in non-recurring • Sustainable business model and stron3. The momentum of internabrands items that do not require cash flow for ger brands tional growth and margin exthe fourth quarter and full year 2015 • Mexico: inventory adjustment in the • International expasion channel Stricter policies and procedures with pansion, particularly in the additional supervision to support future US where we quickly became • Less dependence on Mexico • Geographical presence: International strategy growth and margin expansion diversifia major player in the market, cation outside Mexico strengthening our presence • Efficiency: leverage overhead costs at points of sale in Walgreens, Sales, Marketing and Administration Walmart, CVS, Target, Rite Aid • New management team to implement and Kroger, which has allowed the new strategy and to lead the value us to become an important creation in this new phase growth engine for the Hispanic market share in these stores. ¹ Source: Results of the 4Q and full year 2015 http://www.genommalab.com/ Inversionistas/Upload/Documents/2/Genomma%20Lab%20Internacional%204Q%20 2015%20v5.pdf 8 Sustainability Report 2015 1 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional 2015 2014 2013 Net revenue $ 11,042,452 $ 11,540,998 $ 11,360,689 Cost of goods sold 3,777,058 3,538,831 3,416,363 Gross profit 7,265,394 8,002,167 7,944,326 Selling, general and administrative expense 7,334,154 5,569,258 5,017,153 Other expenses (income), net 906,462 (12,187) (9,719) 8,240,616 5,557,071 5,007,434 Operating (loss) income (975,222) 2,445,096 2,936,892 Interest expense (392,562) (360,003) (298,469) Interest income 20,586 11,827 12,847 Exchange (loss) gain, net (119,512) 32,525 (56,921) Equity in income (loss) of associated 12,024 (11,684) 11,244 Genomma Lab Internacional, S. A. B. de C. V. (Loss) income before income taxes from 2,605,593 discontinued operations (1,454,686) 2,117,761 and Subsidiaries 794,983 Income taxes (373,895) 623,598 Consolidated net (loss) income from continuing operations (1,080,791) 1,494,163 1,810,610 Consolidated Statements of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Income for the year from discontinued operations, net 68,154 12,943 For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 Consolidated net (loss) income (1,012,637) 1,507,106 1,810,610 (Thousands of Mexican pesos, except earnings per share information expressed in pesos Other comprehensive income for the year: Items which will be reversed to results in the future: Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 262,741 160,330 9,885 Consolidated comprehensive (loss) income (749,896) 1,667,436 1,820,495 Net (loss) income attributable to: Controlling interest (1,068,519) 1,444,558 1,752,468 Non controlling interest 55,882 62,548 58,142 (1,012,637) 1,507,106 1,810,610 Consolidated comprehensive (loss) income attributable to: Controlling interest (800,330) 1,581,285 1,760,607 Non controlling interest 50,434 86,151 59,888 (749,896) 1,667,436 1,820,495 Basic and diluted (loss) income per ordinary share: From continuing operations (1.11) 1.37 1.67 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. From discontinued operations 0.07 0.01 0.00 Basic and diluted (loss) income per share (1.04) 1.38 1.67 Tabla Weighted average shares outstanding (thousands Fuente: estados de situación of shares) 1,031,553 1,048,255 1,048,733 financiera trimestre 04,2015. 9 Sustainability Report 2015 1 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Milestones in our history: Genomma Lab Internacional 1996: In 1996 Genomma Lab was constituted as a network of distributors and wholesalers in order 2007: We acquired new brands and expanded 2015: We innovated our business strategy based a direct to consumer advertising company with to place our products in strategic points of sale. our portfolio to new areas considered as strategic on the turnaround process under the strategic internal production capacity of TV infomercials. In our product categories we included over the opportunities. imperatives of creating shareholder value, a counter (OTC) pharmaceuticals. sustainable business model and stronger brands, 1997: We restructured our operations in order 2008: We adopted the regime of publicly traded international expansion and reduced dependence to concentrate our activities on beauty products, 2003: We started selling our products to Stock Corporation so the corporate name on Mexico . Sale of the Commercial and Industrial starting to develop our own products. pharmaceutical wholesalers. of the Company is, currently, Genomma Lab Group Marzam, S.A.P.I. de .C.V. Internacional, S.A.B. de C.V. 1999: We began to develop a platform for product 2006: We modified our organizational structure, ¹ https://www.bmv.com.mx/docs-pub/ development and advertising thereof, establishing hiring staff with extensive experience in 2013: Entry to the sustainable IPC of the Mexican prospect/00120080626121850.pdf pharmaceutical and personal care products. Stock Exchange (BMV). 2009 2013 2015 Launch of Primer Entrance to IPC SusThe company anBUSINESS Nivel, Genoma Lab Branded Generics 2011 tainability Index and MSCI Index. nounced a strategy in the third quarter REALIGNMENT Acquisition of the for the turnaround Line. (19962002) brands Vanart, PomAcquisition of Tafirol Sale of Grupo Marzam process of its opera2007 Acquisition of ada de la Campana, Widlroot, Alert and in Argentina, and tions in Mexico, with Medicinas y MedicaLosec and package the aim of diversifyExpanded product 2004 portfolio through mentos Nacionales, Nórdiko. of OTC brands in Mexico. ing its geographical In 2014, we acquired the Commercial and Jockey Club, Flor de presence and foNexxus Capital development of new Industrial Group, S.A.P.I. Marzam de C.V. 1999 Invested 30% of products and line Naranja, Sanborns, cusing on the “core” brands, restructurTeatrical and Henna ( Group Marzam ), to expand our access to 1996 Changed Equity. extensions. Egipcia. ing operations and the traditional channel and improve the cash Funded as InfoBusiness 2014 establishing a path Modelto to long-term profitconversion cycle of pharmaceutical and personal mercial marketing company. OTC/PC. 2012 Acquisition of 2 package of ability. care products, with a total investment of the Acquisition of the brands in our purchase price of $1,857.2 million pesos. In June 2010 brands: FermoInternational Sale of the Com2015, we announced that we had entered into 2002 2008 Acquisition of the brands Nassalub, Micdyl, Zan Zusi, Altiva, Amara, operations. mercial and Industrial Group Marzam, a definitive agreement to sell the majority stake Performed 2006 its IPO in the otex, Ossart, English Larizá, Bioskin and XL3 in Acquisition of S.A.P.I. de .C.V. in this distribution company to Netherlands2003 Expanded Mexican Stock Leather, Galaflex, Affair and Santé. Mexico, Babysan Marzan. based private equity firm Moench Coöperatief Organic growth management Market. and Piecidex in U.A. Based on the valuation of Grupo Marzam through brand team. Argentina and Launch of operations in this transaction, the total equity value was $ and product dein Brazil and USA. Dermaglós in velopment. Brazil. 2,700.00 million pesos. In line with our strategy, of improving our capital structure and enhancing shareholder value, the initial proceeds were used for the prepayment of bank debt and repurchase ACCELERATED EXPASION of shares. 10 Sustainability Report 2015 1 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional TEATRICAL Our Products and Operations Is undoubtedly one of the (G4-9, G4-4) biggest success stories for Genomma Lab Internacional. Genomma Lab Internacional offers more than 648 products in different FERMODYL BIO In 2014, the brand was categories with a high market share. In 2015 we launched 31 line extensions and two products under new brands. Our products are categorized into EFFECTIVE relaunched under the concept of stem cells, achieving the No. pharmaceutical (Pharma), dermatological (Derma) and well-being brands. The expert brand in hair 3 position in Mexico’s facial Major brands include: creams. In 2015, following INTIMO BY treatment launches a new the mega brand strategy and complete line of shampoos, In the following web sites, we present each of our brands LOMECAN conditioners and innovative complementing its portfolio and products according to their classification. specialized treatments for daily to be positioned as the expert Clarifying and Firming care, understanding the needs brand in skincare, Teatrical Pharma: http://www.genommalab.mx/farma Shampoo Brand’s line of every hair type. Each variant Stem Cells body cream was Derma: http://www.genommalab.mx/derma extensions. These shampoos launched with 6 different Well-being: http://www.genommalab.mx/bienestar CICATRICURE for daily use keep the intimate acts from the root providing a specific benefit: Restoration, variants for 6 specific needs of area fresh and free of odors Hydration and Perfect our consumers. The #1 brand for Genomma up to 24 hours, covering the Straight Hair. Lab, continues building on needs of modern women. its innovation pillar to offer TUKOL-D a complete line of dermoClarifying shampoo: Its formula with Naturalclarant cosmetic products with the The brand of cough relief technology, clarifies the most advanced formulas in solutions with the fastest intimate area naturally. skin regeneration. In 2015, growth in the category, Firming shampoo: Exclusive Cicatricure Intervención X RAY AVA achieving the 2nd place in Nocturna (Night Intervention) formula with Collagenfirm helps units’ market share at the restore the firmness of the was launched, a facial night X Ray, the leading brand in end of 2015. In the fourth intimate area. cream that complements the treatment of osteoarthritis quarter of 2015, Tukol’s the Crema Rosita to create launches new X Ray Ava, business was diversified to the Essential Anti-wrinkle an advanced formula reach new consumers with System. Its formula contains that contains a unique different needs, with the line QAcetyl10® a powerful combination of micronutrients extensions Tukol for children molecule composed of active (glucosamine, chondroitin, and Tukol 0% sugar. ingredients that help restore vitamin C and manganese) that the skin, toning and smoothing provides a threefold effect: wrinkles, plus three powerful relieves pain, swelling, and peptides that stimulate six limitation of movement. X Ray essential elements for the Ava is positioned for young regeneration of the skin people suffering from constant damaged by UV radiation, joint pain resulting from their it helps improve tone and active lifestyle, overweight elasticity. and exercise. 11 Sustainability Report 2015 1 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Our major brands’ categories include: Genomma Lab Categories The products we offer are manufactured with the highest Analgesics Anti-varicose Soaps quality standards, backed by our business strategy focused on strengthening our brands. Anti-acne Cardiovascular Makeup Anti-hair loss Cellulite Hair stylers Antidepressants Creams Multivitamins Flu treatments Hair removers Nasal Antihaemorrhoidals Dermatological Obesity Antimycotics Deodorants Ophthalmic Anti-rheumatic Antiparasitics Sexual health Antitussives Gastrointestinals Sedative Sleep inhibitors Shampoo Hair Treatment 12 Sustainability Report 2015 1 Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Corporate Profile of Genomma Lab Internacional Act with discretion in all areas of our business. Act ethically. We are a flexible and innovative Mexican company with international presence, edgy, Be responsible and professional in our work. young and dynamic; we are busy and concerned with finding solutions to improve the Be direct and honest in how we communicate. Give good and bad news promptly. health and quality of life of all those who benefit from the proper use of our products. We are committed to health, social welfare and environmental protection, so our approach includes the creation of value for our customers and the generation of the highest possible performance levels for our investors, seeking to permanently position ourselves as the leader in OTC medicines and personal care products, and Create new ideas. Challenge established ways of doing things. differentiate ourselves as an organization that considers the expectations and needs Take risks. of our key stakeholders. INTEGRITY Support changes. Stimulate innovation. INNOVATION Solve problems creatively. CREATIVITY Respond promptly to achieve the goals and tasks assigned, employing the best MISSION possible means to perform our task adequately. Our Mission is to improve people´s health and wellness by offering EFFICIENCY safe, innovative and effective products, while providing development Our EFFICACY Values opportunities to our employees and profitability to our shareholders as we positively impact the community and the enviroment. Work cooperatively and harmoniously with colleagues. Help the team leader meet his/her goals. TEAMWORK Leverage the strengths of others. VISION Focus and work on areas of opportunity. Cooperate towards team success. Our Vision is to be the leading company in the OTC medication and personal care categories, and to be recognized for our positive impact on the health and wellness of individuals, SUSTAINABILITY communities and the enviroment. Guide actions towards long-term business permanence. Meet performance goals and indicators. Demonstrate ethical and institutional values in practice. 2 13 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainable Materiality and Stakeholders (DMA, G4-17, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) Approach of The materiality analysis we do is focused on the entities that comprise Genomma Lab Internacional, which are contained in our financial statements, that we collectively call Genomma Lab Internacional. Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. de C.V. Genomma Lab Internacional and subsidiaries Genomma Laboratories México, S.A. de C.V. Grupo Comercial e Industrial Marzam, S.A. de C.V. and Subsidiaries Television Products Retail, S.A. de C.V. Medicinas y Medicamentos Nacionales, S.A. de C.V. Iniciativas de Éxito, S.A. de C.V. Aero Lab, S.A. de C.V. Servicios Logísticos Genomma, S.A. de C.V. Gibart, S.A. de C.V. Genomma Lab USA, Inc. Lab Brands International, LLC Genomma Lab Centroamérica, S. A. Genomma Lab Perú, S.A. Genomma Lab Chile, S.A. Genomma Lab Ecuador, S.A. Genomma Laboratories Argentina, S.A. Genomma Lab Colombia, LTDA Genomma Laboratories do Brasil, LTDA y Subsidiarias Genomma Lab Dominicana, S.R.L. 14 Sustainability Report 2015 2 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Our strategy of corporate social responsibility is aligned to the new business strategy of Genomma Lab Internacional, so that our efforts, initiatives and priorities will focus on the corporate imperatives and relevant issues identified in our materiality analysis. The priorities of each of the entities forming Genomma Lab Internacional, both at national and international level, and major topics for our key stakeholders are considered for the management and disclosure of information in this report. The objectivity and integrity of the results of our materiality study consider numerous sources of information that are analyzed, compared and evaluated to detect the critical, relevant and material issues for Genomma Lab Internacional. The sources considered for our analysis include: The results of our materiality study are underpinned by a methodology that considers the technical analysis of detected issues from international standards. Our materiality matrix reflects the identified issues in two large groups: risk and maturity. Risk: Indicates the level of potential impact of the identified issues. It should be understood as all that aspect, action or event that is relevant to our various stakeholders and whose inclusion in our action plans SECTOR Internal STAKEHOLDERS should be considered. management Maturity: indicates the level of attention that the companies in our sector lend to a particular sustainability topic. These issues represent an impact for organizations and therefore serve to provide a response Major issues in the Direct customer from within the organization and toward its stakeholders through Key issues for our sector. media about our feedback. public media. company. Information considered Direct employee feedback. These variables allow us to identify emerging, widespread, urgent and necessary issues critical for our sector Internal evaluation of peers (competitors) in matters considered that we must address, allowing us to design the approach that the Company may take sustainability matters. significant and critical. against them. Through ratings, calculations and weights, the relevant criteria are defined for consistent, clear and relevant results in our study that aims to: Direct feedback from regulators. • The identification, management and disclosure of issues that will enable us to deterCritical aspects in our mine our future strategic actions, investments, press releases and results’ evaluation. industry, in accordance with social and sector • The definition of our content index, determining the scope and coverage of our releopinion leaders (chambers Direct feedback from vendors and other vant topics to inform in the sustainability reports. of commerce, regulators, associations, etc.). stakeholders. 15 Sustainability Report 2015 2 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Our analysis, focused on companies in the personal care and pharmaceutical sector, detected all issues that have a high degree of maturity in the industry, i.e., that are developed and disclosed by the evaluated organizations. The four Key Stakeholder of Genomma Lab Internacional topics with a high level of disclosure are: Our main stakeholders are the entities or organizations with which we have commercial Management of sustainable development. and/or social transactions that impact or are impacted significantly by our operations. Environmental policy/Environmental Management System (EMS). Relations with government/public policy. Waste management. We develop practices to boost the personal and professional development Employees of our employees, guaranteeing a healthy, safe and inclusive working environment. The commitment and work of our employees enables us to The most relevant subjects for Genomma Lab Internacional, because they reach the company´s results and achievements. represent a high degree of development in the sector, and at the same time a high risk, are: The products we market in coordination with our customers provide Customers wellness, health, beauty and happiness to meet the expectations and needs and Cosumers Management of sustainable development, relations with government/ of our customers. public policy, financial issues, operations, access to health, management of water resources, attracting and retaining talent, Through our supply chain we ensure the implementation of best practices Vendors and ethics and integrity, corporate governance, corruption, bribery and to comply with strict quality controls and adherence to socially and Manufacturers transparency. enviromentally responsible conditions. We considerer our manufacturers and vendors strategic partners of our business, maintaining trusting and With the purpose of comparing ourselves with other companies in the cooperative relationships with each of them. sector, that are considered leaders in sustainability, we analyzed the degree of development in all topics classified as widespread, and we defined specific Through Genomma Lab International and the Genomma Lab Foundation, action plans and strategies for Genomma Lab Internacional in those topics Community we undertake actions that contribute to the healthcare and wellness of our which correspond to environmental issues, employees satisfaction and issues community. related to human rights. We create wealth and employment in our surroundings, as well creating Shareholders value for our shareholders, as we constantly undertake to strengthen our capacity to continue growing profitability in the future. 16 Sustainability Report 2015 2 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Communication Stakeholder Channel Communication Frequency Expectations Mechanism with Stakeholders Consumer · Market studies Ongoing / Annual · Assortment The formal and informal communication procedures · Satisfaction Surveys · Prices with our stakeholders are implemented through · Comments Mailboxes · Product Quality · Quality of Service various mechanisms and established channels, · Environmental care among which are the following: Employees · Permanent contact Ongoing / Annual · Training · Work Climate Survey · Programs and benefits for employees and their families · Compensation Survey · Acknowledgment systems · Environmental care · Contact Permanent Ongoing · Development of the value chain Vendors and · Fair trade Manufacturers · Long-term relationships · Contact Permanent Ongoing · Compliance with laws and regulations Authorities and · Active participation in key industry issues Regulatory · Environmental care Agencies · Contact Permanent Ongoing / weekly · Transparency Financial · Timely and accurate information Institutions · Compliance with laws and regulations · Contact Permanent Ongoing · Constant communication Communication · Timely and accurate information Media · Contact Permanent Ongoing · Constant communication Communicators/ · Timely and accurate information Opinion Leaders · Community Perception Studies Annual · Community support Society · Information of activities · Access to medicines · Meetings Continuous / monthly / · Generation of economic and social value Shareholders, · Teleconferences quarterly/ · Environmental care Investors and Analysts · Internet annual · Transparency · Permanent Contact · Fair treatment · Timely and accurate information · Constant communication · Meetings Half-Yearly · Support Civil Society Organizations · Synergy · Environmental care · Meetings Monthly · Support Chambers · Sharing Best Practices · Experiences · Driving the sector’s agenda 17 Sustainability Report 2015 2 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional COUNTRY ASSOCIATION OR INITIATIVE Mexico · National Chamber of the Pharmaceutical Industry (CANIFARMA) · Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) · Mexican Society of Cosmetic Chemists, A.C. · Communication Council, A.C. · Association for the Better, A.C. Peru · Lima Chamber of Commerce Colombia · Bogota Chamber of Commerce Participation in Initiatives and Associations · Blue Point Program (G4-16) Our interaction with chambers and agencies both national and Ecuador · Ecuadorian Association of Cosmetics Production and Merchandising Companies (PROCOSMETICOS) international, enables us to recognize and contribute with the best practices for development, procurement and marketing of products. We endorse our commitment to the development and strengthening of the industry and the national economy through our involvement in major Argentina · Industrial Chamber of Pharmaceutical Laboratories (CILFA) chambers and agencies at national and international level. · Argentine Chamber of Over-The-Counter Medications (CAPEMVEL) · Credit Directors of the Pharmaceutical Industry (DICRINFA) · Argentine Association Pharmacy of Industrial Biochemistry (SA FYBI) Brazil · Sindicato da Indústria de Produtos Farmacêuticos no Estado de SP [Syndicate of Pharmaceutical Products in the State of SP] (SINDUSFARMA) · Associação Brasileira da Indústria de Higiene Pessoal, Perfumaria e Cosméticos [Brazilian Association of Toiletries, Perfumes and Cosmetics] (ABIHPEC) · Trade Union of Drug Wholesalers, Manufacturers, Related, Perfumery, Cosmetics and Toiletries of São Paulo (SINCAMESP) · Associação Brasileira da Indústria de Medicamentos Isentos de Prescrição [Brazilian Non-Prescription Medicine Industry Association] (ABIMIP) 18 Sustainability Report 2015 2 Sustainable Approach of Genomma Lab Internacional Acknowledgments and Certifications (G4-15) COUNTRY ACKNOWLEDGMENT INSTITUTION Mexico · “Gilberto Rincón Gallardo” Inclusive · Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) Company” · Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) · Socially Responsible Company · Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) · Family Responsible Company · United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) · Global Compact Membership Renewal · Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) In Central America we undertook the initiative · Constituent of the Sustainable IPC Index of of logistics operators change with DHL · United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) the Mexican Stock Exchange with the objective to positively impact the · National Council for Prevention of Discrimitransportation and storage costs improving · Member of the “Call to Action: Anti-corrupnation (CONAPRED) our cost of regional sales. tion” Initiative · Inclusion Committed Institution Argentina · Argentine Society for Pharmaceutical · SAMF OTC Launch of the Year Award for Marketing Unesia 3 19 Sustainability Report 2015 Corporate The strategy that we announced in the third quarter consists of the Governance transformation of Genomma Lab Internacional based on a model of (G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, sustainable business aimed at creating value for our shareholders, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48, G4-49, driving international expansion and reducing dependence on the Mexican market. G4-50, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53, G4-DMA) The achievement of our objectives that go hand in hand with our commitment with the transparent disclosure of information and the strengthening of corporate policies and procedures that are characterized by high demands with strict supervision aimed to achieve the strategy for the future. From 2015, we have focused our efforts on strengthening the value and sustainability of our “core” brands, adjustment of our inventories and achieving greater efficiency through the leverage of overheads, sales, marketing and administration. Becoming a leader in our categories of (OTC) medicines and personal care products (PC) means to be recognized by positively impacting the health and well-being of individuals, community and environment; so through our corporate governance structure we established mechanisms, principles and standards that govern the design, integration and operation of the company’s governing bodies. Transparency, equity, accountability and adherence to laws and regulations are part of our culture and the actions we undertake to generate value and our permanence in the long term. Our corporate governance framework is essential for achieving proper risk management, performance assessment, transparent communication, collective decisions and for the prevention of conflicts of interest in the performance of our operations. 20 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Board of Directors of Genomma Lab Internacional Board of Directors Board Members Experience Summary Member Independent (3)(4) The legal representation and strategy management of Genomma Lab Rodrigo Alonso Chairman of the Board. Has more than 20 years’ experience in marketing and brand positioning strategies His President Internacional is the responsibility of the main functions include coordinating and overseeing all advertising material produced by the Company, and Herrera Aspra (1)(2) the market development of products and advertising campaigns. He studied engineering and administration Board of Directors, which has the powers at Universidad Anáhuac, and graduated with a Master’s in Senior Management from Colegio de Graduados of authorization and implementation of en Alta Dirección. all actions not expressly reserved to the Shareholders’ Assembly. Scott R. Emerson Independent Director Founder and Chairman of The Emerson Group and its subsidiaries Emerson Healthcare and Emerson Marketing. He has more than 30 years’ management experience in brand management, new business In 2015, significant changes occurred development, sales transactions and ﬁeld sales for companies listed in the Fortune 500, including Johnson & Johnson, Unilever and Novartis Consumer Health. He is Board Member of several organizations including in both the Board of Directors and the Consumer Health Products Association, National Association of Chain Drug Stores, and Efﬁcient Collaborative Management Team. At our Annual Ordinary Retail Marketing, among others. He holds a Master’s in Accounting from the University of Texas. Shareholders’ General Meeting the changes to the Board of Directors and Committees Leandro Martín CEO of Chemo Corporation. He has extensive management knowledge in Marketing & Sales, Business Independent Director of the Company were approved. Sigman Gold Intelligence & Development, and Strategic Planning. He worked as Executive Director of Laboratorios Elea, and as Director of Marketing at Parke-Davis Argentina. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics, and a Bachelor’s Degree in Journalism, as well as a Master’s (MBA) from the Institute of Senior Business Studies Our Board of Directors is composed of (IAE), Universidad Austral de Buenos Aires, Argentina and Chairs the Argentinian Chamber of Commerce in 11 members/advisors, 9 of which are Spain. independent (82%), a percentage that exceeds the requirements of the Securities Roberto Simón Holds a Master’s Degree in medicine from Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. Administrative Independent Director Sauma Director at the Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal from 1986 to 1994. Managing Director at the Hospital Ángeles Market Law. The Board of Directors is del Pedregal from 1995 to 1997. Executive Corporate Director at Grupo Empresarial Ángeles, S.A. de C.V. chaired by Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra, from 1998 to 1999. Executive Health Director at Grupo Empresarial Ángeles, S.A. de C.V. from 1999 to 2000. the Company’s founder, who has more CEO of Grupo Ángeles Servicios de Salud, S.A. de C.V. de 2000 to date. than 20 years’ experience in marketing and brand positioning strategies. Independent Director Arturo José Has more than 30 years’ experience in risk capital, investment banking and commercial banking. Managing Partner of Nexxus Capital since 1998, and co-founder of the private capital funds managed by Nexxus Saval Pérez (2) Capital. He has held several senior positions in companies such as Santander Financial Group (Mexico), GBM Atlántico Financial Group, Interacciones and Serfín Financial Group. He is Board Member of several companies including Nexxus Capital, Grupo Sports World, Crédito Real, Harmon Hall, Genomma Lab Internacional, Diamex, Grupo Hotelero Santa Fe, Taco Holding, Moda Holding and BOMI de México, among others. He graduated from Universidad Iberoamericana with a Bachelor’s degree in Industrial Engineering, and studied for a Graduate Certiﬁcate in Financial Analysis at the University of Michigan, and a Diploma from Instituto Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Luis Alberto Harvey Partner of Nexxus Capital and co-founder of the private capital funds managed by Nexxus Capital. He has Independent Director MacKissack (2) approximately 25 years’ experience in investment banking and risk capital and has held several positions at Grupo Bursátil Mexicano, Fonlyser, Operadora de Bolsa and Servicios Industriales Peñoles. His experience includes several private capital and public company operations, including initial opening offerings on the Stock Exchange for several Mexican companies, and in several international markets. Mr. Harvey is a Board Member of Nexxus Capital, Homex, Grupo Sports World, Crédito Real, Harmon Hall, Genomma Lab Internacional, Diamex, Grupo Hotelero Santa Fe, Taco Holding and Moda Holding. He graduated from 21 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Board Members Experience Summary Member Independent (3)(4) Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México and studied a Master’s in Business Management majoring in Finance at the University of Texas at Austin. José Luis Fernández Degree in Public Accounting from Universidad Iberoamericana. Provided professional services at law ﬁrm Independent Director Prieto, Castillo y Asociados, S.C. for two years. Subsequently worked in the Tax and Auditing Departments Fernández for Ruiz, Urquiza y Cía., S.C., representative in Mexico of Arthur Andersen & Co. He joined Chevez, Rioz, Zamarripa y CIA., S.C. in 1981, where he was later promoted to the position of Associate. He became a partner since 1989. He is a member of the Mexican College of Public Accountants, the Mexican Institute of Public Accountants and the Mexican Institute of Financial Executives. Chaired the Tax Committee of the Mexican Institute of Public Accountants during the period 1993-1995, and the Tax Committee of the Mexico City Group of the Mexican Institute of Financial Executives in the period 1995-1996, and was Chairman of the Tax Committee of the Mexican National Institute of Financial Executives during the period 2003-2004. He is a member of the Tax Committee for Mexico City of the Mexican Institute of Financial Executives since 1996. He was a member of the Tax Assessment Board of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit from 1995 to 1996. He participated in the “Directors’ Development Program” organized by the Center of Excellence in Corporate Governance and the Mexican Stock Exchange. He serves as Director and Audit Committee member for several companies including Grupo Televisa, Mexichem, Banco Bx+, Grupo Financiero Bx+, Sport City Universidad, Club de Golf Los Encinos, Grupo Pochteca, Global Assurance Brokers Agente de Seguros y de Fianzas, and Arca Continental. (1) Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra, Sabrina Lucila Herrera Aspra and Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra, are siblings. Jorge Ricardo Public Account and graduate of Instituto Politécnico Nacional, with a Master’s in Finance from Universidad Independent Director La Salle, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of: Mexichem S.A.B. de C.V., Grupo Aeroportuario Gutiérrez Muñoz del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V., Grupo Pochteca, S.A.B. de C.V. and Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V. (2) Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra is the Alternate Director of Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra and Sabrina Lucila He has also served as CEO of Mexichem S.A.B. de C.V., CEO and Board Member of Grupo Industrial Camesa Herrera Aspra. Alejandro Diazayas Oliver is the Alternate and Industrias Synkro, Vice-President of Corporate Development at Empresas Lanzagorta, and Director of Director of Arturo José Saval Pérez and Luis Alberto Harvey Finance at Indetel/Alcatel. MacKissack. Juan Alonso CEO of ZAO Future Technologies, one of the largest luxury homes construction companies in Russia. In Russia, Independent Director (3) At the Ordinary Shareholders’ General Meeting, held on the brand is known as SUN CITY Developments. In March 2007, he entered into a partnering agreement with April 14, 2015, the following resignations were submitted: BSG Investments, an Israeli real estate development company operating in Russia and the Commonwealth of Mr. Gerardo de Nicolás Gutiérrez resigned his positions as Independent States to develop around one million square meters of commercial and residential real estate owner member of the Board of Directors, member of the in Russia. He is also a majority shareholder of ZAO SILVER Nizhny Novgorod, Nestlé’s national water bottling Committee of Corporate Practices and President of the ﬁrm in Russia. He was previously chairman of Domino’s Pizza Jalisco, a master franchiser of Domino’s Pizza Committee of Risks of Genomma Lab Internacional; and in Central Mexico, and majority shareholder of Baskin Robbins D.F. Mr. Julio Everardo Sotelo Morales resigned his positions as an owner member of the Board of Directors and member of the Committee of Risks of Genomma Lab. Sabrina Lucila Worked in Public Relations, and Administration and Finance for several companies over 15 years, including Related Proprietary Director Posadas de México. Joined Genomma Lab Internacional in 1998 to manage international sales. In 2004, then Herrera Aspra (1)(2) serving as Director of International Operations, she led the opening up of Latin American markets She holds (4) On September 28, 2015 Dr. Andrés Conesa Labastida, until then independent member of the Board of Directors a Bachelor’s Degree in IT Studies from Universidad Anáhuac, and has a Master’s in Senior Management from Colegio de Graduados en Alta Dirección. of Genomma Lab Internacional, submitted his resignation to the charge given his new responsibilities assumed in IATA. On the basis of the provisions of Article 24 of the Securities Market Law, the Board of Directors of the company appointed on this same date, given its wide experience Mr. Héctor Carrillo González as independent interim Director of the Company, appointment that in this case may be ratified by the next general meeting of shareholders of Genomma Lab Internacional. 22 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Our corporate governance framework is aimed at Management Job Title Experience³ a transparent, clear and timely management and communication of the information we disclose to the market, integrated by analysts, potential investors and Máximo Juda CEO Mr. Juda is CEO since July 2015; previously he served as Executive Vice President shareholders. Our Investor Relations area is committed to of Operations since December 2014, and prior to that he served as the Vice communicating information to provide timely response to President of International Operations from March 2013 where he consolidated the requirements of the shareholders and stakeholders the international area as one of the fundamental pillars of the company’s growth. relevant to the organization. Mr. Juda joined Genomma Lab Internacional in October 2002 as Director of Sales, then he was promoted to the position of Director of Commercial Operations being At Genomma Lab Internacional we comply with all responsible for the areas of Purchasing, Sales and Operations. In 2006 he served obligations provided for in the Securities Market Law. as Vice President of Strategic Development and then was Founder and President All information provided to the National Banking and of operations in Argentina, Brazil and the United States, which quickly became Securities Commission (CNBV, for its acronym in Spanish) the largest company operations outside of Mexico. Prior to joining Genomma Lab and to the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV, for its acronym Internacional he was Sales Manager for half of the branches of Casa Saba and in Spanish) is also published on the Investors’ Relations played an advisory role for Sanborns in the Carso Group. Before arriving in Mexico, website: http://www.genommalab.com/Inversionistas/ he earned a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of San Andrés in Argentina, and founded Farmaciaonline.com, the first portal in Latin America for the sale of medicines and cosmetics online. Steering Group of Genomma Lab Internacional Ramón Neme Sastre Executive Vice President of Mr. Ramon Neme is Executive Vice President of Institutional Relations since the Our Steering Group is integrated by executives of high Institutional Relations year 2012. Before joining the Company, Mr. Neme held various positions both technical expertise and advanced skills that define in the public sector and private initiative. In the private sector, Mr. Neme held them as leaders in their area of specialty. In December the position of Vice President of Corporate Relations of Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de 2015 Mr. Oscar Villalobos Torres left the position of C.V., Consultant and Project Developer of Enron Corp., and General Manager of Executive Vice President, Director of Administration Corporativo de Asesoría y Promoción Jurídica, S.C. In the public sector, Mr. Neme and Finance, to focus on new projects not related with has held the position of General Manager of pharmacies and pharmaceutical Genomma Lab Internacional or its subsidiaries. At that time, we announced the addition of Mr. Antonio distributors of the Institute for Security and Social Services for State Workers, Zamora Galland as the new Executive Vice President, Assistant Managing Director of the Secretariat of Energy and Brands Director of Director of Administration and Finance, assuming overall Secretariat of Education. Mr. Neme is a member of the Mexican Bar Association of responsibility for the operations of Finance, Information Lawyers and the Mexican Institute of Copyright. He has been a delegate of Mexico Technology and Investor Relations. With the addition of at various conferences related to the protection of intellectual property rights. Mr. the Mr. Antonio Zamora Galland and other key members Neme holds a degree in law from the National Autonomous University of Mexico, of the team, our Steering Group is integrated as follows: has completed various programs at Harvard University and has a certificate from the World Intellectual Property Organization in Geneva, Switzerland. ³ http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/ companyOfficers?symbol=LABB.MX 23 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Management Job Title Experience³ Antonio Zamora Galland Executive Vice President, Mr. Zamora Galland joins Genomma Lab Internacional after having served as Director of Administration Corporate General Director in Cydsa. His professional career spans 25 years of and Finance experience in Consumer Products, Strategic Consulting, Financial Services and Capital Markets. Mr. Zamora Galland held for five years the position of CFO at Grupo Lala, where he coordinated its IPO (Initial Public Offering). Previously, he was Director of Financial and Strategic Planning of PepsiCo (Mexico and Central America) for five years. He also has an extensive experience in Strategic Consulting at McKinsey & Co. and EuroPraxis, as well as Corporate and Investment Banking in Bancomer and Banamex. He is an Industrial Engineer from the Universidad Panamericana and holds an MBA from Stanford University. Marco Sparvieri Commercial Executive Vice Mr. Marco Sparvieri is an Industrial Engineer from the University of Buenos President Aires. He is the former Commercial Director of Procter & Gamble in Mexico, has over 20 years of experience in consumer companies, holding leadership roles in commercial areas. He also has international experience, since he has led businesses in six different countries, including the United States, Puerto Rico and the Caribbean, Venezuela, Argentina, Chile and Mexico. The years of experience have given him a deep knowledge of the market dynamics in different channels and an understanding of how to design the architecture of a successful business plan of promotion and marketing at the point of sale. Alejandro Bastón Patiño Vice President of Business Mr. Alejandro Bastón is Vice President of Business and International Development and International since 2015, previously he served as Vice President of Commercial Expansion and Development Human Capital. Mr. Bastón joined the company in October 2008 as Vice President of Business Strategy. He previously served as General Manager of Depilité from October 2007 to October 2008. From 1999 to 2007 he served as Commercial Director of OCESA, where he was responsible of sponsorships and government sales, as well as the operation, promotion and structure of the reopening plan for the Hipódromo de las Américas. He has held various marketing and sales positions in companies such as Hotel Inter-Continental (Mexico DF), Hotel Stouffer As part of our focus on excellence, we have Presidente (Ixtapa, Gro.) Hotel Las Brisas (Acapulco, Gro.) Camino Real Hotels integrated experienced executives to our team and Westin Hotels. Mr. Bastón has a Diploma in Business Management from the holding leading positions by specialty at regional Instituto Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, two courses in business level, who strengthen the key areas of the company and marketing from Cornell University in the US, and a course in marketing from through their maximum performance. the University of California at Berkeley, as well as several training and formation seminars taught by leading companies in the hospitality industry. 24 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Currently, the Committees are composed of the following members. Members of the Time at the Shareholder Another Committee/ Job Title Experience Committees Company Information Board in which Committees Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Chairman of the Board of Founder of the company. More 8 years 29.9% of the Chairman of the Board of Aspra⁵ Directors than 20 years’ experience in company's shares Directors (G4-34, G4-37, G4-48) marketing and brand positioning strategies. Our by-laws provide that the Board of Directors must be assisted by an Operating Committee, an Auditing Leandro Martín Sigman Member of the Corporate CEO of Chemo Corporation. 1 year Confidential Board of Directors Gold Practices Committee. With extensive management Information Committee and a Corporate Practices Committee. knowledge in Marketing & Also, pursuant to the governance structure of Sales, Business Intelligence & our organization, the following committees are Development, and Strategic Planning. responsible for analyzing and making suggestions to the Board of Directors in order to make decisions on Roberto Simón Sauma Member of the Corporate Holds a Master’s Degree in 1 year Confidential Board of Directors economic, environmental and social matters: Practices Committee. medicine from the Universidad Information Nacional Autónoma de México CEO of Grupo Ángeles Servicios Operating Committee. de Salud, S.A. de C.V. de 2000 to Auditing Committee. date. Corporate Practices Committee. Mergers & Acquisitions Committee⁴. Juan Alonso Member of the Auditing Mr. Alonso is currently CEO of 8 years Confidential Board of Directors Committee ZAO Future Technologies, one of the largest luxury homes The Committees receive feedback from the Steering construction companies in Group to propose issues for approval to the Board of Russia. Directors. On a quarterly basis, the committees meet and the President of each one of them presents Arturo José Saval Pérez Chairman of the More than 30 years’ experience 8 years Confidential Board of Directors their recommendations and suggestions to the Corporate Practices in risk capital, investment Committee. banking and commercial Board. The Board is informed of the management banking. and performance of the company’s directors and executives, as well as positions with responsibility Jorge Ricardo Gutiérrez Member of the Auditing He has served as CEO and 3 years Confidential Board of Directors in economic, environmental and social matters, Muñoz Committee member of the Board of who are directly accountable to the Chairman of the Directors of different recognized companies. Board, who is in turn accountable to the Board of Directors. José Luis Fernández Chairman of the Auditing More than 30 years of public 4 years Confidential Board of Directors Fernández Committee accounting experience. ⁴ The Mergers & Acquisitions Committee is considered as a body that assists the Board of Directors in matters in which it specializes, in view of the materiality of these activities for the company. ⁵ The Chairman of the Board of Directors does not occupy an executive position in the Company (G4-39). 25 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance The initiatives we undertake, both local and international, consider our commitments to sustainability in different areas, so we measure our sustainability performance and reported it transparently to our stakeholders. As a result of the commitments and achievements in sustainable development, we are part of the companies listed on the Sustainable IPC of the Mexican Stock Exchange, which commits and encourages us to channel our efforts to report on the most relevant topics to our stakeholders. For this reason, our sustainability report is produced every year, and reviewed and approved by our Senior Managers, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Presidents of the company. Appointment Processes and Functions of the Supreme Governance Body and Senior Management (G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53) Appointment and selection of Directors: As part of our processes for appointing and selecting Report to the Board of Directors: Our Chief Executive Officer submits the quarterly (or annual, if members of the Board of Directors and corresponding Committees, the Shareholders’ Assembly appropriate) results in relation to operations, strategies and future plans to the Board of Directors accepts or rejects each member of these bodies. Names are proposed and the curriculum of after hearing the recommendations and suggestions of the Chairmen of each Committee. This each candidate is shared with the different Board members and respective Committees, in order information is disclosed by Senior Management based on the information and reports submitted to receive their feedback and approval. The diversity of profiles is taken into account so that all by the relevant Managers of the Company. areas of the company are represented, independence, in compliance with the Securities Market Law, as well as technical plurality in various areas of opportunity and risk to the organization are Each quarter, the Board of Directors is informed of the company’s management and performance also considered. through reports developed by the company’s Management. This report underlines all critical aspects, achievements and potential challenges facing strategic objectives and potential risks, as Remuneration of Directors and the Leadership Team Matters of remuneration are approved well as any obstacles to achieving these objectives. by the Shareholders’ Assembly through an analysis drawing comparisons with other companies of similar size and activities, observing at all times the applicable legislation. Each member of The Board of Directors analyzes, evaluates and makes decisions in relation to these reports. In the Board is remunerated with a gross fee of US$7,500 for each session they attend, while the these quarterly meetings, the company’s actions and results are evaluated, decisions are made Chairmen of the Auditing, Corporate Practices, Mergers & Acquisitions and Risks Committees will and the company’s projects and strategies are approved or rejected. Additionally, there is an be awarded a gross fee of US$10,000 for each session of these Committees they attend. electronic suggestion mailbox and an Ethics Committee through which the important concerns may be transferred to the supreme governance body. Members of the Board, who are owners do not receive remuneration, such is the case of the Board Chairman, Rodrigo Herrera Aspra, and Sabrina Herrera Aspra, Proprietary Director. Management of conflict of interests: At Genomma Lab Internacional we strictly adhere to the provisions of the Securities Market Law in relation to the management of conflicts of interest. The performance management in critical matters and issues of materiality for the business is In such a case, the member will abstain from commenting/voting on the specific matters under carried out by the Board of Directors, supported by the various Committees for technical aspects, discussion. Additionally, our Internal Auditing and Ethics Committee implements mechanisms who by identifying economic, environmental and social key issues establish objectives and define to prevent that no conflicts of interest exist within the company, and where such a conflict does any potential associated risks. exist, it is analyzed and the relevant actions are taken. 26 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Our Independent Directors have been selected both for their capacity and their compliance with independence; so it is relevant to them to disclose any concerns about their status as independent and in that case, after notification, Corporate Ethics refrain from commenting and voting on the specific point in discussion. (G4-56, G4-57, G4-58, G4-LA16, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-SO8) Board Evaluation and Efficiency Our supreme governance body plays a The guidelines that direct the conduct of the members of our company are based on ethical principles. Due to fundamental role in the Company’s strategy, as it constantly defines and revisits the importance of establishing guidelines which lead the corporate and individual behavior of the stakeholders of the purposes and values of the organization. Therefore, its efficiency and focus Genomma Lab Internacional, we strengthened the Code of Conduct and Ethics, thus establishing a framework of are essential to our organization and its permanence in the long-term. In this principles that will help to drive the good judgment and personal integrity of those who start an employment or regard, the Board of Directors is evaluated by the company’s shareholders, business relationship with us. given that at the Annual Shareholders’ Assembly, the Board Members are ratified or approved. The Code of Conduct and Ethics represents a self-regulatory framework for developing and maintaining relationships of trust, honesty and respect with all individuals with whom we engage in a professional and/or business relationship, In 2013, a project was set in motion that has enabled us to identify key issues both inside and outside the company. We convey the Code to all our employees, suppliers, partners and affiliates at for the organization in the field of sustainability, economic, environmental and the beginning of each labor relationship, through the Responsible Communication GLI, website, which functions as a social matters. These have been analyzed from the perspective of reputational, platform to consult the Sustainability Reports of 2011 to the present, as well as communicate the Code of Conduct compliance, regulatory and operational risks. It allowed us to redefine our and Ethics, the Anti-Corruption Policy, Environment Policy and articles related to topics of Social Responsibility and sustainability strategy with an economic, environmental and social approach, Sustainability of the Company. The matters covered by the Code of Conduct and Ethics are: which enabled us to strengthen the actions of Genomma Lab Internacional in all its internal and external operations, through its value chain. Management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities: Our Chief Executive Officer submits the results of operations, strategies and future plans to the Board of Directors after taking Legal Affairs into consideration the recommendations and suggestions of the Chairmen of each Committee. The Board of Directors analyzes, assesses the actions and Work environment results of the company with the objective of carrying out an adequate decisionUse of Resources making and approve or reject projects and strategies of the company. Environment and Social Responsibility All these issues which are considered as potential business risks for the organizationare categorized, and if deemed relevant, are shared with Business Practices our Board of Directors for their knowledge and decision making in the Anti-corruption circumstances. Special payments More detailed technical information is available publically from the websites Gifts and entertainment activities of the Mexican Stock Exchange: http://www.bmv.com.mx/ and Investors’ Relations of the Genomma Lab Internacional http://www.genommalab.com/ Confidentiality Inversionistas/ Intellectual property Conflicts of interest Privileged Information 27 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Holders • Corporate Legal Director • Internal Auditing Director • Chairman Representative • Purchasing Director • Human Capital Director Ethics Committee • Director of Supply Chain (Distribution) • Business Operations Director The Ethics Committee is the body responsible for coordinating • Director of Global Regulatory Affairs and ensuring compliance with the guidelines set forth in the • IT Director Code of Conduct and Ethics of Genomma Lab Internacional. Its vision states that the Committee is the body that regulates and Vocals • Corporate Lawyer promotes a healthy working environment in which the basic rights • Internal Auditing Manager of all individuals associated with the Company are respected • Assistant to the President in the workplace through compliance with the Code of Conduct • Deputy Director of Demand Planning and Ethics. The mission of the Committee is to promote, regulate • Social Responsibility Manager and oversee the proper compliance of the Code and the internal • Management and Customer Care Manager Divisional Trade Marketing Manager policies by all individuals associated with the company to promote • International Regulatory Affairs Manager the development of each one of them. • Processes Coordinator Our Ethics Committee is formed by Holders (7), Vocals (7), Secretary and Ombudsperson. Secretary • Social Responsibility Manager Ombudsperson⁶ • CEOResearch and Training Center for Development ⁶ Figure with the capacity and independence necessary to meet confidential and impartial complaints concerning human rights of employees. 28 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Participants will ensure compliance with the objectives set by the Update of the Code of Conduct and Ethics Ethics Committee of Genomma Lab Internacional, which are: (G4-LA16, G4-HR2, G4-SO8) Ensure the correct application of the Code of Conduct and Ethics. This year we made amendments to the Code of Conduct and Ethics, so Clarify any doubts or queries about the applicability of the Code. our Ethics Committee in conjunction with Human Capital launched the Receive, respond to and resolve complaints of cases and situations program “EGE” The Genomma Team Listens, in order to publicize which are beyond the desired behavior of the Code. the procedure of attention to complaints about breaches of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, thus promoting ethical and professional To fulfill these objectives, the Ethics Committee meets once every conduct among all those with whom we have a professional or three months or when there is an urgent case to be met, in order business relationship. to plan and carry out work sessions that will enrich its operation. We have taken internal measures to disseminate information to employees and stakeholders on the new changes made to the Code. We implemented strategies to inform the different areas about these changes both physically and digitally, so that the information was made known in a practical and timely manner. All employees signed the Code of Conduct and Ethics, and the letter of conflict of interest reporting if there were any. These documents must be signed every year by the employees and made known to our business partners. As a complement, we seek to increase the Committee’s members training on the tools that can enrich the process and improve the processing efficiency of complaints. We identified the importance of providing training to the members of the Committee on Human Rights issues. During the month of April, we carried out a thorough review of the procedure’s structure of attention to denunciations on breaches of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, in order to include all areas that could enrich the process on issues of legality, work environment, business practices, use of resources, corruption, confidentiality, social responsibility and environment. In order to give continuity to the dissemination of this program, an induction course for new employees is taught, in which our policies and the Code of Conduct and Ethics of Genomma Lab Internacional, are covered in greater depth. 29 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance We include clauses for the compliance with the principles of Human Rights in all agreements with our manufacturing and raw materials vendors. Our code of Conduct and Ethics is communicated to all those with whom we have a professional or business relationship through the Responsible Communication GLI website, and are thus informed about how to report a breach of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, knowing Anticorruption measures and protecthat the mechanisms for receiving complaints are either in writing or by electronic means. tion of Human Rights (G4-HR1, G4-HR3, G4-HR7, G4-SO6, G4-SO11) Once a week, complaints and suggestions are collected from the mailboxes at the Distribution Center (CEDIS, for its acronym For the ninth consecutive year, we signed our adhesion to in Spanish) and the Corporate by an assigned member of the the Global Compact, reaffirming our commitment to the Ethics Committee, to be selected and sent to the heads of the issues of Human Rights, labor standards, environment and corresponding committees for their follow-up. anti-corruption. In the same way, we committed ourselves to support the objectives of Sustainable Development as defined At the Auditing Committee meetings the submitted complaints by the United Nations in September 2015. are reported. During 2015, only one complaint was filed in Central America, which was handled in timely manner. In In order to strengthen the transparency, once again we Ecuador, Chile, Colombia, Brazil and Mexico no complaints support the Global Compact with the initiative Call to action: were filed to the Code of Conduct. And in relation to working Anti-corruption , by which we strengthened the commitment to practices no significant complaint was filed. prevent and avoid acts of corruption and influence peddling by employees and/or third parties related to Genomma Lab Internacional. Through the Code of Conduct and Ethics of Genomma Lab Internacional, we reject any practice of corruption within and outside of the company. It is our obligation to prevent acts of corruption and influence peddling, for this reason, our employees must commit not to seek or accept any incentive from a third party that compromises their work performance. It is forbidden for any employee to establish a relationship by They must also report any offer, act of corruption or traffic him-/herself or through an intermediary to perform any of the of influences that may exist related to Genomma Lab following behaviors: Internacional, via email comitedeetica@genommalab. com and/or in the mailboxes of complaints and suggestions Promise, offer or give an incentive to a third party. installed in our work centers. Make use of personal, commercial and/or institutional relations. Exercise any kind of economic or political power. The practices disapproved by performing any of the activities mentioned herein may constitute an offense and shall be punished by the authorities as appropriate. 30 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance At Genomma Lab Internacional, we have established a procedure where such acts can be reported. To ensure the confidentiality of the process in a formal and impartial manner, we present the procedure sections, which include responsibilities, conditions and steps to be followed to perform the corresponding complaint. 2. Reception, 3. Temporality 4. Investigation, 1. Description of treatment and and admissibilresolution competencies requirements ity to file comof the Comand sanctions for filing mittee and the plaints. of complaints. complaints. Ombudsperson Ethics in Our Supply Chain Responsibility of our vendor of professional, technical and scientific services Our supplier has a code of ethics which goal is to provide moral guarantees of for the efficacy analysis of our cosmetics, and our hair and anti-acne solvency and establish the rules of professional conduct of the company and its products. members, aimed to comply with the society, serving it with loyalty, diligence and respect. The provider that performs the efficacy studies for us, is a world-class company of professional technical and scientific services, committed to providing highly Our supplier has also issued a Declaration of Independence of Technical Judgment to specialized laboratory services for the cosmetics’ industry and trade. Its provide guarantees of judgment and establish professional performance standards methodologies, procedures, equipment and high-level staff are subject to local and of the company, respecting their customers’ information and decision-making. international standards. Our supplier performs its operations based on privacy and quality policies In addition to having a quality system in compliance with the NMX-EC-17025characterized by the following commitments. IMNC-2006 (ISO / IEC 17025) standard, that outlines the general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories, this supplier is approved by the Ministry of Health as an Authorized Third Party Testing Laboratory; thus, it is recognized as a reliable supplier by major companies in the commercial, industrial and service sector. 31 Sustainability Report 2015 3 Corporate Governance Privacy Policy Quality Policy Protecting confidential customer information and Avoid involvement in activities that may diminish confidence in the proprietary rights thereof, including those stored and competence, impartiality, judgment and operational integrity. transmitted electronically. Compliance with the NMX-EC-17025-IMNC-2006 regulations in Treatment of personal, commercial and tax data requested legal and health matters, and international standards such as to any person, either in person, by email or web site, in the Declaration of Helsinki of the World Medical Association, accordance with the Law on Protection of Personal Data through which recommendations are issued to guide physicians in held by individuals and its regulations. biomedical research in people. Running tests in accordance with the methods and requirements Access to data only to adequately provide the services for established by our customers. which it is hired. Compliance with professional practices and the quality of the trials. Avoid transfer of personal, commercial, and fiscal data to third parties. Data protection. Communication of the purposes for which data are collected, these are: Exact, precise, reproducible and reliable analytical determinations. • Provision of required products and services. Studies made by our supplier are conducted with Commitment of the staff to familiarize themselves with the quality informed consent by the volunteers who participate • Information about changes to products or services. documentation and implementation of policies and procedures in in them. As part of the requirements specified by the their work. Ethics Committee, our supplier will clearly inform to • Information about changes in the provision of the required service. the volunteer, the purpose of his/her participation and what it is expected of it. At all times our supplier • Purposes of collection or payment. Supervision of the quality system to ensure compliance and guarantees independence and technical judgment to continuous improvement. • Communication, promotion or dissemination of the volunteers. products and services. • Compliance with the obligations arising from the commercial and legal relationship. 4 32 Sustainability Report 2015 Workforce of Generation of value in our workforce (G4-LA1, G4-10, G4-LA4, G4-EC6, G4-DMA) Genomma Lab Our workforce is comprised of employees who thrive in an environment of constant innovation, personal growth and professional development with future-oriented vision, who focus their performance in generating value for the company and our stakeholders. Internacional Throughout the year 2015 we transformed our steering group headed by our CEO Maximum Juda. One of the most important changes was the incorporation of Mr. Antonio Zamora Galland as Executive Vice President, Director of Administration and Finance, who has a proven professional career in public and private enterprises in Mexico, Europe and Latin America. His experience and leadership in business transformation processes are aligned with our strategy and sustainable high growth in a changing market environment with many opportunities. In addition, senior executives occupy management positions in the departments of Marketing and Development, Information Technology, Regulatory Affairs, Human Capital, Quality and Image, Supply Chain and Packaging. A constant in all directors is the purpose of infusing our strategic imperative in the human capital of Genomma Lab Internacional that is the sustainability of our long-term business model, together with the permanent practice of boosting the global competencies of the company. Our strength lies in the performance that each business area provides by itself and in the sum of efforts of all areas working in synergy, leveraging the cognitive, practical and geographical advantages that characterize each one. Through the area of Human Capital, our focus is on the person and the professional commitment to develop their activities; to fulfill their goals, reaching the company’s objectives and interacting effectively with their environment, family, colleagues and customers. 33 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Integration of our workforce During the year 2015 new talents joined the company, bringing knowledge, skills, experience and momentum to innovate in all areas of the company. Our team is comprised by 878 collaborators, who form a mosaic of diversity, talent and innovation that promote leadership, strategic thinking, team work Workforce by country and development of capabilities. With respect to the previous year, 2015 was characterized by a reduction of staff in Mexico and an increase in our international workforce, which was due to the strategic approach based on efficiencies, which seeks to include in our workforce the best human capital to achieve and United States of America 19 exceed the activities and objectives of the company. MExico 575 0 Dominican Republic 37 COLOMBIA ECUADOR 19 PERU 21 66 BRASIL BOLIVIA 0 Central America*: 24 chile 14 España: 23 80 ARGENTINA Total: 878 * Central America includes the countries: Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. 34 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional The labor relationship we have with our employees is defined by their The year 2015 was marked by a renewal of the workforce, which contributed performance and by the market conditions that frame our operations, so we to an organizational structure characterized by the talent, innovation and establish employment contracts for a specified or indefinite time. 82% of our experience. In total, 244 new collaborators joined the company. employees have an indefinite contract and 99% are working full time. Total employees by type of contract RECRUITMENT BY AGE 18% 158 Under 30 years 104 39% Undetermined Between 30 and 50 years 152 57% Determined Over 50 years 12 4% Total: 100% ■ 268 82% 720 Most of the hiring is focused on people between 30 to 50 years, characterized Total employees per workday by being leaders in their area of expertise and their knowledge of best practices. As for the gender distribution in new hires, 62% is composed of men and 38% 1% women. 7 Recruitment by gender Part time Full time Male 166 62% Female 102 38% 99% Total: 100% ■ 268 871 35 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional We renew the organizational structure of the Company with the objective of improving and strengthening our operations Gender equity in the national and international markets. At the same time, we strengthened the mechanisms to attract and retain talent, as well as developing our own people over time. It is noteworthy that internationally there are countries with a high number of managers of local origin, which means they have the nationality of the country where the company We aspire to continue with the equity commitments for which we maintains operations. The case of Argentina stands out, where 100% of the managers are of local origin. In the case of have been recognized, so we continue participating in initiatives Central America and Colombia, these constitute 70 per cent and 75 per cent of the total, respectively. committed to equity such as the Gender Equity Model (MEG, for its acronym in Spanish). The MEG is a management system with In total, 268 people were hired and 461 left the organization, of which, 60% were men and 40% women. Taken into a gender perspective, which provides tools to businesses, public account the number of dismissals of the organization versus the total number of employees at the end of 2015, the institutions and social organizations to make a commitment to turnover rate in Mexico was 68.52%, while internationally the average turnover rate was 18.36% in the same period. equality between women and men. The objective of the Model of Gender Equity is to develop, encourage and promote gender equity Before any decision-making involving significant changes in the operation that could impact our employees, they are in the organizations. Thus, it seeks to institutionalize the gender informed in advance. On average, the time for these notifications is one month, although in some countries this becomes equity policies and to promote equal opportunity between men two weeks because the procedures may be different. It is important to note that, in any organizational change with and women in access to employment, working conditions, as well positive or negative impact, we remain committed to improving our corporate performance concerning the management as professional development, training and participation in decisionof our talent. making processes. ⁷ Our actions in the field of gender equity were rewarded when in July 2015 Genomma Lab Internacional received again the MEG certification, which we obtained after an external audit conducted by the Directorate of the Model of Gender Equity of the National Diversity and Inclusion Institute of Women (INMUJERES), in which we were assigned a score of 92% to compliance with the evaluated aspects. This percentage In Genomma Lab Internacional we avoid discrimination in all its forms, so we have implemented mechanisms to ensure is an indicator that we continue working to promote equitable equal rights, equity and plurality of opportunities to our employees, by adhering to the provisions of our Code of employment opportunities, at the same time we promote a healthy Conduct and Ethics. In the year 2015 we strengthened our internal communication strategies to sensitize our employees and respectful environment, demonstrating our commitment in the areas of prevention of workplace violence, discrimination and harassment in all its forms and manifestations; using through policies and procedures that generate actions of value for digital media to disseminate messages promoting social equity. our employees and the company. The promotion of gender equity in Genomma Lab Internacional is one of the fundamental pillars to establish ourselves In Genomma Lab Internacional we have received this certification for as a world-class company. We recognize that equal leadership opportunities for both women and men translates clearly seven consecutive years, assuming the commitment to incorporate in benefits to the company performance. We are also aware that there must be robust mechanisms to end all forms a gender perspective in our activities, which establishes equity in of discrimination and / or workplace violence. For this reason, in addition to our Code of Conduct and Ethics which the working conditions of men and women. We seek to provide endorses our commitment in the area of gender equity, we count with a protocol of attention to complaints about any the necessary tools to ensure equity, which is manifested through breach of the Code of Conduct and Ethics, as well as a series of Internal Policies on Gender Equity. policies, practices and mechanisms that are constantly updated and are applicable in the process of recruitment, selection, training and development of human capital. ⁷ MEG:2003 http://www.cofemer.gob.mx/MEG.pdf 36 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Distribution of the workforce by gender In relation to our commitment to gender equity, the number of men and women who Male 522 59% make up the workforce in 2015 was comprised of 41% women and 59% men. Female 356 41% Total: 100% ■ 878 Distribution of the workforce by aget Most of our employees (65%) are in the age range between 30 and 50 years, while 262 Under 30 years 262 30% of them are under the age of 30 and 50 over 50 years. Between 30 and 50 years 566 65% Over 50 50 5% 37 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Equity in our supply chain Talent management and professional development (G4-HR2, G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11) Social impact of our manufacturer of creams, shampoos and powders. In 2015, we established new mechanisms of talent management, migrating to a new performance based To Genomma Lab Internacional it is very important that our suppliers walk with us either side by side culture and the implementation of career and compensation plans. The drive to the development of or go a step forward in promoting gender equity. Such is the case of our manufacturer of our brands our human capital has been strengthened by formalizing growth plans that establish professional goals Ma Evans, Jockey Club, Tío Nacho, Silka Medic and Asepxia, who demonstrates a high commitment to by which the professional performance of each member of our team will be evaluated. equity in its workforce, with a total of 51% women. For this key link in our supply chain, it is crucial to provide their workers better working conditions than those dictated by the law; providing medical care, New mechanisms were developed for talent retention. An example of the foregoing is the recognition one hour for breastfeeding during the first six months after childbirth, either when they start or finish of the best talent of the company through the nominations to the CEO AWARDS 2015, which are their workday, childcare agreements with IMSS (Mexican Institute of Social Security, for its acronym in awarded to employees who demonstrate in their work the Global Competencies of Genomma Lab Spanish) and permissions of justified paid absence to attend school meetings or when their children Internacional: leadership, strategic thinking, adaptation to change, effective communication, capacitysuffer some disease. building and teamwork. Leadership Strategic Adaptaation Teamwork thinking to change Effective Capacitycommunication building This new competencies-based strategy is focused on enhancing our workforce's talent in alignment with the successful achievement of our company objectives. On the other hand, we have implemented a new tool that allows the development of short-, mediumand long-term career plans for our employees, based on specific goals and action routes to achieve them. 38 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Training Talent development is aligned to continuous learning, which provides our employees the knowledge, skills and abilities to optimally develop their activities. During 2015 we The training of managerial levels is of utmost importance to ensure the transmission taught 3,925 training hours to 685 active employees. and implementation of the company’s strategy and values in all areas within it. Collaborators from different countries where we have presence participate in our training programs; in addition, we encourage the staff to make visits to different countries in the region to enrich their knowledge both culturally and professionally. 3,449 h 476 h In Central America and the Caribbean, the Country Manager provides Staff Coaching México International in order to increase their capabilities in the roles performed within the organization. In the case of Ecuador, the programs focus on improving the employees’ capabilities through economic support that allows them to attend seminars, diploma courses, professional training courses and postgraduate courses, as well as training in areas such as health and safety at work to promote a culture of self-care in their work and personal life. Total training hours: 3,925 To determine our employees’ training needs, an assessment of their skills, performance and career plan is carried out. According to the results, they are incorporated into various technical and specialized courses related to their area of business, thus The training was conducted at different hierarchical levels within the company. increasing their proficiency in different specialties to meet the challenges of the Regarding the percentage of training hours provided per level, 16% corresponded to operation. The benefits of this training program are not only useful for the challenges vice presidency and directors and 84% to the levels of coordination, specialist, analyst they face on a daily basis, but provide useful knowledge and experience for their future and auxiliary. professional life. Toward 2016, the above mentioned competencies will be shaped according to specific business areas and they will integrate leaders by competency in each country (teams with competencies), who will be responsible of transmitting knowledge by example to their co-workers, in the most relevant aspects of each Total hours by competence. hierarchical level 16% VP/Directors/Deputy Directors/Managers Coordination/Specialist/Analyst/Auxiliary 84% 39 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Employee benefits (G4-EC3, G4-EC5, G4-LA3, G4-LA12, G4-LA13) In the same way that training is core for talent management, the benefits that we give to our employees for their personal wellness are essential so they can achieve Genomma Lab Internacional business goals. In this regard, we seek to offer competitive salaries, plus compensatory mechanisms which consider gender equity and non-discrimination. In addition, we also provide additional benefits to those established by law to Genomma Lab Internacional employees, which may vary between countries, such Total workforce by as cafeteria card, educational assistance and child daycare. hierarchical level 23% We also offer various corporate bonuses to our employees, both with indeterminate and determinate 200 contract according to the company’s policies in each country. In addition to the labor and compensation benefits, we support the personal economy of our VP/Directors/Deputy Directors/Managers employees by obtaining discounts with outside vendors, such as clothing stores, restaurants, fitness Coordination/Specialist/Analyst/Auxiliary centers, among others. We seek therewith that our staff has a good quality of life outside the working environment. Genomma Lab Internacional has a coverage of worker-employer social obligations arising from their benefit plan, which usually varies between countries according to local regulations. All our employees 77% receive the benefits established in the regulation, such as Christmas bonus, vacations, saving fund for 678 retirement and vacation bonus. In addition, we provide superior benefits to those required by law. The organizational structure of Genomma Lab Internacional is designed to promote professional growth of our employees, which consists of various hierarchical levels. Approximately 25% of In the case of Argentina, the governance bodies of Genomma Lab Internacional present as a our workforce corresponds to directorship and management levels and the other 75% is held by feature having a higher percentage of women. In total, 40% of these bodies are composed of coordinator, specialist, analyst and assistant positions. men and 60% of women, a higher amount than the previous year, where the percentage of women was 50%. This percentage may vary considerably between countries. 40 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Recognizing that our success is linked to successful processes in In Genomma Lab Internacional, we annually create innovative projects that positively recruitment, training, development and retention of the very best impact the development and quality of life of our employees and stakeholders. talent, we have strengthen our policies that help us improve the management of our invaluable human capital Policy for training, development and performance management: commitment to foster professional development based on knowledge, skills, experience and career. Policy for talent attraction: commitment to allow access to employment respecting human dignity, human rights and determining our inalienable obligations, complying with the legal and social security framework. Policy for compensation and benefits: commitment to guarantee benefits, agreements and additional compensations to those required by law, to enable our employee to enjoy a better quality of personal We renew our public commitment to sustainability in environmental, social and and family life. economic matters, by receiving for the ninth consecutive year the Acknowledgment of Socially Responsible Company. This after an annual review of our management Policy for apprentices and trainees: commitment to promote and social, ethical, environmental and labor practices and corporate governance. the recruitment and development of the best talent, focused on the The distinction is awarded by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI, for interaction between the company and the participant to achieve its acronym in Spanish) and AliaRSE in recognition of our voluntary and public objectives in a responsible, inclusive and sustainable manner. commitment to socially responsible management in the areas of: quality of life in the company, community liaison, corporate ethics, and environmental protection and Policy for job severance: commitment to give the corresponding preservation. and additional bonuses to the employee who is being separated from the company. Our commitment to the personal wellness of our workforce is reinforced through our Life Balance policy, where we establish guidelines for our employees to find a balance between their work life and their family and personal lives, enabling them to work in a healthy, productive environment. We are convinced that our commitment is to generate a climate of trust, credibility and respect, thus provoking participation and efficiency in our corporate practices. 41 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional In the month of January of 2015 we received for the fourth consecutive year the Acknowledgment of Family-Responsible Company, which is granted by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS, for its acronym in Spanish) to the public or private companies that focus their efforts on implementing good labor practices for the benefit of its employees in issues such as reconciliation In Genomma Lab Internacional, we maintain a very important commitment to of work and family, equal opportunities and combating domestic violence. working mothers, who are professionals forming part of our workforce. For “A family-responsible company is one that proves to be a promoter of good this reason we have various benefits for them, which may vary by country labor practices in the areas of gender equity, the prevention and combating or region. of workplace violence and sexual harassment, as well as actions and policies to help workers meet their family responsibilities. ⁸. Likewise, we encourage those employees, who during 2015 enjoyed their maternity and paternity leave, and joined the workforce of Genomma Lab Internacional, ensuring that the conditions for reinstatement were optimal for their permanence in the company. Faced with this situation, in 2015 100 per cent of the men and 92 per cent of women who requested their maternity or paternity leave, returned to the company. In the same way, 100% of the collaborators retained their work twelve months after their reinstatement. Rates of reinstatement and Men Women Through our social responsibility retention and human capital development programs, we seek to improve Rate of reinstatement 100% 92% the environment in which our employees thrive. Employee retention rate 80% 100% ⁸ Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social http://www.stps.gob.mx/EMPRESA_FR/002%20%20Manual%20de%20 Aplicacion%20EFR%20(PDF).pdf 42 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional We also celebrated different contests, in which our workforce can demonstrate their creative talents and be recognized for them. In 2015, we conducted a piñata contest in which we had a high participation and involvement demonstrated through various proposals of our employees Pillar of culture and their families. As part of Genomma Lab Internacional actions towards our employees, in August, 2015 we spread the 'Pillar of culture' initiative, in order to publicize the strategy whose main goals lie in strengthening the culture, talent development, corporate communications and training within the company to promote productivity and achievement of objectives. Also, in December 2015, we responded to our concern to support the education of the children of our employees, launching for the first time the Program of Academic Excellence, where those attending elementary school or junior high school with an average higher than 9.0, will be recognized and will receive support to continue with their studies. Our initiative was undertaken with the conviction that we will encourage these children and young people to continue preparing themselves to forge a future with opportunities for academic and professional development. From the perspective of cultural enrichment, it is a priority for Genomma Lab Internacional that our talent evolves in different cultural aspects that will enable them to enrich their personal development from different perspectives of life. To this end, in conjunction with the Communication Council, we implemented the program Rola tu libro” [Pass your book around] since 2013 to date, which is aimed to foster the habit of reading among our employees and their families, to achieve this goal we provide a library for lending books to collaborators. Since the beginning of our program to date more than 200 employees have taken part, who have read a total of 32.544 hours, which is equivalent to 1,356 laps of our planet. In the Distribution Center (CEDIS, for its acronym in Spanish) we promote cultural programs that strengthen our traditions and narrow ties between employees of Genomma Lab Internacional. Such is the case of the internal football tournament, the contest of oblations and Christmas celebrations to which the families of our employees are invited. In addition, we handle annual vaccination campaigns, dining service at no cost and if the working time of our employees extends, we provide an additional box lunch and a safe cab home, depending on their departure time. 43 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Human Capital Our employees are the backbone of our company, so their personal and professional development is essential for us to continue growing. The main function of the Department of Human Capital is the management of internal talent at the national and international level, in accordance with the mission and vision of Genomma Occupational Health and Safety Lab Internacional. During the year 2015 we have implemented (G4-LA5, G4-LA6) a new organizational culture based on global competencies, as well as the introduction of career and compensation plans. The For Genomma Lab Internacional health and safety of our employees is a priority, because their main challenge we faced consisted in achieving synergy between physical integrity is essential to perform the tasks aimed at achieving our goals and to develop the culture prevailing in the company and the new organizational a high quality of life. Under this, we are committed to providing and maintaining a safe, risk-free culture, which implies a process that we will seek to satisfactorily and healthy working environment by offering programs that encourage a culture of self-care, fulfill during 2016. and at the same time, motivate our employees to give their best, with an attitude of innovation, teamwork and development of their capabilities. Furthermore, an internal communication campaign was developed through our monthly magazine GenommaNews, which aims We know that the health of our employees has a definite impact on their work performance to maintain a permanent and direct communication with our and consequently our performance as a company. In light of the foregoing, we organized employees. This contains, on its front page, a message from our in conjunction with the Ministry of Health, the vaccination campaign against influenza, as CEO, evaluating the results of the month and plans for the next, conducted annually. a section with news about events that somehow positively or negatively affect the organization, a message from the Committee We are aware that each of our employees has a particular condition in their state of health, of the Organization, a page called Genomma World in which we so we address every aspect in this area with comprehensive measures of prevention and talk about the events held in each country where we operate and correction. Internationally, we promote a safe working environment by creating committees a section called Did you know that where interesting information to design, implement, oversee and guide safety programs at work to identify and address the is provided in relation to the products we commercialize. issues, risks of diseases or conditions that harm the well-being of our staff. For the year 2016, innovative solutions in terms of organizational In the particular case of Colombia, there is a Joint Committee on Safety and Health at Work culture will be implemented: the global competencies will (COPASST), the Coexistence Committee, and Emergency Brigade. Similarly, in Ecuador there is be adapted by specific area, and competence leaders will be Joint Committee on Health and Safety, complying with the local occupational health and safety designated in each country, so that they effectively transmit regulations. knowledge to all employees. At Human Capital we are convinced that “with every small positive change we bring, we all grow and the company is transformed”. 44 Sustainability Report 2015 4 Workforce Of Genomma Lab Internacional Accidents and injuries Health and safety in our supply chain At the national level, we recorded the following number of accident injuries and lost days at our Social impact of our manufacturer of Tío Nacho, Cicatricure and Suerox facilities. Given the greater exposure of health and safety risks at work in our Distribution Center (CEDIS, for its acronym in Spanish), we provide the data on health and safety of the CEDIS as a measure As a result of our commitment to the mitigation and prevention of the risk of occupational to endorse our commitment to monitoring and follow-up to accidents in the workplace. accidents, we have created specific policies and guidelines on safety, hygiene and occupational health. In addition, we have implemented in our evaluations to suppliers considerations to contemplate in their operations in order to ensure a healthy and safe workplace environment for their employees, eliminating and minimizing risks to personnel, infrastructure and environmental damage. Region i Mexico CEDIS Our caps’ manufacturer for the brands Tío Nacho, Cicatricure and Suerox has implemented advanced health and safety programs within their facilities. Injuries, diseases, lost days, and fatalities Men Women Men Women At least twice a year, the health week takes place, with lectures and workshops on hygiene practices in the workplace, measures for the prevention of influenza, medical analyses (blood, Number of accidents with injuries 2 3 6 1 vision and nutrition), dental care, and birth control, among others. Also, every year the safety week takes place, with workshops and conferences to strengthen knowledge about personal Number of lost days 82 25 69 23 safety, safety at work, civil protection and drills, where security is contemplated from both an 0% 0% 0% 0% internal and external approach, providing information ranging from the use of fire extinguishers Absenteeism rate ii to measures of protection against robberies and assaults. Fatalities 0 0 0 0 At global level, an awards’ system takes place each year, among the different categories the following stand out business development, health and safety and profitability and innovation. i At international level, no accidents or illnesses were reported. This year, Mexico’s plant won the Environmental Health and Safety award for its advanced management of health and safety practices among the 26 plants that make up the organization around the world. In addition to counting with certified quality processes under the ISO 9001: 2008, our supplier is also certified under the PASS 220 standard focused on controlling food safety hazards in food manufacturing processes, based on specific food safety requirements for the participating organizations in the chain. 5 45 Sustainability Report 2015 Value Chain of In Genomma Lab Internacional we are aware that every link in our value chain, consisting of suppliers, partners, customers and consumers, is an essential gear for the machinery of our business model to work properly. We act in conjunction with our suppliers and Genomma Lab customers to generate value and, consequently, seek to strengthen the confidence of consumers, for whom we work passionately. Our commitment is to be recognized as a world-class company by the quality of our products and the efficiency of our operation. Internacional One of our objectives is to position our brands in the minds of the consumer, being recognized as products that meet the highest standards of innovation and quality. Therefore, we develop innovative formulas whose ultimate goal is the satisfaction of our consumers’ needs. This development is performed internally and in conjunction with specialists in the field to, subsequently, (G4-12, G4-DMA) manufacture these products through third parties. The impact of our operations lies in the hands of our employees and our suppliers, therefore both must comply with the specific legal conditions to market a product. To achieve this, we participate hand in hand with government agencies and suppliers who perform laboratory and compliance studies. Through the purchase of inputs, maquila and services, we ensure our products' supply and, in some cases, we turn to their international marketing through service providers in the customs sector and tax specialists. We ensure that our products meet the highest standards of quality and conditioning through our manufacturers, who perform control and vigilance processes. We have an internal department, as well as an independent vendor, which ensure a strict control of our purchasing and invoicing processes. On the other hand, we have suppliers of assembly, storage and inventory management responsible for the collection, management and control of the product. 46 Sustainability Report 2015 5 Value Chain of Genomma Lab Internacional Particularly, the cosmetic products we manufacture are subjected Sustainable Supply Chain to studies of efficiency and efficacy through a third party authorized (G4-EC7, G4-EC8, EG-EC9, G4-LA12, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-EN32, G4-EN33) by the Ministry of Health and the COFEPRIS (Federal Commission for the Protection from Sanitary Risks). The research is conducted according to a Protocol approved by an independent Ethics In Genomma Lab Internacional we work hand in hand with our suppliers to create synergies and thus Committee, which makes suggestions and recommendations on achieve increased efficiency and optimization of the productive processes. We believe that it is along human rights and ethical principles. our value chain where we have the big areas of opportunity for the development of projects with a positive impact for our stakeholders in the economic, social and environmental fields. Our ultimate The distribution chain of our customers consists mainly of goal is to achieve the sustainable development of our companies, working in a coordinated manner. wholesale channels and supermarkets. Similarly, we have an internal department of marketing specialists and related suppliers In 2015, the portfolio of suppliers of Genomma Lab Internacional was formed by 4,152 companies, who are responsible for managing the communication strategies both nationally and internationally, of which 167 are part of the supply chain of our products. In in advertising media, as well as the encoding of commercials which synergy, we ensure the sustainability of our business model, as well as the quality and excellence of ensure the transmission of our products’ information to consumers. our products, in their processes and services of maquila, inputs, regulatory, storage, transport, import, Internally, we ensure personalized attention to our clients at all purchasing, distribution and marketing, among others. In Genomma Lab Internacional we seek, as stages of our products’ purchase. far as possible, that the products we market internationally are locally sourced, since in this way we support the communities of the region and, at the same time, we reduce transportation costs. In the United States, for example, 100% of our products come from local suppliers. In the case of Argentina, 95% its products are obtained from local supply. In the rest of the countries where we operate, the majority of the products marketed come from Mexico. Vendor Selection (G4-EC8, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR9, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4SO9, G4-SO10, G4-EN32, G4-EN33) We are aware that Genomma Lab Internacional products have a life cycle, whose impact occurs at earlier stages, during and after the development and manufacture of the product we have in our hands. For that reason, we are committed to achieving greater interference through our operational areas to ensure that the product that we sell, complies at its stage of development and manufacturing with high environmental, social and ethical standards. In Mexico, all suppliers responsible for manufacturing or producing medical products, medical devices, products and inputs, are evaluated by means of audits that verify the points listed below. Such audits consider the records and documentation related to the manufacture of medicines, the quality management system (manuals, risk assessment, control of change, technology transfer, among others), qualified personnel, facilities and equipment (areas of production and storage); manufacturing system (control of inputs, sampling, reception and supply), control of the products’ conditioning, distribution control, final waste disposal, pharmacovigilance, contractors and returns. 47 Sustainability Report 2015 5 Value Chain of Genomma Lab Internacional Basic aspects evaluated in audits for the selection of vendors Product quality and responsibility Labor considerations Pharmacovigilance and Technovigilance Regulatory framework, applicable certificates and licenses Organizational structure Training Quality management system Education and experience Suspicion reports Analytical and testing methods Health, safety and hygiene Adverse reactions or adverse incidents Product handling, transportation and storage Health responsibility Safety reports Safety and hygiene controls Training and capacity-building Purchase of raw materials and packaging Premises, equipment and maintenance Management of subcontracted input, process and activities vendors Staff services areas Control of input handling, distribution and storage Workplace violence prevention mechanisms Input analysis certification Risk management Technology transfer systems Control of manufacturing operations Product checks Release of finished product Complaint management Non-compliant product handling Product returns and market withdrawal 48 Sustainability Report 2015 5 Value Chain of Genomma Lab Internacional Environmental concerns Social Responsibility (RS, for its acronym in Spanish) Ecological and health legislation Code of ethics and/or conduct Waste management, storage and disposal Working conditions (remuneration and hours) Precautions for preventing product contamination Respect of human rights (principles of equality, non-discrimination, non-forced Water systems labor, non-child labor, freedom of association and collective bargaining, rights Safety and hygiene guidelines of the indigenous population, etc.) Greenhouse gas emissions (GEI, for its acronym in Spanish) Equity and inclusion Actual or potential impact on communities Measures against corruption and unfair practices Acknowledgment of third-party SR Only in Central America, 100% of our vendors were evaluated based on their impact on human rights. At national and international level, we have not detected that neither of our vendors of the operating centers, presents any conditions of child labor, forced labor nor other practices in violation of human rights. 6 49 Sustainability Report 2015 Genomma Lab We are aware that our products must comply with the ethical, environmental and social guidelines determined by each country, so we are aimed at delivering products that meet the highest quality standards and that satisfy Internacional the needs of our customers. It is of vital importance that our operations are recognized for their innovation, quality and efficiency, so we are focused on the implementation of processes that seek to avoid losses or waste at the same time generate value for the Quality customer. To improve the quality of our products, we encourage those employees proposing continuous improvement processes in the areas of productivity, deliveries, safety, costs, quality, and ethics recognizing them with an award. An example of the foregoing is the program Generators of ideas , through which we seek to promote the spirit of innovation in our employees and promote a culture of continuous improvement. This is achieved by integrating teams to which knowledge and experience on the generation and transfer of ideas for improvement is transmitted; such teams are formed by a leader, impellers and generators. The leader receives training on the model of continuous improvement and his responsibilities, which are: to assess the ideas generated, actively participate in the project and support the generation of ideas, among others. Subsequently, the leader is responsible for transmitting the information to the impellers or supervisors’ team whose responsibility it is to know the continuous improvement philosophy and drive the generators of ideas. The idea generators, as its name suggests, are responsible for finding niches of opportunity in the process and proposing ideas to take advantage of them. Such team must work as a group to generate an idea for every three collaborators each month. The ideas are evaluated at the end of the month in a contest where the Best Idea, Best Leader, Best Impeller and the Best Generator are recognized. It is important to note that the Distribution Center is highly focused on developing productive employees who are committed to the activities they carry out; for this reason, every month the most outstanding employees are encouraged, by granting them an award handed by the Senior Management and leadership team. This event culminates with a breakfast to recognize their effort and strengthen fellowship. A fundamental part to ensure that employees are highly productive, is the opportunity provided by the CEDIS to its staff to learn new roles, which are additional to those already established; this generates personal and professional growth, strengthening the sense of identity and belonging. 50 Sustainability Report 2015 6 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality Quality in the personal care products To verify that the products we sell meet the quality standards required by the company, the area of Quality and Image conducts studies with the following objectives: Qualification of suppliers within a normative and ethical framework through audits with scheduled recurrence. Analysis: sensory, physicochemical, microbiological and attributes of raw materials, packaging materials and packaging; bulk and finished product. All this before the release of our products to the market. Adherence to Good Manufacturing Practices within the local and international framework. We promote a culture of Continuous Improvement within the organization. Having controlled and stable, but flexible processes, so that product availability is ensured. Comply with the regulatory framework and the applicable rules. Optimize internal operations. Regulatory Compliance Mitigate and eliminate internal risks related to the operation. Configure an organizational structure according to the needs of In the case of Mexico, our operations closely adhere to the guidelines of the Federal Commission for the the Organization. Protection against Sanitary Risk (COFEPRIS), which establishes the regulation and control of the products Document procedures and forms of work. we sell. At international level, we follow the rules and guidelines by which each country is governed (FDA, ANVISA, ANMAT, INVIMA, EMA, CENADIM, ARCSA, DNM, ISP, ARN, DRyCPFA), in both cases we seek that the quality of our products exceeds the standard presented by the regulation. Two extremely valuable tools we have to monitor the quality of our products are the pharmacovigilance and technovigilance programs. The first, monitors the eventual adverse reactions that a consumer might Quality in Over-The-Counter Medications (OTC) present while using our products. In the second case, medical devices are monitored to determine whether they comply with the required quality and safety measures; all this is carried out through a The guiding principle by which we ensure that our suppliers of OTC medicines, manufacture Call Center, which is described later in the report. In relation to the cosmetic products, we carry out risk quality products are the Good Manufacturing Practices. We establish, moreover, that they assessments, something not required by law but that is part of our culture of continuous improvement. maintain strict adherence to the applicable regulation, demanding that they have the appropriate formulation for each product. 51 Sustainability Report 2015 6 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality REGULATORY FRAMEWORK IN MEXICO INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY FRAMEWORK • General Health Law • RTCA 11.03.59:11 Pharmaceutical products. Medicinal products for human use. Health Registration Requirements • Regulation of Health Supplies • RTCA 11.03.47:07 Pharmaceutical products. Medicinal products for human use. Quality verification • NOM-059-SSA1-2013: Good manufacturing practices for medicinal products • RTCA 11.03.39:06 Pharmaceutical products. Validation of analytical methods for the quality of medicines • NOM-072-SSA1-2012: Labeling of medicines and herbal remedies • RTCA 11.01.02:04 Pharmaceutical products. Labeling of pharmaceutical products for human use • NOM-073-SSA1-2005: Stability of drugs and medications • RTCA 11.01.04:10 Pharmaceutical products. Stability studies of medicinal products for human use • NOM-137-SSA1-2008: Labeling of medical devices • Ministerial Resolution No. 0909 Manual for Health Registration • (NOM-141-SSA1, SCFI-2012) Labeling for prepackaged cosmetic products Health care and commercial labeling • Decree Number 677 of 1995 (April 26) which partially regulates the Regime of Registrations and Licenses, the Quality • NOM-177-SSA1-2013: Procedures to demonstrate that a drug is interchangeable Control, as well as the Regime of Health Surveillance of Medicines, Cosmetics, Pharmaceutical Preparations based on Natural Resources, Toiletries, Hygiene and Cleaning and other products for domestic use and enacting other provisions • NOM-220-SSA1-2012: Installation and operation of pharmacovigilance on the subject. • NOM-240-SSA1-2012: Installation and operation of technovigilance • Technical Standard No. 129 Guide for the completion and submission of stability studies of pharmaceutical products in • NOM-241-SSA1-2012: Good manufacturing practices for establishments engaged in the manufacture of Chile and its annex. medical devices • Decree 3 Regulation of the national system for the control of pharmaceutical products for human use. • Technical Standard No. 127 Good manufacturing practices, related with the Supreme Decree No. 3, 2010, of the Ministry of Health, by which the regulation of the National System was approved for the control of pharmaceuticals for human use. • Agreement No. 00000586 Substitute regulation for health registry for medicines in general. • Decree 246-06 Regulation of drugs • Law 1 of 10 January 2001 on medicines and other products for human health • Executive Decree No. 178 That regulates the Law 1 of 10 January 2001, on medicines and other products for human health. • Supreme Decree (S.D.) No. 002-2010-SA Single Text of Administrative Procedures for registration and re-registration approved with S.D. 013-2009-SA modified by S.D. No. 002-2010-SA • CFR Code of Federal Regulations Title 21 • Manual of Procedures for Registration of Specific Medicines ANVISA • Provision 3554/2002 ANMAT 52 Sustainability Report 2015 6 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Clinical Research All our products have the endorsement of clinical research, tests are performed during their development to prove the efficacy and safety of our cosmetics and medicines. During the year 2015, 47 clinical studies were conducted to our products. However for the first half of the year 2016 we have set the goal of carrying out 90 studies. Regulatory Affairs The main function of the Department of Regulatory Affairs is to regulate the medicines and cosmetics of the company, since their registration until their marketing. Through this area, we ensure that all products comply with the regulations established by COFEPRIS, in the case of Mexico, or by local regulations according to the corresponding country. The Department of Quality and Regulatory Affairs work together in the mapping and implementation processes, while maintaining a constant communication with the Marketing Department. Our Department of Regulatory Affairs has programs to monitor compliance with applicable regulations: pharmacovigilance Quality in our supply chain and technovigilance, as described in the Compliance section of this report. In addition, we are implementing a program of The assurance of our products’ quality is essential for the sustainability of our business model through cosmeticvigilance, focused on cosmetic products. time. In Genomma Lab Internacional, aware of its importance, we establish verification processes to ensure that they meet the quality standards at national and international levels, as well as the On the other hand, in addition to carrying out the compliance internalization of our principles and values. This year we continue the dialog with each of our suppliers studies required by law, we develop risk assessments as a to strengthen our relationship, as well as to encourage collaborative ties that are a win-win. We way of ensuring that the quality of our products, exceeds the recognize their achievements in sustainability, which have also been a model of example and success requirements demanded by the applicable regulations. for us. We have approached suppliers who have excelled for their actions towards sustainability. We want to encourage the other elements of our supply chain to become involved in these initiatives with The Department of Regulatory Affairs is convinced that All innovative and strategic solutions so that together we accomplish a positive impact in the fields of products of which Genomma Lab Internacional is holder economy, environment and society. of registration and distribution (drugs, devices and cosmetics) are marketed, complying with the standards of the current international regulations and their quality is checked with the highest scientific standards . 53 Sustainability Report 2015 6 Genomma Lab Internacional Quality CEDIS Our pro-health initiatives and our commitment to equity and All our products are concentrated in one place before being inclusion lead us to support institutions that promote a culture distributed to our customers and consumers subsequently: of support and empowerment in those with disabilities or the Distribution Center of Genomma Lab (CEDIS). This area special conditions. Internally, at the product reception stage at implemented throughout 2015 three strategies: continuously the CEDIS, we determine whether they comply with the quality seek perfection, encourage active participation of employees objectives through the review of different samples of a product, and integrate the essential elements of the value chain. taken at random from each batch. This is how it is possible to recognize the consistency and effectiveness of the performance In the CEDIS we have a laboratory for measuring our products’ of our products, as well as their traceability. quality, where tests are performed to the development of new products and daily analysis of organoleptic aspects, In addition, the commitment to the safety of our Distribution physicochemical, viscosity, P. H., reagents and microbiological Center is reflected through various mechanisms of insurance to studies. protect our facilities, furniture, machinery and products in case of accident, natural disasters or other conditions of vulnerability One of the actions to improve productivity in the work area to which our valuable human capital may be exposed. is the introduction of the 5S philosophy. This has its origins in Japan and aims to create work areas, which are more productive, safe, clean and visually organized. The principles are five: 1) Seiri: identify and remove those items that are not needed in the work area; (2) Seiton: arrange and sort the items in a specific place; (3) Seiso: eliminate all forms of Additionally, we have the Godfathers program, which pollution and make the daily cleaning; (4) Seiketsu: Prevent consists of our employees acting as godparents to a brand the emergence of dirt and disorder and (5) Shitsuke: Maintain and trying it for a previously established period. Once the discipline and keep improving continuously. trial period is finished, our staff shares their observations and perceptions of the product quality and packaging. On average, “In the CEDIS, Genomma Lab, we continually seek perfection 150 employees per month participate as godfathers of 328 to exceed the requirements of our customers, guaranteeing products. The results have been higher than expected, since the correct flow of goods through a flexible, sustainable during the operation time of this program, valuable feedback and efficient supply chain by the active participation of our was obtained regarding the operation of the product and its employees . effectiveness, which serves as the starting point for the process of continuous improvement. 7 54 Sustainability Report 2015 Responsibility Knowledge and satisfaction of our consumers for Our The world is changing rapidly, the industry in which we move is constantly evolving and with it the consumers and the shopper. This speed impels us to evolve as quickly without losing sight of the search and understanding of the real reasons for consumption. Products Consumers expect to have greater interaction with our brands and that is why our expectation is to build engagement (relations increasingly close and strong), where the satisfaction and loyalty are the axes by which they recommend our brands and are proud to use them (G4-DMA, G4-HR12, G4-SO11, G4-PR1, G4-PR2, G4-PR3, During 2015 the evolution of Genomma Lab Internacional in this context was characterized not only by answering research G4-PR4, G4-PR5, G4-PR6, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9) questions, but by transforming this research into insights that lead us to potentiate the building of brands with their own personalities and dynamics that humanize them and makes the consumer fall in love with them, positioning them as unique in their mind. The challenge is attracting consumers toward our brands through In advertising themes and having challenge of maximizing the ROI, their senses, desires and feelings transforming them into emotional we added to our portfolio, methodologies for advertising evaluation relationships and keeping them alive for the building of lovebrands with efficient times and budgets to evaluate strategies before launching that result in high levels of loyalty. them to PREDICT and OPTIMIZE their performance, generating efficient and memorable campaigns with which consumers feel identified. Other key challenges we are reinforcing are: understanding the Shopper (real buyers) and the environment of the Retailer, who It is important to mention that we also strengthen our digitization path, we with the passage of time takes greater protagonism and represents are conducting online research, which today is one of the most advanced an opportunity not only in sales, but also in the building of the options through digital panels, which have become a reliable and key source of positioning to which we want to bring our brands, in this context information about the market and consumers. This advanced technology allows our goal is: “Conquer the shopper as well as the consumer us to perform not only local studies, but also in the main countries in which Genomma Lab has presence, with advantages in time and costs. 55 Sustainability Report 2015 7 Responsibility for Our Products Attention to our consumers Information to the consumer (PR3) We have a global Call Center that aims to address any consumers’ concerns or complaints. Calls are answered by trained advisors who When operating at international level with presence in various regions, the marketing provide general information or suggestions about the product use, strategies of each product are structured on the basis of the trade laws of each which is supported with an internal management system that it is market and are subject to the rules of fair competition in each country. Therefore, called Genovigilance. The following describes in general terms the prior to any publication or broadcast, the suggested advertising material must be customer care process. submitted for approval of the Internal Committee of Advertising. We seek to strictly comply with the dictates of the body responsible for the regulation of the industry in which we operate, the Federal Commission for the Protection against Sanitary Risk (COFEPRIS). This body is decentralized from the Ministry of Health and has responsibility for the protection of health risks through regulation, control and health promotion as dictates the General Health Law. 4 3 Similarly, we are voluntarily adhering to the following guidelines in the sector: 2 Follow-up to • National Chamber of the Pharmaceutical Industry (CANIFARMA) 1 Product's data Record in the Genovigilance system and consumer's request. If not able to solve it, • Code of Advertising Ethics of the Association of the Over-the-Counter Medication Manufacturers (AFAMELA) relating to the dissemination of information about our products. collection (batch, it is assigned Consumer call assignment of • National Council of Advertising Self-Regulation (CONAR). place of origin, to the relevant record number quantity) department • Code of Advertising Ethics of the Council of Advertising Self-Regulation and Ethics Also, we are part of the program COFEPRIS Copy Advice, for advertising analysis under the Committee for Health Promotion (CFS, for its acronym in Spanish), which reviews the preliminary versions of the advertising before its submission to an advertising permit process. At international level it is fundamental for us to respect the legal When a complaint is filed, this is transferred to the Complaints’ frameworks and criteria for responsible advertising. Department, which contacts the consumer directly. Subsequently, we conduct an internal investigation within the company and establish a plan of action to resolve the complaint. The average number of calls answered by the Call Center is 200 per month, of which only 5% have been linked with quality issues. 56 Sustainability Report 2015 7 Responsibility for Our Products Labeling of products (G4-PR3) In Genomma Lab Internacional we are committed to the transmission of accurate, Web Marketing (Digital Area) reliable and real information to our consumers through marketing strategies that Internet offers various ways to approach our consider ethics as part of their fundamental axes. Pursuant to the above, we have stakeholders, know what they think of our products procedures for the dissemination of information subject to strict guidelines about and convey relevant information. Therefore, the origin of the product, the form of safe use of the product, the method of disposal during 2015 the Department of Web Marketing of the product and substances that might have a negative impact socially or on the focused on transmitting consumer information environment and health; for which we consider the applicable regulations, among which the norm NOM-141-SSA1/SCFI-2012 stands out on the labeling for prewith responsibility, with the purpose of improving packaged cosmetics. Health care and commercial labeling. their health and quality of life. Through this area we manage two major projects: the official Internet pages of Genomma Lab Internacional (genommalab. com, genommalab.mx and the individual pages of each brand) and social networks. Consumer comments are received through our various channels and follow-up given to their concerns. If questions regarding the points of sales are Advertising Communication received, these are immediately answered; in the case of specific questions regarding the quality We know that our television commercials have the capacity to significantly influence of a product or regarding a medicine, these are the purchasing decisions of consumers, which is why we adhere to the Best Promotion respectively channeled, to the internal relevant Practices Code of CETIFARMA (National Chamber of the Pharmaceutical Industry), and area of Genomma Lab Internacional, and assigned comply with all internal policies in relation to promotion, commercial plans, regulatory to a physician, who will responsibly and advertising compliance for the broadcasting of advertising spots. deal with the issue. The phrase We seek through the TV ads of OTC products, to follow the highest ethical principles that encompasses our philosophy to promote a responsible consumption. Through our web sites, we disseminate of the area is: “The Digital Area of information about the ailments to which our products are focused (causes, effects, Genomma Lab is committed myths and realities, among other topics) and the additional measures that users to the well-being of the should follow to improve their health both physical and emotional. consumer, for a good quality of life.” 57 Sustainability Report 2015 7 Responsibility for Our Products Responsibility in our advertising In Genomma Lab Internacional we seek that the information the user finds in our web pages is communicated in a responsible manner. Each product has electronic information through our web pages, where the following information can be found: consistency of use, the benefits it provides, and in a general manner it covers the responsibility subject. Starting this year, the information that is updated on the websites is previously analyzed, so there is a greater control over the communication strategies. Among the main products following this communication methodology on the web pages are: • Condoms • Íntimo by Lomecan • Metaboltonics Dalay An example of responsible communication is the website • Zan Zusi of the brand Dalay. In this space, in addition to publishing • Dalay information on the products benefits to reduce stress and improve the sleep quality, we present figures on the number of ailments that are associated to stress (heart attacks, insomnia, irritability and tiredness), general information on the causes and effects of stress and the types of stress the users may suffer. Incidents (G4-HR12, G4-SO2, G4-PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9) Even more, through our Facebook page, we continually issue recommendations to prevent the potential negative At Genomma Lab Internacional we are committed to comply with the regulation of impacts of stress and share thoughts and recommendations each country, as well as to respect the privacy of our customers’ information. For that may be useful for our customers and for all those who that reason, we have stringent measures of data protection and establish controls are in a situation of stress. to ensure that our employees perform to the highest standards of integrity in compliance with privacy measures. During 2015 no breach of the rules relating to health and safety of products and services, information and product labeling, violation of privacy or customer data leak was reported, nor were any human rights complaints filed. Neither did we identify any failure by our supply chain, concerning the infringement of human rights or the affectation in any local community. In the same way, we did not receive any fine by COFEPRIS or PROFECO arising from the supply and use of our products. 8 58 Sustainability Report 2015 Generation of Social Value (G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-EC9, G4-SO1) Our values and corporate objectives are the basis of our vision regarding the sustainability of the organization, which serve as guidelines for the actions we undertake to contribute to the communities of Mexico and the countries where we operate. Therefore, we consider at all times the importance of strengthening our capabilities through the generation of strategies, exchanges of benefits and the launch of social projects that promote social good, through partnerships that allow us to achieve shared growth. We have different courses of action in order to contribute to the communities that are directly or indirectly impacted by our operations. Among them, we support through donations and volunteer activities the associations and initiatives that have as their ultimate aim to provide a social benefit to the communities where we operate. We also consider in our strategy of social responsibility that those groups that are part of our supply chain, are a strategic point for the growing impact we have on communities where our suppliers operate. 59 Sustainability Report 2015 8 Generation of Social Value ACHIEVEMENT We collected new toys and gave them to children with limited resources, which were delivered through the I.A.P. Child Family Foundation. Together Volunteering Genomma Lab International with our volunteers Genomma Lab Internacional, we celebrated for third consecutive year the Three During the year 2015, we strengthened our links with the community through Kings Day through this initiative. various projects, which significantly benefited the child population, since we also seek to positively impact future generations in the field of health, wellBRIGHTEN A being and personal development. Both our employees and foundations, HEART DONATION Government and companies were major promoters of these achievements that brought invaluable benefits to groups of our society. More than 480 toys BENEFICIARIES 350 children OBJETIVO raise funds to support the treatment of children with congenital heart problems and improve the medical care they receive. DONATION $ 3´000,000 pesos SPONSORSHIP OF THE KARDIAS RACE (FOURTH RACE) BENEFICIARIES More than 8,900 children BENEFICIADOS 18,000 runners amongst whom were employees of our company supporting this cause. 60 Sustainability Report 2015 8 Generation of Social Value Panalpina: success story Transporting and distributing products from one country to another, in time and with exceptional quality, is the way in which Panalpina collaborates with Genomma Lab Internacional. Panalpina is an international company that provides delivery solution services for air freight, sea freight and logistics, which are “tailor made” and globally integrated. The Panalpina Group operates a global network of 500 offices in about 70 countries and works in partnership with different companies in more than 90 countries. Panalpina employs approximately 16,000 people worldwide to provide services based on the highest quality standards. Currently, this company is the fourth at global level, contracted as third party for Volunteering in our supply chain the distribution of products. In the specific case of Genome Lab, carrying more than 70% of our products manufactured internationally, via sea and air to Guatemala, (G4-EN1 y G4-EN2, G4-EN23 to G4-EN26) Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Ecuador and the Dominican Republic. Their work is key to deliver products such as Asepxia, Cicatricure, Social impact of our main distributor of products at Goicoechea and Uncle Nacho on time at the self-service stores where consumers buy the international level our products and therefore, for our business model to operate and be sustainable over time. Also their actions in the field of sustainability are key for us, because it Our commitment to the community is reflected through different occupies a central place in our value chain. The sustainability actions that Panalpina practices implemented in Genomma, and through voluntary actions that conducted in 2015 were several, but in this case of success we refer to the volunteer are undertaken by our supply chain. Among them is the case of Panalpina day food for all . presented below, in which we highlight the strategic actions that positively impact the social and environmental spheres of our stakeholders. Once a year the company assigns a working day to its employees to participate in sustainable projects on a voluntary basis. In 2015, several days of voluntary social work took place in different offices of Panalpina, highlighting the involvement of a group of employees who joined the project Food for All , and contributed gathering 1 ton of food (rice, beans, sugar and oil) among employees which were donated to this project. Additionally, they selected and packed food that had a short shelf life but was still suitable for human consumption for subsequent delivery to various beneficiary communities. With a long experience in logistics, Panalpina employees participated in conjunction with the beneficiaries in the selection and packaging of food so that they were suitable for distribution. The initiative was a success, because in one day they managed to deliver 12 tons of food. Additionally, volunteers participated in the delivery to one of the beneficiary communities to share together and generate a greater awareness of the positive impact of the project. 61 Sustainability Report 2015 8 Generation of Social Value Health and Wellness Projects In line with our mission, we are interested to continue taking part in projects that aim to preserve and improve the health and wellness of people. Thus the importance of implementing projects with a great impact on society. Silka Medic Campaign Caracol de plata (Silver Snail) Asepxia Campaign Government of the City of Mexico Outreach Program In Genomma Lab Internacional, we consider bullying We believe that cross-sector partnerships are We participated in the 16th edition of the Iberoas a kind of harassment that prevents the wellness of necessary to achieve high impact results. The strategic American Award to the Message of Social Benefit, which the person who suffers it, so we continued with the partnership established with the Government of seeks to promote corporate social responsibility and digital media campaign launched in 2014 in platforms Mexico City through the Ministry of Health, is aimed at citizens’ participation in the area of communication, in such as: Facebook, Youtube, Twitter and our Website. the prevention, treatment and medication of athlete's order to disseminate the best social benefit messages. Following young people closely who could benefit from foot in the capital of the country. To achieve this, Genomma Lab Internacional competed with the Antithe information provided, as well as videos and spots efforts were more efficiently focused through the bullying campaign of Asepxia. made by young people themselves. All in order to raise program: Detect, Medicate and Eliminate. The treatment awareness among students and people in general is given out free through the Silka Medic medication, In 2015, we contributed to various social initiatives about the negative implications of harassment. which is available in health centers and timely detection aimed at improving the quality of life of certain units located in the city’s subway network. marginalized groups through in-kind donations to Currently, we are conducting campaigns with the different civil society organizations, such as Mexico videoblogger Luisito Communicates, giving a fresh We successfully completed the donation of 144,000 Telethon Foundation, General Hospital of Mexico, and friendly speech to young people, to show the doses of Silka Medic which active ingredient has proven Caritas Monterrey, National Institute of Perinatology importance of face care. Communication is done in an to be effective in eliminating the fungus causing this and the Mexican Red Cross totaling more than 800,000 organic way with the phrase #NoHagasElOso [Don’t disease. By preventing athlete’s foot, the government items with a cost of almost $16,000,000.00. Genomma embarrass yourself!] estimated considerable savings in health service costs. Lab also made a donation to the General Hospital of Mexico to support them in the construction of its play center. 62 Sustainability Report 2015 8 Generation of Social Value Supporting groups in vulnerable social conditions Comunidad QG5 It is for the above, that we received once more We also maintain our equity model supported by policies, practices (G4-EC8, G4-EN11) for the sixth consecutive year, the distinction as and mechanisms for all our internal processes to operate in Inclusive Company in December 2014, which is conditions of equality and equity required for men and women to The guava leaf is the raw material from which Quercetin, active valid until 2017. This recognition is a distinctive develop full potential. Policies that secure our model are: ingredient in our QG5 drug, is obtained, it is used for the treatment granted to companies committed to good of colitis. labor practices toward groups in situations of • Gender Equity Policy The positive impact provided by the manufacturing of guava leaf vulnerability. We maintain the commitment to provide our employees with a healthy working • Labor Inclusion Policy is the result of a community business model that has its origins environment, safe and respectful with the in 2007, which was created in response to an initiative by the • Gender Equity System Evaluation Policy, and Government of Veracruz that has the purpose to diversify crops in objective of promoting good relations, gender equity, diversity, professional development • Gender Equity System Chairpersonship Review Policy municipalities with a high degree of marginalization in the region and the quality of life. The distinction Inclusive of Totonacapan. • Gender Equity Manual Company “Gilberto Rincón Gallardo” is awarded by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, it qualifies The productive business model benefits the totonacan farmers us as a promoter of actions and policies on labor of the municipalities of Zozocolco of Hidalgo, being the exclusive Furthermore, in our internal policies of human capital management suppliers of guava leaf. Creole guava tree plantations are based on inclusion for people in a situation of vulnerability, we contemplate the inclusion as a fundamental part of respect for i.e. the set of conditions that guarantee these agro-ecological production processes, totonacan harvesters have human rights, aligning the commitments that we express from the sustainable practices that prevent the application of agrochemicals people equality of conditions and treatment perspective of equity. in access, remuneration, working conditions, and foster the protection of biodiversity in their environment. Also promotion and retention in employment. the guava leaf selling is based on practices of fair trade that benefit the communities. Through market opportunities, strengthening self-management and development of productive capacities, we contribute to the improvement of the economic and living conditions of the inhabitants of the region, through the agreement made between Genomma Lab Internacional and the University of Veracruz, as well as the intervention of Diversificadora Agroindustrial y Comercializadora del Trópico S.A. de C.V. DYCTRO.S.A. Integrator Company in organization, production, added value and marketing. Since 2010, 50 tons of guava leaf have been produced to manufacture QG5. 9 63 Sustainability Report 2015 Environmental Care Environmental responsibility (G4-DMA, G4-14, EN11, G4-EN27, G4-EN29 y G4-EN34) And Protection The pillars of our corporate strategy are the reinforcement of value and sustainability of our brands, which involves commitments in the economic, social and environmental areas where relevant measures are taken for the preservation of our environment and the protection of biodiversity. In that sense, some of the actions that we performed this 2015 involved a reduction in the use of resources, greater energy efficiency, introduction of sustainable materials and new forms of environmental management and security. In addition, we seek that each one of the actions undertaken in Mexico can be replicated on a global scale. We also analyze the risks associated with our operations in terms of environmental protection and safety. We know that these risks are not only located in the Distribution Center (CEDIS) of Genomma Lab Internacional or in the corporate offices, but are spread throughout our supply chain, including in large part our suppliers. Aware of the foregoing, we established measures to mitigate It is worth to add that none of our operating facilities at national environmental risks associated with the development of the and international level adjoins or lies within a natural protected operations of our manufacturers and other service providers, area with high biodiversity value. In the same way, we have no which consist of the review of environmental issues through our knowledge that any of our suppliers operates within these areas. The raw audits and in our approach to those who have expressed and material of our processes must be endorsed and authorized by the Federal demonstrated their environmental commitment through innovative Commission for the Protection from Sanitary Risks (COFEPRIS), therefore we initiatives in sustainability. perform evaluations where we included internal criteria of quality, safety, health and environmental preservation. The products that we sell generate an impact to the environment in each of the stages of their life cycle, from obtaining the raw materials To prevent the marketing of products whose components may affect the to their final disposal. For this reason, we work together with our environment, we designed and implemented robust internal procedures that suppliers in the production and distribution stages to ensure identify threats or, if necessary, prevent them. As a result, this year we did compliance with environmental regulations and to help mitigate not get any environmental claim through our formal communication channels, and prevent damages to the environment. We communicate with neither were we imposed any fine for breaching environmental regulations of great satisfaction that our main suppliers have joined this initiative the countries in which we operate. This is a sign that we continue working in through the implementation of their own models of environmental our commitment to ensure environment sustainability in the long term. management. 64 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection we reducedced our consumption of y by 68% electricity Our Environmental Policy (G4-EN8, G4-EN10, G4-EN22, G4-EN31) Our purpose is offering products that enhance people’s quality of life while we propitiate conditions of social benefit and environmental protection. The way in which we will achieve it, is meeting the highest applicable local and international standards of environmental performance, in particular those relating to the management and mitigation of environmental impacts. We are designing a program of environmental management that includes six phases: 1. Planning 2. Implementation 3. Measurement 4. Control 5. Reporting Energy in Genomma Lab 6. Verification Internacional The most significant impact in the field of energy is due to the We have focused on the impacts associated with our operations and supply chain, as consumption of electricity in our Distribution Center (CEDIS), so our well as the consumption of resources (energy, water and natural) and the generation most important program in the energy sector was the replacement of waste and emissions. With this, we are increasing the efficiency of our operations of lighting fixtures in the CEDIS, from traditional bulbs to energy and reducing our environmental footprint. For more information on our actions saving lamps. The results speak for themselves we reduced our for the preservation of the environment, go to our official website for Responsible consumption of electricity by 68%, which represented savings of Communication http://www.genommalab-esr.com/. 370 thousand pesos a month. 65 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Our Carbon Footprint (G4-EC2, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN21, EN30) For its global nature, climate change is a problem that concerns actual inventory of the carbon footprint of the companies. In all economic and social sectors regardless of the country of origin. addition, our methodology was based on the Agreement of the The effects on the climate and the availability of resources derived Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) from this threat represent a risk to our business. For this reason, that establishes the technical particularities and formulas for the it is crucial for us to understand how and in what proportion application of methodologies for calculating GHG emissions, issued Scope 1: we contribute to this problem through the quantification of our in September 2015 in the Official Journal of the Federation. Emissions from the consumption emissions of greenhouse gases. With this estimate, we can set goals of diesel, gasoline, and LP gas. and mitigation measures that lessen our impact. The result of the carbon footprint of Genomma Lab Internacional in 2015 was 1,915.75 tons of CO2e, comprising scope 1 and scope This year for the fourth consecutive time, we are undertaking 2 emissions. Of the total emissions of Genomma Lab Internacional, Scope 2: our inventory of greenhouse gas emissions (GEI, for its acronym Corporate Offices emissions amounted to 33%. The Distribution Emissions from electricity in Spanish) for our operations in Mexico The purpose of this Center, on the other hand, represented only 66% of the total consumption. inventory is to disseminate information to our stakeholders about emissions from the organization. our climate change impact and take it as a basis for the design of Total Scope: our sustainability strategy. The additional advantage of this tool is Total emissions. that it presents relevant data on the main sources of generation, total emissions of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) and facilities 1,915.75 with greater impact. The methodology we used for the quantification of emissions was 1,671.77 the “GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard”, developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). This contains standardized methods to produce a representative and 1,277.58 1,167.84 638.17 503.93 243.98 134.24 109.74 Total tons of CO2e emissions by facility 2015 Corporative Offices Distribution Center Genomma Lab de México 66 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection With respect to the year 2014, our emissions presented a reduction of 66% of the total emissions of the organization. The reason for this reduction lies in the new regulation in this area which indicates that emissions of refrigerants do not fall in the company itself, but in its suppliers. On the other hand, the CEDIS emissions decreased for the same period. This decrease is linked to the replacement of lights, which took place in this Center, which resulted in a savings of 68% in electricity consumption; coupled with a reduction of 38% in fuel consumption. Scope 1: Emissions from diesel, gasoline and LP gas (tCO2e) Scope 2: Emissions from electrical consumption (tCO2e) Emissions Corporate Emissons CEDIS Emissions Corporate Emissons CEDIS Officces Officces 2,080.20 198.5 176.0 1,167.84 134.2 109.7 570.70 503.93 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 67 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Fuel consumption for mobile sources in Genomma Lab Internacional, is mainly due to the use of gasoline by employees' transport to their workplace. Additionally, in Mexico City we count with a fleet of buses that take our employees from the Observatory underground station to our offices in Samara. This contributes, in part, to a decrease in the emissions associated with the use of fuels. A different case is the Distribution Center, where the main fuel used is diesel, which is used by buses transporting employees from different parts of Mexico City to the Distribution Center, as well as by some vehicles in the fleet managed by Genomma Lab Internacional. For Genomma Lab Internacional the analysis of the Carbon Footprint is very important because it allows us to identify areas of opportunity in terms of the reduction of GHG emissions, in accordance with our growth rate in Mexico and other countries. This calculation has allowed us to understand our environmental performance, as well as which are the sources of generation that require more attention. Consumption of fossil fuels and electricity in Genomma Lab Internacional 2015 We continue with the implementation of internal programs within the organization to promote energy savings and checking vehicles as required by law. In the same way, we have kept our internal program Gasoline (liters) Diesel (liters) LP Gas (liters) Electricity (kWh) of collective transport for employees, which aims to reduce the use of private vehicles thus reducing emissions and at the same time Corporate Offices 57,777.37 0 0 1,096,946.00 additional costs for our workforce. Distribution Centers 10,192.00 20,932.00 18,144.00 2,572,334.00 Collective transport for employees is performed by third parties. To TOTAL 67,969.37 20,932.00 18,144.00 3,669,280.00 the outsourced transport providers, we established as a condition for the provision of the service, that all their vehicles are duly checked and in perfect mechanical condition, as well as carrying proof of fumigation issued every thirty days. Below is information relating to the fuel consumption in 2015 by mobile sources in the Both the transport of Genomma Lab Internacional and our contractors’ CEDIS, where fuel consumption was only represented by LP gas used for forklift trucks. have their respective verification of emissions. Our own fleet consists of three trucks of 1.5 tons, two vans of 3.5 tons and four Torton trucks, each of which performs 38 monthly trips on average. Our contractors perform approximately 400 monthly trips in a fleet of vehicles where 90% operates with diesel and 10% with gasoline. Moreover, the staff transport, which is performed by four diesel-based buses, makes Name of the Entity LP Gas consumption (liters) circuits at different points to move 180 people daily from Monday to Friday. This means that, in addition to complying with the parameters specified in the emission of pollutants, we decrease this emission CEDIS 18,144.00 avoiding the use of 180 private vehicles. 68 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Sustainable management in our For Genomma Lab Internacional, it is very important to work hand in hand with those suppliers who are committed to achieving a traveled, conversion factors and load capacity among other factors. Panalpina provides its reporting of GHG emissions to customers supply chain in terms of GHG sustainable development. We know that this is the best way to who request it. Panalpina has mitigated its environmental impact by emissions generate value throughout our chain, so that the actions in favor the GHG emission through various actions, which are: contracting of sustainability have a greater impact on our stakeholders and, the service of last generation aircrafts (Boeing 747-8F), generating above all, to grow together to share experience and knowledge in 12% fewer emissions of CO2 and with a load-capacity 16% higher Panalpina Case this type of initiative. compared to a similar conventional aircraft. The quantification project of GHG emissions of the service provided Panalpina is the first logistics company worldwide which attained by Panalpina aims to provide customer information on emissions the certification of its integrated management system based on of CO2 generated by the transport of their products or goods. This ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. is done through a software tool tailor-developed for the company, which is based on international standards for this effect, as for the calculation takes into account the type of aircraft, the distance Sustainable solutions in our Since the problems related to sustainability require comprehensive solutions, these should cover various aspects within the spheres supply chain in the area of water of society, economy and environment. In the case of the brands development and energy Asepxia, Cicatricure, Vanart and Ma Evans, the supplier addresses the issues of water use and energy efficiency. As to the first, at the production plant they have a rain water collection system through Environmental impact in a storm tank of 4,000 m3 capacity, which distributes the liquid to the manufacture of the the irrigation area, bathrooms and laundries, and allocates it to the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). The water from the rainwater brands Asepxia, Cicatricure, harvesting that was not used, integrates at the same treatment Vanart and Ma Evans process and is subsequently allocated to the Cutzamala system. In the aspect of energy efficiency, they changed from fluorescent lamps to LED, in addition to implementing the policy of keeping the lights turned off throughout the day. 69 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Use of Materials and Waste (G4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN23 to G4-EN26) In Genomma Lab Internacional we have internal programs to improve the internal management of waste through the implementation of the principles of reduce, recycle and reuse. In our offices, we seek to reduce paper consumption by using it only when it is essential that the internal or external communications are transmitted Source Waste Type Quantity Type of disposal by this means. Also, in our Distribution Center we have increased the efficiency of our processes, which allows us to reduce costs while generating less waste. CEDIS Plastic (shrink wrap) Non-hazardous 38.20 ton Recycling Part of the waste is generated from finished products that have not met the CEDIS Cardboard Non-hazardous 92.24 ton Recycling specifications for customer sales and must be sent for destruction alongside materials returned from our customers for various reasons. These materials are evaluated to Obsolete determine if they are sent to a destruction site, or to the CEDIS for grinding, and CEDIS Non-hazardous 80,470 ton Sanitary Landfill destruction are then sold to third parties for their recycling. In the CEDIS, the amount of waste generated in 2015 was 210,910 tons and 1,188.00 m3 of garbage. 130,440 kg of CEDIS Trash Non-hazardous 1,188.00 m³ Sanitary Landfill plastic and cardboard waste were recycled. 70 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Materials Waste management in The Distribution Center handles different materials needed so that the products are our supply chain delivered to our customers. Most of these are polymers of different types, such as stretch film, clear tape and polyolefin, as well as timber materials used to separate products (separator sheet carton), transport them (platforms) or miscellaneous Environmental impact (paper). It is important to mention that through the efficiency program being implemented at the facility, we expect to significantly reduce the consumption of of our manufacturer of these products. packaging for the brands Ma Evans, Jockey Club, Tío Nacho and Silka Medic and Asepxia (G4-EN27, G4-EN32) Type of material Material (renewable or nonQuantity Unit renewable) We encourage our suppliers to be in line with our culture of continuous Stretch film Non-renewable 74,998.00 Roll improvement. In the environmental aspect, we assign greater weight to those manufacturers who implement eco-efficiency and waste management practices. Separator sheet carton Renewable 120,000.00 pcs Given the above, we proudly communicate that the brands Ma Evans, Jockey Transparent Tape Non-renewable 10,000.00 pcs Club, Tío Nacho, Silka Medic and Asepxia are packed with recycled cardboard and, in the case of polyethylene products or PET, with recycled stretch film Corner post Renewable 150,000.00 pcs or shrink wrap. In addition to the above, there is a program where products Filament Tape Non-renewable 7,000.00 pcs which, for seasonal reasons, could not be distributed to points of sales, are donated to orphanages. In relation to eco-efficiency practices, the maquila Polyolefin Non-renewable 422.00 pcs facility where these products are manufactured has a reactor cleanup program Transfer Label Renewable 3,360.00 thousand in order to improve efficiency. The wood waste obtained from such cleaning is White paper sheets Renewable 120.00 boxes given away to their employees for use at home. White pallet Renewable 44,238.00 pcs Ribbon black wax Non-renewable 493.00 pcs Blue tape Non-renewable 4,000.00 pcs 71 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Success story in our supply Aptar: success story chain Zero Waste By using our products daily, some essential parts sending zero waste to landfills. In September 2015 it pass by unnoticed to consumers, such as lids, labels obtained this certification, becoming the first plant of Environmental impact of our and dispensers. They are as important, however, that the Aptar Group in Latin America to do so. To achieve if they were not present in our products these would this, they designed and implemented a management main supplier of dispensers lose their functionality. For us, it also represents a great model where more than 99% of its waste are sent (G4-EN27, G4-EN32) area of opportunity to reduce or mitigate environmental to different disposal treatments other than for final impacts. This is reflected in the case of dispensers for the disposal in landfills. Part of this model consists of the Genomma Lab Internacional products. Its manufacturer, following points: 1) proper separation of the plastic The protection of the environment is one of the main lines of action of our Aptar Group, is one of the best examples of good waste according to color; 2) weighing the waste and sustainability strategy, which is reflected in the waste management actions practices in waste management. placement in sacks; 3) obtaining pellets through the carried out by our supply chain. The success story of Aptar stands out, this grinding of plastics waste; 4) quality inspection; and 5) supplier has considerably reduced its impact on the environment by introducing Aptar Group is considered the market leader in the reintegration of the pellets of recycled plastic in the a new waste management model. Here we concretely refer to this model and manufacture of dispensers and packaging of beauty production process together with polypropylene. other Aptar actions related to sustainability. products. It started at the end of the year 1940 manufacturing aerosols in the United States, today Given that sustainability requires not only to comply with having facilities in more than 18 countries and four the environmental and economic aspects, but also with continents, as well as a portfolio of 5,000 customers. The the social, Aptar Group conducted a training program in main goods produced are dispensing pumps, aerosol 2015 attended by more than 90% of their employees. valves, lids and elastomers. Some of the topics covered were team work, leadership, assessment of investment projects, time management, Within its corporate strategy, they consider sustainability among others. Reinforcing their social responsibility, as one of the most important values. Two of the they organized a run to help the orphanage La alegría actions carried out at global level are the formation of de los niños I.A.P.” (The joy of children), a donation to committees that evaluate the environmental impact the Red Cross and the Week of Health in collaboration of their operations as well as the development of with the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS, for its environmental friendly products. The key aspects in acronym in Spanish). which they focus are the reduction in energy use, efficiency in manufacturing, product design based on The implementation of the program Landfill Free Life Cycle Analysis and reduction in waste generation, to the manufacturing processes of Aptar Group is among others. undoubtedly an exemplary case of good practices in waste management, which will greatly reduce the impact In Mexico, Aptar Group has a plant in Querétaro where on the environment. they have managed to land the global principles of sustainability in local actions. An example of this is the implementation of the initiative Landfill Free or Rellenos Sanitarios Libres , which had the goal of 72 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Resource use in our supply chain Innovation is one of the global competencies of Genomma Lab Internacional, so we encourage our suppliers to integrate it as part of its organizational culture. To this day, several vendors have Environmental impact of the joined this initiative through innovative projects, at the same time, obtaining results that benefit the sustainability of the product. It is manufacturer of caps for the the example of the brand Suerox Kids, whose caps went through brand Suerox Kids a process of transformation in which a 30% weight reduction (G4-EN27, G4-EN32) was achieved, by replacing the internationally manufactured cap with a local one. Additionally, the manufacturing of that product began with hydraulic machines in which the use of energy can be programmed, by means of a variable speed drive, depending on the work to be done, dramatically reducing the power consumption. Sustainable forest management The use of packaging made from virgin wood is related to the deforestation of the planet, which in turn contributes to the in our supply chain climate change and the degradation of ecosystem services. Under the above, Genomma Lab Internacional evaluates the practices of suppliers involved in the production of packaging taking into Environmental impact of our account the principles of responsible forest management. In the manufacturer of packaging for the case of the brands Asepxia, Unesia and Sistema GB, the packaging brands, Unesia Asepxia cardboard comes from a reliable and sustainable source that is certified Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody. and Sistema GB Such certification is granted in order to prove that the wood was (G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN27, G4-EN32) obtained through responsible forest management. The percentage of recycled cardboard in relation to the total amount used for the boxes of the brands mentioned above is 76% for 2015. For us, it is essential to maintain partnerships with our suppliers and encourage these to exceed our sustainability standards. 73 Sustainability Report 2015 9 Environmental Care and Protection Commitment to Water Use Sustainable water use in our (G4-EN8, G4-EN8) supply chain In Genomma Lab Internacional we are aware that water is a valuable resource for humanity, without which we cannot survive. Similarly, our operations depend heavily on this vital liquid to Environmental impact of the maintain quality standards in our products and meet the sanitation needs of our workplaces, but also many of our products use this liquid as its main component, including, for example, the manufacturer of the brands of case of our colognes. eau de cologne An important part of sustainable water use is the treatment of wastewater. At national level, throughout the year 2015 in the Distribution Center of Genomma Lab we generated a total of Sometimes, the problems addressed in sustainability are seen as complex and 6,811 m3 of wastewater, of which 100% was treated by means of a sewage treatment plant. At expensive. However, in Genomma Lab Internacional we are convinced that this international level, in Ecuador we invested a total of USD $ 3.000 to analyze the content of the thought belongs to the past, since today it is possible to implement sustainable wastewater and improve the system of local treatment. practices while at the same time generate economic value. An exemplary case of the above are our colognes and perfumes, whose water is obtained from the rain purified through a novel and reliable treatment system. Our supplier has a rain catchment capacity of 3,500 m3, additional to 14 storm tanks of 10 m3 each. It also has equipment for recovery of rainwater in the production buildings, from which rainwater is led to the cisterns. For its treatment, it applies a chlorination process and, at the moment the use of water is required, this is transported through a process of activated carbon and demineralization in conditions of four to ten microsiemens conductivity. In case of water shortage, they have geomembranes installed on the grounds of the factory, where appropriate, our supplier has access to the municipal water system. The collaboration Genomma Lab Internacional with all our suppliers goes beyond the processes of manufacture, distribution or provision of other products and services, representing joint relations in favor of sustainability, where from concrete actions will reduce the environmental impact throughout the supply chain. We focus on reducing the quantity of materials used in our packaging, as well as introducing recycled materials or materials with the potential to be recycled, in such a way it reaches a certain recyclable point that does not affect the performance of the product and at the same time complies with Mexican standards. We seek that in the long term a greater number of our suppliers promote and join programs for the reduction of resource usage and to boost sustainable practices in order to reduce our environmental impact throughout our entire supply chain. 74 Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL BASIC CONTENTS GRI INDEX Basic contents IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G41 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 5 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities (I, R&O). 5 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 8 G4-3 Name of the organization 8 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. 12 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 7, 8 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has G4-6 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. 8 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 8 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 8 Scale of the organization, including: –number of employees,—number of operations—net sales,—capitalization G4-9 broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); as well as —quantity of products or 8, 12 services provided. Organizational Profile Total number of employees by employment contract and gender; total number of employees by employment type: G4-10 external workers and gender; total workforce by region and gender, reporting the portion of workers who are 36 legally recognized as self-employed; and, report any significant variations in employment numbers. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Not applicable G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain. 51 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or itssupply 8 chain. G4-14 Organization’s approach, if applicable, precautionary principle. 70 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-15 organization subscribes or which it endorses. 21 G4-16 List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization 20 participates. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 18 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents, reporting G4-17 whether any of them covered by the report. 16 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; explaining the Reporting Principles for G4-18 Defining Report Content. 16 G4-16 List of material aspects that were identified during the process of defining the content of the report. 20 MATERIAL ASPECTS AND G4-20 Coverage within the Organization of every material Aspect. 16 BOUNDARIES G4-21 Coverage outside the Organization of every material Aspect. 16 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 16 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 16 75 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 16 G4-22 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 16 organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the 16 report preparation process. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that 16 raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 7 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 7 REPORT PROFILE G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 7 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 7 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, making the GRI available and the reference to the 7 External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. G4-27 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 7 G4-34 Governance structure of the Organization. 22, 27 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body G4-29 to senior executives and other employees. 22 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance G4-36 body. 22 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental G4-31 and social topics. 22 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 22 G4-32 Description of the function of the Chair of the highest governance body and whether he/she is also an executive 22, 34 GOVERNANCE officer. Processes of nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the G4-32 criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. 22, 29 G4-41 Description of the processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and 22, 29 managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. 22, 29 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating G4-36 of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, 22, 29 environmental and social impacts of the Organization. Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, G4-43 22, 29 environmental and social topics. G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, 22, 29 environmental and social topics. G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social 22, 29 impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for 22, 29 economic, environmental and social topics. 76 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and 22, 29 opportunities. Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and G4-48 ensures that all material Aspects are covered. 22, 27 G4-42 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 22 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the G4-50 mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. 22 G4-44 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. 22, 29 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 22, 29 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results G4-53 of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. 22, 29 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant The information cannot be operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in disclosed by issues G4-54 the same country. of confidentiality Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all The information cannot be G4-55 employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. disclosed by issues of confidentiality G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 31 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-57 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 31 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 31 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 8 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 10 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-EC2 Financial implication and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 79 G4-EC3 Coverage limit of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 44 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from Governments. We do not receive financial assistance from Governments. 77 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 36 Ratio between the starting salary broken down by sex and the local minimum wage in places where significant transactions MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET G4-EC5 are carried out. 44 PRESENCE G4-EC6 Percentage of senior managers from the local community in places where significant transactions are carried out. 36 General information about the management approach. G4-DMA 44 Development and impact of investment in infrastructure and type of services. ASPECT: DIRECT G4-EC7 52, 5536 ECONOMIC IMPACTS Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of the same. G4-EC8 52, 55, 69 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 44 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EC69 Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation spent on local suppliers. 52, 55 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 MATERIAL ASPECT: RAW MATERIALS G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 76 G4-EN2 Percentage of the materials sued that are recycled input materials. 76 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. 79 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization. 79 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN5 Energy intensity 79 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 79 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 79 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 ASPECT: WATER G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 79 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. There have been no water sources affected G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 79 78 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 69, 70, 79 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY outside protected areas. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 79 biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 79 Number of species included in the IUCN Red List and in national conservation lists whose habitats are found in areas No operamos en áreas con G4-EN14 especies en peligro de extinción affected by operations, depending on the level of danger of extinction of the species. G4-DMA 70 General information about the management approach. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 79 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) to generate power. 79 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). G4-EN17 79 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. 79 G4-EN16 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 79 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). 79 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 79 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 79 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 76 MATERIAL ASPECT: Total number and volume of significant accidental spills. There have been no significant G4-EN24 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE accidental spills G4-EN22 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Not applicable Annexes I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the 76 organization’s discharges of water and runoff. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 ASPECT: PRODUCTS Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 70, 76, 77, 78, 79 G4-EN27 AND SERVICES G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed at the end of its useful life, broken down by 76 category. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 70 G4-EN29 ASPECT: REGULATORY laws and regulations. COMPLIANCE 79 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 ASPECT: TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s G4-EN30 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 79 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 ASPECT: GENERAL G4-EN31 79 Environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 44 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. ASPECT: SUPPLIER 52, 76, 77, 78, 79 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 52 G4-EN27 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 70 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE G4-EN34 MECHANISMS Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 70 CATEGORY: SOCIAL P E R F O R MA N C E SUBCATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 36 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 36 ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant The information cannot G4-LA2 locations of operation. be disclosed by issues of confidentiality G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 44 ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 36 RELATIONS G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective 36 agreements. 36 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 56 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. ASPECT: RELATIONS BETWEEN THE Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work 48 WORKERS AND THE MANAGEMENT G4-LA6 related fatalities, by region and by gender. / ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation. 56 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. No aplica 80 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 36 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 42 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist 42 G4-LA10 them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee 42 G4-LA11 category. 36 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 44, 52 G4-LA12 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION 36 FOR WOMEN AND MEN Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 44 G4-LA13 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 44 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. 52 FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. 52 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. G4-LA16 31, 32 U B C A T E G O R Y : H U MA N RIGHTS IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-HR1 clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 32 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are G4-HR2 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 32, 42 ASPECT: G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 32 ASPECT: FREEDOM G4-DMA General information about the management approach 44 OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 52 to the effective abolition of child labor. G4-DMA General information about the management approach 44 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 52 to the effective abolition of child labor. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 ASPECT: FORCED LABOR G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced labor, and measures to contribute to the 32 elimination of all forms of forced labor. 81 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to 32 operations. There have been no cases of the G4-DMA General information about the management approach. violation of the indigenous rights. ASPECT: RIGHTS OF THE INDIGENOUS POPULATION Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken. There have been no cases of the G4-HR8 violation of the indigenous rights. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 44 ASPECT: ASSESSMENT G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. 52 G4-DMA General information about the management approach 44 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. 52 ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS A G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 52 SSESSMENT G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 61 ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 61, 72 GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach 61 ASPECT: LOCAL Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development COMMUNITIES G4-SO1 programs. 55 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities. G4-SO2 72 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION 31 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified. Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. G4-SO4 31 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. G4-SO5 31 General information about the management approach. 22 G4-DMA ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY Total value of political contributions by country and recipient. G4-SO6 32 ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 BEHAVIOR G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 31 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 22 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and G4-SO8 32 regulations. 82 Sustainability Report 2015 IndicaTOR DESCRIPTION PAGE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 44 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. 52 G4-S10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. 52 G4-DMA 61 ASPECT: GRIEVANCE General information about the management approach. MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON G4-S11 32, 61 SOCIETY Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY IndicaDOR descripción PÁGINA 61 ASPECT: CUSTOMER G4-DMA General information about the management approach. HEALTH AND SAFETY 61 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. G4-PR1 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety 61, 72 G4-PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 61 G4-PR3 Report whether the following product and service information is required by the organization’s procedures for product and 61, 62, 63 service information and labeling: ASPECT: INFORMATION ON –The sourcing of components of the product or service MANAGEMENT APPROACH –Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact. –Safe use of the product or service –Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts –Other (explain) b. Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service 61, 62 G4-PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 61, 62 G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 61 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. 61 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 61, 72 G4-PR7 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 61 ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 61, 72 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA General information about the management approach. 61 G4-PR8 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 61, 72 products and services. Contact The Sustainability Report 2015 presents our annual performance in the field of sustainability. In addition to the information referred to in the body of the report, we are attentive to any comments or suggestions you wish to share in relation to its content. Through the following points of contact you can send us your communication. Email Address: sustentabilidad@genommalab.com Via telephone: (5255) 5081 0000 Ext. 4411 Address of Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. de C.V.: Antonio Dovali Jaime # 70 Piso 2 Torre C Interior A, Colonia Santa Fe, Delegación Álvaro Obregón , C.P. 01210, México, Distrito Federal
