Sustainability Report 2015 2 Sustainability Report Contents Alro Group – Sustainability Report Statement of support for UNGC 3 Alro in a snapshot 5 2015 highlights 7 Vision, Mission, Values 7 Organization profile 8 Governance Process Sustainability 10 Corporate Social Responsibility 10 Stakeholder Engagement 14 People, Health & Safety 16 Ethics and Behavior 20 Facts On People 24 Reducing Our Environmental Footprint 24 Environment management Responsible Business and Anti-Corruption 24 Supply Chain Integrity 26 3 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Information Alro Company’s address No. 116 Pitesti Street, Slatina, Olt County Telephone number 0249-431901/902/903/904 Fax number 0249-437500 Registration number in the Trade Register J28/8/1991 at 31.01.1991 Fiscal code RO1515374 Class, type, number and main features of the financial instruments Registered dematerialized and ordinary shares issued by the company Subscribed share capital, fully paid up 356,889,568 RON Organized market on which shares and stocks are transacted Bucharest Stock Exchange Regulated Market Total market value for each class of shares Standard Category – RON 942,188,4581 Alro Group companies Company Parent Shareholding (%) Alro S.A. Vimetco NV 84.19 Alum S.A. Alro S.A. 99.40 Conef S.A. Alro S.A. 99.97 Vimetco Extrusion SRL Alro S.A. 100.00 Global Aluminium Ltd. Alum S.A. 100.00 Bauxite Marketing Ltd. Global Aluminium Ltd. 100.00 Sierra Mineral Holdings I Ltd. Global Aluminium Ltd. 100.00 Alro Group is registered at ASF as per Decision no. A/632/26 November 2013. 1 Calculated based on the BSE quotation available on 30 December 2015 – the last day of 2015 when Alro’s shares have been traded (713,779,135 shares * 1.3200 RON/ share). 4 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Statement of support for UNGC operations, but also enhances the confidence of shareholders and stakeholders. Moreover, this type of organization contributes to the protection of the shareholders’ rights and provides an improvement of the overall performance of the Company, which is reflected in time, both in positive signals from the market and in an easier access to financing facilities. From bauxite extraction, to supplying aluminium for the auto and aerospace industry, our Company plans to continue investing in people and R&D and achieving the best results in terms of products’ quality and energy efficiency. In a time when the European industry has been impacted by a series of adverse factors, Alro managed not only to continue its operations, but also to maintain a constant number of employees and achieve performances in terms of products portfolio. As an integrated aluminium producer and the biggest one from Our long-term development strategy will continue in the same continental Europe, excluding Russia and the Scandinavian direction, aiming to achieve better results and consolidating our Peninsula, we feel that is our duty to focus on presenting position in the industry. We will continue to raise our standards, transparently our continuous development and achievements in train our employee and coordinate, in cooperation with the terms of improving environmental, safety and labor initiatives. specialized institution, the education of potential employees, while protecting the environment, constantly reducing our 2015 marked a milestone in our activity as Alro celebrated 50 ecological footprint and remaining a responsible citizen in the years of activity. Throughout these decades, the Company has communities where we operate. adapted and transformed, having more efficient and more stable Therefore, we continue to support the United Nations Global operations. We are now able to say that we have managed to Compact principles with respect to human rights, labour, shape a modern view, which currently refines our sustainability environment and anti-curruption. strategy. We believe that a transparent decision making process that is Marian Nastase, based on clear rules not only ensure efficient administration of President of the Board, Alro 5 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report UN TEN PRINCIPLES Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Business should support Business should uphold the Business should support a Business should work against and respect the protection of freedom of association and the precautionary approach to all forms of corruption, including internationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right to environmental changes; extorsion and bribery rughts; collective bargaining Principle 2 Principle 4 Principle 8 Make sure that they are not The elimination of all forms of Undertake initiatives to complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labour; promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 5 Principle 9 The effective abolition of child Encourage development and labour; diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 6 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Alro in a snapshot Highlights Information about the Group The Group is vertically-integrated, organized in four segments: Bauxite, Alumina, Primary Aluminium and Processed Aluminium. Alro ( Parent company or Company or Alro or the “Entity”) is For an efficient resource allocation and to evaluate segments part of an integrated group that manufactures aluminium, which performance in a proper manner, this is the basis on which the covers the entire technological process, from bauxite to obtaining Group reports information to its management. processed products. The Bauxite segment is located in Sierra Leone (Africa). The The major shareholder of Alro S.A. is Vimetco N.V., which alumina segment uses bauxite to produce alumina, the main holds 84.19% of the Company's share capital. Vimetco N.V. is raw material for aluminium smelting. The Primary aluminium a private capital company with activities in Romania, China and segment manufactures primary aluminium products like wire Sierra Leone and listed on the London Stock Exchange. Alro rod, slabs, billets and occasionally ingots. The Processed Group includes the following companies: Alro manufacturer of Aluminium segment develops and sells flat rolled products, such aluminium (a company listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange), as sheets, plates and coils and extruded products. Both smelting Alum producer of alumina (a company listed on BSE, ATS and processing mills are located in Slatina, Romania while the market, 1st category) SMHL manufactures bauxite, Vimetco alumina refinery is located in Tulcea, Romania. Extrusion – processor of extruded products, Conef, Global Aluminium Ltd. and Bauxite Marketing Ltd. This way, the Group Alro is the largest aluminium smelter in Continental Europe has managed to provide an integrated production chain, securing (excluding Russia and Scandinavia). The main markets for the the raw materials for Alro. aluminium manufactured by Alro are within the EU (Hungary, Alro S.A. Primary aluminium products Processed aluminium products 100% 99.9% 99.4% Vimetco Extrusion S.R.L. Conef S.A. Alum S.A. Extrusion business line Share por;olio management Alumina reﬁnery 100% Global Aluminium Ltd. Holding EnBty 100% 100% Sierra Mineral Holdings I Ltd. Bauxite MarkeBng Ltd. Bauxite mining 7 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Poland, Greece, Germany and Romania), USA and Asia. The • vertical integration and ensure the availability of the Company is ISO 9001 certified for quality management and has necessary raw materials, in order to decrease the production NADCAP, as well as EN 9100:2009 certifications for aerospace costs and to increase the operational efficiency; production its products being certified by the international • increase of the energy efficiency within its entire production standards for quality assurance for primary aluminium as set by chain; the London Stock Exchange and those for flat rolled products, • continuous compliance with the environment protection as well. regulations. Alro is structured in two divisions: On short and medium term, Alro focuses especially on the following goals: • Primary Aluminium, with Anode plant, Aluminium Smelter, Casting House, Eco scrap smelting facility, repairs and • Projects for energy efficiency spare parts production units, road and rail transport and other additional sectors. After investing in modernizing its Alro is permanently focusing on decreasing the energy equipment and in new technology, Alro reached a production consumption, increasing the energy efficiency for all activities capacity of 265,000 tonnes of primary aluminium and 340,000 within the Group and the optimization of its processes. As a tonnes of processed aluminium. All necessary anodes for consequence, the Company continued, in 2015 as well, the the electrolysis of alumina are internally produced; investments to improve its consumptions. • Processed Aluminium has a processing capacity of 96,000 The investments implemented in the last years led to a significant tonnes of processed aluminium, depending on the production decrease of the electricity at the electrolysis points, reducing the mix. An increasing capacity program is running to reach a natural gas consumption three times at anode baking, reducing capacity up to 120,000 tonnes by 2020. the specific energy consumption at the processed aluminium division of over four times and decreasing by more than 10 the Alro’s production processes and products have been certified in natural gas consumption at the processed aluminium division. accordance with international standards for quality assurance. Alro produces a diversified range of products, as detailed below: Specific consumption of energy and gas for the Processed Aluminium Division 2003 2014 • rolled aluminium wire; • homogeneous aluminium and AlMgSi rods; • aluminium and aluminium alloy slabs; • aluminium and aluminium alloy ingots; • aluminium and aluminium alloy plates (heat treated and not heat treated) • aluminium and aluminium alloy sheets and coils • cladded aluminium alloy sheets and coils The Company receives alumina from Alum, its own alumina refinery with an installed capacity of 600,000 tonnes per year. The alumina refinery receives raw materials from the Group’s bauxite mines from Sierra Leone. Alro produces value added primary aluminium products for its customers and the primary aluminium which is used as raw material by the processed aluminium production facilities. Moreover, the Company sells aluminium alloys billets to its subsidiary, Vimetco Extrusion that further produces extruded products. Mission, Values, Vission Furthermore, the Company decreased the fresh water consumption from Olt River, by significantly increasing the As part of the Group's long-term strategy, Alro's priorities include: consumption of reusable industrial water as this represents another priority measure for the management. At the Cast house • investments in modern equipment and technology to there are already two facilities, which have to recirculate and treat increase the operational efficiency and, in the same time, the water and thus, the necessary water consumption is ensured. to decrease the production costs, while expanding its range of products, improving quality and decreasing the delivery Another direction for the Company’s investments, in the past time, thus to comply with its customers’ demands; years, is represented by the aluminium recycling activities, • growth of its high value added products by upgrading the the management aim being to increase in the future the quantity production lines of flat-rolled products of hard alloys and the of aluminium scrap used at the Cast house for the production continuous development of products range for high-strength of aluminium alloys slabs and billets. The recycled aluminium, alloys and heat treated plates, for the aerospace and auto which can be used in almost all areas represents a way to reduce industries; the energy consumption, but also the CO2 emissions and the 8 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report raw materials. Alro operates a scrap aluminium recycling facility, • Research and development which uses the most modern equipments, both for furnaces, but also for cleaning facilities. In Alro, the research and development activity is organized as a Project Management system and, in general, its main objectives For acquisitions, the Company considered both import sources, are: but also the ones from the internal market. When ordering supplies, the Company takes into consideration the international • Reducing specific consumption: trends and prices and periodic selection of the suppliers are ◦◦ Modification of the cathode block design for the performed, to ensure the required quality that would generate electrolysis cell, to reduce the electricity consumption; positive results for the Company. The Company implemented ◦◦ A new system to input the alumina in the electrolysis measures targeting the correlation between the necessary cell; supply and demand from its supplier with the volume, accurate ◦◦ Reduction of the heat treatment cycles to reduce the estimations of raw materials and materials, fuels and other natural gas consumption and increase the production consumables. Moreover, the Company aims to have an accurate capacity; estimation of its inventories and thus, to avoid having overstocks. ◦◦ Conception, testing and implementation of a software application for optimizing the number of plates allocated Regarding the energy consumption, the Company permanently to each slab. targeted the consumption from renewable sources that also assure the best energy efficiency, but also a minimum • Equipments and products quality: environmental impact, the Company being permanently ◦◦ Increase the equipment efficiency, a method for concerned by its environmental footprint. identifying the mechanical malfunctions; ◦◦ Improve the mechanical properties for aluminium alloy • Diversifying the products portfolio by focusing on high and plates; very high value added products, for key-industries, such as: ◦◦ Conception, testing and implementation of mathematical models, in order to correlate the chemical composition of • aerospace industry – Alro holds the EN 9100 certification slabs with the final properties of the rolled products. (for the aerospace and defence industries) awarded by the German certification organization DQS GmbH for the • Investments to expand the products portfolio: Company’s quality management system. The Company is ◦◦ To manufacture products for the shipbuilding industry NADCAP certified for special processes (heat treatments, lab and pressure vessel; tests and non-destructive testing), specific for the aerospace ◦◦ Establish the processing conditions required to obtain and defence industries, awarded by the Performance Review the plasticity and deep drawing characteristics for a series Institute within the Society of Automotive Engineers (USA); of alloy plates and strips. • automotive industry – the Company has obtained the certification of quality management system in accordance Organization profile with the international standard ISO TS 16949 (for automotive industry) awarded by the German certification organization DQS GmbH. The Company is an accredited supplier for the Governance process production and mechanical processing of aluminium and Alro develops and is constantly trying to adapt its corporate aluminium alloys for the automotive industry; governance practices to ensure it complies with all effective • construction industry – the Company holds the European requirements, and also it meets all necessary prerequisites in quality brand certification for its products designed for the case new opportunities occur, opportunities that could generate construction field, awarded by TUV Rheinland and TUV benefits for the Company. South (Germany) organizations; • shipbuilding industry – Alro’s products designed for Alro adheres to comply with the majority of the provisions shipbuilding industry are certified by organizations such as stipulated in the Corporate Governance Code issued by Det Norske Veritas, Bureau Veritas and Germanische Lloyd. Bucharest Stock Exchange. • Modernizing the maintenance system The Board of Directors is the highest forum within the Company and along with its executive directors ensures the smooth running Alro is paying a special attention to maintenance activities, and of the day to day operations and is directly involved in strategic this is why the Company is permanently trying to implement and decisions with a direct impact on the company's activities. expand the modern concepts applied in this field by applying Members of the Board are in a permanent dialogue with the predictive and proactive maintenance policies. Furthermore, the executive directors and are acting taking into consideration that system Total Productive Maintenance was already implemented the interests of shareholders and the interests of the company and it involves both operators and technological personnel in the employees are their primary scope. maintenance of the production equipments. Moreover, in the software used by the Group (SAP) a module for repairs planning was implemented and in this way these costs could be further reduced. 9 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate governance Sustainability Corporate social responsibility Also, Alro takes measures to carefully manage the resources at its bauxite mines in Sierra Leone. The constant involvement in environmental protection activities is part of the Company’s long-term development strategy. The Currently, the Group is not involved in lawsuits regarding the Group permanently monitors the environment footprint and takes impact of its activities over the environment and does not expect the necessary measures to comply with the specific environment any occurrence of such situations that might involve any violation rules. In addition, the specific investments in environment of environmental protection legislation. protection programs, the Group uses modern technologies, in line with the requirements in this field. Alro takes permanent measures to prevent major labor accidents where dangerous substances could be involved. The Company In Romania, Alro received the Integrated Environmental monitors the implementation of the measures that lead to the Authorization, both for the primary and processed aluminium elimination of the risks of events, which could have negative divisions. At the same time, the environment protection investment impact on the environment and agrees the action plan in case this programs allowed Alro to obtain the ISO 14001 certification for might happen. environmental protection management. The investments in Moreover, the Group constantly tries to be involved in solving energy efficiency place Alro among the top aluminium producers social problems of the community where its activity is performed with the lowest specific consumption in the European Union. and gives consideration to the interests of the society, having responsibility to its employees, shareholders, community and Alro implemented and continues to implement measures to environment. The Group, through its parent company, is actively reduce the energy consumption in the aluminium production involved in the life of the community by engaging in corporate process. Also, Alro operates a production facility that uses scrap responsibility programs, from the reconstruction of the homes aluminium, thus, additionally reducing the energy consumption destroyed by natural disasters to education, sports and health and actively contributing to scrap reduction. programs. The Group took measures to reduce the emissions in all its activities in Romania and implemented complex upgrading processes with positive effects for the environment. Thus, in the alumina production sector, the Group upgraded operation in 2007 when Alum was idled for two years for this purpose. Subsequently resuming the operations, the unit reported decreased production costs thanks to the optimized technological flow, as well as a significant decrease of the environmental footprint. Last year, Alro completed a collecting and treatment system smoke emissions that are eliminated from the slab casting line. The project has started in 2014 and is currently complied with all the legal requirements. 10 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate governance Stakeholder engagements as the communities in which they operate. Within the Group are supported and encouraged transactions with local suppliers and Social responsibility represents the management process, thus it contributes to their development. integrated part of the Group’s business strategy, through which it wants to contribute to the development of a sustainable and The Group implemented annual employee performance performing society in every area where it operates (namely assessments and thus, certain performance indicators can be Romania and Sierra Leone). tracked on an annual basis regarding the employees’ activity and subsequently those with outstanding performances could be The Group identifies on a permanent basis the stakeholders that encouraged and rewarded. may be interested in its activities, recognizes their legal rights and encourages their cooperation with the companies within In general, within the Group, the employees’ migration form one the Group, in creating wealth, jobs, and the sustainability of a company to another is encouraged, but generally it is preferred financially sound enterprise. to hire local staff where the company operates, because of the cultural language and social benefits. In 2015, Alro has contributed to numerous supporting, cultural, sports, educational and social activities: Group’s human resources policy has the following objectives: • sponsorships of RON 447,938 (approximately USD 111,811) • establishing the organizational framework and the related for supporting events and actions in fields such as: socialdocuments of human factor expression within the Company cultural, education and schools, health, religion, sports, (i.e. organization chart, organizational and operational associations and foundations with activities in cultural areas, regulations, internal regulations, work and personnel norms, educational and social-humanitarian; job descriptions, system and operational procedures, • Alro was involved, as partner in various EU funded projects assessment forms etc.); in a number of areas of mutual interest (e.g.: participating as • quantitative and qualitative dimensioning of the necessary targeted group in the „Aerocalificarea” project, promoted by workforce by activity sectors, training and continuous the Association of Romanian Aeronautical Companies); development of professional skills, harmonizing the flow of • several partnerships with high schools, postgraduates and personnel, inputs, outputs and internal mobility; universities were signed (i.e. Technical Metallurgical High • knowing the external business environment in order to School, University Politehnica of Bucharest, Transilvania identify opportunities and threats which can determine, University of Brasov, University of Craiova etc.) to facilitate in a positive or negative way, the personnel recruiting and the specialized practice of students and in writing their selection activity; final papers for bachelor, dissertation or doctoral thesis, on • optimizing the use of personnel by allocating employees various research subjects; on positions based on training, skills and professional • partnership with the City Hall of Slatina and with Olt County competencies in order for them to complete their tasks and School Inspectorate and the Technical Metallurgical High duties in an efficient manner; School regarding organizing in the academic year 2015/2016 • training and professional development, professional of some vocational classes through the professional school, assessment and career management; in jobs of interest for Alro (rolling mill, caster, numerical control • motivating the employees, in order to increase satisfaction machine tools operator, electro mechanic for machines and and commitment in reaching goals and completing own industrial equipment); tasks; • active participation of the representatives of Alro at local • developing an organizational culture based on harmonizing social dialogue organizations, such as the Social Dialogue Company’s interest with employees including competence, Commission with the Olt Prefecture or the Tripartite commitment, collaboration, respect, fidelity, order and Consultative Council with Olt Labor Inspectorate; discipline, cult value, non-discrimination, following labour • involvement with good results as a member in the law and internal norms; organization UniRomSider; • employers involvement in decision-making activities by • improving the communication means with mass-media and developing horizontal and vertical communication, promoting local community (e.g.: the 50 year anniversary event since a transparent and fair social dialogue with trade unions, the first batch of aluminium was produces, had a special conformation to the commitments assumed in the collective impact on the local community, especially the Guest Day, labour agreement; when approximately 3,500 people visited the plant; • ensuring the conditions for employees to carry activities in • optimization of Alro's web page and of internal portal full health and safety conditions; structures, as well as the marketing policy of the company • banning any form of direct or indirect discrimination against (e.g. marketing materials and the magazine “50 years employees based on gender, sexual orientation, genetic of Romanian aluminium” were highly appreciated by the characteristics, age, national origin, race, colour, ethnicity, visitors and guests from Romania and from abroad). religion, political beliefs, disability, family situation or responsibility, trade union membership or activity, as well People, health and safety as acts and deeds of exclusion, distinction, restriction or preference based on one or more of the above criteria, The Group encourages and promotes projects aimed to both which have the purpose or effect of denial, restriction or personal and professional development of its employees, as well elimination of recognition, use or exercise of rights stipulated in the labour legislation. 11 2015 Sustainability Report Corporate governance In the future, the Group aims to develop and implement in the and training. They must act effectively in reasonable terms, in an company an organizational culture and business accountability ethical and effective way and bring satisfaction to shareholders, regarding both the environment responsibility and the community customers, their colleagues and the local community. in which it operates. The management considers that the implementation in the group of healthy principles of sustainable General rules development and a strong policy of corporate social responsibility means to generate long-term positive and sustainable results. The behaviour and attitude of the employees must be In this way the Group can get in the position to generate wincharacterized by involvement, team spirit, constructive spirit, win situations for the Group, Alro and its shareholders, the integrity, commitment and loyalty for the company, its values environment and, last but not least for the communities in which and its shareholders. Employees at every level are forbidden it operates. to speak on behalf of the company, without the approval of the General Manager, except for force majeure situation. Promoting women Policy Alro supports gender diversity and promotes women in executive management positions. Although, there are no members of the • Employees must strictly comply with all laws and regulations, feminine gender in the Board of Alro, both the CFO and the two rules and procedures applicable to Alro S.A., with the laws Deputy CFOs of Alro are women. At the end of 2015, about 20% and internal rules on document management, data and of directors and deputy directors that reports were women, while classified information (state secrets, secrets, confidential). the proportion of women in middle management positions was • All decisions must be based on objective judgments, in the of 21%. company's interest and not personal interests or benefits of any kind. Moreover, out of the total number of employees, the number of • Employees will comply permanently with the Company’s women working at Alro, at the end of 2015 was of 17%. legal provisions and rules on audits and internal controls by state authorities or made any kind. • The managers shall give or receive protocol gifts to another company or person who is or tries to enter into business relationships with Alro S.A. complying with the following criteria: • Giving gifts is a common practice protocol of the company or individual in question does not create the suspicion of an exceptional situation, it is not contrary to the legislation, internal regulations or ethical standards; • The value of the gift is not excessive, having a more symbolic character; • It does not create the premises of being interpreted as a bribe or incentive or unlawful benefit or advantage obtained during the development or closing a business; • The public disclosure of the facts does not damage the image of the company or the manager in question. Principles that govern the conduct of the employees of Alro • Responsibility for own actions: completing on time and according to the quality parameters the actions and tasks according to the job description and orders received; • Respect for team members: respect for colleagues on the same hierarchical line, but also for the lower hierarchical subordinates; • Priority of common interest: put the company’s interests above all at the expense of personal or group interests; • Appeal to honour: an honourable behaviour toward coworkers and collaborators outside the company, refuse of any undue advantage, material or otherwise; Ethics and Behavior • Creative initiative: showing spirit of initiative, to promote new ideas,well motivated; Alro’s Code of conduct contains the general guidelines for the • Focus on solutions: acting for finding optimal solutions for Company’s operations according to the highest standards of solving a problem; business ethics. All the employees of Alro have to follow these • Pragmatic approach: focus on knowledge and presenting standards. reality as it is, without a distortion; • The power (authority) shared: surround with talented The main responsibility of the employees of Alro is to harness the people from all points of view (training, personality, behaviour full potential in the company’s interest, their entire competence etc.) 12 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Facts on people Ways to minimize the ecological footprint Within the Group there is a permanent dialogue between Alro has invested over USD 100 million in the last 10 years trade unions and the management. The key-elements of the to improve labour conditions and environmental protection. framework that shows the relationship between management The Company applies modern concepts of integrated waste and employees are the collective labour agreement and available management. Moreover, all employees are trained in order to internal regulations. In practice all the steps initiated or started bring their active contribution to environmental protection, as activities that may have an impact on employees, were previously well as the compliance with the occupational health and safety discussed and agreed by both parties. obligations. The average number of employees of the Group in 2015 was The company recycles aluminium scrap that has the end of 3,810 (2014: 3,774), out of which 2,397 persons are working at waste status. Alro invested in building an ECO Recycling Facility Alro, and 98.20% are qualified workers. that uses modern technologies such as double chamber furnaces with ox gas burners. All the gases resulting from the burning The structure of Alro's employees by level of education: process are collected and treated in dry scrubbing centers using the base of an active carbon. Type of studies % University 17.60 Postgraduate 10.20 High school 39.40 Vocational training 25.80 Gymnasium 7.00 The level of unionization of employees in Alro in 2015 was about 94%. During 2015, the relations between the company's executive management and employees represented by unions were fair, regulated by the Collective Labour Agreement and the current specific legislation. No conflicts were reported that could affect the normal activity or continuity of operations.. Reducing Our Environmental Footprint ECO Recycling Facility Alro's major environmental goals are: Furthermore, Alro takes measures for the selective removal of • compliance with the environmental law adopted under all waste (metal, paper and cardboard, polyethylene, glass) by the European requirements and strictly respect all legal endowment with disposal bins accordingly to EU standards, regulations applicable to the company; completely removed the asbestos used as construction material • continuous improvement of activities, processes, products for the Company’s buildings and fully recycles inert waste, such and environmental performance; as crushed concrete generated from building demolishing works • preparation for emergency situations and the ability to recovered/supplied to third parties for road construction or respond, organizing and conducting simulation exercises for consolidation purposes. Alro recycles the non-hazardous wastes incidents involving dangerous substances; such as scrap metal, paper and cardboard, polyethylene, but • pollution prevention and combat the environmental factors also waste from oils which, in its turn, is the subject to recycling through investments, organizational measures, maintenance by the relevant authorized recycling operators. and repairs and technological changes; • continuous monitoring of environmental aspects of Moreover, Alro reduced the CF4 and C2F6 emissions with about production activity through weekly environmental programs; 39 times, compared with 1990. Also, all the emissions related to burning natural gas and anodes were significantly reduced. Alro continuously takes measures to operate in accordance with the highest environmental standards, applicable for its activity. Responsible business and anti-corruption Internal control system Environment management The Group’s internal control system aims the compliance with Alro constantly acts to reduce emissions, which might affect the regulations in force, the good internal operating activity the environment and takes measures to increase the energy of the Group in accordance with the decisions made by the efficiency to contribute to the sustainable development of the management, and also contributes to the effectiveness of areas in which it operates. the Group's operations, to the efficient use of resources, the prevention and control of the risk of failing to achieve its goals. 13 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Internal control is applicable before, during and after the An important role is assigned to the internal audit, which by its operations are performed. Internal audit aims to achieve at least operating methodologies assures that the internal regulations the following goals: regarding the risks associated with different structures within the Group are complied with and are working. • compliance with the regulations in force; • implementation of the decisions taken by the management; Therefore the existence of an internal control environment is • the effective operation of the internal activities within the the basis of an effective control system and must be based on Group companies; clear methodology, values, ethical principles and measures for • the reliability of financial information; the responsibility, authority level, skills, duties assigned to each • the effectiveness of the Group operations; employee. • the efficient use of resources; • the prevention and control of risks to achieve the goals set. The entire internal audit system has the final goal of identifying and assessing process and compliance risks so that they can The Group via its management structure and organizational be prevented, mitigated or considered acceptable, depending on culture made efforts to implement an internal control system the current risk policy of the Group. All these procedures and that includes various activities for the prevention and detection activities that are the basis of an internal control system are of unexpected events and risks and potential fraud attempts, of constantly reviewed and improved in order to meet the business errors or omissions, damages, non-compliances, unauthorized needs of the Group and to not become obsolete. All these internal transactions, incorrect or misleading financial reporting, activities control processes and verifications are supported by appropriate that may negatively affect the Group's image, etc. documentation and contain a clear description of all key control Through its procedures and internal regulations which represent activities that have been implemented and performed. the basis for an integrated internal control system, the Group has aimed to include all relevant operations and activities occurring Both the company management and the internal audit department within the Group in order to ensure that: are structures within the Group that are responsible for the efficient evaluation and implementation of the internal control • all its operations are conducted in accordance with the law system. in force for each area in which it operates (for example to meet local requirements and legal reporting in Sierra Leone, Within the Group, both in the parent company, Alro, and at Romania), and in accordance with the internal organization the level of each subsidiary separately, the same accounting and operation rules; and reporting rules are applied to ensure the same treatment for the same types of transactions/ business related activities. • controls are implemented to prevent, identify and solve in a Depending on the evolution of the Group's business and the more efficient way fraud, errors or omissions that may have current law, these rules/ accounting treatments are updated serious consequences over the Group's activities; to ensure both compliance with legal requirements and their relevance to the conducted operations. • an organizational culture exists and is maintained, concerning the risk of fraud or error, and the employees are Moreover, the Group has separate departments for accounting, aware that providing misleading or wrong information can reporting/ financial control so there is a clear separation of roles have serious consequences in the effective administration and responsibilities, to have in place the ‘four eyes’ principle and of daily operations. a separate input for operations and authorization of transactions. Moreover, the management has constantly tried to use reporting Therefore, internal control procedures are designed: integrated software and automate as many processes as possible, in order to reduce the risk of manual record-keeping • on one side, to assure the compliance of the company's where the risk of error is higher. Setting standards for preparing activity and staff conduct with the framework of applicable the annual and quarterly financial statements of the Group laws, values, regulations and internal rules of the company; represents a crucial component of the internal audit system. • on the other side, to verify the accuracy of reported financial, Moreover, as a measure against corruption, there are strictly accounting and management information so that it can prohibited gifts in cash or cash equivalents (stock or goods) to or correctly reflect the company's activity and position. from a competitor company or individual who makes or tries to make business with Alro S.A. Internal control is performed mainly by the finance department and by the internal financial control in accordance with the • The use of financial resources, the company's goods or Group's accounting policy manual by monitoring, through services to support political parties or private individuals for a program of periodical reviews, the compliance with these political activities is prohibited. Any exception to this rule procedures and accounting policies, with the applicable financial is permitted only with prior written approval of the General reporting standards, the awareness and correct application of Council or of the President of the Board of Alro the financial accounting rules, thus ensuring the accuracy and • The participation of employees in activities of a political completeness of the accounting records, the presentation in the nature is possible in their own time and at their own expense. financial statements of quality information that should meet the • Managers representing the company in negotiations with requirements of their users. third parties (suppliers, customers, contractors, etc.) in 14 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report concluding or performing a business have an obligation to (EC) No. 1272/2008 (Classification, Labeling and Packaging), is act for the best interest of Alro, is not subject to any conflict complex and affects all manufactures, importers and downstream of interests and not favour any of the partners based on users in the European Union, requiring their joint collaboration personal considerations. across the supply chain. • All employees are responsible for protecting the Company’s assets and information. It is essential for users of chemical substances to know if • The employee who discovers an event of direct or indirect suppliers (manufacturer/importer) will register and notify the nature questionable, fraudulent or illegal that is or may be substances they require, confirming that they will be available a violation of the Company’s policy and may prejudice it, is in the future and that their specific uses will be covered by the obliged to report it immediately to the management. registration. It is also essential for suppliers to be informed • The relationships and communication between the about downstream applications and exposure information for the company’s employees are aimed at implementing the respective substances, in order to be able to incorporate them in policies and resolving efficient and effective the objectives. the required chemical safety report, if substances are classified. The relationship and communication between the Company’s executives is based on mutual respect, cooperation, Alro is committed to meeting all the legal obligations under courtesy, concern and fairness. REACH and CLP, as a manufacturer, importer and downstream • Formal communication (official) in writing, on paper or user and has started the registration process. We have electronic mail will be made in compliance with company established a REACH team to deal with all the requirements of procedures and practices of drafting and delivery of these legislations. Moreover Alro is a member of the REACH documents. Consortium, formed by the European Aluminium Association • The violation, by the employees, of the provisions of the (EAA), which prepares the full dossier for aluminium, aluminium Code, of the Company’s policies, of the legislation and of oxide and aluminium hydroxide. the applicable rules represent disciplinary misbehaviour, which can be sanctioned according to the gravity of the fact, As a supplier of aluminium and aluminium alloy products: in accordance with the stipulations of the Code of Conduct. • We have pre-registered manufactured and imported substances in order to benefit from the transitional periods Supply chain integrity provided by the pre-registration under REACH. • We have checked, and will continue to check, that our REACH programme suppliers, or any party up the supply chain, are willing to undertake the responsibility of the registration of the The new chemicals legislation issued across Europe, known as applicable substances in order to grant supply to our REACH Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 (Registration Evaluation customers. Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) and CLP Regulation • We are going to register manufactured substances. Alro celebrated 50 years of continuous production 15 2015 Sustainability Report Alro is subsidiary of Vimetco N.V., a global, vertically-integrated primary and processed aluminium producer. Alro is one of the largest aluminium producers in Central and Eastern Europe measured by volume with an installed production capacity of 265,000 tonnes per year. The main markets for the aluminium manufactured by Alro are within the EU (Hungary, Poland, Greece, Germany and Romania). Alro also exports to the US and Asia. Alro is ISO 9001 certified for quality management and has NADCAP as well as EN 9100 certificates for aerospace production organizations. Alro’s products adhere to the quality standards for primary aluminium on the LME, as well as international standards for flat rolled products. Address Alro S.A. Rivergate Center No. 64, Splaiul Unirii 040036 Bucharest District 4 Romania Phone : +40 (0)21 408 35 00 Fax : +40 (0)21 408 35 82 Web: http://www.alro.ro
