SELF-ASSESSMENT  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 5th October 2016 To our stakeholders: Being a signatory of the UN Global Compact and supporting the 10 fundamental principles augur well for Maka Engineering Pte. Ltd. As Maka Engineering Pte. Ltd. looks ahead to further expand its regional and international business, we are increasingly confronted with multicultural issues, domestic conflicts and various socio-economic sensitivities. The UN Global Compact and the UNGC Local Networks “spheres of influence” brings great comfort to our stakeholders domestically, regionally and internationally. We look forward to participating in the Local Network‟s activities, continuing to influence our stakeholders on the values of Global Compact‟s principles and being vigilant in ensuring that our organization and its people abide by these principles. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. HUMAN RIGHTS  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. MAKA have developed a “code of conduct” kit that specifies our behavioral and ethical standards that employees of Maka must adhere to.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. MAKA applies the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to all applicable business policies and practices.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. MAKA conduct internal audit and compliance mechanisms across our companies related the Human Rights Policy. LABOUR  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. MAKA adopted and practiced Human Resources (HR) SOP. The HR SOP covers recruitment and probation, performance management, disciplinary and domestic inquiry, training and development.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. MAKA will continue to be an equal opportunity employer and we will make constant improvements to our policies related to this area.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. MAKA only partner with other anti-slavery organizations and raise awareness of the prevalence of slavery, as well as the role businesses already do and can play. ENVIRONMENT  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. MAKA practice a standard internal process that carries out the “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” principle, in maximizing efficient in terms of resource use, waste production and where possible reduce any risk of pollution.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. We are integrating a range of environmental initiatives including more efficient lighting and controls, improved environmental performance appliances, hot water timers, increased remote metering and where needed, additional insulation.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We carry out daily routine check and ensure all office equipments e.g; printers, air-conditioning units, computers and etc, to be turned-off where possible, after working hours. ANTI-CORRUPTION  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Our employees are guided by our “code of conduct” which outlines boundaries of expected and accepted behavior on minimizing their impacts in this contentious area, via services such as ethics and human rights audits.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. MAKA has a „no tolerance‟ policy in regards to corruption, including exortion and bribery.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. We implement a purchase order systems that we purchases must go through a formalized system with appropriate checks and balances, to ensure that company funds are being used only for legitimate business purposes.
