Sustainability report 2015 Welcome Contents 01 Introduction 10 Materiality 15 Our people 21 Business ethics 26 Environmental responsibilty 28 Value chain 34 Society 39 Appendix Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society This is our fourth annual sustainability report, published on 28 April 2016 and covering the 2015 calendar year. The report is aligned with the “Core” requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. As such, it places primary focus on those issues that are considered most material to Dialog and its stakeholders – as defined through a formal materiality process (pages 11–14). Fuller details, including a table of G4 aspects and indicators, can be found on our website. The content of this report is not subject to external assurance. www.dialog-semiconductor.com (GRI G4 information) www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 01 Building on excellence Our fourth report marks a tangible step forwards Likewise, the nature of our fabless model means As an innovative company in our efforts to offer higher levels of transparency we face relatively limited levels of exposure to around the most important issues affecting our sustainability risks within our own operations. that is strongly focused on business and stakeholders, our efforts to manage Furthermore our integrated circuits are growth – and as a supporter these issues and the outcomes of our efforts. manufactured by carefully selected, technologically This includes our avoidance or minimisation advanced fabrication partners, who apply mature of the United Nations Global of any negative impacts we might otherwise management systems to address issues such as Compact (“UN Global have, as well as the maximisation of our positive quality control, human resources and environmental impacts. On behalf of the Board and the Executive performance. Their highly automated plants are Compact”) – we aspire Team I would like to thank the teams in Quality typically staffed by well-qualified technicians and to apply sustainability & Environment Systems, Supply Chain & Value engineers and are subject to strict operational Management, and Manufacturing – as well as the oversight. Indeed, we assign at least one of management standards sustainability champions and all other employees our own staff members to any plant that is commensurate to our involved – for their efforts and dedication in producing integrated circuits for us. This not only support of all our sustainability activities. enhances our ability to monitor the production business ambitions. process and quality control, but also the degree Technological innovation, value creation, to which our partners’ responsible management power management and energy efficiency sit practices satisfy both our own requirements and at the core of our business, with our integrated those of our customers. As such, we are able circuits enhancing the usability, effectiveness to deliver high levels of assurance to our own and sustainability of more than one billion customers regarding the potential risks that electronic consumer products during 2015. they are exposed to through our supply chain. This does not mean we can afford to be complacent. We need to anticipate and meet evolving social norms, customer requirements and legal compliance standards. By doing so, we will continue to demonstrate to our partners that we can be trusted to apply the kind of sustainability standards one would expect from a truly responsible global company. Dr Jalal Bagherli Chief Executive Officer 02 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our performance over the year In 2015, we advanced our The purpose of this exercise was to identify and prioritise (with the help of our external partners) Importantly, we also successfully maintained our high levels of sustainability performance. In 2016 we aim to make further progress towards defining a sustainability strategy aligned with the management of sustainability those sustainability issues impacting Dialog and its Key highlights are: results of our materiality assessment. This will help issues through the stakeholders. The results are being used to help define our sustainability strategy and to ensure • Distribution of US$1,201 million in economic ensure that we truly integrate sustainability into our business and support Dialog’s long-term value. implementation of our first the right allocation of resources for its effective value to our employees, suppliers, host formal materiality process. implementation. Furthermore, the results have directly informed the contents of this report – governments, local communities and providers of capital. This represents 89% of our total sustainability@diasemi.com which is aligned with the “Core” requirements of turnover. the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability • Provision of sponsorship, access bursaries and Reporting Guidelines. industrial placements to a total of 79 graduate and postgraduate engineering students. As a result, the content of this report is now • Participation in a strategic partnership with more closely tailored to the specific nature of our University Technical College Swindon (“UTC business model, activities and relationships. This is Swindon”) in the United Kingdom – benefiting reflected, for example, by the following changes (along with additional mentoring and support) compared to our 2014 Sustainability Report: a total of 200 secondary school students. • Screening of all new significant fabrication • Additional detail regarding the underlying partners (i.e. those supplying more than 1% of management systems we apply in relation to our total volume of integrated circuits) against our material sustainability issues. our Self-Audit Checklist, which covers labour • Reduced emphasis on our direct health, safety and human rights, health and safety, the and environmental impacts – reflecting the fact environment and business ethics, as well as that the impacts of our office-based business the application of pre-qualification audits to are, in reality, relatively limited. all new fabrication partners. • Enhanced content on our positive sustainability • Auditing of all seven existing significant impacts, including those relating to fabrication partners against our Supplier Audit technological innovation (page 36), the Checklist and Corporate Social Responsibility environmental impacts of our products Checklist – with no “major” negative audit (pages 37–38) and our broader economic findings identified. Likewise, these processes did impacts (page 36). not identify any material risks relating to human • Increased emphasis on the management of rights, labour rights, health and safety or potential human rights, labour rights, and the environment. health and safety impacts in our supply chain (page 28) – and on the exclusion of conflict minerals from our products (page 24). www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 03 The Dialog business model We design and distribute highly integrated Our business model has three dimensions built on innovation: semiconductors using best-in-class manufacturing and packaging technologies. Innovation is at the core of our business. 1. Short and collaborative 3. Market-leading design cycle products Our highly skilled engineers, their know-how and our intellectual In the consumer electronics market, Dialog’s focus and expertise in power property (“IP”) are our key assets. We have implemented a product development times are short management and power efficiency “high-touch” fabless model – meaning we have outsourced due to rapidly evolving consumer semiconductors contributes to better production. This allows us to remain flexible and maintain a requirements in a highly competitive energy efficiency and lower power low capital-intensive business, while retaining some core and changing market. consumption for a range of portable manufacturing and advanced packaging competencies in-house. devices and applications in the consumer products market. For more information on our business 2. High-touch fabless model, please see our 2015 annual report. model with strong production partnerships Our foundry, test and packaging partners are amongst the leading companies in their field and we have developed a strong collaboration with them over time. 04 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society O U T P U T S Power efficient product range Page 06 Reusable IP portfolio Pages 23, 36 Trusted relationships with customers Pages 22–23, 32 Environmental outputs Pages 26, 33 Economic value creation Page 36 www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 05 Our products Effective power management and pervasive connectivity Power – Power efficiency remain at the core of the Management – Longer battery life consumer electronics market. – Reduced energy use up to 30% of a portable device Dialog’s focus and expertise in power – Lighter, thinner, smaller management and short-range wireless connectivity semiconductors contributes to lower power consumption for a range of portable devices and applications in the consumer products market. Connectivity – Ultra-low power Bluetooth® Smart Our integrated design approach helps – Up to 30 days of battery power for to reduce component size and numbers, wearable products, like the Mi Band meaning our customers can reduce – 50% reduction in power consumption and costs and maximise performance. size of classic Bluetooth – One of the most energy-efficient connectivity Our technology portfolio includes power management, audio, Bluetooth® Smart, solutions available to consumers Rapid Charge™ AC/DC power conversion and multi-touch. Power – High efficiency AC/DC power converter For more information on our Conversion – Reduced energy consumption product range and forward focus – Reduction in number of components required please see our 2015 annual report. – Zero standby power consumption for portable devices 06 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Dialog replaces multiple discrete power management components with one highly integrated device; these single chip solutions reduce energy usage and provide a simple yet flexible design at a lower cost. Typical usage tests show our power management integrated circuits (“PMICs”) can decrease the power consumption of a portable device by up to 30%. We launched the world’s first Bluetooth® Smart Wearable-onOur Bluetooth® Smart technology is projected to save the Chip™. The small, ultra-low power integrated circuit includes key equivalent of 2 million coin cell batteries over the lifetime of functionalities to create a fully hosted wearable computing product. devices produced in 2015. Our Bluetooth® Smart solution in the Mi Band can deliver up to 30 days of battery power from a single charge. This is more than double the battery life of its closest competitor, creating one of the most energy efficient connectivity solutions available to consumers today. Our AC/DC converters and LED drivers are designed to The iW1700 reduces no load power consumption to less than cost-effectively reduce energy consumption by maximising power 5 milliwatts, or effectively zero for smartphones, cordless phones, conversion efficiency with digital technology that uses fewer tablets and other portable devices. components. This leads to lower consumption of fossil fuels, less energy spent manufacturing unneeded components and lower Our LED drivers enable very high efficiency light bulbs, total system cost for customers. significantly reducing energy usage. This means consumers can benefit from LED bulbs with an average lifespan of ten years or Dialog was the first company to introduce a zero standby power more, compared to just three to four years with compact AC/DC pulse width modulations (“PWM”) controller. fluorescent bulbs. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 07 Our approach to sustainability 08 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our Vision and applicable external standards As a participant in the United In addition to being the right thing to do, we believe this approach will ultimately support the We extend related requirements to our major suppliers through the application of our Supplier Sustainability management In 2015, sustainability management was Nations Global Compact long-term value of our business. This is due to the Code of Conduct, which incorporates the overseen by our Chief Financial Officer, who (“UN Global Compact”), increasingly stringent expectations of our investors, our customers and the end-consumers of the requirements of the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”) Code of Conduct. was supported by our Head of Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability and University we aim to do business in products in which our technology is integrated. Relations. Further details regarding the a way that respects human As such, our Vision is to embed sustainable and In addition, we apply the following external standards: management of specific issues within Dialog can be found in the following chapters. rights, supports responsible responsible practices into the way we act internally labour practices, protects the and engage externally. We are guided in this respect by a range of corporate policies and codes, • Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. • ISO14001 environmental management system In early 2016 we initiated a series of internal organisational changes to better integrate environment and maintains including our: standard, to which we are certified. sustainability management into our core business strong business ethics – and • Corporate Code of Conduct • ISO9001 quality management system standard, to which we are certified1. activities. This is to fully embed sustainability into the responsibilities – and actions – of managers that helps advance broader (“Dialog Code of Conduct”). throughout the Company. At the time of publishing sustainable development. • Quality and Environmental Policy. • Health and Safety Policy. We are also guided in our external sustainability reporting by the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 this report, we were in the process of defining our new sustainability governance framework, including • Intellectual Property Policy. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. relevant management accountabilities. Once this is • Conflict Minerals Policy. finalised, further details will be made available through our public reporting. 1 We also require all of our major suppliers to be certified to both ISO14001 and ISO9001 – amongst other management system standards. See page 29. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 09 Materiality 10 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Materiality We aim to align our sustainability management activities (including reporting) with our most material issues. We have worked with external advisors to identify This process has been informed by: Stakeholder engagement In this context, we select stakeholders we and prioritise these issues on the basis of: Our ongoing engagement with internal and engage with on the basis of: • Ongoing stakeholder engagement external stakeholders helps us understand: • The potential or actual impact of Dialog on throughout 2015. • Their actual and potential impact on Dialog. its stakeholders. • Targeted stakeholder engagement in 2015 and • The impact of our activities and relationships • Dialog’s actual and potential impact on • The potential or actual impact of stakeholders 2016 to directly support our materiality process. on others – and how we can best manage stakeholders – both positive and negative. on the ability of Dialog to achieve its • Our corporate risk management process. these impacts in a responsible manner. business objectives. • The potential risks and opportunities In addition to informing our materiality process, associated with stakeholders – and how we stakeholder engagement also helps inform our can best manage these in a proactive way. corporate risk management process (page 12). • The ongoing effectiveness of our management actions. General stakeholder engagement activity in 2015 Stakeholder type Form of engagement Frequency of engagement Examples of issues raised Employees –– Annual employee survey –– At least monthly –– Involvement in sustainability activities –– Company strategy –– Employee annual reviews –– Quarterly group conference calls –– Terms of employment –– Learning and development –– Regular communications on Company intranet –– Working environment –– Global sustainability group representatives from each office Investors –– Annual report –– At least daily –– Industry dynamics –– Business strategy –– Investor roadshows –– Technological trends –– Supply chain management –– Sustainability roadshows –– Company performance –– Governance (including sustainability) –– Ongoing investor relations engagement Customers –– Customer service feedback –– At least annually –– Product design –– Delivery schedules –– Customer audit activity –– Product quality and price Community –– Sustainability report –– Monthly to annual contact –– Donations and –– Community projects with local communities in-kind support Peers –– Industry forums and work groups –– Ad hoc –– Industry dynamics –– Technological trends Government/regulators –– Government consultations –– Ad hoc –– Environmental regulations –– Regulatory enquiries –– Product standards Suppliers –– Procurement contract tenders –– At least daily with respect –– Product quality and price –– Management of identified issues –– Supply chain audits to major suppliers –– Delivery schedules in the 2014 process –– On-site presence at fabrication plants –– Implementation of the 2015 auditing –– Performance reviews process www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 11 Materiality continued Risk management Key sustainability risks in 2015 Our Risk Management office identifies the key risks Although the risk register cuts across all aspects of faced by Dialog and reports these, along with the our business, key risks relating to our sustainability status of any mitigating actions or controls, to the performance are set out below. Each of these has Executive Team and Audit Committee. been integrated into our materiality process. For more information on our principal risks please see These risks are recorded in a central risk register, pages 48–52 of our 2015 annual report. which is reviewed by our Executive Team and Audit Committee. The risk register is used to plan our Strategic risks internal audit activity and assess any potential • Human capital: The need to support ongoing impact on our strategy. product innovation and ensure Dialog has the appropriate leadership capabilities for an expanding and increasingly complex global operation. Operational risks • Fabless business model: The need to ensure that our suppliers perform (both operationally and otherwise) in a way that does not undermine our customer relationships. Legal and compliance risks • Legal compliance: The need to understand – and comply with – local applicable laws and regulations as Dialog expands into new jurisdictions. • Environmental compliance: The need to ensure that (in the context of the fabless model) suppliers comply with applicable environmental regulations. • Intellectual property: The need to legally and physically protect highly innovative intellectual property held by Dialog. 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Materiality process In 2015, we carried out our first formal materiality process to define our most material sustainability issues. This was with the aim of not only informing our public sustainability reporting, but also to help define current and future sustainability management priorities within Dialog. Materiality assessment process 1. I nitial review of 2. D  efinition of a 3. I n-depth analysis to prioritise (using a structured, 4. Gathering of 5. “Mapping” of the sustainability “Dashboard” of score-based framework) each Dashboard issue, feedback on the G4 Sustainability issues facing: relevant issues based on Dialog’s actual and potential impact results from internal Reporting for Dialog and on its stakeholders – and vice versa. discipline experts Guidelines –– Dialog. its stakeholders. and external ‘Aspects’ against –– Dialog’s stakeholders. This included: stakeholders – Dialog’s most –– The semiconductor and the appropriate material issues. (and wider –– Analysis of Dialog’s activities, locations and business partners. adjustment of scores. electronics) sector. –– Engagement with internal discipline experts. –– A review of existing company management system components. –– A review of Dialog’s existing risk assessment and supply chain audit results. –– A review of external analysis and commentary on the semiconductor (and wider electronics) industry. As part of our materiality process, we carried out The results of this engagement have been a targeted external engagement exercise to gather integrated into our materiality process, feedback on our initial results. This was based on resulting in the following changes: bilateral engagement with a range of external stakeholders, including those drawn from: • Health and safety: Increased impact on stakeholders and Dialog. • The investment community. • Conflict minerals: Reduced impact on • Industry bodies. stakeholders. • Community partners. • Energy and carbon emissions: • The education sector. Increased impact on stakeholders. • Suppliers. • Governance: Increased impact on stakeholders. • Employee development: Increased impact on Dialog. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 13 Materiality process continued Materiality matrix Dialog’s materiality matrix The outputs from our High materiality process are set out in the matrix. This includes Material Economic performance our most material issues, as and impact well as a range of additional relevant issues that we are Product Advancement of technology Relevant impacts also proactively managing. Health and safety Intellectual Labour/ property (supply chain) human rights Corporate Diversity and equality (supply chain) governance Enhancing the external skills pool Compliance with Conflict customer standards Employee development minerals Recruitment: Graduates Recruitment: Professionals Philanthropy Rewards, morale Impact on stakeholders and engagement Corruption/bribery Transparency Energy and (supply chain) carbon emissions Environmental Pollution, resources impacts (supply chain) General legal compliance and waste Health and safety Retention Irrelevant Relevant issue Material issue Low Low Impact on Dialog High 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our people 2015 headcount Locations Countries Nationalities 1,660 (2014: 1,373 +21%) 31 14 62 www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 15 Our people The nature of our business, which relies on the ongoing Overall workplace profile2 as of 31 December 2015 advancement of cutting-edge semiconductor technology, means we are highly reliant on our ability to recruit, Employment type Gender Full time Part time Male Female Total retain and develop high-quality electronic engineering Total employees 1,601 59 1,398 262 1,660 professionals, as well as leading management talent. Temporary employees 25 Permanent employees 1,635 2 Please note that we do not have any supervised workers nor do we make material use of workers who are legally recognised as Materiality Management approach self-employed or employees/supervised employees of contractors. Our continued ability to recruit, retain and We manage our people through: develop experienced engineering professionals Geographic distribution of workforce and managers is particularly important given: • The application of national-level human resource policies, tailored to reflect local Gender • Strong, ongoing competition for skills within legal requirements, business priorities and Region Male Female Total the sector. labour markets. • An ageing electronics engineering demographic. • The application of our corporate Code of Asia 232 47 279 • Our strong commercial growth. Conduct (“Dialog Code of Conduct”)1, which sets out our minimum, group-wide Europe 982 172 1,154 In this context, we are focused on maintaining a requirements in relation to labour and human North America 184 43 227 sustainable skills pipeline – ranging from the rights, health and safety and related issues. Total 1,398 262 1,660 identification, development (and ultimate • Ongoing talent planning and gap identification. recruitment) of high-potential undergraduates • Proactive engagement at university level to through to the attraction of experienced experts. identify and recruit new talent. We take a holistic view towards both recruitment • Ongoing identification and engagement of and retention that looks beyond the provision high-value professionals and leaders. of highly competitive financial rewards. We also aim to deliver the kind of lifestyle, working Responsibility for our performance sits with environment, development opportunities and the Senior Vice President Human Resources. inclusive culture that allow our people to develop He is supported in this role by dedicated local high-quality, long-term careers with us. Human Resource teams. 1 See www.dialog-semiconductor.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance/code-of-business-conduct-and-ethics 16 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Recruitment and retention Retention At the end of 2015 we employed 1,660 people, In 2015, staff turnover was 6.9% (2014: 5.7%). Beata Druszcz a 21% increase on 2014. We now operate from In order to minimise staff turnover, Dialog 31 locations in 14 countries and our global has an improved performance management workforce continues to increase in diversity. Dialog system to ensure that we are able to reward employees are drawn from 62 nationalities. We our best employees through appropriate continue to recruit globally for the most talented mechanisms, including career development. Graduate recruitment profile people, identify centres of engineering talent and These activities include: build our business around them. In 2015, we expanded our existing design centres in Europe, • Ongoing market place benchmarking. Asia and North America. • The creation of a strong employment proposition to attract people. Dialog’s Graduate Analog Design Engineer, During this time, Beata ran for the UKESF Scholar The nature of our industry means those working • Retention and new Long Term Incentive Beata Druszcz, joined Dialog as part of the of the Year Award 2014. As well as an excellent in it are highly skilled, international in flavour programme for key employees in 2015. UK Electronic Skills Foundation (“UKESF”) academic record, Beata volunteered in her and mobile. As such, and subject to any relevant scholarship programme. As a programme hometown in Poland, visiting local schools and regulatory restrictions, the national or sub-national In addition to these formal programmes, partner, Dialog offers scholarships, work encouraging young people to consider origins of applicants is irrelevant as far as our we actively expose our engineers to challenging placements and internships to electronic electronics as a possible career path. Beata has recruitment process is concerned. projects and customer relationships. In our engineering students. Having completed a also taken part in the Women in STEM Education experience this is one of the best ways to UKESF Summer Workshop in 2013, Beata was “People Like Me” Campaign, which educates Graduate recruitment encourage high levels of motivation, personal then offered her first internship opportunity. girls on the different opportunities available We run a targeted graduate recruitment and development and long-term commitment to through the study of engineering or science. development programme to ensure that we the Company. Beata completed two internships with maintain a robust and sustainable skills pipeline Dialog while studying in her last two years Beata cites the positive atmosphere at Dialog to support both our current and future success. of a five-year MEng degree in Electronics and the lifelong development opportunities that Key components of our graduate recruitment Manager retention rate and Electrical Engineering at the University come with a career in electronics as the main 95.0% process include: of Edinburgh. On completion of her final reasons behind her decision to work in the internship, Beata was offered a permanent electronics industry. • Sponsorships and internships. role as a Graduate Analog Design Engineer. • Direct recruitment from our partner universities. (2014: 93.3%) • Careers fairs and university events. Overall employee retention rate 93.1% In 2015, this helped us recruit a total of 40 new graduates into our workforce – all of whom have been enrolled in our formal Dialog Graduate Development Programme. (2014: 94.3%) www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 17 Our people continued Development This process is managed through our recently Workplace Rewards As a research and development-led business that introduced Learning Management System, which Rewards, morale and wellness Our rewards are managed by our human resource specialises in innovative technology, it is important helps us understand our internal capabilities, target We aim to maintain a positive, healthy and policies, implementation of which is overseen by that we stay at the cutting edge of our sector key training content at individuals and measure the motivated workforce – that is aligned with and our Senior Vice President Human Resources. (page 36). impact of our training and development efforts. actively supports Dialog’s business goals. This We offer employees a strong and multi-faceted The key means by which we develop people include: includes the provision of: compensation package that includes: Furthermore, our current growth strategy means we are going to need an ever-larger body of skills • Professional training. • Appropriate remuneration, benefits • Competitive base salaries. and experience to help drive our expansion. • Management and leadership training. and bonuses. • Pension contributions. Although some of this can be “bought in”, we face • Personal development. • A positive and entrepreneurial working culture • An annual bonus scheme linked to Company strong competition from our peers. In addition, • On-the-job learning. supported by constructive management profit and personal performance. we need to make sure that we invest in our existing • e-Learning modules. approaches. • A share option scheme for everyone from human capital on an ongoing basis. • Mentoring. • A healthy working environment that supports graduates upwards. long-term employee wellbeing. This makes it incumbent on us to ensure our In 2016, we will continue to develop our We regularly benchmark our employee benefits employees have access to high-quality development management and leadership learning portfolio By doing so, we believe we can support employee against both the international market and the local opportunities. This not only enhances their skills, to support the organisation. motivation and performance in the short and long markets in which we operate. This includes close expertise and future earning potential, but also term, while also enhancing our ability to retain the analysis of packages offered by our competitors to enhances the internal pool of world-class talent we valuable skills and experience offered by those who ensure that our own offering remains attractive. can call upon and incentivises high performers to work for us. continue developing their career with us. Fewer than 2.5% of our employees are party to collective bargaining agreements, which is typical of our industry. Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared with local minimum wage at key operating sites Ratio of employees’ standard entry level wage to local Minimum minimum wage (if applicable) wage Location in place? Male Female United Kingdom Yes 2.21 2.21 Germany Yes 2.86 2.86 Netherlands Yes 2.27 2.27 United States Yes 4.27 4.27 China Yes 2.79 2.79 18 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Morale and wellbeing We also implement a number of initiatives aimed We believe that it is in the interest of both Dialog at promoting employee morale and wellbeing. and our employees to maintain a positive working These include generous time off policies, employee culture characterised by engaged, motivated and volunteering opportunities, workplace social events, healthy individuals. In terms of employee as well as incentive programmes and employee engagement, we actively promote: recognition initiatives aimed at ensuring a healthy work/life balance. • Effective, two-way communication between managers and employees. In addition, we supplement our core rewards • Clear executive communication. package with a range of additional benefits. • Internal suggestions programmes. These include (depending on location): We assess levels of employee engagement on an • Medical benefits (including eye testing annual basis, with the last Company survey taking and massages). place in 2015. The average score of the employee • Employee assistance programmes to engagement survey in 2015 was 66%, two provide confidential support to those facing percentage points above 2014. In 2015, we built on challenges in their working and personal lives. the insights gained from this survey by initiating • Health, disability and life insurance. both corporate and local initiatives to further • Fitness initiatives, including a “cycle to work” improve engagement. scheme, subsidised gym membership and an onsite gym. • Subsidised food, including a subsidised canteen and meal vouchers. • Childcare contributions for working parents. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 19 Our people continued Diversity and equality It is a reality, however, that the electronic Health and safety We are committed to employing and developing engineering sector performs relatively poorly in Almost all of our activities are office-based, with those people who have the necessary skills, terms of gender diversity. There has been much the exception of our testing facility in Nabern and experience and values to excel in their relevant analysis of why this is the case, with growing focus our small testing laboratories. As a result, the risk role – irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, being placed on invisible, structural considerations exposure of our employees (and visitors to our religion, disability or any other non-work related that may be limiting female engagement with the facilities) is relatively low compared with many personal characteristic. Furthermore, we recognise sector and/or inducing a degree of self-deselection organisations. It is nonetheless an issue that we the value a diverse workforce can potentially bring (i.e. rather than any conscious barriers on the part actively manage to minimise any health and safety in terms of creativity, dynamism and the provision of the sector). This partly reflects why women risks associated with our activities, including of new perspectives. currently comprise 15.8% of our workforce (2015: through the application of our Health and Safety 15.8%) and there is no female representation on Policy. The policy and its supporting guidance notes In this context, we aim to nurture a working our Board of Directors or senior executive team. are updated on an annual basis (or more frequently culture characterised by mutual respect and where necessary). non-discrimination. In 2015, we had no alleged As a result, we are keen to raise awareness or actual cases of discrimination raised through amongst women both inside and outside the In addition, we have: our internal grievance mechanisms. Company about the exciting potential careers available to them at Dialog and to encourage them • A dedicated Health and Safety Representative, The globalised nature of our footprint and the to explore these opportunities with us (page 18). who is responsible for communicating health nature of our sector mean that, like many of our Furthermore, we are keen to understand how we and safety issues and updates to our employees. peers, we enjoy a highly international workforce – can make better use of a potentially significant skills • A General Risk Assessment procedure, to many of whom work for us in locations away from pool (in the form of actual and potential female identify, evaluate and minimise hazards in their countries of birth. For example, we have a engineers) as a means of addressing current the workplace. This is applied throughout total of 62 nationalities represented within our demographic challenges within the electronic the Company for all “mainstream” tasks business – as well as a senior executive team engineering sector (page 16). (i.e. office work). representing eight different nationalities. • Specific Risk Assessment procedures, which are applied to those tasks not covered by the General Risk Assessment (i.e. laboratory work, for example). 20 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Business ethics www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 21 Business ethics Our business relies on Materiality Maintaining our partners’ trust depends on: Compliance Legal compliance Because of this, we put a significant amount of energy into understanding our customers’ the trust of our partners, As with all companies, it is incumbent on extensive requirements and applying comprehensive including our investors, • Our strict adherence to our customers’ exacting technical, commercial and ethical requirements. us to comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. This is likely to require management systems to ensure that these are fully met by both the design of our products, customers and suppliers. • The protection of both our own intellectual increased management as we extend our as well as their production by our fabrication property and that of our business partners, global presence into new jurisdictions. partners. This includes, for example: which is fundamental given the technologically innovative nature of our business. In this context we monitor legal changes in • The posting of Dialog personnel at our • Our strict compliance with the laws of our host our countries of operation on an ongoing fabrication partners’ sites to monitor societies – including those relating to antibasis to ensure we comply with existing laws production activities. bribery and corruption. and regulations – and anticipate new ones. • An extensive raft of operational quality control Our compliance efforts are overseen by measures by which we assess consignments Any breach of this trust, or of our legal our Senior Vice President General Counsel, from our fabrication partners. obligations, would have the potential to assisted by our Assistant Company Secretary. • Regular business reviews with our fabrication seriously compromise our business – whether We also provide employees training to help partners to understand their performance and in terms of the loss of valuable commercial them address global compliance issues future capabilities. relationships, the undermining of our reputation • Our ongoing annual auditing of our fabrication or the application of official sanctions. In 2015, we were not subject to any material partners, including against the following legal sanctions or fines for non-compliance management system standards (as well as our Management approach with applicable laws. Suppliers Control Plan): We manage business ethics through: –– ISO9001 (quality management) Compliance with customer standards –– TS 16949 (quality management) • The application of the Dialog Code of Conduct, As a supplier of semiconductors to manufacturers –– ISO14001 (environmental) which addresses issues including anti-bribery of sophisticated electronic goods, we are subject to –– OHSAS18001 (health and safety) and corruption, the protection of intellectual a significant body of technical, legal and quality –– ANSI/ESD S20.20 (electronic property and whistleblowing. The Code of control requirements defined by our customers. discharge control). Conduct is applicable to all Dialog operations and to any party that contributes to our In many cases, our compliance with these Further information on our supply chain auditing products, services and other business activities. requirements is included as a condition of contract activity can be found on pages 29–31. • A range of specific policies addressing issues with our customers – making our strict adherence such as conflict minerals, financial dealings, essential. This is particularly the case with respect to conflicts of interest and financial crime. the technical specifications and quality of our highly sophisticated products. Any slight variation in this Responsibility for this framework sits with our respect is not only likely to render them valueless Senior Vice President General Counsel. He is from the perspective of our customers, but also supported in this role on a day-to-day basis by the has the potential to undermine our customers’ own Assistant Company Secretary. products (and thus brands). 22 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society The performance of our suppliers in this regard is Intellectual property In addition, we seek to protect our current assessed by the following Dialog departments on The protection of intellectual property is vital business and our intellectual property from an ongoing basis: for any business focused on the creation of being illegitimately copied or used by others innovative and high-value technological solutions. through the application of patents, copyright • Quality and Environmental: Quality Any failure in this regard could have profound and trademarks on a global basis (see page 36 engineering, physical laboratory, quality consequences, for example, on the value of our for further details on our creation of patentable and environment. inventions, products and company. Furthermore, inventions). Our dedicated Patent Committee • Global Manufacturing Operations: our semiconductors are specifically designed for oversees the identification and legal protection Test development, offshore operations and integration as components into our customers’ of all new inventions. assembly development. own products. This means we necessarily • Supply Chain and Value Management: access and work with customers’ intellectual In 2015 we had no complaints relating to breaches Global procurement, supply chain and trade property and/or commercial and technological of customer privacy, losses of customer data or the compliance customs and foreign trade. secrets. This requires a high degree of trust misuse of customers’ intellectual property. on the part of our customers, whose business Similarly, our customers typically apply their own we would lose were this trust to be broken. set of compliance measures to ensure we are meeting their requirements. This includes We ensure that all intellectual property is adequately auditing of: safeguarded through the application of: • Our management systems, processes and • A dedicated Intellectual Property Policy facility specifications. (as well as related Information Technology • The communication of their own standards to and Intellectual Property Security Policies). our fabrication partners and their application Together, these address issues including in practice. data security, the regulation of external • Product testing processes and documentation. communications and incident management. • Materials and product traceability. • Related restrictive provisions in both our Code • Possible contamination of products by of Conduct and our contracts of employment. disallowed substances. • Robust information technology systems to prevent data leakage. We evaluate customer satisfaction with the quality • Access controls to specific project data for and specifications of our products on an ongoing employees and third parties. basis, using: • Individual reviews. • Analysis of any customer complaints. • Customer surveys. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 23 Business ethics continued Anti-bribery and corruption We communicate our zero tolerance approach Conflict minerals Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our We take a zero tolerance approach to bribery to corruption to all suppliers, contractors and We support international efforts to ensure that the suppliers to comply with the Electronics Industry and corruption and are committed to acting business partners at the outset of our business mining and trading of tin, tungsten, tantalum and Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct (“EICC with integrity in all our business dealings and relationship – and, where appropriate, during gold (known as “3TG”) from high-risk locations Code”). Under the EICC Code, companies must: relationships. In this context, we are subject subsequent engagement. does not contribute to conflict and/or serious to national anti-corruption laws, including human rights abuses in the Great Lakes region of • Provide reasonable assurance that the 3TG in “extraterritorial” legislation such as the UK Bribery Our Finance department oversees the Africa1 (or elsewhere). the products they manufacture do not directly Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices implementation of appropriate controls and or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups Act 1977. procedures to monitor and prevent inappropriate Although we are not subject to the conflict minerals that perpetrate serious human rights abuses in forms of payment across all of our locations. This reporting requirements set out in Section 1502 of DR Congo or its adjoining countries. Our commitment in this respect is set out in our includes, for example, duplicate or overpayments, the US Dodd-Frank Act, many of our customers are. • Carry out due diligence on the source and chain internal Code of Conduct and Financial Crime Policy, and payment requests to third parties not In this context, we are committed to providing our of custody of their 3TG and make these due which are available on our Company intranet. The associated with underlying transactions. customers with the highest level of assurance diligence measures available to customers Policy is implemented by our Chief Financial Officer possible by: when requested. and addresses (amongst other things): In 2015, we did not identify any material corruption risks or cases of suspected or actual corruption. • Identifying whether any 3TG in our products In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct requires • Bribery. Were we to identify any suspected cases, these has originated from the Great Lakes region; and suppliers to complete and return information • Facilitation payments. would be subject to internal (or, if necessary, • (If it has), understanding whether the 3TG in requests regarding the origin of any 3TG contained • Gifts and hospitality. external) investigation. Any confirmed cases of our products has financed or otherwise in products supplied to Dialog. If we do identify • Money laundering. employees breaching our policy would result in benefited armed groups. 3TG in our products that originate from the Great • The raising of concerns. disciplinary action (including potential termination) • Disclosing the results of this process to Lakes region and which may have financed or • Whistleblower protection. and/or referral to the relevant law enforcement our customers. benefited armed groups, we will carry out further authorities. Any confirmed cases involving our due diligence. If this shows that the 3TG has All new employees are trained on the policy during business partners would result in the review and As such, our Conflict Minerals Policy commits us to: financed or benefited armed groups, it will be the induction process, while all existing employees potential termination of our business relations. excluded from our supply chain. are provided with access to an online “eLearning” • Supporting the aims and objectives of those module on anti-bribery and corruption. provisions of the US Dodd-Frank Act 2010 In 2015, we did not identify any cases where that relate to 3TG. 3TG integrated into our products may have or • Not knowingly procuring 3TG minerals from did finance or support armed groups in the the Great Lakes region that are not certified Great Lakes region. to be “conflict free”. • Asking our suppliers to undertake reasonable supply chain due diligence to ensure that they only use 3TG that is: (1) sourced from outside the Great Lakes region; or (2) sourced from within the Great Lakes region and which is certified by an independent third party to be “conflict free”. 1 i.e. DR Congo and its adjoining countries. 24 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Conflict minerals Evolving EU policy towards the control of conflict minerals In May 2015, the European Parliament voted in Although the final details of the proposed favour of establishing an EU-wide system of Regulation were pending negotiation between self-certified supply chain due diligence the European Commission, Parliament and applicable to smelters and refiners, mineral Council at the time of publishing this report, importers and manufacturers who source there is potential for its terms to be more 3TG from “conflict-affected and high-risk extensive than those of Section 1502 of the US areas”. This system proposed by the European Dodd-Frank Act 2010 (on conflict minerals). In Parliament is considerably wider in scope and particular, it has the potential to apply to 3TG application than that originally proposed by associated with conflict and/or very serious the European Commission. human rights abuses from anywhere in the world – not just the Great Lakes region of Africa, as specified by the Dodd-Frank Act. As such, it has the potential to increase the due diligence requirements applicable to a range of actors within the European electronics industry and beyond. We are monitoring the situation to better understand the implications of the evolving EU Regulation both for our own business and for the levels of future assurance that we will be expected to provide to our own customers. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 25 Environmental responsibility 26 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Environmental responsibility As we contract out the Management approach Pollution, resources and waste Natural resources Recycle Each of our major sites systematically measures Responsibility for environmental performance fabrication of our products, sits with our Senior Vice President Global We take the scarcity of natural resources seriously and records our emissions, waste and recycling on our direct environmental Manufacturing Operations. We further govern and consider the conservation of raw materials, such as metals, to be a priority. Dialog continues to a monthly basis. This reporting system is utilised to ensure that we closely monitor outputs from our our environmental responsibility through the impact remains limited. application of the Dialog Code of Conduct, which identify potential methods to improve existing major offices to minimise our environmental impact. This being said, we take our addresses our emissions to air and water, resource technologies and substitute alternatives such as copper for gold, to minimise our impact on the We implement the rigorous recycling of precious use, management of hazardous substances and responsibilities extremely waste management. Furthermore, we are certified to environment, and reduced costs without sacrificing metals, such as gold, silver and copper, from waste seriously and seek to the ISO14001 environmental management standard, quality and performance. and damaged products. and our Company Quality and Management minimise and offset our Manual support our efforts to achieve continuous Hazardous substances Our major sites, such as our Swindon design impact wherever possible. improvement. The monitoring of hazardous substances used in our labs is one of the key objectives of our annual centre, measure our recycling levels by type of waste, waste recovery levels and the level of waste Energy and carbon emissions “Environment Goals Programme”. sent to landfill sites. This allows us to calculate the Materiality We are working across our offices to significantly percentage of recycling, the amount of energy We operate responsible practices within our reduce CO2 emissions and minimise the carbon recovered, and the number of trees we have own business and promote them across footprint of our business. This year, we have offset saved per month. our supply chain. 100% of emissions from air travel, from our two main design centres and the use of rental cars from Our products themselves are based around a range our main office in Nabern. We work with Climate of green IC solutions, and we aim to have a positive Care to offset CO2 emissions through the Pamir impact on the wider environment through the Hydro Project. development and marketing of energy saving technology. We make an ongoing effort to 2015 minimise our: Scope 1 159.8 • Energy consumption and carbon emissions. Scope 2 1,890.7 • Pollution and waste. Scope 3 (travel only) 3,975.1 • Use of natural resources. Scope 1: Direct emissions from self-generation. Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam. Scope 3: O ther indirect emissions including those related to transport. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 27 Value chain 28 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Value chain Dialog works with a diverse Materiality Given the nature of our business model and our Management approach We manage our value chain through: In addition, our customers carry out additional auditing both of Dialog and our suppliers. set of fabrication partners commercial relationships, value chain management This is to ensure that: and other suppliers, many is a particularly important issue for Dialog. This not only includes operational aspects (including the • A policy of only dealing with fabrication partners who are accredited to or are compliant with the • Dialog is effectively communicating customer of which are based in Taiwan, avoidance and mitigation of supply chain disruption ISO14001 (environment) and ISO9001 (quality) standards to our suppliers – and has adequate the People’s Republic of and supply constraints), but also sustainability aspects such as: management standards. In addition, we require our major suppliers to commit to the systems in place to monitor their ongoing application in practice. China and other parts of requirements of our Supplier Code of Conduct • Suppliers are achieving a level of performance Southeast Asia. • The impact of our business partners on human rights and labour rights. (and by extension, to the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”) Code of Conduct) that is in line with our customers’ own requirements (including those around supplier • Health and safety performance amongst and to apply their own documented corporate environmental performance, for example). our suppliers. social responsibility policy. • The products supplied to customers meet any • The environmental impacts of both our • Screening of all new significant fabrication relevant sustainability criteria that the customer suppliers and the contents of our products. partners (i.e. those supplying more than 1% of has committed itself to (including those relating our total volume of integrated circuits) against to the type and source of input materials, This reflects: our Self-Audit Checklist (which covers labour for example). and human rights, health and safety, the • Evolving stakeholder expectations, which environment and business ethics), as well as Responsibility for supply chain management place ever-growing emphasis on the need for pre-qualification audits prior to their integration sits with the Senior Vice President Global companies to identify, and use their legitimate into our supply chain. Further details on our Manufacturing Operations. He is supported influence to proactively manage, their indirect screening activity can be seen on page 31. in this role on a day-to-day basis by the sustainability impacts. • Annual auditing of all existing fabrication Environmental Manager. • Dialog’s duty to help protect its customers from partners against our Supplier Audit Checklist reputational, contractual or commercial harm. and Corporate Social Responsibility Checklist. In addition to requirements relating to ISO14001, OHSAS18001 and ISO9001, auditing covers a range of broader sustainability issues, including those drawn from the SA8000 social accountability standard. In 2015, Dialog carried out 23 supplier audits on this basis. The outcomes of our auditing activity can be seen on page 31. • Regular Business Reviews during which Dialog managers meet with its suppliers to discuss performance and future capabilities. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 29 Value chain continued About our Supplier Code of Conduct We expect all of our major suppliers to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. This supplements Dialog’s own Code of Conduct (‘‘Dialog Code of Conduct’’), which also applies to suppliers. About our Supplier Code of Conduct Under the Supplier Code of Conduct, relevant suppliers must comply with the EICC Code of Conduct. This comprehensive document imposes minimum standards with respect to: Labour rights Health and safety Environmental management Ethics Management systems Including the International Including occupational Including pollution prevention, Including business integrity, Including policies, lines of Labor Organization (“ILO”) health and safety, emergency reporting, hazardous intellectual property, accountability, compliance core labour standards, working preparedness, industrial substances, waste and competition, whistleblowing mechanisms, risk assessment, hours, wages and benefits, hygiene, living conditions wastewater management, and conflict minerals. training, auditing and and the treatment of employees and physical safeguards. and emissions to air. sub-suppliers. in the workplace. By requiring its suppliers to comply with the EICC requirements, Dialog helps “cascade” good practice throughout its supplier base and minimise its indirect negative impacts. By doing so, it is not only protecting its own reputation, but also the reputation of its customers – some of whom are potentially vulnerable to consumer activism. www.eiccoalition.org (Code of Conduct) 30 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Although no “major” audit findings were identified in 2015, Dialog did identify 14 “minor” audit findings. Sustainability screening and auditing of significant fabrication partners Some examples are set out in the following table. All of these have been notified to the relevant supplier, by issue type (new fabrication partners screened1/existing fabrication which is expected to address them within a reasonable timeframe. Progress in addressing such findings is partners audited 2) monitored on an ongoing basis. 2013 2014 2015 Examples of “minor” negative audit findings in 2015 Health and safety 100% / 100% 100% / 100% 100% / 100% Health and safety Incorrect labelling of a Material Safety Data Sheet. Environment 100% / 100% 100% / 100% 100% / 100% Environment Fluorescent tubes in waste area not kept in a secure manner. Labour rights (incl. human rights) 100% / 100% 100% / 100% 100% / 100% Labour rights (incl. human rights) An unsecured window in a dormitory. Society 100% / 100% 100% / 100% 100% / 100% Society n/a 1 Screening activity is aimed at improving the performance of our fabrication partners where necessary, rather than their exclusion from our supply chain. 2 Includes both documentary auditing and on-site auditing. All of our fabrication partners were subjected to on-site auditing of specific operating sites in 2015. www.dialog-semiconductor.com (Code of Conduct) Type and number of “major” negative audit findings 3 2013 2014 2015 Health and safety 0 0 0 Environment 0 0 0 Labour rights (incl. human rights) 0 2 0 Society 0 0 0 3 i.e. audit findings of sufficient seriousness that Dialog requires immediate correction on the part of the supplier. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 31 Value chain continued Transparency In this context, we require our major suppliers to: The Dialog Code of Conduct is directly informed Value chain transparency is vital for the in this respect by the following instruments maintenance of predictable sourcing and marketing • Provide assurance regarding their compliance and standards: operations, as well as the avoidance and/or with our Supplier Code of Conduct through minimisation of any negative indirect impacts that Self-Assessment Questionnaires, validation • Universal Declaration of Human Rights. we might otherwise contribute to. This includes audits and the provision of documentation. • ILO International Labour Standards. impacts relating to human rights, labour rights, • Maintain membership of the EICC’s online • UN Global Compact. health and safety, and the environment. data management system (“EICC-ON”). • Electronic Industry Code of Conduct. • Complete and return information regarding • SA8000 social management system standard. It is a particularly important issue for Dialog, due to: the origin of potential conflict minerals integrated into parts supplied to Dialog In 2015, none of our significant suppliers or our • Our “fabless” business model, which makes us (page 24). own operations were found to pose a significant highly reliant on the ability of our fabrication risk to – or to have violated – individuals’ human partners to meet the stringent quality In addition, we assign at least one Dialog rights and labour rights (including those relating requirements imposed on us by our customers representative at each of the fabrication to the core labour standards). – and to protect our own reputation by plants producing integrated circuits for us. maintaining responsible working practices. This allows us to clearly communicate our Health and safety • High levels of sensitivity amongst key operational, quality control and sustainability The highly regulated and automated nature consumer-facing electronics brands regarding requirements to our partners on an ongoing of our fabrication partners’ plants – as well as their potential exposure to reputational risk basis, while also identifying and (in partnership the mature nature of their health and safety via their supply chains. with our fabrication partners) proactively management systems – mean that their risk profile • Increasing stakeholder scrutiny of the electronics addressing any issues of potential concern. is relatively low compared with many assembly industry regarding indirect negative impacts plants higher up the value chain (i.e. where chips taking place at lower, less visible tiers of the Responsible supply chain management are integrated into larger consumer products). supply chain (including amongst sub-suppliers) Human rights and labour rights – particularly in relation to mineral extraction, Dialog’s suppliers must demonstrate a trading and processing. commitment to upholding workers’ human rights and to treating them with dignity and respect. In addition to key requirements around the ILO core labour standards (relating to forced labour, child labour, discrimination and freedom of association), the Dialog Code of Conduct also requires our major suppliers to: • Follow relevant national law with respect to working hours, holiday entitlements and the outsourcing of labour. • Ensure workers are not subject to physical or verbal abuse, bullying, or any form of unlawful harassment and intimidation. 32 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Nonetheless, we work with our major suppliers Environmental impacts • Responsibly manage emissions to air (including to ensure that what risks do exist are minimised. It is important that our fabrication partners volatile organic chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, In this context, the Dialog Code of Conduct respect the environment. This is why we will only particulates, ozone depleting chemicals and and Supplier Code of Conduct (including the work with major suppliers who are accredited to, combustion by-products) and minimise their related EICC Code) require them, amongst or comply with, the ISO14001 environmental greenhouse gas emissions. other things, to: management system standard. • Adhere to all applicable laws, regulations and customer requirements regarding the exclusion • Minimise worker exposure to potential Under our Supplier Code of Conduct (and related of specific substances in products and health and safety risks, including through EICC Code), our major suppliers are required to: manufacturing. the application of design, engineering and administrative controls (including safe work • Comply with relevant environmental laws We are continuing to work with our major suppliers procedures, training and the encouragement and regulations. to develop recovery processes, resource substitution of employees to raise related concerns) – • Minimise their use of resources (including water technologies and other methods to reduce carbon as well as the provision of protective and energy) and their generation of solid waste emissions throughout the supply chain. equipment where necessary. and wastewater. • Apply systems to prevent, manage, track and • Identify and safely manage hazardous materials. In 2015, none of our significant suppliers or our report health and safety incidents, including This includes the provision of relevant materials own operations were found to pose a significant the proper recording of all cases of occupational declarations under EU Directive 2011/65/EU risk to the environment. injury and illness, the provision of medical (Restriction of Hazardous Substances or treatment and the development/implementation “RoHS2”) and EU Regulation (EC) 1907/2006 of corrective action plans. (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and • Implement emergency planning and response Restriction of Chemicals or “REACH”). measures, including evacuation procedures, • Responsibly manage solid waste (including the provision of fire detection/suppression through recycling) and wastewater (including equipment, the maintenance of adequate through treatment prior to discharge, ongoing exits and recovery planning. monitoring and the control of discharges to • Control the exposure of workers to hazardous local water bodies). substances and to physically demanding tasks. In 2015, none of our significant suppliers or our own operations were found to pose a significant risk to individuals’ health and safety. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 33 Society 34 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society Dialog is committed to Materiality Our most important social impact (as well as our Beyond this, we also carry out community engagement and philanthropy. Although these generating positive social raison d’être) is our generation of economic value do not represent material issues, such activity is in impacts, at both a societal – much of which is distributed amongst our investors, employees, suppliers, host governments line with our Vision and helps support our corporate reputation. and community level. and other beneficiaries. Given the ongoing expansion of our business, as well as ever-increasing Management approach demand for advanced semiconductor technology, Full details on how we manage our direct and this positive impact is likely to grow – as are our indirect economic value generation and distribution, associated indirect economic impacts. as well as our research and development activities, can be found throughout our 2015 annual report. Furthermore, our position at the very forefront of semiconductor R&D means we are constantly We help promote electronic engineering skills in helping advance scientific knowledge in this area – our local communities through a range of helping lay the ground for future technological means, including: innovation, whether by ourselves or others. Likewise, the nature of our products, which are • The provision of sponsorship and access primarily focused on power management, power bursaries to engineering students at the conversion, short range connectivity and solid state universities of Edinburgh, London lighting, means we play an integral role in helping (Imperial College), Southampton, Ulm millions of end-users access affordable and and Karlsruhe, as well as National Chao life-enhancing technology. Tung University. • A key partnership with University Technical We also remain committed to having a positive College Swindon (“UTC Swindon”) in the impact at a local level. Our most material issue in United Kingdom. this respect is the enhancement of local skills pools. • Industrial placements for undergraduate This not only benefits school and university students in ten countries. students by enhancing their engineering • Mentoring and support of school students capabilities, but also helps bolster our own ability in the UK, Netherlands and Germany. to recruit talented new graduates and support our long-term skills pipeline. Responsibility sits with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (with respect to our economic performance). Meanwhile, our Senior Vice President Engineering is responsible for technological innovation. In addition, in 2015 our Chief Financial Officer oversaw all community investment activity, supported on a day-to-day basis by our Head of Sustainability. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 35 Society continued Societal benefits Indirect impacts Economic impact In addition to our direct economic impact, we also Total value generation and distribution by type (US$ millions) As with any business, our primary obligation is generate a range of additional indirect economic to generate profit for our shareholders. In pursuit impacts, including through: 2013 2014 2015 of this aim, we also generate broader economic Economic value generated 901.4 1,156.1 1,355.3 value, much of which is distributed to a wider • The application of our technology to improve set of stakeholders. the capabilities and portability of handheld Economic value distributed 844.5 1,020.7 1,201.1 electronic devices (amongst others). This Operating costs 1 659.4 764.0 871.7 Direct impacts enhances the ability of our customers to develop Our most important means of distributing and market enhanced consumer products – as Employee wages and benefits2 144.2 210.4 224.3 value are through: reflected in the recent boom in advanced mobile Payments to providers of capital 13.3 14.8 6.6 communications and tablet technology. In turn, • Payments to our employees and employed this has helped support the creation and Payments to government 27.6 31.5 98.5 contractors (including both wages and benefits). maintenance of jobs amongst suppliers and Community investments 0.5 0.5 0.6 • Payments to other businesses, including our customers working in this exciting sector. fabrication partners and other suppliers. Furthermore, it also supports the delivery of Economic value retained 56.9 135.4 154.2 • Payments to government, including taxes. ever-more productive and portable 1 Excluding employee wages and benefits and property tax. • Community investment spending (page 38). communications and computing technology to 2 Including share-based payments. • Payments to our providers of capital. end-users. In 2015, for example, we shipped over a billion integrated circuit chips. The generation of economic value is our most • Enhancing skills and knowledge within the Given the rapid evolution of technology and As a result of this kind of investment, we produce material issue. If we don’t do it, our business will electronic engineering community through fast-moving consumer demands, the sustainability original technological inventions on an ongoing cease to exist, as will all else that flows from it. our range of “pre-employment” educational of our business requires us to stay at the basis. This not only helps underpin the future In turn, this would materially affect a wide range initiatives, our recruitment and development cutting-edge of these technologies. As a result, success of our business, but also increases the sum of our stakeholders, including individuals we of high-quality graduate electronics engineers we invest a significant amount into R&D. In 2015, of global technological knowledge in the three would no longer be able to employ, customers (page 17), the experience our senior engineers for example, we spent US$223 million on R&D areas set out above. who otherwise rely on the continued delivery of gain by working on cutting-edge products activities, or 16.5% of our total revenue. our highly specialised products, suppliers who (pages 06, 23 and 37) and our considerable As of 31 December 2015 we had approximately rely on our continued demand for their goods investment in R&D. 645 inventions for which we are pursuing or and governments that rely on our taxes. Number of United States patents have already obtained patent protection. These Technological impact (held and pending) in each given include more than 620 cases in the United States, The table opposite shows how much value we Our business is also helping advance integrated, year (non-cumulative) of which around 360 have been granted. generated over the last three years – and to whom mixed signal circuit technology in a range of 2013 2014 2015 it was distributed. areas, including: While intellectual property protection around this Held 36 14 3 technology means it will not be shared in the short There are no material government shareholdings • Mobile power management. to medium term (see page 23), in the long term it Pending 46 104 84 in our Company. • Power conversion. is technology that can be applied by anyone. • Bluetooth® Smart connectivity. 36 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Product impacts Furthermore, our solid-state lighting (“SSL”) Positive product impacts LED drivers support very high efficiency, longEnhancing the skills pool The technology that we design, develop lifespan SSL bulbs. It is estimated that the and market supports the wider provision increased use of energy-efficient LED lighting (by our business partners) of advanced, of all kinds in the United States alone will save affordable technology to consumers in a 300 terrawatt hours by 2030 – equivalent to range of global mass-markets, including: approximately 210 million tonnes of greenhouse Case Study – Women in engineering gas emissions. • Personal, portable handheld devices. • Connectivity: Our ultra-low power Bluetooth® • LED solid-state lighting. Smart, SmartBond™ System-On-Chip helps • Automotive technology. increase the battery life of relevant wireless products by up to 100% – reducing overall power In 2015 we maintained our commitment to We are also actively engaged with women in In this context, our products offer a range of usage and enhancing the mobility of connected increasing the number of female engineers engineering students groups, sponsoring the advantages to end-users (and, by extension, products. in our industry. As a major supporter of the York Women Engineers Society and providing our customers who are selling to them). Women in Engineering Society, we sponsored female engineers as mentors to girls studying Minimisation of negative product impacts the national Women in Engineering Student at University Technical College Swindon These include: The nature of our integrated circuits means that Conference at Aston University, Birmingham (“UTC Swindon”). their actual and potential negative impacts are in November 2015, providing funding to help • Mobile power management: Greater power relatively limited. Nonetheless, we design our female students attend the two-day event. Since the launch of Dialog’s “Gary Duncan efficiency, resulting in longer battery life and products in a way that is intended to minimise any Women in Engineering Scholarship” we have increased mobility. For example, typical usage negative impacts they might have over their lifecycle. Female engineers working at Dialog also act continued to support female engineers tests suggest our Power Management Integrated This includes efforts to reduce the size of our as ambassadors for women in engineering. throughout their engineering education. Circuits decrease the power consumption of integrated circuits (thus reducing the amount of In 2015, they took part in the “She’s an smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™ by up input materials required, as well as the amount Engineer” campaign with the Women in to 30%. of packaging used to protect and ship them). Engineering Society, and were also featured • Power conversion: Our high efficiency AC/DC In addition, and as described above, we aim to make in the WISE (Women in Science, Technology power converters and LED drivers help maximise our integrated circuits as energy efficient as possible and Engineering) “People Like Me” resource power conversion efficiency using digital – while also enhancing the energy efficiency of the pack, aimed at inspiring and educating girls technology and fewer components. This includes larger products they are integrated into. about careers in engineering. converters that use little or no power while on standby – a particularly important aspect when Given the important role our integrated circuits you consider that standby demand consumes play in managing the power supply of more more than 100 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity than a billion consumer end-products, we place annually in the United States alone (enough to significant emphasis on ensuring they do not power more than 9 million American households). pose any health and safety risks to end-users. www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 37 Society continued This includes ensuring that none of our products These are applied to all of our product categories, Corporate giving focus areas have (in the context of their integration into larger with the aim of achieving continuously improved electronic end-products) the potential to result in: performance. These processes are overseen by the Strategic Senior Vice President of Global Manufacturing and • Overheating. Operations, who is ultimately responsible for Educational programmes • Fire risks. ensuring the safety of our products. • Power overload. As a result of such efforts, in 2015 we had no Women in engineering Furthermore, we are subject to extensive official reported incidents of non-compliance with any legal and customer requirements in this regard legal or customer requirements concerning the (pages 22–23), making product health and safety cross-lifecycle health and safety performance of Support programmes through a key compliance issue. For example, we are our products. the use of Dialog technology required to ensure that all of our products meet with the following official standards (in addition Community benefits to comprehensive customer standards imposed Community engagement and Promote technology to local by consumer-facing electronics brands): corporate giving and wider communities Dialog has an active community engagement and • RoHS2. corporate giving programme, and in 2015 gave • REACH SVHC168. US$602,000 to various causes aligned with our Local community development • Halogen-free. business objectives. These included the use of our technology for good causes, promoting STEM The key means by which we manage product education, and encouraging women in engineering. health and safety issues include the following: Local community outreach • Pre-emptive product design – including the application of proven “fail-safe” technology Employee engagement and processes. • Extensive lab-testing of new designs – including factors relating to physical integrity, heat emission and functionality. Philanthropic giving • External auditing of product technical performance – including by our customers. Philanthropic 38 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Appendix External review of reporting on sustainability Verisk Maplecroft was commissioned by Dialog Semiconductor Plc to help advance its sustainability reporting. This included guidance with respect to reporting strategy, materiality, internal and external engagement, selected content and reporting best practice. This statement is made in our capacity as a service provider to Dialog Semiconductor Plc on this assignment. Verisk Maplecroft did not verify the data contained in this sustainability report. Approach Verisk Maplecroft was involved in the following activities between late 2015 and early 2016: • Review of reporting standards: Including the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (“G4 Guidelines”) and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. • Gap analysis: To identify and, where feasible, help address gaps in Dialog Semiconductor’s existing reporting practices against the relevant reporting standards. • Engagement: Including both remote and face-to-face engagement with Dialog Semiconductor managers (supported by visits to Dialog Semiconductor facilities in Germany and the United Kingdom). • Materiality process: The design and application of a structured materiality process to help identify Dialog Semiconductor’s material sustainability issues. This process was aligned with the requirements of the G4 Guidelines. Feedback from both internal and external stakeholders directly influenced the final assessment. • Performance enhancement: The outcomes from the above processes were used, where possible, to enhance Dialog Semiconductor’s level of reporting and support its closer alignment with the “Core” requirements of the G4 Guidelines. Gus Macfarlane 25 April 2016 Verisk Maplecroft 1 Henry Street, Bath BA1 1JS United Kingdom www.maplecroft.com info@maplecroft.com www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 39 Appendix continued GRI G4 material aspects Category G4 aspect Material? Page Category G4 aspect Material? Page Economic Economic performance Y 35–36 Social: Labor practices Labor practices grievance mechanisms Economic Market presence 17–18 Social: Human rights Investment Y 29–32 Economic Indirect economic impacts Y 35–36 Social: Human rights Non-discrimination 20, 22, 32 Economic Procurement practices 35–36 Social: Human rights Freedom of association and collective bargaining Y 22, 29–32, GRI Table Environmental Materials 27, 29, 33 Social: Human rights Child labor Y 22, 29–32, GRI Table Environmental Energy 27 Social: Human rights Forced or compulsory labor Y 22, 29–32, GRI Table Environmental Water Social: Human rights Security practices Environmental Biodiversity Social: Human rights Indigenous rights Environmental Emissions 27 Social: Human rights Assessment Environmental Effluents and waste Social: Human rights Supplier human rights assessment Y 29–32 Environmental Products and services Y 37–38, GRI Table Social: Human rights Human rights grievance mechanisms Environmental Compliance Y 22–25, 27 Social: Society Local communities 3, 35, 37–39 Environmental Transport Social: Society Anti-corruption Y 22–24, 29–33 Environmental Overall Social: Society Public policy Environmental Supplier environmental assessment 29–33 Social: Society Anti-competitive behaviour 22 Environmental Environmental grievance mechanisms Social: Society Compliance 22 Social: Labor practices Employment 16–19 Social: Society Supplier assessment for impacts on society Y 29–33 Social: Labor practices Labor/management relations Social: Society Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Social: Labor practices Occupational health and safety 20 Social: Product responsibility Customer health and safety Y 22–23, 37–38, GRI Table Social: Labor practices Training and education 16, 18 Social: Product responsibility Product and service labelling Y 22–23, 38, GRI Table Social: Labor practices Diversity and equal opportunity 20 Social: Product responsibility Marketing communications Social: Labor practices Equal remuneration for women and men 18, 20 Social: Product responsibility Customer privacy Y 22–23 Social: Labor practices Supplier assessment for labor practices Y 29–32 Social: Product responsibility Compliance Y 22–23, 38 40 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society UN Global Compact reference table Category Principle Page Human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 9, 16, 18–20, 24–25, 29–33, 38 Human rights 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 9, 16, 18–20, 24–25, 29–33, 38 Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 9, 16, 18, 22, 29–32, GRI Table Labor 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 9, 16, 22, 24–25, 29–32, GRI Table Labor 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 9, 16, 22, 24–25, 29–32, GRI Table Labor 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 9, 16, 20, 22, 29–32, GRI Table Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 9, 27, 29–31, 33, 37–38, GRI Table Environment 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9, 27, 29–31, 33, 37–38, GRI Table Environment 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 6–7, 9, 37–38, GRI Table, Annual Report Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 9, 22, 24, 29–31 Group directory Germany 100 Longwater Avenue North America Japan Singapore Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Green Park Dialog North America Dialog Semiconductor K.K. Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Neue Strasse 95 Reading RG2 6GP 2560 Mission College Boulevard Kamiyacho MT Bldg 16F Singapore branch D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern United Kingdom Santa Clara 4-3-20 Toranomon 10 Ang Mo Kio. Street 65. Germany Phone: (+44) 1793 756959 California 95054 Minato-ku Unit # 03-11A Techpoint Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 Fax: (+44) 1189 450219 USA Tokyo 105-0001 Singapore 569059 Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 Japan Phone: (+65) 64849929 Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com The Netherlands Fax: (+1) 408 845 8505 Phone: (+81) 3 5425 4567 Fax: (+65) 64843455 Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com Fax: (+81) 3 5425 4568 Email: dialog.singapore@diasemi.com United Kingdom Het Zuiderkruis 53 Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd 5215 MV “s-Hertogenbosch Dialog Semiconductor Inc. Korea Delta 200 The Netherlands 675 Campbell Technology Pkwy Suite 150 Taiwan & Greater China Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Delta Business Park Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22 Campbell, California 95008 Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Korea Branch Welton Road Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23 USA Taiwan Branch 501 Dongsung B/D, Swindon Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com 9F, No 185, Sec 2, Tiding Blvd 158-9, Samsung-Dong Wiltshire SN5 7XB Neihu district Kangnam-Ku, Seoul United Kingdom Taipei city 114 Korea, 135-830 Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 Taiwan, R.O.C. Phone: (+82) 2 569 2301 Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 Fax: (+82) 2 569 2302 Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com www.dialog-semiconductor.com Registered office Dialog Semiconductor Plc Tower Bridge House St Katharine’s Way London E1W 1AA UK www.dialog-semiconductor.com Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2015
