UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Evolving a sustainable future December 2016 2 Table of Contents unique-management.com Table of Contents Letter of Continued Support from CEO, Anthony J. Archer ............................................................... 3 Company Summary ....................................................................................................................... 4 We Support the UN Global Compact ............................................................................................. 5 Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture ............................................................................................ 7 Human Rights Principles ............................................................................................................... 12 Labor Principles ............................................................................................................................ 14 Environmental Principles ............................................................................................................... 16 Anti-Corruption Principles ............................................................................................................. 18 Social Development Goals (SDGs) ............................................................................................... 20 unique-management.com Letter of Continued 3 Letter of Continued Support from CEO Anthony J. Archer: I am pleased to reaffirm Unique’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and all its principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We believe in doing good for the world, by doing good business. The most impactful force on earth: Man has and continues to influence the planet more than any other factor. Over the past century we have developed innovative technologies that have provided sustenance, shelter and knowledge for billions of people around the world. The human race has become such a social and physical force that we are pushing ourselves into a new geological age, one that is now being referred to as the Anthropocene. Man’s impact upon the earth has created both opportunity and threat. Each year the shift in climate, alongside the continued depletion of the Earth’s natural resources, leads to the loss of 12 million hectares of arable land, 46,000 square miles of forests and at least 10,000 different species. Understanding the consequences of Man is key to both survival and fulfillment in every aspect of our lives. Only through sustainability can we satisfy the most fundamental requirements for life and secure a safe and prosperous future for us all. For the first time in history, social responsibility and sustainability are being demanded from the ground up, rather than from the top down. This is a huge adjustment in human behavior and represents a great opportunity to make the world a better place, secure our survival and build wealth; all of which are essential ingredients to continued success. The appetite for sustainable solutions is higher than it has ever been, with society no longer prepared to allow damaging and unstainable practices that ruin our earth. In a world deserving and demanding of higher social responsibility, sustainable business will ensure a more sustainable future for us all. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, Anthony J. Archer Chief Executive Officer 4 Company Summary unique-management.com Company Summary Vision: We live in an environment beset with new challenges that require innovate thinking. Even in our most primal of needs, the cultivation of food, we have struggled in fulfilling the requirements of feeding a rapidly expanding population. Despite The Green Revolution of the 1960s transforming global agriculture and saving one billion people from starvation, existing farming techniques now rely on unsustainable amounts of chemicals, water and energy. Our vision is to create real, tangible value by challenging the status quo while contributing to a new era of sustainability that has far reaching benefits for all. We aim to be not only successful and nondestructive, but also inherently restorative to the world. By helping to repair damage of the excessive overuse of synthetics and chemicals across the agricultural and beauty & personal care industries, we will ensure ourselves a new, ecologically sustainable and viable future. Mission: At Unique, we are proud to offer socially responsible investment opportunities in neem. Investing in neem is about investing in mankind’s future, understanding the cultural and social movement and being part of the solution. We aim to create the world’s first fully integrated neem business from agricultural projects to retail businesses for multiple end user markets. Employees: 43 Plantations Processing Retail Products • Processing facility to extract oil and cake from • Beauty and Personal Care • Expansion and harvests management of neem • Agricultural Inputs plantations in NE Brazil • Biotech facility for nonsolvent based extraction of Azadirachtin unique-management.com We Support the UN Global Compact 5 We Support the UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labor Standards, the Environment and Corruption. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a ‘Communication on Progress’ report annually. This report is our first COP and it outlines Unique’s activities in support of these Ten Principles: Human Rights 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Ensure no aspect of the business is complicit of human rights abuses. Labor 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5: Abolish child labor. 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Environment 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10: Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 6 Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture unique-management.com Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture Expansion in the world’s population over the past 300 years ...and a few of the agricultural and scientific discoveries that fueled the growth 2048 2024 9bn* 8bn 2012 7bn 1999 6bn 1987 5bn 1974 4bn 1960 3bn 1927 2bn 1804 1bn 1700 1750 1800 1850 1900 1950 2000 2050 Moldboard Refrigeration Pasteurization Nitrogen Penicillin ‘Green Plough & Sanitation 1863 Fixation 1928 Revolution’ 1700s 1850s 1918 1960s Scientific Combine Plant Breeding Harvester 1920s 1930s *UN’s Medium Forecast Variant Ours is a time of rapid global change where the demands of a rising population are shifting human priorities towards the fundamental requirements for safeguarding life. The socioeconomic system of the past, geared towards productivity at any cost, has caused unstable consumption patterns, environmental harm and the unprecedented depletion of the planet’s strategic resources. Despite this increasingly challenging scenario we face, there is a solution: aligning the needs of man and nature to catalyze a revolutionary transformation in our industrial process. The theme holds especially true for agriculture, which is famed for saving a billion people from starvation during the Green Revolution of the 1960s. Although industrialized agriculture and the rise of artificial crop care enabled our increasing population to thrive well into a new millennium, farming techniques now rely on an unsustainable amount of water, energy and synthetic agrochemicals often with little regard to any adverse and long-term effects to our environment and health. Responsible for consuming 70% of the planet’s available freshwater annually, eroding nearly 33% of the world’s highquality arable land and causing 30% of global greenhouse gas emissions, these archaic solutions have become outdated in the face of modern challenges. unique-management.com Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture 7 World Population (LHS) Arable Land & Land in Permanent Crops (RHS) Determined to build a legacy fit for all future 10 0.5 generations, we have arrived at the forefront 8 0.4 of a new agricultural revolution. Increasing Ha. Per Person food pressure, diminishing arable land 6 0.3 Billions and aggressive climate change are the 4 0.2 compounding reasons to evolve this new 2 0.1 system for agriculture. 0 0.0 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 The Evolution of Agriculture Ancient Oxen Pulled Plow Noria / Water Wheel Combine Harvester Agrochemicals GMO Precision Agriculture Sustainable Digging Stick Tractor & Monocultures Agriculture 4th 18th 19th 20th 9000 BC 3000 BC Century Century Century Century 2000 2010 Now We have utilized safe and sustainable strategies on our projects since inception, in order to establish ourselves as a major part of the solution for the challenges facing the agricultural sector. Why? Not only for the sake of sustainability and global health, but also to ensure the long-term prosperity of the planet. We are driving change to create a more tenable future for our planet by ensuring environmental protection, social responsibility and value creation for generations to come. 8 Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture unique-management.com Understanding the major principles for safe, effective and sustainable crop care is essential for developing an evolved agricultural system that focuses on productivity in the long term. Leading the Way for Sustainable Crop Care In order to secure the optimal fertility of the soil and the protection of crops on our plantations for generations, we own cultures and systems of organic crop care and irrigation. These are derived from some of the most innovative ecological practices of plant nutrition and environmental conservation. By applying technical knowledge specific to each pest and disease, an expert understanding of the nutrients necessary for optimal crop development and specialist irrigation infrastructure across their projects, we protect the degradation of land, soil and water while maintaining the natural ecosystems and biodiversity necessary for a more sustainable future. Safeguarding the Global Water Supply by Example By investing significantly in water management, ranging from on-site eco dams, irrigation systems and pump house infrastructure, we strengthen our on-site water reserves in order to fulfill the entire plantation’s water demand at the lowest maintenance and environmental cost possible. Our water dam is equipped with over 75,000 ft2 of coconut fiber matting as a protective measure to prevent waves from eroding the banks and allowing vegetation to bind to the sand. A capacity of 286,000 gallons collected through natural means ensures optimal water retention, supply and management across our plantations. A before and after shot of our eco-dam for effective water management unique-management.com Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture 9 Hydration and fertilization are two primary considerations for effective plantation management. Our on-site pump house serves as the focal point, supporting both automated and manual systems in delivering crops the requisite amounts of water and organic fertilizer across the plantations. With state of the art equipment and sustainable crop care practices, we are able to conserve the highest amount of water while ensuring the appropriate levels of hydration for the trees are available for the projects come rain or shine. Utilizing the World’s Most Powerful Energy Resource – the Sun Energy for growing and harvesting crops is one of the most expensive and environmentally damaging factors of managing agricultural projects. Rather than proliferating the global use of fossil fuels, we are developing the capacity to harness the lasting and clean power of the sun across all of our projects where possible. Ensuring that all infrastructures have been designed to receive a photovoltaic supply of solar power, the ultimate objective is to meet the demands of the on-site facilities and irrigation systems in an entirely sustainable and environmentally friendly manner. First phase of our switch towards renewable resources The first phase of Unique’s Zero Carbon Footprint Plan will involve a 26.5-kilowatt peak system generating 42.3-megawatt hours per year (24% of the expected energy consumption across the same period). This first phase Solar PV system will generate 1,772 MWh of electricity over the course of its life, equivalent to 1,2452 metric tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent. 10 Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture unique-management.com The Environmental Value of Neem as a Commercial Crop “The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The next best time is now” Chinese Proverb The neem tree (Azadirachta Indica) is an evergreen and part of the Meliaceae (Mahogany) family, celebrated for its remarkable healing properties as far back as 5,000BC by the Harappa and Monejo civilizations. Described in ancient Indian Ayurvedic texts as ‘sarva roga nivarini’ (the universal healer of all ailments) and ‘nimba’ (giver of good health), neem’s name in Sanskrit is ‘Arista’ meaning ‘perfect, complete and imperishable’. Fast-forward to the present day and neem is becoming renowned around the world for its impact in sustainable agriculture, as well as for its many applications across the medicinal and beauty and personal care sectors. The very nature of neem even makes the tree ideal for reforestation and carbon sequestration efforts. Fast growing, with a large surface biomass and thick foliage, neem has an impressive capacity to capture carbon in the atmosphere with a sequestration capacity of 12.27 tons per tree per year. One of the most resilient, hard wearing and durable timbers on the planet, with a lifespan of up to 200 years, neem is an obvious choice for protecting and restoring the environment through long term carbon entrapment. A neem tree at full maturity unique-management.com Our Focus on Sustainable Agriculture 11 The Life of Neem Named ‘Arista’ in Sanskrit meaning ‘perfect, complete and imperishable’ Flowers The flowers are Leaves the part of the tree Containing most with fewer uses, active ingredients however, given the found in the seeds flowers’ sweet, honeybut in a much lower like smell, the flowers are concentration, the leaves used in aromatherapy are considered the most for a calming and versatile part of the tree. Now restorative effect used as a pesticide, fertilizer Twigs and animal feed, the leaves Whilst used were originally used as in commercial a medicinal tea in toothpastes and Indonesia mouthwashes, twigs have most widely been used as brushes for generations in Oil India Extracted from the kernels inside the seeds, Fruit where a single seed may contain up to 50% oil by weight, the oil is recognized and valued as a safe and Seed effective bio-pesticide for organic farming. The oil has also been widely Bark studied due to its medicinal Kernel Neem bark contains properties and is also used spermicidal properties in a variety of cosmetic and research is undergoing products such as to approve its potential creams, soaps and use as a sexual shampoos contraceptive for both women and men Cake After the seeds have been pressed for oil, the Roots resulting by-product is the neem cake. Neem cake is The roots of a neem used across the agriculture tree also have different sector as an effective medicinal properties due pesticide, fertilizer and to being antiseptic, anti-bacterial, anti-fungal antibacterial, anti fungal organic alternative to and germicidal. They antibiotics in livestock are also used as a pesticide and to control fleas and ticks on pets Neem-based organic All parts of the neem pesticides are effective tree can be used Containing a high level against 500 insect species. for the treatment of antioxidants, neem is As a fertilizer, neem also of inflammation, used in organic soaps, reduces soil alkalinity and infection, fever and shampoos and hydrating ensures optimum fertility skin diseases creams Pesticide Medicine Cosmetics Neem is used as an organic Neem improves the Derived from the and nutritional supplement nutritional value of the mahogany family, that is effective against soil while protecting Neem is an extremely internal nematodes plant roots from pests durable wood ideal as a and diseases construction material Cattle feed Fertilizer Timber 12 Human Rights Principles unique-management.com Human Rights Principles “To deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanity.” Nelson Mandela As a main driver for corporate social responsibility across emerging markets, Unique recognizes its responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and across all our spheres of influence. We proudly support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as stated in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This dedication is made clear through the implementation of Human Rights, Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics policies that address all of our partners, suppliers and employees. During the last 12 months, Unique have maintained a commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Principles relating to human rights via in-house management that have ensured the following policies: • A code of ethical conduct for all of our employees, suppliers, consultants and partners. • Responsible and transparent activities across all levels of our business operations, demonstrating respect and support for all employees and business partners. • Stakeholder engagement with local communities that involves outreach, educational programs and voluntary initiatives. • Regular monitoring and reporting on activities and progress in upholding Human Rights in all parts of the business and across all of our spheres of influence. unique-management.com Human Rights Principles 13 With a focus on developing sustainable agricultural projects in emerging markets, we provide the essential components necessary for economic development in all the regions in which we operate. We are proud to announce that we have had no issue with human rights thus far since inception and we fully intend to continue upholding our exemplary record in this regard across all aspects of the business and throughout all our spheres of influence. Sustainable agriculture’s ability to produce safe and abundant food is fundamental to reducing poverty and ensuring the human right of fair access to fundamental resources. Next year, we will further expand our outreach program to engage in more projects to educate the local community with programs dedicated to raising awareness of the dangers surrounding agro toxics and disseminating sustainable agro ecological practices. The first step of our Educational Programme will provide the necessary tools to teach the concept of permaculture in agro ecology through a practice known as Mandala Agriculture. The Mandala Agriculture System is designed as a sustenance farming technique that relies on organic inputs and practices that are efficient and cost-effective. Benefits include: • Teaching the local community about agriculture, the impacts and sustainable alternatives to chemicals. • Practical experience in developing healthy food supplies autonomously. • Utilizing the produce to provide meals at the local schools. One of our implementation teams 14 Labor Principles unique-management.com Labor Principles “Labor is prior to, and independent of, capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor and could never have existed if labor had not first existed. “ Abraham Lincoln Unique is committed to building a value-driven high performance culture throughout the business, whereby all employees are trusted and respected. We foster and celebrate an inclusive and equal workspace including diversity ranging across three continents, which upholds the freedom of association and collective bargaining, alongside fundamental core labor rights and principles across the company. The rights, compensation and responsibilities of our employees, partners and suppliers all follow the United Nations Principles on Labor, with the management team having ensured the following policies: • A Code of Business Ethics and Labor Standards that ensure a safe and healthy work environment as well as a zero tolerance for harassment, discrimination, child labor, forced labor, dangerous working conditions, access to denied property, bribery or corruption. • Remuneration is at least of minimum wage in all local jurisdictions, with regular performance reviews and opportunities for advancement and career progression. Manual labor resources required in less urbanized areas undertake a stringent pre-employment screening process and receive additional benefits such as access to nutritious meals and a clean water supply, alongside requisite training and equipment required for their roles. • A diverse team of individuals from varying backgrounds, cultures and thinking styles to aid us solving complex challenges in an increasingly globalized world and enabling our people to become better professionals and our business become more efficient. • The implementation of sustainable, responsible business practices that ensures the highest level of integrity, respect and diversity across all levels of our business hierarchy. unique-management.com Labor Principles 15 Our ultimate goal is to be regarded as a leader and positive influence across all our spheres of influence, not only for our employees and stakeholders but wider communities in which we operate in. With an ever-growing head count as the business expands, we treat all of our employees, across all levels of business, with the highest levels of respect, compassion and fairness to ensure the very best working environment. 16 Environmental Principles unique-management.com Environmental Principles “Saving our planet, lifting people out of poverty, advancing economic growth – these are one and the same fight.” Ban Ki-Moon, Secretary General of the United Nations With an absolute dedication to protecting and restoring the environment, we strive to implement sustainable technologies, practices and systems that have a positive environmental impact across all of our operations. A fundamental part of our missions is to drive the New Green Revolution in modern agriculture that will see a shift towards practices that can meet the demands of our rising populations in a safe, healthy and sustainable way. As part of our long-term objectives for social and environmental responsibility, we have created a specialized Environmental and Social Responsibility management role, responsible for implementing our newly developed Social Responsibility Plan which involves an annual process of reviewing the most significant needs in the communities in which we operate and how to address them in our daily operations. They will also be responsible for reviewing the environmental impact of our projects and reducing them wherever possible through the use of sustainable techniques for agricultural management. Our future bee project will empower our ecosystem. Healthy, young neem trees on our plantation Precision irrigation for our neem saplings Wildlife in our legal reserve unique-management.com Environmental Principles 17 Our in-house management team and environmental impact and social responsibility specialists ensure all operations of the business are implemented with sustainability at its core through the following policies: • The utilization of organic and environmentally friendly inputs and agricultural practices to nourish, protect and sustain our agricultural projects in the healthiest and most productive way possible. • The constant review of fauna and wildlife on our projects to ensure that they are transferred and maintained to the highest environmental standard on our dedicated on-site reserve. • The development of our Zero Carbon Footprint Plan, which will ensure the power demands of our on-site agricultural facilities are met through renewable means such as solar power. • Intercropping across our plantations with the purpose of preventing monoculture, which can lead to quicker buildup of pests and diseases within areas. The neem plantations will benefit from legumes planted as secondary crops in order to prevent detrimental pathogens and maintain the quality of the surrounding environment as the projects expand. • Carbon sequestration through the planting of neem trees. Possessing the ability to sequestrate 12.27 tons of CO2 per year, the neem tree is one of the most effective tree species for restoring the environment through carbon entrapment. Each hectare of neem on our plantations will sequester 5,104 tons of carbon every year. • Integrating environmental considerations into due diligence of suppliers and third parties across the Group. • The implementation of a bee colony on site at our plantations. Critical to the ecosystem and environment due to their pollinating ability, these hives will offer a substantive positive environmental impact across the plantations and local areas. 18 Anti-Corruption unique-management.com Anti-Corruption “Fighting corruption is not just good governance. It’s self-defense.” Joe Biden, Vice-President of the United States We at Unique have a zero tolerance for corruption in all of its forms. As a global company that operates in several jurisdictions, we remain vigilant and proactive in detecting, preventing and abolishing any example of corruption across our operations and all our spheres of influence. This is achieved through the implementation of the following policies: • The constant review of compliance and anti-corruption laws and regulations. • The strict adherence to local, regional and national anti-money laundering (AML) guidelines in the geographies in which we operate. • The regular evaluation of our operating jurisdictions for risk factors including corruption and bribery, while requiring employees in key roles doing business in these areas to complete additional training where necessary. Moving forward we will be implementing a whistleblowing channel to ensure that employees, business partners and other third party interests follow anti-corruption guidelines. This channel will serve as a tool to report evidence of corruption or other irregularities such as noncompliance with the law or ethical breaches. unique-management.com Anti-Corruption 19 8 Primal Laws of Success 1 Provide Solutions to Human Needs 2 Create Win-Win Scenarios 3 Harness Unity 4 Esteem Enhances Capabilities 5 Reputation is the Cornerstone of Power 6 Cognition is Key 7 Fulfill Potential 8 Leave a Legacy 20 Social Development Goals (SDGs) unique-management.com Social Development Goals (SDGs) Since inception, we have prioritized the following social development goals as an integral part of our mission and corporate philosophy. We have and continue to uphold the standards, of the United Nations SDGs due to our philosophy of doing good by doing good business. Through the development of a fully integrated, sustainable neem business, we engage in society and community development projects and actively participate in several Sustainable Development Goals: Goals 1 and 2: End Poverty and Hunger Our greatest challenge is to transform the archaic system of modern agriculture into one that guarantees the nutritional needs of all are met in a safe, healthy and sustainable way. In order to achieve this objective, we continuously preserve and restore critical habitats, carefully manage our resource supply and naturally improve the condition of our soil and crops. This ensures high yields, protects soil productivity and maintains environmental quality in the long term through our expert understanding and practice of sustainable agriculture in all of our projects. By building a more sustainable food system that protects and restores the environment, while increasing productivity to feed the growing global population over the long term. Neem-based agricultural products offer a viable and efficient alternative to synthetic and damaging chemicals use in agriculture, making climate smart and organic farming accessible to new markets and consumers around the world. unique-management.com Social Development Goals (SDGs) 21 Goal 3: Health and Well Being Synthetic vs Organic Crop Care The Reported Dangers of Synthetics and Benefits of Organics The Synthetic Option The Neem Way ODEG % BI RAD Safer 100 ABLE Entirely biodegradable, no hazardous residue is HAZARDOUS left on land or water Travels outside the intended area of use and contaminates the air, soil and water MORE NUTRITIOUS Organically grown 40% higher food contains up to 40% higher levels of nutrients STALLS LONG TERM GROWTH Synthetic fertilizers acidify the soil over time and deplete its nutrients Cost Effective Compareable pricing to their synthetic alternatives Reduces biodiversity Synthetic pesticides damage the nervous systems of animals and compromise their ability to survive and reproduce Highly effective Neem-based pesticides provide multiple protective layers against insects Harms Public Health In extreme cases, the nitrates in synthetic fertilizers have prevented oxygen use in infants damages Soil Improves Soil Reduces the amount of Neem cake enriches the soil by increasing vegetative cover on the ground, airflow and water retention while reducpromoting soil erosion ing the growth of pests and bacteria We aim to promote health and well-being by eliminating the use of synthetic chemicals in agriculture and cosmetics through one the world’s most beneficial resources at the center of our business model – neem. Modern day society and corporate behemoths have utilized synthetics and chemicals in an attempt to decrease costs and increase margins, yet as society demands greater responsibility, we will drive global awareness for natural, sustainable and healing solutions incorporating neem. 22 Social Development Goals (SDGs) unique-management.com With 98% of sprayed pesticides, 95% of herbicides and 65% of fertilizers reaching a destination other than their target, synthetic agrochemicals are causing chronic impacts to human health, livestock, wildlife, pollinators and beneficial insects. The organic origin and non-toxic nature of neem offers a viable option to dramatically alter global food production and ensure a more nutritious and healthier supply for the globe. Neem’s effectiveness as a natural animal feed offers a solution to growing antibiotic resistance in agriculture. The use of antibiotics has proliferated in agriculture to stave off infection and increase growth, even across healthy animals. There is no existing synthetic solution in the pipeline, and continued misuse of antibiotics will have serious consequences on the global food supply unless natural alternatives are adopted. Goal 6 and 14: Clean Water and Life Below Water Our pumphouse with Netafim equipment for the distribution of water and fertilizers With our agricultural projects based in the country with the highest freshwater reserves globally, our focus on neem offers a viable route of eliminating chemical use in agriculture and protecting waterrelated ecosystems. By offering biodegradable alternatives to fertilization as well as utilizing advanced infrastructure including Netafim fertigation and on-site pump house facilities, we conserve the highest amount of water while managing our requirements for hydration across our projects. Neem’s natural degradation in the environment ensures no damage to water resources and ensures zero discharge of pollution and sediments into vital water. unique-management.com Social Development Goals (SDGs) 23 Goal 12: Responsible Consumption We are constantly searching for small opportunities across our value chain to ensure congruency in all our choices. Our research team is constantly providing information on multiple channels about the consequences of non-sustainable practices across agriculture and the beauty & personal care industry, thus raising consumer awareness and driving greater responsibility. Water: Neem’s natural degradation in sunlight ensures a viable alternative to agrochemical counterparts that are polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify. Energy: The utilization of renewable energy sources including solar panels to fulfil energy requirements on our agricultural projects. Food: Neem offers a natural solution to the substantive environmental impacts the existing food production industry creates through environment degradation and wastage. This also involves the incorporation of sustainable practices across offices around the world. We are constantly searching for all opportunities, big or small, to implement across our value chain and ensure congruency in all our choices, including recycling, energy management and other green practices. 24 Social Development Goals (SDGs) unique-management.com Goal 13: Climate Action Our choice in commercial crop, the neem tree is even an ideal choice for global reforestation efforts as it releases more oxygen and sequesters more carbon than most other tree species. Each hectare of neem on our plantations will sequester 5,104 tons of carbon every year, an amount matched by few other tree species. Our newly formed Environmental and Social Responsibility management role will be responsible for implementing the Zero Carbon Footprint plan in order to contribute further to this critical social development goal. Goal 15: Life on Land The world relies on agriculture as both an important economic resource and as a means for development. Planting of neem ensures that we are contributing to reforestation in Brazil while creating resources to create sustainable alternatives to synthetic crop care. We uphold sustainable practices across our business in order to reduce chemical pollution, ensuring protection restoration of biodiversity and critical ecosystems. unique-management.com 25 In a world DESPERATELY needing SUSTAINABLE solutions, the ONUS is upon US to MAKE HISTORY, or we will be VILIFIED by it.
