T HE ENERGY TO M AK E A D I FF ERENCE 2 0 1 5 CO R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTEN TS 2 Letter to Stakeholders 14 Connecting Dallas to the World 37 Measuring Success in Cameroon through Art and Science 4 Oil and Gas Project Lifecycle 38 Suriname 18 Ghana 5 2015 Financial Highlights 40 Promoting Transparency 24 Senegal 6 Kosmos Energy’s Business Principles 42 IPIECA/API/OGP Content index – Responsibilities to Stakeholders, 28 Mauritania 45 2015 Performance Data Ethical Conduct, Our Workplaces, 32 Morocco Kosmos and the Environment, Kosmos in Society, and Commercial 34 Western Sahara Responsibilities ABOUT KOSMOS EN ER GY A B O U T TH I S R E P O RT Kosmos Energy is a pathfinding oil and gas Our 2015 report, “The Energy to Make a Difference,” exploration and production company focused on explains how corporate responsibility is a fundamental frontier and emerging areas along the Atlantic Margin. part of Kosmos Energy’s day-to-day business, and Our assets include existing production and other how we are making a positive difference in our host major development projects offshore Ghana, large countries. The report reviews the application of our discoveries offshore Mauritania and Senegal, as well Business Principles and supporting policies across as exploration licenses with significant hydrocarbon each stage of the upstream project lifecycle. Selection potential offshore Portugal, São Tomé and Príncipe, of information for inclusion in this report was based on Suriname, Morocco and Western Sahara. As an ethical internal materiality discussions, external stakeholder and transparent company, Kosmos is committed feedback, and consultations with third-party experts. to doing things the right way. Our Business Among other things, the report is designed to Principles articulate the company’s commitment to communicate our progress on the Ten Principles of transparency, ethics, human rights, safety and the the United Nations Global Compact, which we support environment. This report documents how we are and endorse. Additionally, this report is guided by meeting these commitments. Kosmos is listed on the the International Petroleum Industry Environmental New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the Conservation Association (IPIECA) standards for ticker symbol KOS. For additional information, visit voluntary reporting in the oil and gas sector and by www.kosmosenergy.com. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), although it is not wholly in accordance with GRI guidelines. For an index of where information related to the Ten Principles and IPIECA reporting standards is located, please see page 42. This report has not received external assurance from an independent third party. About the Cover We appreciate your interest in our company A woman and her child walk along the and welcome your feedback on how we can beach of Lompoul, Senegal. Kosmos improve our reporting. Please contact us at engages regularly with fishing and CorporateResponsibility@kosmosenergy.com. coastal communities in Senegal through our Environmental and Social Impact Assessments, communications on our operational activities, and social investment projects. F rom Dallas to Dakar, Kosmos Energy is an oil and gas exploration company energized by doing business the right way, everywhere we operate. Over the last year, we have made several natural gas discoveries offshore Mauritania and Senegal. We understand that with major discoveries, come major responsibilities. We realize our operations have significant social and environmental impacts, and we are committed to making those impacts as positive as possible. Guided by deeply held corporate values, we have implemented company-wide policies that allow Kosmos to be a partner of choice for governments, nongovernmental organizations and citizens in the countries and communities in which we operate. 1 LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS No matter where we work, or the volatility > In the United States, where Kosmos has its office in Dallas, of the global oil and gas markets, we have Texas, we helped to deepen cross-cultural understanding by an unwavering commitment to corporate sponsoring Spirit and Matter: Masterpieces of the Keir Collection responsibility in all its facets. of Islamic Art, an internationally acclaimed exhibition at the Dallas Museum of Art that preserves This commitment and our approach > In Mauritania, where we made and protects treasures of the past are based on the values articulated two major discoveries of natural while promoting new scholarship in our Business Principles. These gas in 2015, we invested in various aimed at expanding the collective values serve as guideposts for training programs for local knowledge of the Islamic world. how we run our business and are suppliers focusing on workplace With the destruction of priceless consistently applied across our health and safety, as well as labor artifacts and ancient buildings in geographic footprint. We approach rights. Social investments included places like Palmyra and Mosul, this each country with an above-ground English classes for young people exhibition is especially timely and agenda that matches our exploration in Nouakchott and the provision important. expertise below the ground. of safety equipment to fishing Although the Business Principles are communities in Ndiago, the area timeless and consistent, we cannot onshore from our operations. allow their application to become > In Senegal, where we discovered static. The manner in which they are natural gas in early 2016, we implemented must evolve to meet completed an environmental and new challenges on the ground. To be social impact assessment that a partner of choice in the countries included consultation with more where we work, we must always than 1,000 people in a range of look for ways to raise our level of coastal communities to ensure performance to meet the rapidly their concerns were documented changing expectations that come and addressed ahead of drilling. with exploration success. We also facilitated oil and gas workshops for civil society BEING A FORCE FOR G OOD organizations in Dakar as part of In 2015, we made considerable our engagement with the Senegal progress in positioning the company chapter of the Extractive Industries as a partner of choice: Transparency Initiative. > In Ghana, where we have our > In Western Sahara, we have largest presence outside the U.S., continued our engagement we achieved a major local content with the local population on the milestone by employing a 100 potential impacts and benefits of percent Ghanaian team. With our further oil and gas exploration. local office staffed completely We invested in skills training for by nationals, and the support local people in and around Dakhla, of an independent advisory where we staged some of the Miniature painting council comprised of respected support activities for our offshore Cup-Shaped Automaton Ghanaian business leaders, we are drilling operations and where Egypt or Syria: 715 AH/1315 AD demonstrating our commitment Kosmos maintains an ongoing The Keir Collection of Islamic Art on loan to run our business for the benefit presence through an expatriate to the Dallas Museum of Art of the people of Ghana and our community relations coordinator. Image Courtesy of Dallas Museum of Art Photo: Ira Schrank shareholders. 2 Ouakam is one of the fishing communities in Senegal visited during our pre-drilling environmental and social impact assessment. N EW CHA L L EN G ES chain for key projects so we can corporate responsibility often address potential issues as our suffers. This is a phenomenon I With major gas discoveries footprint grows. have seen many times in my 35 offshore Mauritania and Senegal, year career. Some companies see and an active exploration program > Sustainable Development – corporate responsibility as “nice to underway, we will have to raise It is my deeply held belief that do” rather than an essential part of our level of performance to meet hydrocarbon development the business. ever higher expectations. In this can be an engine for greater regard, the future holds a number of economic opportunity. With our At Kosmos, we live by our challenges: recent discoveries of natural gas Business Principles, knowing that offshore Mauritania and Senegal, a true commitment to corporate > Safety – In 2015, we delivered we face the challenge of making responsibility cannot change with our best safety performance in sure development proceeds in a the vagaries of the industry’s the history of the company, with sustainable manner. Our activities fortunes. We will continue to engage no lost time injuries and a total have been, and will always stakeholders early, listen carefully, recordable injury rate of 0.95. be, conducted in a way that is and create a shared agenda focused Nothing is more important and we inclusive and for the benefit of on investing in people and their must stay vigilant. Our objective local populations. Our work to capabilities to deliver economic is to be incidentand injurypromote transparency reflects our opportunity and real social benefit. free, which requires everyone at conviction that resource revenues This will be our legacy. Kosmos to maintain a “safety first” are more likely to be managed mindset. in the best interests of a country >L  abor Rights – We are aware of and its citizens if payments and concerns regarding labor practices receipts are transparent. In all in some regions where we operate, the countries where we operate, including discrimination and the we continue to invest in building alleged use of forced labor. Our the capacity and skills needed to Business Principles are clear: we support a vibrant petroleum sector will not tolerate discrimination. capable of creating economic We recognize fundamental labor opportunity that is widely shared. rights, including the right to work Kosmos is ready to tackle these in safe conditions, and will not challenges. We will do so in an open permit child, forced, or bonded and collaborative manner, working labor at our operations or among with host governments, local our supply chain. In this regard, we communities, business partners, have provided local vendors with and other stakeholders. By working human rights, labor rights, and together, I am confident we can find HSES training in several countries practical solutions. to better ensure they adhere to ANDREW (ANDY) G. INGLIS international standards and our OUR COMMITMENT IS FIRM Chairman of the Board Business Principles. In addition, we and Chief Executive Officer commissioned an internationally When the price of oil and gas recognized expert on labor rights plunges and companies feel financial to assess our workforce and supply pressure, their commitment to 3 OIL AND GAS PROJECT LIFECYCLE PHASE 6 Production PHASE 2 PHASE 3 Exploring the Undertaking block through exploration site and seismic drilling surveys PHASE 1 Entering a new market PHASE 4 PHASE 5 Appraisal Development drilling The diagram above outlines the oil and gas project lifecycle, from entering a new geography, to exploration and, if successful, production. Our corporate responsibility activities – such as social investment and capacity building – in each country are increased as we move along the project lifecycle, although the standards to which we hold ourselves remain the same. The colors on the diagram correspond to the countries and areas of operation listed on the map below to show where we were in the project lifecycle during the 2015 calendar year. PORTUGAL MOROCCO WESTERN SAHARA MAURITANIA SENEGAL GHANA SÃO TOMÉ SURINAME and PRÍNCIPE 4 2015 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Year Ended 2015 2014 2013 (in thousands, except volume data) Revenues and other income $ 471,556 $ 882,738 $ 852,153 Income tax expense 155,272 298,898 166,998 Net income (loss) (69,836) 279,370 (91,044) Net cash provided by operating activities 440,779 443,586 522,404 Capital expenditures 777, 204 528,414 424,676 Total Assets 3,203,050 2,926,859 2,311,665 Total long-term debt 860,878 748,362 865,839 Total shareholders’ equity 1,325,513 1,338,959 992,335 Production (thousand barrels of oil per day) 23.4 23.4 22.5 Sales volumes (million barrels) 8.5 8.7 7.8 Total proved reserves (million barrels of oil equivalent) 76 75 47 Crude oil (million barrels) 74 73 45 Natural gas (billion cubic feet) 14 14 11 TOTAL E MPLOYE E S 2015 256 187 2014 234 155 Total Employees U.S. Employees E MPLOYE E DIST RI BUTION United States: 73% Ghana: 17% Mauritania: 2% Morocco: 6% A used drill bit on the drilling floor of the Atwood Achiever while on location offshore Senegal. Senegal: .5% Suriname: 1.5% 5 BUSINESS PRINCIPLES IN ACTION Kosmos Energy was founded in 2003 with the goal of creating value for all of our stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, and the governments and the citizens of our host countries. We recognize that providing reliable returns to investors can only be achieved, over the long term, by advancing the societies in which we work. In 2013, we adopted the Kosmos Energy Business Principles to formalize this commitment by articulating the values that had always guided our actions. The Business Principles are also informed by what our stakeholders have told us about their expectations of a responsible oil and gas company. The Business Principles define how we conduct our business and the standards to which we hold ourselves accountable. The Business Principles are supported by more detailed policies, procedures and management systems, many of which are referenced in this report and on our website. The Principles reflect our values and practices across six key areas: Responsibilities to Stakeholders, Ethical Conduct, Our Workplaces, the Environment, Society, and Commercial Relationships. 6 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 1 RESPONSIBILITIES TO STAKEHOLDERS Strong and supportive relationships > Host Governments Investing in community with our stakeholders underpin We seek to establish a collaborative relationships early, prior to our business and create value. Our approach and contribute to beginning exploration drilling, is a stakeholders are any interested national development. key part of Kosmos’ approach in or potentially affected party, every country where we operate. Our goal with host governments namely shareholders, employees, Our Stakeholder Engagement and is to develop a shared agenda governments, communities, business Community Development Policy based on mutual trust and partners and suppliers, and civil details the standards to which we respect. We are open about society. We believe we have unique hold ourselves accountable when our business dealings with our corporate responsibilities to each of interacting with communities. We host governments because these groups: have published this policy on our transparency builds trust and website at: www.kosmosenergy. > Shareholders accountability. This provides com/responsibility. We aim to create attractive returns public assurance that hydrocarbon and manage our business risks. resources are developed In 2015, we conducted a responsibly, with the benefits detailed review of our global Kosmos Energy’s Board of going to the people of our host Social Investment Programs to Directors is focused on building countries. The “Performance Data” better understand their impact a successful, long-term future on page 45 in this report details and align their focus areas for the company and ensures the payments we have made to with our business. As a result, we maintain good corporate governments. we enhanced our corporate governance. The Board is made guidelines regarding program up of eleven members, including We begin significant engagements design and project selection five Independent Directors. with our host governments criteria to ensure our efforts are The Board of Directors has six early, at the time of licensing, sustainable and complementary standing committees: Audit in an effort to ensure alignment to local development priorities. Committee; Nominating and with government priorities and The results of this review led to Corporate Governance Committee; industry needs. We aim to become a new approach which we are Compensation Committee; a partner of choice for our host piloting in 2017 that better aligns External Affairs and Political Risk governments. with community, government, and Committee; Health, Safety, and > Communities company priorities. Environmental Committee; and the We are committed to engaging Exploration Assurance Committee. and creating opportunities, as well The External Affairs and Political as respecting human rights. Risk Committee evaluates company performance against our Business Principles and advises management on issues of potential political, societal, or security risk. > Employees We aim to provide a stimulating and rewarding work environment, and will not tolerate discrimination. We aim to foster a company culture that combines an entrepreneurial and team-based approach with ethical behavior. Directors, officers and employees are required to comply with all aspects of the Business Principles and Kosmos’ Code of Conduct in their work activities and in Kosmos personnel at the shore base in Nouakchott, Mauritania exemplify our entrepreneurial representing the company. spirit and team-based approach. 7 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 1 RESPONSIBILITIES TO STAKEHOLDERS (CONT.) > Business Partners and Suppliers We will allocate contracts through a fair and transparent process, and adhere to our Business Principles in our operations. We aim to work with suppliers, both local and multi-national, who share our values and standards. Our employees and contractors are prohibited from misusing confidential information to indulge in, or assist others to participate in, insider trading. We expect our employees and contractors to respect confidential and proprietary information and we similarly work to protect the intellectual property of others. > Civil Society “Our engagement in international initiatives, such as the United Nations Global We will engage with and listen Compact’s Business for Peace program, has strengthened our ability to manage to civil society, recognizing the complex issues such as human rights and sensitive operating areas. These initiatives important role that civil society bring together representatives from companies, civil society and government from plays in holding governments and companies accountable. We are all over the world to share challenges and best practices, and we are pleased be a part always open to having meaningful of such constructive dialogues.” dialogues with civil society REG MANHAS about the challenges inherent Senior Vice President, External Affairs in exploring for oil and gas in Kosmos Energy frontier areas. Sometimes we will disagree, but we believe listening and engaging in debate deepens voluntary initiative for businesses date, over 130 companies from our understanding of the issues. that are committed to aligning 37 countries have joined Business We seek NGOs as valued partners their operations and strategies for Peace. Kosmos has been an in our social investment programs. with universal principles in the active participant in this initiative, Our relationships with civil society areas of human rights, labor, and most recently was invited to in the countries and communities environment, and anti-corruption, become a member of the Steering where we operate create mutual and take actions that advance Committee. value and are central to our societal goals. In 2015, we commissioned an success. In September 2013, UN Secretaryindependent research report from General Ban Ki-moon launched Chatham House, the Royal Institute the business leadership platform, of International Affairs, on what Business for Peace (B4P), to could be learned from resource mobilize greater engagement of development in fragile or conflictbusiness in support of peace as affected zones, including where a complement to government it has been used to motivate the action. Led by the UN Global resolution of entrenched conflicts.  osmos also engages in public K Compact with a multi-stakeholder The final paper examined both policy discussions occurring Steering Committee, this platform positive and negative effects on globally on energy and corporate seeks to elevate and strengthen stability that can be linked to the responsibility. Kosmos has been support for business contributions extractives sector. The paper is a formal supporter of the United and for public-private dialogue available on the Chatham House Nations Global Compact since to advance peace, in support of website and can be accessed in full 2013. The UN Global Compact is a the recently launched Sustainable here: http://bit.ly/1UeVVoX. Development Goals (SDGs). To 8 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 2 ETHICAL CONDUCT The Business Principles are periodically conduct audits on third “Kosmos is determined to operate in supported by robust compliance parties. We maintain a Whistleblower a corruption-free environment and policies and methodology, including Hotline as a vehicle for employees, we take great care to ensure that our Anti-Corruption Compliance third parties and others to report, Policy and Procedures, which without risk of retaliation, potential our co-venture partners, employees, align with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt violations of any Kosmos policy. contractors and vendors are all Practices Act (FCPA) of 1977, the aware of their obligation to operate U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, as well as TR A N S PA R E N CY ethically. Having vocal support for best practices in anti-corruption Kosmos continues to be an industry this approach from the highest levels compliance. We are continuously leader in promoting transparency at the company enables us to instill evaluating our anti-corruption by disclosing the terms of all of measures and performance. an ethical mindset in every employee. our petroleum agreements and reporting payments made to our host RICHARD STEPHENS A N TI-CO R R UP T I ON governments around the world. We Manager, Legal Compliance A N D TRAI N I N G are a Supporting Company of the Kosmos Energy All Kosmos employees, board Extractive Industries Transparency members, and individual contractors Initiative (EITI). Kosmos is a member are required to attend yearly antiof the EITI Steering Committees standard part of their reporting to corruption training, and certify that in Ghana and Mauritania and plays the SEC. In our comment letter to the they have read, understood, and will an active role in the EITI process in SEC, we highlighted our commitment comply with our Anti-Corruption Senegal and São Tomé and Príncipe. to transparency, including our project Compliance Policy. To further ensure level disclosure in accordance with comprehension, all of our employees the EU Accounting Directive. We are required to pass a test on the stated that we believe that this type Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy. of disclosure is beneficial to investors, We exercise care in the selection of civil society, and local communities, We advocate for the adoption of vendors, suppliers, and contractors, and reflects evolving international EITI in all of the countries where we and we impose the same high expectations. A copy of this letter is operate, where possible. standards of conduct that we available on our website at observe in our own company. We Kosmos discloses payments to http://www.kosmosenergy.com/ use a risk-based process to evaluate governments at a project level, responsibility/transparency.php. third parties who will work on our as laid out in the European behalf. We conduct background due Union Accounting Directive, an diligence when appropriate to make initiative that aims to improve sure we have obtained full disclosure. corporate accounting practices In addition to providing all third and transparency. Our project level parties with copies of our Business disclosures are available on our Principles and Anti-Corruption website: http://www.kosmosenergy. Compliance Policy, we routinely com/responsibility/transparency.php. conduct in-country contractor and This type of disclosure is beneficial supplier training on compliance and to investors, civil society, and local supplement in-person training with communities and reflects evolving online training modules. international expectations. We conduct rigorous due diligence In October 2015, Kosmos submitted a on potential partners as we seek to comment letter to the United States expand our exploration portfolio. In Securities and Exchange Commission some cases, we have decided not (SEC) as part of the SEC rulemaking to pursue new ventures when we process for Section 1504 of the were uncomfortable with a potential Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform partner’s standards. and Consumer Protection Act, All Kosmos employees – regardless of which proposes requiring U.S.-listed role or work location – are required to We conduct an annual internal complete anti-corruption training. companies to disclose payments to audit of the company’s compliance The employee pictured is based at our U.S. and foreign governments as a shore base in Nouakchott, Mauritania. with its business ethics policies and 9 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 3 OUR WORKPLACES Kosmos aims to be a world-class We seek to hire and develop local exploration and production company employees for our international known for delivering excellent results operations. We are proud that in and being a workplace of choice Ghana and Mauritania, 100 percent for some of the best people in the of our employees are citizens of industry. We want our employees to those countries. This level of local have careers that are professionally employment is a long-term target challenging, personally rewarding, for Kosmos in all of the countries and focused on delivering value to where we have operations. We are Kosmos ranked 25th among our stakeholders. In 2015, we hired also committed to investing in the mid-size companies in the 54 new employees to bring our total development of our employees. Dallas Morning News rankings number of employees at year end For example, employees hired in to 256 worldwide. We incorporate Ghana, Mauritania, Senegal, and of the Top 100 Places to Work the ideas and experiences new Suriname have rotated through 2015, our third year earning a employees bring to our organization our Dallas headquarters on special position on the list. while retaining our unique culture assignments. These development and upholding our Business opportunities have enabled them to Principles. assume greater responsibility and handle the increasingly complex Kosmos is a relatively small company Kosmos focuses on recruiting, work that we are moving to local with a fast-paced, collaborative retaining, and developing a diverse offices. We augment our internal work environment and a high level and capable workforce of talented programs with external development of employee engagement. We people who embrace our Business opportunities through our Education have instituted programs to ensure Principles and entrepreneurial Reimbursement Policy. employees remain engaged as the culture. We are an equal opportunity company evolves. These programs employer and do not tolerate We recognize fundamental labor include Town Hall meetings, during harassment or intimidation of any rights and require our contractors which senior management provides kind. Employees are respected and to adhere to international labor an operational update and holds encouraged to contribute their ideas. standards and local laws. We will an open forum, as well as monthly We base employee recruitment and not permit child, forced, or bonded cross-departmental brown bag advancement solely on merit and will labor at our operations or among our lunches with members of Kosmos’ not tolerate discrimination, subject suppliers. In 2015, we conducted a senior leadership team. only to the need to ensure that, in labor rights risk assessment of select some contexts, we seek to accelerate operations to better understand our the recruitment and advancement level of risk, both at the current stage “Prior to my joining Kosmos Energy of suitably qualified nationals of the of our operations and in the future. countries in which we operate. Ghana, I was impressed with the company’s commitment to the country after finding oil in 2007. I was not surprised when I heard that the company was looking to make it a one hundred percent Ghanaian staffed entity by hiring a Ghanaian national as Country Manager. I am proud I made the decision to join Kosmos Energy to fulfill this commitment. Kosmos Energy’s interest is really vested in the development of Ghana and its people.” JOE MENSAH Vice President and Support staff in Accra, Ghana complete a training on Kosmos Energy’s Business Principles Country Manager and supporting policies. Kosmos Energy Ghana 10 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 4 KOSMOS AND THE ENVIRONMENT We value the natural areas where where we have relinquished our “Kosmos employees accept that we do business, both land and sea, licenses in the Porcupine Basin, we the responsibility to ensure health, and we strive to prevent or minimize are continuing to support the Marine safety, and environmental protection potential adverse impacts on the Renewable Energy Ireland initiative is integral to the way we do business, environment. Our Health, Safety and by contributing marine ecological Environmental (HSE) management data sets developed during past not just because it’s a part of our system, The Standard, was reviewed seismic surveys to help researchers social license to operate, but simply and refreshed in 2015, a process we better understand and protect the because it’s the right thing to do. now conduct on an annual basis. The marine ecology. It has become a core value that is Standard sets clear expectations and Kosmos also supports a marine demonstrated every day in the way performance measures that we use biodiversity initiative in Mauritania, we plan and execute our work and to plan and monitor our corporate, the Biodiversity Oil and Gas country and project-level activities. engage with our contractors and Program, to improve understanding The Standard is available on our communities where we operate.” and protection of the Mauritanian website at www.kosmosenergy.com. offshore ecosystem. To read more SCOTT BERGERON After license acquisition, the first about this program, see page 30. Senior Director, Health, stage in the oil and gas project We always aim to promote the Safety and Environment lifecycle is the acquisition of seismic sustainable management of living Kosmos Energy data. Kosmos recently completed natural resources and minimize the seismic surveys offshore Mauritania potential impact of our operations and Senegal. Our geologists and on the environment and biodiversity. develop their ability to lead on the geophysicists use the data to create ground during an incident. We plan for an effective and timely detailed images of the earth’s In addition to training personnel, response to emergencies that have physical characteristics which then Kosmos carefully considers the the potential to impact personnel, enable us to make more informed technology and drilling equipment the environment, local communities, decisions about the location of that we use. We base these or our assets. In 2015, we conducted potential oil and gas deposits. decisions on our Well Integrity regular global crisis simulation Conducted offshore, our seismic drills with internal and external Management System (WIMS), activities also provide unique insight stakeholders, such as governments which governs well design and the into the presence and abundance of and civil society. These types of execution of drilling, completions marine life, including large mammals, exercises help us improve our ability and testing of wells. We believe birds, fish, corals, and others. Where to respond in the unlikely event of in safe and efficient operations possible, we share this data with an emergency. Our local leadership that are consistent with strong scientists and local marine research team and HSES Advisors are well governance procedures, and institutes. For example, in Ireland, mentored through these exercises to internationally recommended best practices. We believe climate change is real and influenced by human activity. At this SAFE T Y P ER FOR M A N C E time, Kosmos does not operate any of its producing assets. Kosmos’ only oil and gas production is offshore Kosmos continued to improve safety performance in 2015 leading to Ghana, where our co-venturer, the best year for safety in the company’s history. Key performance Tullow Oil, operates the Jubilee field. indicators for the year, available in the Performance Data on page While we do not participate in the 45, were based on industry benchmarks reported by the Oil and Gas Climate Disclosure Project (CDP), Producers Association, as well as internal objectives for operational Tullow Oil participates in the CDP, readiness and behavior-based training. In early 2016, Kosmos reporting emissions and management achieved a major milestone in our safety performance: one year of processes on behalf of the Jubilee cozero recordable incidents. Prior to achieving this milestone, we had venturers, including Kosmos Energy. two recordable incidents in January 2015: a wrist fracture at our Our management will revisit this shore base in Mauritania and a foot injury on the drillship. decision when Kosmos has operated oil or gas production. 11 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 5 KOSMOS IN SOCIETY Kosmos aims to be a trusted that enables our future activity to “I am proud to be part of an organization partner, good corporate citizen, benefit workers, communities, and committed to respectfully bringing and catalyst for positive change. local businesses. cultures together. Doing so allows us We understand that governments Upon establishing a country office have the principal responsibility to provide opportunities to our host to oversee our operations, we for promoting the welfare of their countries’ talent so they may become complete an assessment to identify citizens, including through the social investment opportunities tomorrow’s leaders.” distribution of benefits generated by and potential partners from the oil and gas development. However, RAQUEL ZOTOS community. In 2015, we reviewed we recognize that Kosmos must International Human our social investment programs Resources Manager behave responsibly and that we are worldwide to better understand their Kosmos Energy most likely to have a sustainable impact. The results of this review led business if we work with a range to a new approach that better aligns of stakeholders, support measures better understand our risks during with community, government, and intended to promote good exploration, as well as risks that company priorities. governance, and maximize the could arise in the event of an oil or opportunities we create for those Kosmos has a deep commitment gas discovery. We believe adopting around us. to respecting and protecting a proactive approach to human human rights. Our Human Rights Prior to seismic operations or rights is good risk management. Policy, available on our website, exploration drilling, we conduct Kosmos is currently participating in a ensures that our behavior toward Environmental and Social Impact corporate committee that is assisting employees, contractors, and external Assessments to develop wellInternational Alert, a global peacestakeholders is both responsible informed operational management building organization, in developing and respectful. We conduct Human plans and consult with potentially updated guidance on human rights Rights training sessions for our impacted populations. Social Impact due diligence in fragile and conflictemployees in select countries. Rather Assessments help Kosmos to develop affected settings. A background than conducting a stand-alone the baseline of socioeconomic paper that will serve as the company-wide human rights risk conditions before activity begins, conceptual framework underpinning assessment, we have incorporated understand and mitigate any the guidance can be found at human rights into all of our Social potential adverse impacts from the http://www.international-alert. Impact Assessments, and have based activities, and collect information org/sites/default/files/Economy_ our efforts on potential risk exposure. ConflictSensitivityBusinessHuman Since it is important for community Rights_EN_2016.pdf. International members to achieve redress if Alert is planning to release the final they suffer harm as a result of guidance document in late 2016. our operations, we maintain and publicize mechanisms in every Kosmos seeks to implement the country for addressing grievances. Voluntary Principles on Security and Additionally, we train employees and Human Rights in our operations. contractors on how to handle and Although port facilities are often resolve grievances appropriately. secured by state security providers, we use private security providers We seek to apply the U.N. Guiding for our office operations. We have Principles on Business and Human conducted security assessments and Rights in all our operations. A key trainings for these private providers element of the Guiding Principles that incorporate the Voluntary is for companies to evaluate Principles as guidance. Our goal within their risk assessments the is not only to prevent potential extent to which the company’s human rights abuses, but also to activities may pose risks to those encourage security providers to around them. In 2015, we hired a serve as advocates for protecting third party expert to conduct a and promoting human rights. Kosmos employees volunteer their time labor rights risk assessment of our for the Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity. operations in certain countries to 12 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 6 COMMERCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES At Kosmos, we see our interactions with local business partners as a way to contribute to the countries in which we operate, in addition to paying taxes, fees and other payments to host governments. In fact, in the event of exploration success, we see oil and gas development as an engine for economic development. We maintain high standards for our suppliers and commercial Kosmos provides training to local contractors at the Port of Nouakchott to raise HSE standards and enhance operations. partners in terms of safety, the environment, and anti-corruption. Suppliers are required to adhere transportation vendors. In Morocco, We seek to maximize the amount to our Business Principles. Their where we were the industry lead at of goods, services, and employment willingness to observe the standards the port of Agadir, we held safety that we source locally. Our local articulated in our Business Principles trainings and provided additional content approach aims to enable and supporting policies is a key Personal Protective Equipment people to access jobs, and to enable consideration in the selection process. (PPE) for stevedores and other local businesses to access supply chain When a potential local supplier workers in the port. These efforts opportunities through Kosmos. This is found to be outside our lowered the incident rate at the is more challenging at the exploration HSE standard, we endeavor to port, both for Kosmos and for other stage in our project lifecycle, where provide the necessary training or companies that had contracts with there are few non-technical jobs certification to elevate them to port employees. created and highly specialized our standard. This is frequently the equipment is often sourced globally. Ensuring that our suppliers and case, as we operate in a number contractors fully understand their In 2015, we thoroughly assessed of countries with nascent oil and contractual obligations regarding our approach to local content, both gas industries. For example, in anti-corruption provisions is of at the corporate level as well as in Ghana, we provide regular defensive paramount importance. Our local Mauritania where we have active driving and safety training for our procurement officials offer onedrilling operations. The assessment on-one sessions with our suppliers was completed by an international to walk them through their firm with relevant expertise and “One of my favorite responsibilities requirements under our policies, the found that we needed to update is my morning call with our local U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of certain policies and contract procurement teams. There are typically 1977, and other relevant legislation. language, as well as improve crossa dozen nationalities represented! I During this process, we often functional cooperation to optimize am always impressed by the respect local content. As a result of this identify areas for additional training process, we have updated our Local each person has for the global team within our local supply chain. Procurement Policy to include a and for our supplier base, and the For example, in Senegal, we will greater emphasis on local content, be providing English lessons for expertise that each person is willing to as well as improved guidelines on employees and contractors in 2016. share. Although this call is focused on Similarly, in Mauritania, we have measurement and reporting. We operational activities, it is clear to me also created a cross-functional worked with a cleaning company steering team tasked with planning that our local procurement team deeply that services our apartments and and evaluating local content for our understands the positive impact we can local office on its health and safety future LNG project in Mauritania standards, as well as its human have on local businesses and supplier and Senegal. We recognize that resources practices. The company’s development.” maximizing local participation within contract with Kosmos has been an our business is an ongoing process ALICIA KEMPER incentive for this vendor to improve that requires early planning and Procurement Analyst, its operations. As a result, they are periodic re-evaluation based on Supply Chain now attracting business from local changes in supply and demand. Kosmos Energy embassies and other international organizations. 13 CONNECTING DALLAS TO THE WORLD THROUGH ART Our approach to social investment constantly evolves study of art and what it reveals not just about the artists and the works according to business needs and the world around themselves – their form, their us. In 2015, this was most noticeable in Dallas, Texas, style, and their content – but also where we launched two major multi-year initiatives the social, political, and cultural aimed at connecting our home city to the world circumstances that shaped them. through art and science. When this knowledge is shared, it becomes a catalyst for deeper understanding and greater trust. exhibitions, installations in the museum’s collection galleries, and a The people of Dallas – in all their prospective touring exhibition. The diversity – will enjoy the fruits of sponsorship also includes resources the scholarship now taking place to facilitate loans of items from the at the DMA on the Keir Collection Keir Collection to other U.S. and and will be able to view and learn international institutions. from the collection for free. Those beyond Dallas will be able to Assembled over the course of five access the art online through high decades by noted art collector definition photographs thanks to Edmund de Unger (1918-2011), the the museum’s ongoing digitization Mr. Mahanta Gueye, Technical Advisor Keir Collection is recognized by project. Works of art that are scholars as one of the world’s most to Senegal’s Minister of Energy, essentially being discovered for the geographically and historically examines an illuminated manuscript. first time will soon be available. By comprehensive, encompassing supporting the display of the Keir almost 2,000 works in a range CR OSSCULTURA L Collection – and the scholarship of media that span 13 centuries U N DERSTANDING and knowledge it will generate – of Islamic art. The first exhibition, We believe that through our search we are doing our part in Dallas for Spirit and Matter: Masterpieces for oil and gas – and the way the benefit of people everywhere. from the Keir Collection of Islamic we do business – we can have a Art, showcases more than 50 positive impact on the places where masterworks from the collection, we work by connecting people, marking the first time many of bridging cultures, and deepening the featured works have been on understanding. We believe art has display in North America. the same power. Kosmos’ partnership with DMA is an extension of our ongoing efforts to engage with the communities where we live and work, and foster appreciation for the art and culture of these communities. We brought representatives from our countries In September 2015, the Dallas of operation in West Africa to Museum of Art (DMA) announced Dallas to join us at the opening of Kosmos as the presenting sponsor the Keir Collection at the Dallas of the Keir Collection of Islamic Art Museum of Art. Lamp for its inaugural years of exhibitions Although the process of bridging North Africa, possibly Morocco: and installations. The partnership cultures begins with the 12th-13th century between the museum and the preservation of historic artifacts, The Keir Collection of Islamic Art on loan company provides $800,000 of to the Dallas Museum of Art it develops most fully through the Image courtesy of Dallas Museum of Art support for a series of special Photo: Ira Schrank 14 ©2015 The Dallas Morning News, Inc. 15 CONNECTING DALLAS TO THE WORLD THROUGH SCIENCE BU I LDING CAPACI T Y IN SCIEN CE Each day at Kosmos, we use the fundamentals of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) to do our jobs. We interpret seismic images to identify potential oil and gas deposits. We plan deepwater drilling operations targeting prospects located more than three miles below the ocean floor. We study the rocks we bring to the surface to better understand where oil and gas might be found. Being at the forefront of science and technology is how we play our part in meeting the world’s energy needs and how we create During the Kosmos Energy STEM Teacher Institute summer academy, Dallas/Fort Worth area value for stakeholders. teachers receive specialized training from the Perot Museum’s network of educators. The shortage of people with training in the STEM disciplines opportunities and access to are also mentored throughout the poses a potential long-term threat the Perot Museum’s network of academic year. to many businesses, including our educators and vast resources. The program is expected own. In 2015, Kosmos announced a The program, which started in the to impact more than 4,800 partnership with the Perot Museum spring of 2015, involves a formal students during the 2015-2016 of Nature and Science to face this application process for teachers school year. Expected outcomes challenge head-on by helping to ensure they are invested and include significantly increased Dallas teachers develop their committed. Chosen teachers knowledge of science among ability to train and inspire young from across the Dallas/Fort teachers, competence, confidence, people in the STEM disciplines. Worth area attend a week-long creativity, and consistency in Summer Academy, where they science instruction. In addition, the are grouped according to their program will enhance teachers’ level of comfort and expertise in ability to encourage students to sciences – Pre-Service Teachers, pursue careers in fields related to Novice Teachers, Advanced science, technology, engineering, Teachers, and Mentor Teachers – and math. The Kosmos Energy STEM Teacher rather than by grade level. 4,800+ Institute is an innovative program Instruction continues through designed to improve the quality the academic year with five of formal science instruction for professional development participating kindergarten through 12th grade teachers, and increase sessions held on weekends twice STUDENTS WILL a month, for which they receive interest and engagement among continuing education credits BE IMPACTED their students in STEM subjects. Through this program, teachers required for teachers by the Texas DURING THE 2015-16 Education Agency. The teachers enjoy professional development SCHOOL YEAR 16 17 GHANA Ghana is the only country where we have oil and gas production. Kosmos discovered the Jubilee field offshore Ghana in 2007 and spent the next 42 months drilling appraisal and development wells and building necessary infrastructure to begin production in late 2010. Although Kosmos does not oversee day-to-day operations of the Jubilee field – that is the responsibility of the field operator – we take an active role in stakeholder engagement, social investments, and other activities to increase assurance that hydrocarbon production benefits local people. Our office in Accra, which is the largest outside of the United States, makes up approximately 20 percent of our global workforce and is staffed 100 percent by Ghanaians. MA N AGING OUR FOOT P R I N T equivalent. Reserves increased primarily due to continued strong In Ghana, we continue to invest in GHANA reservoir performance, more than our core asset which provides the offsetting the impact of lower oil company’s financial foundation. prices. Gross production from Jubilee DEEPWATER field averaged approximately In December 2015, the Greater TANO BLOCK WEST CAPE THREE POINTS 102,500 barrels of oil per day sales Jubilee Full Field Development Plan BLOCK throughout 2015. Gas production and Unit Expansion Agreement from the Jubilee field was also for the Mahogany and Teak fields strong, ending the year at more were submitted to the Government JUBILEE than 110 million cubic feet per day. of Ghana. The plan includes connecting the Mahogany and Teak For the third consecutive year, we fields to the Jubilee field Floating delivered a reserve replacement Production, Storage and Offloading ratio above 100 percent. Kosmos’ vessel (FPSO). proved net reserves at the end of Gulf of 2015 were 76 million barrels of oil Guinea 18 The TEN project, our second major understand their concerns about the associated with our operations. oil development in Ghana, is now industry and share information that The area directly onshore from the more than 90 percent complete improves their knowledge of the oil Jubilee field includes the six coastal and remains on schedule and within and gas sector. districts of the Western Region of budget. We expect TEN to produce Ghana, where we have centered Government of Ghana first oil in the third quarter of 2016. much of our local community Beyond our day-to-day interactions Ghana’s second FPSO, named the engagement. We employ community with government on matters John Evans Atta Mills in honor of liaison officers who live in the related to operation of West Cape the late president who oversaw communities to ensure that we are Three Points and other business, the beginning of oil production in in regular communication. During we participated in key events the country, arrived on location in community meetings, we encourage as an industry representative March 2016. community members to have an at the government’s request. In open dialogue with our company by By 2017, we anticipate significant October 2015, when the Economic visiting our offices, contacting us via growth from Ghana with the TEN Community of West African States email or phone calls, or using our project expected to increase our (ECOWAS) held its first forum grievance mechanism. net production by nearly 50 percent on extractive industries in Accra, over 2015. Kosmos engaged as a key partner Contractors and Suppliers who had helped build Ghana’s oil We aim to maximize the participation Safety and Environmental and gas sector. The forum was of local suppliers in all of our Performance designed to promote sustainable operations to increase the benefits Our active monitoring of safety development and management of our business brings to host countries. and environmental compliance natural resources to meet the needs In Ghana, where we have maintained contributed to strong HSE of current and future generations. an office since 2007, developing performance in 2015. There were Delegations from 15 ECOWAS our local supplier base has been an no Lost Time Incidents (LTI) for our member states attended, along with important way for us to contribute West Cape Three Points operations representatives from the public and to national economic and social throughout 2015. There was one LTI private sectors. development. For example, Kosmos on the Jubilee field FPSO Kwame and its partners have helped build Nkrumah in 2015, and no LTIs on Local Communities the capabilities of a small Ghanaian any other Jubilee operations. We While our legal license to operate is waste management company, Zeal continued to invest in safety training granted by national governments, Environmental Technologies. The throughout the year, which helped we also seek to obtain the broad company has become a premiere sustain performance gains achieved support of, and bring sustainable environmental management company. in 2014. benefits to, the communities directly Gas to Power Kosmos continues to play an important role in promoting the use of natural gas to generate power. The Jubilee partnership supplied on average approximately 66 million cubic feet of gas each day in 2015 to the Ghana National Gas Company’s (GNGC) onshore processing facility at Atuabo and onward flow to the Aboadze power plant for fuel to generate electricity. Kosmos continues to work closely with its partners and government stakeholders to plan for and expand Ghana’s gas infrastructure to meet the country’s needs. EN GAGEM EN T A N D L I ST EN I N G As a long-term partner in Ghana, Kosmos regularly engages with a wide range of stakeholders, including government, local communities, contractors and suppliers, civil society, the media, The FPSO John Evans Atta Mills starts its long sail from Jurong Shipyard in Singapore to Ghana. and academia. We communicate Production from the Tweneboa, Enyenra and Ntomme fields is expected to begin in the third quarter of 2016. regularly with these stakeholders to 19 Media Editors and journalists are important stakeholders as they regularly write about oil and gas activities in Ghana and shape public understanding. In 2015, we hosted several workshops for editors and journalists to deepen their knowledge of the industry. Held in the Western Region, as well as in Accra, the workshops brought together more than 50 editors and journalists from four different regions and featured presentations by industry specialists and independent subject matter experts from Ghana National Gas Company, the Petroleum Commission, the University of Cape Coast’s Institute In 2015, we hosted several workshops for editors and journalists to deepen their knowledge of of Oil and Gas Studies, and other the oil and gas industry. organizations. The subjects explored in the workshops were based on feedback Civil Society embracing transparency in the from earlier engagements with Kosmos maintains regular contact oil and gas industry. The full-day media and also from local journalists with a range of civil society discussion covered a range of topics, who had already participated in oil organizations in Ghana, such as the including collaboration between and gas training programs. African Centre for Energy Policy industry, government and civil (ACEP), the National Resource society, and policy development. Academia Governance Institute (NRGI), and the In 2015, Kosmos engaged with In addition, Kosmos was selected Extractive Industries Transparency students and faculty at the as an industry representative to Initiative (EITI). University of Mines and Technology serve on the governing board of the at Tarkwa; University of Cape Coast; In 2015, Kosmos staff in Ghana Western Region Coastal Foundation University of Ghana; the Kwame hosted a 24-person delegation (WRCF), an organization that Nkrumah University of Science from Senegal – comprised of brings together industry and local and Technology; and the Ghana EITI committee members, communities to coordinate the Academy of Arts and Science. parliamentarians, and civil society development activities carried We participated in forums at the organizations – who visited Accra out by these stakeholders and universities, as well as provided to learn about Ghana’s experience government. THE KOSMOS EN ER GY A DV I SORY COUNC I L “Kosmos Energy Ghana has come a long way since establishing the Kosmos took an important step in 2014 to demonstrate our long Advisory Council. My colleagues term commitment to Ghana by creating an independent advisory and I have consistently given advice council comprised of respected Ghanaian business leaders who on a range of internal and external advise the company and serve as a sounding board as we work to issues, in their wish to make the right support Ghana’s socio-economic needs and management of oil and decisions and to take the right steps, gas resources. in dealing with its diverse Ghanaian Members of the council were selected based on their business stakeholders. Kosmos Energy has knowledge, diverse points of view, and history of success leading become more Ghanaian since then.” companies in Ghana. By listening to the advice and insights of these business leaders, Kosmos is playing a more active role in SETH KWASI DEI helping Ghana develop the full potential of its oil and gas resources Founder of Leasafric to support Ghana’s socioeconomic development. There is natural and Blue Skies Ghana Limited; and member alignment between Kosmos and Ghana when it comes to creating of the Kosmos Energy a well-managed and increasingly productive petroleum sector. Ghana Advisory Council 20 Kosmos worked with local communities to build IT resource centers in Ghana’s Western Region. These centers help young people develop the technology skills needed to pass the Basic Education Certificate Examination. guest speakers on such topics as Local Hiring, Employee rich learning environment as governance and management of the Development, and Capacity Building participants shared experiences oil and gas industry, transparency We implement personal and lessons from a variety of and business ethics, and sociodevelopment plans for our backgrounds and perspectives. economic development. employees aimed at investing in In the community, Kosmos’ capacity our people, building capability that building initiatives focused on enables us to promote from within, offering opportunities for young and enhancing the organization’s people to develop technology skills. performance. We had 43 employees After listening to the interests and in Ghana at year-end 2015, and needs of communities, Kosmos 91 percent of these employees built two information technology received training and development (IT) centers in the Western opportunities in 2015. In addition Region in collaboration with the to providing a range of leadership, Ghana Education Service, district business skills, and technical assemblies, and traditional councils. training, Kosmos sent Ghanaian The objective is to help community employees to Mauritania and A student completes an assignment members, particularly young Senegal on extended assignments at the IT center in New Nzulezu. people, develop their IT skills and to help train other employees and use the acquired skills for their support our drilling programs there. studies, including passing the Basic P OSITIVE I M PAC TS Total training expenditure in Ghana Education Certificate Examination. during 2015 was almost $200,000. Kosmos strongly supports local The two technology centers were content initiatives in Ghana and Along with building the capability constructed in the Nzema East other countries. Where openings of our own staff, Kosmos also Municipality and the Jomoro exist, we seek to employ suitably supports the professional District, and will serve fourteen qualified people from the places development of key partners. In local schools. Kosmos had where we work. In 2015, Kosmos 2015, we developed and conducted previously equipped the preachieved a major milestone by a training program on incident existing technology center in the employing a 100 percent Ghanaian investigation that included village of Nsein with equipment team. This has been a longemployees, contractors, and to serve a cluster for eight term goal for the company and participants from the Petroleum schools. As part of our plan for demonstrates our commitment Commission, Environmental the sustainability and day-toto local content and employee Protection Agency, and Ghana day management of the centers, development. National Petroleum Corporation. Kosmos is providing training for This joint program provided a support staff in 2016. 21 Social Investments Kosmos contributed approximately $1 million dollars in 2015 to the Jubilee Unit and TEN Development social investment programs, which focus largely on vocational training. These initiatives are overseen by a team of representatives from Jubilee joint venture companies, including Kosmos. Independent of Jubilee and TEN programs, Kosmos invested $461,000 in social programs in Kosmos provided improved fish smoking ovens to two communities in the Western Region, which enable local women to improve the quality of their product and limit spoilage. This 2015. Our projects are carefully initiative has helped the women prevent post-harvest losses and sustain year-round income. designed in collaboration with community-level stakeholders to ensure their long-term – and garnered such a positive Because oil and gas production sustainability. community response – that Kosmos might last 25 years or more, Kosmos’ partnership with Safe decided to expand water projects Kosmos takes a practical and Water Network in a three-phased to other parts of the country. This long-term view of its relationship project to bring clean drinking time, we partnered with Water with the fishing community in water to 28,000 people in 20 Health Ghana to provide clean Ghana, focusing on collaboration communities in the Western drinking water to Kwabenya that addresses issues and solves Region grew out of this spirit (Greater Accra), Amanase (Eastern problems. Since 2012, Kosmos of collaboration. The first two Region), and Nyanaanor (Central has implemented a multi-year phases were completed and Region). The new community water fisheries livelihood support project commissioned in 2014. The third stations will be completed in 2016, in the Western Region designed phase was completed in 2015. supplying approximately 39,000 to enhance the value chain for the The project proved so successful people with clean drinking water. fish smoking business. The Ekpu processing facility in the Jomoro district was completed and handed over in 2015. More than 130 fish processors in Jomoro benefitted directly from the improved fish smoking ovens, as well as 172 fish processors at Ankobra in the Ellembele district. In addition to providing the smoking ovens, Kosmos arranged for training for local fishmongers in the areas of bookkeeping and marketing to help them improve profits from the increase in smoked fish inventory. In a similar collaboration with local communities, Kosmos developed the Teacher’s Resource Center as a multi-use space for local teachers to receive training, hold workshops, and work together to develop teaching aids for schools in the Beyin and Atuabo areas. An existing building near a school in Beyin was renovated to house the center. The Teacher’s Resource Center will initially focus on instructional methods to improve literacy among Kosmos/Safe Water Network the local population. A steering water tower. Cutline to be committee of education and community leaders will oversee the developed. Kosmos’ project with Safe Water Network to bring clean Duisto drinking water incididunt 28,000 people in 20 Western Region communities was completed in early 2015. A new project is now underway center’s daily operations. to bring potable water to other parts of Ghana. ut labore. 22 THE KOSM OS I N N OVAT I ON C EN TE R After more than ten years of helping to develop the oil and gas industry, we launched the Kosmos Innovation Center (KIC) in 2016 to help Ghana build a brighter future by encouraging the use of innovation and technology to apply commercial solutions to some of the country’s key challenges. The KIC begins its work by choosing an area of focus from one of Ghana’s many different economic sectors. For its initial engagement, the KIC is turning its attention to agriculture – the largest sector in Ghana’s economy – where it will pursue and nurture the development of market-based solutions that address various development challenges. The KIC will focus on the nexus between information and communications technology (ICT) and agriculture, with the goal of inspiring entrepreneurs to transform Ghana’s agriculture sector. To achieve results that drive change, the KIC uses a three-part approach: Collaboration, Incubation, and Acceleration. > Collaboration – Fostering > Incubation – Nurturing Promising > Acceleration – Investing in Small Partnerships to Tackle Challenges Start-up Companies Business Development Together Through formal competitions Through capital investment and Through workshops, conferences, focused on innovation, the KIC technical assistance, the KIC is and other events, the KIC brings challenges young entrepreneurs accelerating the development of together the best and brightest to use technology to develop promising small businesses with minds from a range of fields, such commercially viable solutions to the potential to provide private as business, technology, finance, development challenges within sector solutions to market academia, and other specialists the agricultural sector. At the problems. After a stringent and practitioners to talk through end of the competition, selected screening process, selected the challenges in improving entrepreneurs receive seed companies will receive a range Ghana’s agricultural sector. These funding, technical assistance, of support aimed at helping carefully selected individuals and mentorship to help them them grow their business. share their knowledge, inspire turn their ideas into reality. The each other, and work together to Meltwater Entrepreneurial School develop practical solutions to the of Technology (MEST) is the most pressing problems. KIC’s key partner in exciting and inspiring budding entrepreneurs to use technology to transform Ghana’s agricultural economy. For more information on the Kosmos Innovation Center, please visit www.kosmosinnovationcenter.com. Entrepreneurs-In-Training at the Meltwater Entrepreneurial School of Technology (MEST), like the group pictured above, receive comprehensive training across the skill sets required to build successful technology businesses. This includes computer programming, software development, product management, finance, marketing, sales and leadership best practices. MEST is a key partner of the Kosmos Innovation Center. 23 SENEGAL Kosmos has an operating interest in two exploration blocks offshore Senegal – Cayar Offshore Profond and Saint Louis Offshore Profond. The license areas are adjacent to, and on trend with, our blocks offshore neighboring Mauritania. We began drilling the Guembeul-1 exploration well in late 2015 and received results from the well in 2016. Located approximately five kilometers south of the basin-opening Tortue-1 gas discovery offshore Mauritania, Guembeul-1 made a significant discovery and demonstrated reservoir continuity as well as static pressure communication with Tortue-1, suggesting a single, large gas accumulation. MA N AGING OUR FOOT P R I N T opportunities to our Senegalese staff through special assignments to Atlantic Kosmos opened its office in Dakar Ocean build technical skills. in September 2014 to support the upcoming drilling program and ST. LOUIS establish a visible presence in the EN GAG E ME N T A N D L I STE N I N G OFFSHORE PROFOND country. Previously, Kosmos had Our Dakar-based community liaison spent more than a year working officer has continued to maintain almost exclusively in fishing relationships with local communities, communities onshore from our municipal authorities, and civil license areas to introduce the society in the coastal communities company, begin building productive stretching from Dakar to Saint Louis. relationships, and prepare for These communities are familiar SENEGAL both seismic surveys and drilling with Kosmos from communications CAYAR activities. related to our seismic campaigns OFFSHORE as well as early outreach associated PROFOND Our small, but capable team in Dakar is comprised mostly of Senegalese with our Environmental and Social nationals. We provide development Impact Assessment completed prior 24 to drilling. We regularly visit coastal communities to communicate on our seismic and drilling activities and any results. We have found that these communities are well informed, and are often dependent on fishing as their livelihood. Kosmos also maintains a grievance mechanism for our Senegal operations. We had one use of our grievance mechanism regarding our drilling operations in 2015, from an individual who had additional questions about our upcoming drilling plans. The questions were answered in a manner satisfactory to the individual. As part of our commitment to furthering transparency and good governance wherever we operate, Kosmos developed and sponsored a workshop on the oil and gas industry and transparency in partnership with the Senegal EITI Committee. We brought independent international experts to Dakar to present at the workshop, and attendees included civil society, The environmental and social impact assessment completed in Senegal in 2015 included consultation with more than 1,000 people in coastal communities such as Guet Ndar. parliamentarians, and industry representatives. We recognize that a lack of information is often the the coming year. We also engage P OS I TI V E I M PAC TS source of uncertainty, suspicion, regularly with individual civil society and even conflict in the extractive As our presence in Senegal organizations in Senegal to keep industries, and therefore we have grows and our activities increase, them up to date on our operations planned a series of workshops we intend for our operations to and provide an opportunity for and events tailored to different contribute to social and economic feedback. stakeholders in Senegal in development. To support this objective, we employ a dedicated Senegalese procurement officer who works with suppliers to source goods and services locally, whenever possible. “In Senegal, Kosmos has been quite proactive regarding transparency: they recently approached the EITI National Committee and assisted with the organisation of an orientation workshop to explain the complexity of oil and gas activity and development to stakeholders. We encourage this sort of good practice around transparency and hope that these actions will inspire other actors.” Four young fishermen from Potou, which was among the coastal communities visited during CHEIKH TIDIANE TOURE our pre-drilling environmental and social impact assessment. EITI Secretariat for Senegal 25 In addition to giving local beacons, and life vests to the fishing businesses the chance to associations. The associations are participate in our supply chain, now selling the equipment to their we also look for opportunities to members at a subsidized price. The make social investments. In 2015 revenue generated can then be used we conducted a detailed review by the associations to: of social investment opportunities > invest in more equipment thereby and potential partners in Senegal to creating a virtuous cycle of safety inform our approach. This included consciousness extensive engagement with NGOs, civil society and government > invest in the fishing associations’ bodies to understand concerns and social funds, which provide a identify development priorities. safety net for fishermen and their families who have suffered Based on information gathered work-related accidents resulting Kosmos provided GPS systems, from fishermen and their families in disability or loss of their like the one pictured above, as during the consultation process equipment, and for the ESIA, Kosmos worked with well as other safety gear to fishing seven artisanal fishing associations > invest in capacity building associations in northern Senegal. known as the Conseils Locaux programs for association members de Pêche Artisanale to develop who seek to improve their Our expanded social investment a novel and sustainable program livelihoods. program in Senegal in the coming that improves safety and protects Decisions regarding the use and years will continue to emphasize livelihoods. disbursement of funds are made coastal and fishing communities. Kosmos provided global positioning locally by the multi-stakeholder systems, solar lamps that illuminate group that manages the night fishing and serve as distress associations. A fisherman from Lompoul wears one of the life vests donated by Kosmos to his artisanal fishing association. 26 EN VIR ON M EN TA L A N D SOC I A L I MPAC T ASS E SS ME N T I N S E N E G A L Kosmos conducts a thorough environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) prior to engaging in any drilling or seismic operations. ESIAs review operational plans, establish a social and environmental baseline, and assess the potential environmental and social impacts of a proposed project, as well as develop appropriate mitigation approaches and management tools. Once completed, the ESIA is submitted to the host government for review, feedback, and approval. In 2015, Kosmos partnered with international experts and a Senegalese company, Tropica Environmental Consultants, to prepare the ESIA for our proposed exploratory drilling operations offshore Senegal. The process and final assessment report help us better understand potential social and environmental impacts of the project as well as public concerns, which leads to more informed impact management plans and project planning. The ESIA process included extensive public consultations. Kosmos and the ESIA team initiated public consultations early in the process to identify stakeholders’ questions and concerns. Approximately 500 people were informed and consulted during 32 meetings in the first quarter of 2015. An additional 500 people were consulted during the regulatory public hearings organized in the third quarter of 2015 by the Ministry of Environment. The Senegalese public asked questions and shared concerns during the consultations. We received feedback about fishing, environmental protection, and potential interference of the drillship with other maritime vessels. The assessment found that no impacts on artisanal fisheries are expected from the routine operations of the exploration program, but there is a potential for interaction between support vessels and pirogues (small fishing boats). To mitigate this, both the rig and support vessels are equipped with radar scanner systems that will pick up another marine vessel in the area even if the vessel does not have signal/communication systems on board. Further, the support vessels established a navigation routing plan from the shore base to the rig that minimized risks of interference with populated fishing areas. While it is true that negative impacts to marine fauna could occur from routine operations, the magnitude and extent of these impacts were almost uniformly negligible or low, and very localized. Implementation of proposed mitigation measures further reduced the potential for environmental impacts. During the ESIA consultations, community members regularly inquired about benefits to the local population and job creation. Exploration drilling creates little immediate benefit, and this was explained during the consultation meetings. In the event of exploration success, Kosmos works with the government to determine ways that benefits can flow to local people. However, even during the exploration phase, Kosmos is committed to creating economic opportunity both through its core business and its social investment programs. We are committed to optimizing the participation of capable local suppliers so as to increase the linkages between Kosmos’ business and the Senegalese economy. Further, Kosmos has developed a social investment plan that takes into consideration local needs and development priorities. Throughout the ESIA process, we engaged a range of stakeholders in order to gain support for the drilling project. The ESIA team spent considerable time building relationships with key regulators, agencies, ministries, and coastal fishing communities. Each of these constituencies participated in the ESIA process (through consultations, reviews of materials, or facilitating meetings) and ultimately supported the outcome and Kosmos’ plan of activities. The results of the ESIA are incorporated into a comprehensive Environmental and Social Management Plan for Kosmos’ drilling operations in Senegal. Comprehensive impact assessment prior to exploration drilling is a crucial step for Kosmos everywhere we operate, and we continue to learn and improve our processes with each ESIA we conduct. 27 MAURITANIA In 2015, Kosmos drilled two successful exploration wells offshore Mauritania, opening one of the largest new petroleum systems discovered in the last 15 years anywhere in the world. The first exploration well, Tortue-1, made a significant and play-opening discovery of natural gas. It turned out to be the industry’s second largest find of the year. A few months later, Kosmos drilled the Marsouin-1 exploration well, which made a major, play-extending gas discovery. Kosmos currently holds exploration licenses for three blocks offshore Mauritania – C8, C12 and C13 – covering approximately 27,000 square kilometers. MA N AGING OUR FOOT P R I N T Human Rights Kosmos works hard to apply the Atlantic Consistent with our support for Ocean United Nations Guiding Principles local content initiatives, the Kosmos on Business and Human Rights in office in Nouakchott is currently every country where we work. The BLOCK staffed by ten employees who nature and size of our operational C12 are all Mauritanian nationals. We footprint during exploration drilling have invested in the professional offshore Mauritania means that our development of several of these exposure to potential human rights employees by exposing them to our risks is currently limited. Nonetheless, other countries of operation, such in 2015 we conducted a labor rights as Senegal, to share knowledge and MAURITANIA risk assessment using a third party BLOCK learn first-hand about supporting C8 expert. Based on the results, we are drilling operations. In addition, mitigating risks and determining next some employees have attended SENEGAL steps, particularly around additional conferences and training programs BLOCK training for our contractors and C13 around the world. suppliers beyond that which we have already provided. 28 “Kosmos Energy Mauritania’s incidents as of December 31, 2015. business, and government leaders. We regularly hold training courses Each meeting ended with an employment practices, especially on safety for our employees and invitation to continue the dialogue recruitment and training, reflect contractors to ensure high standards on our activities, as well as a some of the values that matter and empower individuals to report commitment to keep stakeholders the most to Kosmos Energy. We’ve near misses or stop any work that informed of our plans. tried to attract local hires with the they are uncomfortable performing. We believe that the best way best technical skills, even if this to promote economic stability E N G AG E M E N T A N D L I STE N I N G means sometimes disregarding a and fight corruption is through candidate’s English language skills. Consistent with our standard cooperation and transparent practice, Kosmos engaged early engagement with a range of Employees who do not yet speak with fishing communities onshore stakeholder groups. In Mauritania, English are enrolled in an intensive Kosmos’ Country Manager serves from our license areas stretching language course upon hire. By doing from the southern coastal region as a member of the Extractive this, we have given employment of Ndiago to coastal communities Industry Transparency Initiative opportunities to local people near Nouakchott. We first met with (EITI) Steering Committee. The local representatives as part of an EITI has been a valuable forum who might otherwise have been Environmental Impact Assessment for engagement on revenue overlooked by a foreign company. to introduce the company, highlight transparency and anti-corruption I am proud of the work we have our commitment to good practices, initiatives in Mauritania. done to build local competencies in explain our planned drilling In response to local media Mauritania.” activities, and provide information inquiries about our natural gas on our grievance mechanism. discoveries offshore Mauritania, FATIMA BOYE In 2015, we completed two voluntary we organized a training workshop Human Resources & Administration Manager Social Impact Assessments to for the Mauritanian journalists. The Kosmos Energy Mauritania supplement the data gathered workshop focused on the oil and and impacts measured as part gas industry and how to interpret of the Environmental Impact industry news releases. Due to Safety and Environmental positive feedback, we plan to hold Assessment. We met with, among Performance additional workshops for local media others, fisherman’s associations, Kosmos is proud of its safety record in 2016. women’s groups, the local Diawling in Mauritania, having worked more Park Authority, and local religious, than 1,000,000 man hours with no A fisherman unfurls his sail in an area near Diawling National Park along the coast of southern Mauritania. Kosmos regularly engages with the Diawling National Park as part of our ESIAs and social investments. 29 POSITIVE IMPACTS With our first successful exploration well, we were able to take a longterm look at the positive impacts we can have in Mauritania. While we pursue development of the country’s natural gas resource, we aim to enhance national capacity in the oil and gas industry and its related fields. In Mauritania, our capacity building initiatives have focused on specific oiland gas-related skills, as well as skills that are transferable across a range of industries. For example, we enhanced government capacity in data analysis and interpretation by providing supplementary training to Société Mauritanienne Des Hydrocarbures et de Patrimoine Minier (SMHPM), the national oil company and our government partner, and donating several computer workstations. Similarly, for the last two years, Kosmos has provided English A work crew leader at the Port of Nouakchott supervises the movement of drilling pipe inside the Kosmos shore base. language training for students at Centre de Formation et de Perfectionement Professionels (CFPP), the largest vocational Developing and training our local more information on this innovative training center in Nouakchott. We suppliers is another way that we public-private partnership, please learned from a needs assessment are able to contribute to national visit http://bit.ly/24E90MC. that the students were often being capacity. In 2015, we conducted While many of our social programs excluded from job applicant pools a local content assessment of our are based in Nouakchott and for which they were qualified activities in Mauritania, reviewing support national development, we because they did not have sufficient both current and future supply and believe it is also important to benefit language skills. In mid-2015, during demand. We were able to identify coastal communities in the Ndiago a review of our English language several supplier groups that would region, which is directly onshore program, we discovered that benefit from job skills training, from our license areas. Because the students could benefit from English lessons, and knowledge there was little demographic and learning basic management and sharing. We also identified areas economic information available on entrepreneurship skills. To meet for improvement in our supplier the Ndiago region when we entered this need, we partnered with the communication and engagement Mauritania in 2013, we began our International Labor Organization processes. work in the area by conducting office in Mauritania to pilot an Kosmos is also a supporter of a community needs assessment. employability skills training program Mauritania’s Biodiversity Oil and Through the assessment, we learned to the students in the English classes Gas Program (BGP), a multithat fishing is a key economic driver, for the 2015-2016 cycle. stakeholder initiative supported and that there were community by the Ministry of Environment concerns about the safety of and Ministry of Energy. The BGP the fishermen and their vessels, Program aims to improve marine as well as the safety of those biodiversity protection, regulatory engaged in fish processing. After capacity, and social equity amongst consulting with representatives of marine resource users. Kosmos has the community, we provided safety participated in BGP stakeholder gear and fish processing equipment dialogues, as well as served as an to local social funds managed by industry resource for the program. fishing associations in the region, to Additionally, in 2015, we sponsored be disbursed in Ndiago to reduce a multi-week marine research survey health risks and improve working Students display their graduation through BGP to increase knowledge conditions. certificates from the English and data about biodiversity in the waters offshore Mauritania. For language training program. 30 UN LO C KI N G M AUR I TA N I A A N D S E N E G A L’ S F U L L H Y D R O C A R B O N P OTE N TI A L In Mauritania and Senegal, our 2016 program is centered on the efficient appraisal of the Tortue discovery, drilling one of three independent oil tests, and acquiring additional seismic to better define the prospectivity of the remaining oil potential. TORTUE-1 With a series of successful exploration and appraisal MAURITANIA SENEGAL wells on the West Tortue structure, we have discovered GUEMBEUL-1 a significant amount of natural gas and believe we have opened one of the largest new petroleum systems BLOCK anywhere in the world over the last 15 years. Given betterC12 than-expected results and growing confidence in our understanding of the basin, we believe we have de-risked sufficient resource to underpin a world-scale LNG project. Atlantic Kosmos is now working toward commercialization by Ocean MARSOUIN-1 developing a project concept that delivers competitive BLOCK BLOCK MAURITANIA gas in the current market environment. In addition, C13 C8 we are facilitating an intergovernmental cooperation SENEGAL ST. LOUIS agreement between Mauritania and Senegal to enable early OFFSHORE development of the cross-border Tortue field. In early 2016, PROFOUND we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) CAYAR with Société des Pétroles du Sénégal (Petrosen) and OFFSHORE Société Mauritanienne Des Hydrocarbures et de Patrimoine PROFOUND Minier (SMHPM), the national oil companies of Senegal and Mauritania, which sets out the principles on which a formal agreement will be based. Beyond commercializing Tortue, our focus in Mauritania and Senegal remains on fully unlocking this new and promising hydrocarbon province. Based on our well results and seismic data, we believe the basin has potential for both significant gas and oil resources. 31 MOROCCO In 2015, Kosmos held licenses to explore three blocks offshore Morocco: Essaouira, Foum Assaka, and Tarhazoute. Over the years, we have conducted several 3D seismic surveys and drilled one exploration well in the Foum Assaka block, which encountered hydrocarbons but not in commercially viable quantities. MA N AGING OUR FOOT P R I N T EN GAG E ME N T A N D L I STE N I N G Atlantic As the oil and gas industry develops We have worked closely over the Ocean in Morocco, Kosmos has helped set years with the Office National the standard for how the industry des Hydrocarbures et des Mines conducts business in the country. (ONHYM) and other government ESSAOUIRA BLOCK Since opening its shore base in stakeholders to increase awareness TARHAZOUTE Agadir in 2013, Kosmos has played of international best practices FOUM ASSAKA BLOCK a leadership role in the consortium regarding the management of of oil and gas companies using hydrocarbon resources. By building MOROCCO the facility. Through investments capacity early, we believe the CAP in infrastructure and worker potential benefits of resource BOUJDOUR BLOCK training, Kosmos collaborated with development will be managed the authorities to enhance the more effectively. Through facilities. Further, our safety training workshops on a range of topics MAURITANIA programs for port employees – such as transparency, resource helped contribute to zero injuries governance models, and stakeholder being sustained during work on our engagement – we have helped to operations out of Port of Agadir. promote sustainable development. 32 P OSITIVE I M PAC TS Since entering Morocco, Kosmos TH E MO R O CCO C E N TE R O F E XC E L L E N C E has focused its social investment I N S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I TY on programs that encourage entrepreneurship and skill-building with the goal of supporting Recognizing that combining resources can lead to greater impact, economic development. Kosmos has partnered with Chevron Morocco Ltd. to establish the Kosmos has established multi-year Morocco Center of Excellence in Social Responsibility. Known as partnerships with the following the Center of Excellence, the organization serves as an economic organizations in Morocco: development and corporate social responsibility resource for private companies, ONHYM, and social development organizations. > AMIDEAST A leading nonOne of the first major projects of the Center of Excellence in 2015 profit organization engaged in was developing the capacity of ONHYM and its staff to formally international education, training implement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices and and development activities, policies. This training encouraged ONHYM to develop its own CSR AMIDEAST provided soft-skills strategy and better oversee the CSR activities of companies working training and English and French in Morocco. The Center of Excellence is run with support from Mercy language classes to more Corps, an international non-governmental organization. than 100 unemployed college graduates in Agadir who have The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) began working with advanced degrees but lacked two women’s fishing cooperatives in two coastal communities, the skills needed to find jobs. In Sidi Abed and Sidi Ifni, under their first Compact with Morocco. addition to receiving 870 hours After MCC’s project with the women’s cooperatives ended in of total training, the students 2013, Kosmos began supporting the cooperatives to promote benefited from workshops on cooperative development, product quality, hygiene and safety, and entrepreneurship, company entrepreneurship for over 200 women members. In order to build visits, and simulations in which on this work in the coming years, we have entered into a partnership students developed and executed with the Center of Excellence and Mercy Corps to work with businesses plans over the course of unemployed youth and women’s a day. We are continuing programs cooperatives to create jobs and with AMIDEAST in 2016. strengthen cooperatives in coastal communities, starting with the > INJAZ Al-Maghrib INJAZ AlSidi Ifni and Sidi Abed areas in Maghrib is a non-profit focused 2016 and then expanding to other on delivering a broad base coastal communities. of entrepreneurship training opportunities to Moroccan youth by partnering with the private sector. Kosmos has supported > Enactus For several years sponsoring Enactus to expand its INJAZ Al-Maghrib’s work in linking Kosmos has supported Enactus program to Agadir, benefiting over middle and high school students in its mission to connect students, 900 students. with the business world for three academics and business leaders consecutive years. >  Corps Africa Kosmos has through entrepreneurial-based supported Corps Africa in projects. In 2016, Kosmos is Morocco for three years. Corps Africa matches African youth volunteers with communities throughout their home country to design projects that address poverty at local levels. The program enhances the skills of young development practitioners in Morocco. In 2015, Kosmos sponsored a Moroccan volunteer in the rural town of Gafifat near Agadir. The volunteer worked with a local association to equip a multimedia hall with computers, books, a projector, whiteboard and the internet. This project gave people in Gafifat a chance to develop their IT skills in a way that Since entering Morocco in 2011, Kosmos has focused its social investment on programs, such as Enactus, that encourage entrepreneurship. had been previously unavailable to them. 33 WESTERN SAHARA Kosmos completed its first exploration well offshore Western Sahara in early 2015. The well encountered hydrocarbons, but the discovery was non-commercial. Kosmos’ goal in the coming years will be to find a reservoir of commercial size and quality. For complete information on our activities offshore Western Sahara, visit www.kosmosinwesternsahara.com Kosmos and the Office National and should proceed in parallel with des Hydrocarbures et des Mines the U.N. mediation process without Atlantic Ocean (ONHYM), on behalf of the adversely affecting its progress or Government of Morocco, have signed outcome.. a Joint Declaration of Principles committing that the people of M A NAG I N G O U R FO OTP R I N T Western Sahara will benefit in an Kosmos completed the first well in the effective and equitable manner Cap Boujdour contract area safely and from any potential hydrocarbon without incident. Our Environmental WESTERN development and will be consulted Management Plan was based on the SAHARA in the process. This achievement Environmental Impact Assessment has been recognized by many CAP (EIA) that Kosmos conducted prior to BOUJDOUR stakeholders as a positive and BLOCK drilling. The EIA for the Cap Boujdour significant step forward. contract area, including the Al-Khayr We view the 2002 U.N. Legal Opinion well, was completed by a well-known as our touchstone as it remains international firm and was prepared relevant and specifically applicable on in a manner consistent with good the matter of investment in Western industry practice, and in compliance Sahara. In our view, economic with Morocco’s environmental development of the territory can legislation. Kosmos organized several 34 EMP LOYEE P ER SP EC T I V E: SET H LUX E N B E R G To continue the dialogue with people of the territory, Kosmos hired a Community Relations Coordinator in 2014, prior to drilling, to engage with community members on oil and gas exploration and the future of the region. He has been able to hold free and frank conversations in a politically challenging context. In addition, he led the implementation of a mechanism to respond to operational and political grievances. “My ongoing dialogue with the people of Western Sahara has revealed the importance that this group places on the preservation and enjoyment of their culture. With that in mind, Kosmos sponsored two events in 2015 to promote local culture. The first festival combined traditional poetry, singing and games. The second event was a camel race, as camels are an important part of the culture. In addition, Kosmos has provided sporting equipment to local associations allowing boys and girls to expand their participation in organized soccer, basketball, handball, and volleyball.” SETH LUXENBERG Community Relations Coordinator workshops to share the findings with authoritative body of principles to have worked with Conseil National community members and highlight benchmark our work and we assess des Droits de l’Homme (CNDH) and the actions taken to minimize human rights and conflict risks on the Government of Morocco on issues potential environmental impacts. an ongoing basis. We continue to related to security and human rights. engage with stakeholders inside and In addition to minimizing outside of Western Sahara to ensure E N G AG E ME N T A N D LI ST ENI NG environmental impacts, Kosmos we have a holistic appreciation of the looks to maximize our economic In 2014, Kosmos conducted a Social risks and challenges, and a proactive contribution to the local economy. Impact Assessment (SIA) in Dakhla approach to managing them. We This commitment led to the decision and worked in 2015 to implement to support offshore crew change operations from the port of Dakhla, a city in Western Sahara, rather than using existing facilities in Morocco or Spain. Kosmos invested in new infrastructure at the Dakhla airport, using a local company for the construction. Another contribution to local content was the use of Dakhla’s port as the base for re-supplying the drillship, and local hotels and restaurants for crew changes. Managing our footprint includes both managing our operational impacts as well as any potential human rights risks associated with conducting business in Western Sahara. Our Business Principles and Human Rights Policy articulate our commitment to protecting and promoting human rights. We see the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as the To maximize the local economic benefits of our drilling activities, Kosmos supported its crew change operations from the Western Sahara city of Dakhla. 35 On a visit to Western Sahara, Senior Vice President Bill Hayes meets with participants of the AMIDEAST vocational training program to discuss their future plans and offer career advice. the assessment’s recommendations P OSI T I V E I MPAC TS segregated bathroom facilities. This to minimize negative social impacts. was contributing to an above-average Over the past few years, Kosmos During numerous community incidence of skin and eye disease has conducted two separate needs consultations, the participants among students, as well as lower assessments to inform our social emphasized the importance of attendance rates among female investments in Western Sahara. protecting the environment, sharing students. With the help of High Atlas One of the major conclusions of the the sea with the local fishing industry, Foundation, a nonprofit organization assessments was that unemployment and their expectation that any future that establishes community is a major challenge facing the hiring or sourcing give preference development projects in rural areas, region. This finding led to creation to local people and companies. Kosmos provided seven schools of a vocational training program in Following these discussions, we in Boujdour with clean drinking partnership with AMIDEAST to give reevaluated our operational needs, water facilities and new, gender80 unemployed college graduates and were able to identify and create segregated bathrooms. Kosmos also the skills required by the job market, additional jobs in Dakhla. In addition, worked with the Ministry of Health including foreign languages, finance, Kosmos commissioned a leading to provide health education at the computers and job-searching global consulting company to schools to increase student awareness techniques. An additional 28 complete an early-stage oil and gas of sanitation practices, disease beneficiaries received training in supply chain analysis, which included prevention, and personal hygiene. entrepreneurship. As of the time of a field mission to Western Sahara and In total, more than 4,750 students publication, 51 percent of the program locations within Morocco. This study directly benefited from the project. participants in Dakhla are employed. has contributed to our understanding of the region so that we can maximize A needs assessment in Boujdour local employment and supply chain revealed that seven local schools opportunities in the future. lacked hygienic and gender36 MEASURING SUCCESS IN CAMEROON When Kosmos made the difficult Kosmos actively monitored the The evaluation findings show that decision to exit Cameroon in 2013, project’s implementation and encouraging health and WASH we recognized the importance continues to take a keen interest in outcomes were achieved in a of keeping our promises to the its sustainability and effectiveness. relatively short implementation communities near the on-shore Kosmos commissioned a postperiod. Indicators such as the drilling site and continued to project evaluation from Plan practice of handwashing before fund a social investment project International in December 2015 preparing food and after using in collaboration with local and to assess the performance and toilets showed marked increase international partners. outcomes of the project by from the baseline. The evaluation examining WASH knowledge and team also observed improved With funding from Kosmos, Plan practices, and health outcomes on sanitation facilities and conditions International and its local partner, beneficiaries. Specifically, the study within households. Reach Out, implemented a Potable investigated the conditions of water Water and Water, Sanitation, and The water system constructed sources and the level of access Hygiene (WASH) Education project in Mbongo was well received by to safe and dependable drinking in Bamusso Council from June 2014 community members and local water; the status, availability, to May 2015. The project sought authorities. The system is reliably and use of sanitation facilities; to improve access to water at the providing potable water to students household hygiene conditions and Government High School (GHS) and teachers at GHS Mbongo and practices; and the prevalence of Mbongo and Mbongo Village, and other centers benefitting from waterborne diseases and diseases to increase awareness and adoption the stand pipes installed. The of fecal origin in the project of appropriate sanitation practices. WASH campaign in the project communities. While the project initially set out to communities that involved WASH serve 19 communities, it ended up The table below highlights some of Ambassadors and chiefs, and reaching 26 communities. the key findings: the activities led by teachers and WASH clubs at the schools proved engaging and promising to further Indicator Baseline Value1 Endline Value2 cement the educational messages ACCESS TO DRINKABLE WATER and foster lasting impact. Proportion of household members who report the 31.5% 51.7% distance to water source being 500 meters or less A community-based Water Proportion of household members who report water Management Committee has 60.4% 67.3% points are maintained been trained to properly maintain Students and teachers’ access to functional water and manage the facilities. As 100% source at GHS Mbongo agreed at the beginning of the Students and teachers’ access to potable water at 100% project, financial support to GHS Mbongo sustain the infrastructure and WASH KNOWLEDGE AND PRACTICE programming is being collected Percentage of household members who report always through mandatory fees paid by practicing handwashing with soap and water before 10% 66.2% preparing food the parents of students enrolled Percentage of household members who report always at GHS Mbongo. Parents are practicing handwashing with soap and water after 8% 67.3% contributing 500 Central African using toilet CFA Francs per year for each FACILITIES WITHIN HOUSEHOLDS AND COMMUNITIES child, or less than $1 at current Proportion of households with toilets or latrines 51.1% 75.2% exchange rates. Proportion of households that do not share toilets or latrines with other households 31.6% 44.1% This project’s rigorous measurement and evaluation 1. Sample size of 250 2. Sample size of 367 component and sustainability serves as a model for Kosmos’ future work across our geographical footprint. 37 SURINAME Kosmos continues to mature prospects for exploration drilling offshore Suriname, which represents our portfolio expansion into South America. In 2015, Kosmos held a 50 percent working interest in Block 42 and Block 45. Kosmos plans to acquire additional 3D seismic offshore Suriname this year. Our blocks in Suriname, held since 2012, give us the opportunity to explore the Upper Cretaceous stratigraphic play along the northeast margin of the continent. MA N AGING OUR FOOT P R I N T seconded to our operations in Ghana, Mauritania and Morocco Kosmos established an office in to learn more about supporting BLOCK 45 Paramaribo in 2012 in order to exploration drilling activities. Our develop relationships and engage employees have also attended with stakeholders in the years workshops, conferences, and preceding exploration drilling. training tailored to their specific BLOCK 42 Investing in communities and career goals. stakeholder relationships early – prior to exploration drilling – is a Suriname’s state oil company, Atlantic key part of Kosmos’ strategy in Staatsolie Maatschappij Suriname N.V., Ocean every country where we operate. is a key partner for Kosmos in all our Our Suriname office currently has four employees, three of which are activities in Suriname, including in our corporate responsibility activities. GUINEA Surinamese nationals. One of the activities with Staatsolie we take great pride in is being part We aim to give all our employees the of the development of the Suriname opportunity to make a substantial SURINAME impact and grow personally and professionally. For example, our HSE Officer in Suriname has been 38 National Oil Spill Contingency Plan (NOSCP). The plan is in the final stage to be signed by the President of Suriname. We worked with Staatsolie, the National Coordination Centre for Disaster Relief, environmental agencies, other operators and other key stakeholders to help develop the Suriname National Oil Spill Contingency Plan. EN GAGEM EN T A N D L I ST EN I N G Kosmos is committed to transparency and active promotion of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), including in countries A process engineering student at the NATIN School in Paramaribo conducts an experiment on such as Suriname that are not yet the properties of water, using equipment provided by Kosmos. members of the EITI. We are pleased that Suriname has recently indicated its intention to submit an application P OS I TI V E I MPAC TS of equipment and displays for the to join the EITI in the near future. In Mangrove Education Center in Kosmos’ social investment 2015, Kosmos supported a workshop the district of Coronie, which is a programs in Suriname in 2015 in Paramaribo on natural resource partnership between the Ministry focused on scientific education and revenue governance and the key of Physical Planning, Land, and environmental awareness, as these points of the EITI process, bringing Forest Management, the Staatsolie are two areas of great importance together government, civil society, Foundation, United Nations to a range of stakeholders, such as and industry representatives. We plan Development Programme (UNDP) local communities, civil society, and to continue to support transparency and the Global Environment Facility the Surinamese government. Kosmos initiatives in Suriname in 2016. (GEF). In 2016, we plan to continue worked closely with the Geology As part of our Environmental and our support of local mangrove Department at the Anton de Kom Social Impact Assessment process projects through partnerships University of Suriname, the nation’s in Suriname, we have engaged with around technical assistance for only university, to understand coastal communities in the districts of mangrove specialists, as well as their needs in terms of hands-on Paramaribo, Saramacca, Coronie, and sediment and growth monitoring. education, which resulted in Kosmos Nickerie. These communities have told providing new equipment for the us that they deeply value the coastal University’s geology lab. Students environment and wish to be kept “The collaboration of the Technical will now be able to conduct more updated on our activities as well as advanced laboratory experiments Vocational Education and Training any job opportunities that could arise and research on campus. In addition (TVET) department of the Ministry of from an oil or gas discovery. to our investment in university-level Education, Science and Culture, with students, Kosmos also provided Kosmos Energy is a good example “I have managed the financials engineering education equipment in Suriname where the government for the Commewijne Lower Technical and accounting for our Suriname and the private sector are working School. Our hope is that these operations for the past three years. projects will lead to additional together to develop a skilled work As Kosmos continues to build up interest in, and preparation for, force and support economic growth operations in Suriname, it has been careers in the extractive sectors in in Suriname. Our cooperation great to have our team engaged in Suriname. has also contributed to the giving back to the community through Protecting the Environment government’s policy goal of reducing our social investment projects. We The mangrove is a sea plant unemployment. Over the past four work closely with local institutions that grows abundantly along years, the projects implemented by Suriname’s coastline, and is critical on developing sustainable projects, the TVET department and Kosmos to preserving the local habitat and such as enhancements to technical avoiding coastal erosion. In 2015, Energy have benefited Paramaribo education for youth.” Kosmos invested in programs that and the districts of Commewijne and support mangrove growth and local Saramacca.” SHARAN TJON KWIE SEM education around the important Senior Accountant role mangroves play in the coastal MR. ASHOKKOEMAR RAMBALI Kosmos Energy Suriname Surinamese ecosystem. Our first Assistant Permanent-Secretary for Technical Vocational Education mangrove project was supporting and Training (TVET), Ministry of the development and furnishing Education, Science and Culture 39 PROMOTING TRANSPARENCY In our host countries, natural P ET R OL E U M AG R E E ME N TS rentals. In 2014, we made a policy resources, such as oil and gas, A N D P R O D U C TI O N S H A R I N G decision to disclose payments to CON T R ACTS belong to a country’s citizens. governments at the project level, Extraction of these resources can In our view, transparency begins as described in the European lead to economic growth and with openly sharing the terms Union Accounting Directive, an social advancement. However, of our business dealings with initiative that aims to improve corruption in many resource-rich host governments so that a more corporate accounting practices countries has prevented citizens informed national dialogue can and transparency. We believe this from fully realizing the benefits of take place in the countries where method of disclosure is beneficial oil and gas development. we work. To this end, we have to investors, civil society, and local voluntarily published all of our communities, and reflects evolving At Kosmos, we believe resource contracts with host governments international standards. At the revenues are more likely to be on our website and file these time of this report’s publication, managed in the best interests of documents with the U.S. Securities Kosmos remained the only U.S.a country’s citizens if payments and Exchange Commission based oil and gas company to and receipts are documented in (U.S. SEC) as part of our routine disclose project-level payments to a transparent manner. In 2012, disclosures. Citizens and civil governments. we declared our support for the society organizations can read Extractive Industries Transparency these contracts for themselves to P U B L I C A DVO C ACY Initiative (EITI), a leading global better understand each party’s In addition to reporting annually standard that strengthens obligations and to promote on our payments to governments, governance by promoting accountability. we play an active role in transparency and accountability in the oil, gas, and mining sectors. promoting transparency in the PAYM EN TS TO G OV E R N M E N TS The EITI requires participating countries where we work. Since 2012, we have been governments to establish a > In Ghana, we are an active voluntarily publishing our multi-stakeholder steering group member of the EITI multipayments to governments on comprised of representatives of stakeholder group, which our website and in this report. governments, business, and civil oversees the public reconciling We originally reported our society to oversee a process in of payments and receipts payments in aggregate, as which companies declare material between government and well as by payment type, such payments to government, and extractive companies. In 2015, as taxes, training, and surface the government declares all material receipts from extractive companies. These figures are reconciled, and discrepancies identified and investigated by an independent expert. Since joining EITI, we have taken a number of steps to demonstrate our commitment to being a leader in transparency. Kosmos hosted a delegation from Suriname at the annual EITI Global Conference in Lima, Peru. At the event, Suriname committed to submitting an application to join the initiative. Suriname Country Manager Tom Fauria and Senior Vice President of External Affairs Reg Manhas are pictured here with the delegation and a senior representative from EITI. 40 When a 24-person delegation from Senegal – comprised of EITI committee members, parliamentarians, and civil society groups – visited Accra to learn about Ghana’s experience embracing transparency, Kosmos hosted the group at its office. Ghana completed its fourth EITI embracing transparency, disclosure in accordance with oil and gas reporting cycle and Kosmos hosted the group at its the EU Accounting Directive. We Kosmos has been a part of the office and participated in the stated that we believe that this process since the beginning. productive discussion. type of disclosure is beneficial to investors, civil society, > In Mauritania, our country > In Suriname, we have continued and local communities, and manager is a member of the discussions with government reflects evolving international EITI National Committee and stakeholders regarding the expectations. The letter is has worked to ensure the benefits of EITI implementation, available on our website, at nation continues to embrace and are pleased that during the www.kosmosenergy.com. transparency as its oil and gas 2016 EITI Global Conference sector develops. Mauritania has the government of Suriname G O O D B U S I N E SS P R ACT I CE been EITI compliant since 2012, announced that the country with reports for nine total fiscal intends to apply for EITI Kosmos’ multi-faceted years published to-date. candidature in the coming year. commitment to transparency is based on the values articulated in > In Senegal, an EITI candidate > In the United States, in October our Business Principles and sound country since 2013, we have 2015, Kosmos submitted a commercial practice. We believe collaborated with the local comment letter to the U.S. publicly available information chapter of EITI to facilitate SEC as part of its rulemaking improves the discussion about workshops for civil society process for Section 1504 of the the management and use of a on the role they can play in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform country’s resources and increases helping improve transparency and Consumer Protection Act, accountability. The more and accountability when it which proposes requiring U.S.successful our host countries comes to managing resource listed companies to disclose become, the more valuable our revenues. When a 24-person payments to U.S. and foreign assets will be. Being a responsible delegation from Senegal – governments as a standard part operator and a good corporate comprised of EITI committee of their reporting to the U.S. citizen in one country opens new members, parliamentarians, and SEC. In our comment letter to opportunities in another. civil society groups – visited the U.S. SEC, we highlighted our their counterparts in Accra to commitment to transparency, learn about Ghana’s experience including our project level 41 IPIECA /API/ OGP CONTENT INDEX Kosmos Energy’s corporate responsibility reporting is informed by the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting. Also shown in the index below are the locations of information demonstrating our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, both in this report and in other sources, such as our publicly available policies and on our website, www.kosmosenergy.com. Indicator Global Compact Page Number in Indicator Where Reported Number Principle 2015 CR Report E N V I R O N M E N TA L I N D I C AT O R S CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY CR Report: Business Principles 11 E1 Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 CR Report: Performance Data 45 E2 Energy use Not reported E3 Alternative energy sources Not reported E4 Flared gas Not reported ECOSYSTEM SERVICES CR Report: Business Principles 11 Biodiversity and E5 7, 8, 9 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 30, 39 ecosystem services 27 CR Report: Case Study E6 Fresh water CR Report: Performance Data 45 LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT E7 Other air emissions 7, 8 CR Report: Performance Data 45 CR Report: Business Principles 11 E8 Spills to the environment 8 CR Report: Performance Data 45 CR Report: Performance Data 45 Kosmos did not have any hydrocarbon discharges to E9 Discharges to water 8 water in 2015. Indicators E8 and E9 are combined in our Performance Data as“Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluid Spills.” CR Report: Performance Data 45 E10 Waste 8, 9 THE STANDARD* H E A LT H A N D SA F E T Y I N D I C AT O R S WORKFORCE PROTECTION CR Report: Business Principles 10, 11, 13 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 19, 29 ,32 HS1 Workforce participation 1 www.kosmosenergy.com: Health, Safety, Environment and Security THE STANDARD* www.kosmosenergy.com: Health and Safety HS2 Workforce health 1 THE STANDARD* Occupational injury and CR Report: Spotlights 11 HS3 1 illness incidents CR Report: Performance Data 46 PRODUCT HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK Not applicable HS4 Product stewardship Kosmos Energy’s activities are limited to the exploration for and the production of oil and gas. We produce oil in Ghana only as a non-operator. PROCESS SAFETY AND ASSET INTEGRITY www.kosmosenergy.com: Environment HS5 Process safety 7, 8, 9 THE STANDARD* 42 Indicator Global Compact Page Number in Indicator Where Reported Number Principle 2015 CR Report S O C I A L A N D E C O N O M I C I N D I C AT O R S COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY CR Report: Business Priciples 7, 12 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 19, 20, 24, 29, 32, 36, 39 Local community CR Report: Case Study 27, 37 SE1 impacts and engagement www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and SE2 Indigenous peoples Community Development Policy* SE3 Involuntary resettlement Not applicable CR Report: Business Principles 7, 12 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 22, 26, 30, 33, 36, 39 CR Report: Case Study 14, 16, 37 SE4 Social investment CR Report: Performance Data 47 www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* LOCAL CONTENT CR Report: Business Principles 10, 13 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 21, 28, 30, 35 SE5 Local content practices 6 www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 10, 13 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 21, 28, 30, 35 CR Report: Performance Data 46 SE6 Local hiring practices 6 www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 8, 10, 13 Local procurement and CR Report: Operations Spotlights 19, 25, 28, 30 SE7 supplier development Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ 43 IPIECA/OGP/API CONTENT INDEX (CONTINUED) Indicator Global Compact Page Number in Indicator Where Reported Number Principle 2015 CR Report S O C I A L A N D E C O N O M I C I N D I C AT O R S ( c o n t i n u e d ) HUMAN RIGHTS CR Report: Business Principles 7, 12 Human rights due diliCR Report: Operations Spotlights 28 SE8 1, 2, 4, 5 gence www.kosmosenergy.com: Human Rights Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 12 SE9 Human rights and suppliers 1, 2 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 28 Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 12 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 35 SE10 Security and human rights 1, 2 www.kosmosenergy.com: Security Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY CR Report: Business Principles 9 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 20, 25, 29, 39 CR Report: Case Study 40-41 SE11 Preventing corruption 10 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 9, 13 CR Report: Case Study 40-41 Preventing corruption SE12 10 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics involving business partners Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 7, 9 CR Report: Performance Data 45 Transparency of payments SE13 10 www.kosmosenergy.com: Transparency to host governments Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* Public advocacy and CR Report: Business Principles 8, 12 SE14 10 lobbying LABOR PROTECTION CR Report: Business Principles 7, 10 Workforce diversity and CR Report: Performance Data 46 SE15 1, 6 inclusion www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers CR Report: Business Principles 10 SE16 Workforce engagement www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers CR Report: Business Principles 10, 11 Workforce training and SE17 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 21, 29, 32, 38 development www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People CR Report: Business Principles 9, 12 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 19, 25, 29, 35 Non-retaliation and CR Report: Performance Data 47 SE18 1, 2, 3, 6 grievance system www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* 44 *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ 2015 PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENT The Environment data presented in this report is for Kosmos operated assets only. The data represents drilling rigs as well as seismic and support vessels. In 2015, Kosmos did not operate any additional drilling in Ghana. We drilled exploration wells offshore Mauritania, completed an exploration well offshore Western Sahara, and began exploration drilling offshore Senegal. Waste and air emissions are measured in tons, with greenhouse gas emissions measured in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. 2013 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 Ghana Ghana Mauritania Morocco Mauritania Morocco Senegal Waste (tons) Hazardous 65.02 7.93 318.03 338.53 184.00 92.00 10 Non-Hazardous 34.78 15.54 1,343.78 1,617.25 115.00 542.00 14.16 TOTAL 99.80 23.47 1,661.81 1,955.78 299.00 634.00 24.16 Recycled/reused/treated 21% 36% 15% 22% 27% 56% 34% Air Emissions (tons) Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 2,384.04 1,572.27 19,019.73 31,525.16 35,225.94 12,591.45 17,914.02 Mono-Nitrogen Oxides (NO ) x 2.28 29.18 432.25 702.89 654.20 233.28 332.52 Sulfur Oxides (SOx) .18 3.79 16.96 18.88 44.18 15.39 13.97 Methane (CH4) 15.02 0.09 158.91 292.10 2.22 1.05 1.01 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCS) 1.71 0.98 27.13 47.14 12.54 8.10 11.19 Greenhouse Gases (GHGS) 2,699.46 1,574.16 22,356.84 37,659.18 35,272.56 12,613.50 17,935.23 Other Fines and penalties 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Freshwater use (m3) N/R* N/R N/R N/R 12,855.00 5,108.00 2,915.20 Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Drilling Fluid Spills  /R indicates metrics not reported in previous years. We report on new metrics as a result of materiality discussions, benchmarking, and improved * N reporting processes. PAY M E N T S T O G O V E R N M E N T S ( U S D ) 1 The Payments to Governments data are reflective of direct payments made to government entities by Kosmos Energy on operated projects. Please see the footnotes below for further detail on the payments we made to our host country governments in 2015. Ghana Ireland Mauritania Morocco7 São Tomé Senegal Suriname Surface Rentals 18,000 92,000 54,000 — — 184,000 — Training2 — — 900,000 — — 1,200,000 — Permitting Fees 134,000 — — — — — — Taxes3 1,418,000 — 180,000 1,752,000 — — 258,000 Income Taxes4 11,730,000 — — — — — — Other5 — 103,000 — — 100,000 — — TOTAL 13,300,000 195,000 1,134,000 1,752,000 100,000 1,384,000 258,000 Royalties (in barrels of oil)6 450,382 — — — — — — 1.  Our project-level disclosures are available on our website at www.kosmosenergy.com/responsibility/transparency.php. 2. Represents payments made directly to government for satisfaction of training obligations per the Petroleum Sharing Contracts (PSCs). In addition to the numbers above, Kosmos made payments to third party training providers and/or national oil company employees in satisfaction of training obligations per the PSCs totaling $150,000 for Morocco. 3. Primarily local payroll-related taxes and exclusive of withholding taxes remitted on behalf of vendors. 4. In addition to this, Kosmos Energy paid the U.S. government $24.1 million in income tax payments during 2015. 5. Primarily relates to seismic data purchases from the government and fees associated with transfers of ownership interests 6. Royalties represent the production entitlement to the Government of Ghana paid in barrels of oil out of Kosmos’ working interest share of production. Based on the annual average of daily Brent prices in 2015, this is worth approximately $23.6 million. 7. Not reflected in the numbers above are payments to the port authority in Morocco primarily for leased use of port facilities in the amount of $500,000. 45 2015 PERFORMANCE DATA HUM AN RESOURCES The data on our workforce is point-in-time as of December 31, 2015. We continue to focus on hiring and training local staff from the countries in which we work. The ‘Local Employment’ metric does not include employees in our U.S. office, and we define expatriates as employees in our local country offices who are living and working on a long term assignment in a country not of their origin. Turnover includes voluntary turnover in our U.S. office as well as in our global operations. 2013 2014 2015 Employees and Hiring Total Employees 248 234 256 New Hires 43 31 54 Turnover 8% 5% 7% Total Employees by Country United States 180 155 187 Ghana 50 46 43 Mauritania 1 5 5 Morocco 13 24 16 Senegal 0 0 1 Suriname 4 4 4 Contractors United States N/R 54 28 Ghana N/R 2 0 Mauritania N/R 4 16 Morocco N/R 76 3 Senegal 0 0 6 Suriname N/R 0 0 Local Employment (%) Local 91% 88% 94% Expatriate 9% 12% 6% Workforce Gender Distribution (%) Female Male Female Male Female Male United States 39% 61% 34% 66% 32% 68% Ghana 31% 69% 27% 73% 28% 72% Mauritania N/R N/R 60% 40% 60% 40% Morocco 47% 53% 38% 62% 50% 50% Suriname N/R N/R 25% 75% 25% 75% S AF ET Y Kosmos reports safety data for our global operations, including both employees and contractors. The definitions of the safety data reported are consistent with those used by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (now IOGP and formerly known as OGP). Lost Time Injury Frequency represents the number of lost time injuries (fatalities and lost work day cases) per million work hours. Total Recordable Injury Rate refers to recordable injuries (fatalities, lost work day cases, restricted work day cases, and medical treatment cases) per million hours worked. 2013 2014 2015 Total Man Hours 1,741,005 1,972,242 2,103,056 Fatalities 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency 0 0 0 Total Recordable Injury Rate 1.15 2.03 .95 46 S OC IAL We define Social Investment Spending as payments that will directly impact the constituents of social investment projects. Not reflected in the numbers below are indirect costs related to social investment, such as needs assessments and reimbursable expenses incurred by our in-country social investment personnel. All of the Social Investment Spending is for Kosmos-initiated projects, with the exception of the Jubilee Unit in Ghana, which represents our participating interest in social projects of the non-Kosmos operated Jubilee Unit and TEN development project. We have grievance mechanisms in place in every region where we have drilling operations. The only use of our grievance mechanism in Senegal in 2015 was from an individual who had additional questions about our future drilling plans. The questions were answered in a manner satisfactory to the individual. In Ghana, we received eight grievances total into our grievance mechanism in 2015. The two grievances that were resolved regarded implementation of some of our social investment projects in the Western Region. The remaining six unresolved grievances were general complaints to our Community Liaison Officers from fishermen regarding the oil and gas industry in general, such as lack of available industry jobs for youth and changes in fish catch. We continue engagement with the concerned parties in efforts to resolve these grievances with a mutually-agreeable solution. 2013 2014 2015 Social Investment Spending (USD) Ghana $ 404,000 $ 711,000 $ 461,000 Jubilee Unit and TEN development project 4,739,000 1,509,000 1,040,000 Cameroon 185,000 168,000 36,000 Morocco 144,000 185,000 216,000 Western Sahara N/A 95,000 90,000 Suriname 95,000 141,000 143,000 Mauritania 20,000 38,000 396,000 Ireland N/A 89,000 169,000 Senegal N/A N/A 106,000 TOTAL $ 5,587,000 $ 2,936,000 $ 2,657,000 Grievances Logged / Grievances Resolved Ghana 0/0 8/5 8/2 Morocco N/A 1/1 0/0 Western Sahara N/A 0/0 0/0 Mauritania N/A 0/0 0/0 Suriname N/A 0/0 0/0 Senegal N/A N/A 1/1 47 8176 Park Lane, Suite 500 | Dallas, TX 75231
