P01 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 2015 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 P02 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 About us Who we are and what we’re all about We help companies and brands Step Up to the changing relationship between business and society. The old contract between business, society and consumers has broken and is being reinvented – fast. Companies and brands are not trusted as a matter of course – this has to be earned. Natural resources need to be managed differently. Inequalities need to be managed out. Value creation cannot be about short term profit. Sustainable business needs new models and innovation. Stakeholders, investors, regulators and consumers are looking for business to play a different role in this new context. One where the businesses that want to win will lead the way in solving the problems and re-working the system. This is where we come in. We combine smart strategy, savvy insights and sharp creativity to help businesses do things differently in order to be able to say things differently. Key Facts 17 years In 2015 we 15% 68% and still led by worked with 53 of our clients are of our clients are founders Penny Baxter international in the Fortune 500 in the Euro 500 and Nigel Salter businesses P03 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Introduction Contents About this report Sections Contacts This is Salterbaxter’s tenth Communication on Our ongoing commitment Caroline Carson Progress submitted to the UNGC. It covers the Consultant 04. Statement from our Founders calendar year January to December 2015. As T +44 (0)20 7313 8665 part of Publicis Groupe we are also covered E caroline.carson@salterbaxter.com Section 1: Progress against the 10 Principles in their Group CSR and Annual Reporting documents and their commitment to the UNGC. 05. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Address 08. Human Rights Section 1 restates our commitment to the UNGC 09. Labour 82 Baker Street London W1U 6AE 10 Principles and highlights some of our activities 10. Environment that make progress against each of these. www.salterbaxter.com 11. Anti-corruption Section 2 covers in more detail our internal sustainability programme If Only and responsible Section 2: Our If Only programme business policies. 13. If Only 14. Think it, Do it 20. Measure and Report 24. KPIs and targets 2015 25. Equal Opportunities policy 26. Health and Safety policy 27. Environmental Procurement policy Next steps 28. Looking forward P04 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Our ongoing commitment Statement from our Founders It is almost a cliché, but 2015 truly was a watershed year for business in society. New partnerships, achievements, ambitions, the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals and culminating in the historic Paris Agreement on combating climate change at COP21 in December. We were proud to have been an active part of this movement. From discussing the emerging importance of science in setting goals and creating change in our annual Directions report, to being on-the-ground in Paris through our Chance For Change campaign representing the voices of Millennials amidst all the discussions led by governments, institutions and corporates. Our business is about helping companies become a positive force in our global society so it is critical that we stand up to the same high expectations we set for our clients. The UN Global Compact is unique in providing a framework that sets a universal and comparable standard for a sustainable and inclusive global economy. That is why the UNGC is a fundamental component of our sustainability programme. Nigel Salter Penny Baxter CEO Managing Director P05 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 1 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact P06 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 1 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Labour 1 2 3 4 5 6 Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in of internationally human rights abuses. and the effective compulsory labour; respect of employment proclaimed human rights; recognition of the right and occupation. to collective bargaining; Read more – page 08 Read more – page 08 Read more – page 09 Read more – page 09 Read more – page 09 Read more – page 09 P07 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 1 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Environment Anti-corruption 7 8 9 10 Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all approach to environmental environmental environmentally its forms, including challenges; responsibility; and friendly technologies. extortion and bribery. Continued on page 10 Continued on page 10 Continued on page 10 Continued on page 11 P08 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 1 Human Rights Principles Our approach and actions Principle 1: Approach Actions businesses should support and We continue to endorse the Guiding Principles We take a number of steps to ensure that we deliver a respect the protection of internationally for Business and Human Rights introduced by the positive impact on the human rights of our employees: proclaimed human rights; UN Human Rights Council in 2011, as well as the • We promote the right to education, and encourage the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We support development of skills through formal and informal Principle 2: and follow the UK Government’s leadership in rolling training and mentoring. out guidance for business to integrate human rights and make sure that they are not into their operations. We also welcome the Modern • Through the way we manage the business we promote complicit in human rights abuses. Slavery Act that became law in 2015 as evidence that the right to adequate standards of living as well as modern forms of slavery must be recognised as issues freedom of expression. facing our society today in order to be systematically • We promote the right to safe and healthy working addressed and combated. conditions through managing the work environment We do not believe that our business operations have and through a comprehensive Health and Safety any adverse effects on human rights. However, we policy. All new employees, both permanent and must still take a proactive approach and assess the contract staff, are inducted in this as part of our new real and potential impacts of our business operations, starter process. direct and indirect across our value chain. And as our • We have a well communicated grievance procedure business continues to grow in the US we must apply that ensures staff are familiar with how to raise the same standards when working with new suppliers concerns about staff, treatment or any other aspect in new territories. of our work. Through our work and influence, we also encourage • As our business evolves and expands into new and help our clients around the world to consider the territories we continuously review our approach to direct and indirect impacts of their operations on ensure that we live up to best practice approaches. human rights. More on this topic is covered under the Labour For more information about Publicis Groupe’s Standards principles on the following page. Further approach and policies please see their latest Report detail can also be found in ‘Our People’ in the ‘If Only’ http://publicisgroupe.com/#/en/responsibility/ section of this report. governance-reporting-rse-csr P09 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 1 Labour Principles Our approach and actions Principle 3: Approach Actions • A ll employees are free to join a union if they wish. businesses should uphold the freedom of A culture in which all staff are treated fairly and each • In 2015 we adopted Publicis Groupe’s annual • A ll permanent staff have access to health insurance association and the effective recognition individual’s merits are promoted equally is not just a employee survey after benchmarking with our that incorporates a proactive healthy living programme that rewards them for taking steps to of the right to collective bargaining; good business practice or a regulatory requirement – it own process. The systems were well aligned and it improve their health and wellbeing, as well as is also essential to a happy and productive workforce. provided better insight and value for the business. providing comprehensive medical coverage. Principle 4: We strongly support instruments that promote global Through the survey we can still measure and labour standards such as the ILO Core Conventions. monitor employee satisfaction as well as gather • The company also provides a pension scheme the elimination of all forms of forced opinions on the direction of the company. 79% of As a UK-based professional services SME, our risk of according to UK legislation. and compulsory labour; staff participated and the results were shared at a contributing to detrimental impact on labour rights is • As we have aligned more closely with the company meeting and learnings taken forward by very low. However, we firmly believe that excellent Principle 5: labour practices are fundamental for attracting, the management team. Publicis Groupe, several employees have taken up opportunities to participate in a number of the effective abolition of child labour; and developing and retaining talented people in a • Performance against objectives and compensation initiatives including: competitive field. are formally reviewed on a twice-yearly basis Principle 6: Through our collaborative partnerships with clients supported by informal monthly check-ins with – Egalité – a Publicis-wide employee network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender the elimination of discrimination in and suppliers, we also encourage them to consider line managers. (LGBT) professionals and allies. Salterbaxter respect of employment and occupation. the direct and indirect impacts of their operations • Informal mentoring takes place between staff outside hosted the inaugural UK meeting at our on labour rights. of formal line management. offices in October 2015. For more information about Publicis Groupe’s • Working hours are monitored through our online – GROW! – A global MSLGROUP initiative approach and policies please see their latest Report business operations system to manage employees’ to share experience and knowledge through http://publicisgroupe.com/#/en/responsibility/ work/life balance, ensuring that we take steps to 6 month mentoring programmes. governance-reporting-rse-csr respond and address issues as required. We aim to – MSLGROUP mobility programme – An manage employee’s workload so that working outside initiative to encourage employees to think of office hours is not required, however in some cases globally and broaden business perspectives this does happen. In previous years time off in lieu (and opportunities) through working in (TOIL) had been allocated on an ad hoc basis by team different regions. managers, in 2015 we formalised a policy to embed this process. Managers have been trained accordingly – In 2016 we will also be encouraging to implement the policy and it has been communicated participation in Viva Women, an internal to all employees. international network of women focused on supporting women to succeed and lead. • We regularly review and update as required our Employee Handbook, which covers staff benefits, our Information on our social indicators can be found Human Resources policies and procedures including in ‘Measure and report’ in the ‘If Only’ section of grievance mechanisms and Health and Safety. this report. • We remain an equal opportunities employer with regards to both our employees and recruitment processes. During 2015, women made up 72% of all staff, as well as comprising half of our senior team heads positions. P10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 1 Environment Environment Our approach and actions Principle 7: Approach Actions • Our annual thought-leadership Directions publication entitled ‘The rise of Science: Can it be mixed with businesses should support Since the business was founded 17 years ago, we have • In 2012 we conducted an operational review in line sustainability, business strategy and consumer a precautionary approach to been working to elevate awareness and communication with ISO 14001 that identified our most significant emotion?’, focused on the impact of science based environmental challenges; on environmental issues. Our day-to-day work involves environmental impacts. Our ambitious targets have targets. We invited our network to events held in helping businesses address and communicate the been to reduce these three outputs – waste, water, Amsterdam, New York and London to facilitate debate Principle 8: major challenges facing society in the short, mid and and energy – by 10% year-on-year. and further discussions. Science-based targets were a long term. big talking point with prospective and existing clients undertake initiatives to • Environmental topics are a core component of As an office-based professional services business, our If Only programme and quarterly themes. throughout 2015. promote greater environmental our own impact on the environment is relatively The different themes encourage understanding • In addition to our client work, during the COP21 responsibility; and minimal. However, we understand the importance of environmental challenges, greater awareness climate conference in Paris, alongside MSLGROUP, of encouraging more sustainable behaviours at both of our own behaviours and inspire us to act and we organised an event called ‘Chance for Change: Principle 9: a macro and micro level, and have a responsibility address them. Exploring the climate concerns of today and the encourage the development to do what we can as a business and to influence • Print specifications for client publications and solutions of the future’. At the event, held at Sciences and diffusion of environmentally our employees, clients and suppliers to mitigate their our own marketing materials aim to keep their Po in Paris, we considered how the climate deal would friendly technologies. own environmental impacts. affect the relationships between employers and environmental impact to a minimum. Millennial employees. The panel featured senior • We use our positive influence to help our printing representatives from leaders in corporate suppliers improve their environmental credentials. sustainability, including Novo Nordisk, Mahindra • Our in-house printing uses FSC-certified or Group, Sodexo, Danfoss and ENEA Consulting recycled paper. together with an audience of Millennials. As action on climate change becomes increasingly important both • We recycle as much office waste as possible, to corporate image and to competitiveness, the drive from printer toners to IT equipment. to harness the creative energies of young employees • We also encourage positive sustainable behaviour in the search of new solutions will only grow in through everyday business processes including importance. It is set to be a key feature of corporate providing recycling bins, isolating a single culture in the era following the landmark Paris non-recycling bin to one area of the office only, and Agreement and a topic that will be a core part of many upgrading printers to provide duplex printing. of the conversations we have with our clients. • Our electricity is provided through a green energy Information on our environmental indicators can be tariff, which means that of the energy we purchase, found in ‘Measure and report’ in the ‘If Only’ section of the same value is put back into the grid through this report. renewable sources. P11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 1 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Our approach and actions Principle 10: Approach Actions businesses should work against Salterbaxter is committed to operating ethically • Our Employee Handbook details our policy and corruption in all its forms, including and against all forms of corruption at all times. procedure on receiving gifts, and only permits us extortion and bribery. to accept gifts of no substantial financial value. Any such gifts become the prizes in a Christmas fundraising raffle and the proceeds go to charity to prevent any undue influence developing in our client and supplier relationships. • Our client hospitality is restricted to end of project celebration meals, when teams on both sides are thanked for their hard work. • In 2016 our original policy will be replaced by the Publicis Groupe’s Anti bribery and corruption policy and our business operations also adhere to the Groupe Code of Conduct known as JANUS. P12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Our If Only programme 2 P13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 If Only If Only The If Only framework If Only is our internal programme that brings sustainability to life within our own business and for our employees. In 2015 we continued with Think it, do it – four quarterly Mission: themes including our fourth Innovation Day, as well as Inspire, innovate, impact Measure and report – reviewing our own impacts and We will make change happen by inspiring each other to innovate and make a positive progress against our KPIs. impact on sustainability challenges. Think it, do it Measure and report Awareness is not enough. Together we will create Action is key. We will find an inspiring place to work new ways to interact, motivate where our people thrive. each other to participate and We will also improve the make an impact. We will do management of our business “Throughout the year If Only provides opportunities to bring this through: impacts through: colleagues together in different ways to share knowledge, learn • Engaging themes that lead • K PI scorecard and quarterly to understanding and drive reviews new skills and develop new ways of working together. We were 3 days behaviour change • U N Global Compact reminded of how valuable the programme is to our culture when Average time spent on • Supporting social Communication on Progress talking about it with other agencies within the Publicis Groupe. If Only per person businesses via our including our annual Innovation Day performance report The enthusiasm shown for Innovation Day in particular, is something we hope to harness.” • People survey, ongoing dialogue, individual and collective action Lynn Dickinson Senior Consultant P14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Think it, Do it Q1: Sustainable Design Quarter 1 If Only’s year began with a concept from our design team. We were all asked to think about the role of design in daily life – how it contributes to unsustainable lifestyles but also how it can be part of the solution. Sustainable Design Sustainable design is something that many of us at design. We posted the examples on the ‘Fame and Salterbaxter are passionate about. As creative people Shame’ wall and at the end, voted on the best of the working on issues of sustainability, we don’t just get best and the worst of the worst. Throughout the quarter excited about designing strategic communications, we we were also encouraged to continue collecting and Highlighting the best and worst in sustainability, S:D inspiring sustainable design for a happier future. enthuse about innovation to solve environmental and sharing examples of sustainable design through our The wall of shame At home 13.02.15 societal issues. So this was a great opportunity to communal sharing space. Sustainable Design share some of the amazing solutions and initiatives The nature of the initiative and the event format meant happening across the globe that are addressing some that we all got to find out about some really inspiring Highlighting the best and worst in sustainability, Highlighting the best and worst in sustainability, S:D S:D inspiring sustainable design for a happier future. inspiring sustainable design for a happier future. of the big challenges. examples of sustainable design. We were also The wall of fame At home 13.02.15 The Sustainable Design team organised four events encouraged to question and change our behaviour Sustainable Design Sustainable Design throughout the first quarter. Setting all of us the when it came to examples of design that had a negative challenge to find the best and worst examples of environmental and/or societal impact. sustainable design: in our homes, in our community, Sugar monster “We get these in every now and again, and honestly, in the UK and across the globe. I can feel my blood thickening up after two bites. So bad, yet so good!” At each event, we presented our examples of good and sdinspire.com bad design to colleagues. For example the ‘in our The place to get nerdy about Sustainable Design. Which incidentally is so better than good design. It has more Love Nest edge. Not only does it have to look good, sound good, homes’ event included examples including wasteful suck in an audience and make them want it… it’s also got to use less and cost less. It has to change the stays “I t has so much intelligence in the small and beautiquo, change our behaviour, the way we think and act. fully designed product that replaces your existing It has to encourage consumers to be selfless, instead thermostat, to improve your existing habits and save of selfish. It’s not about the compulsive here and now. packaging from online shopping to smart energy you money whilst making you more green.” It’s about a happier future. Big ask. Are you game? meters. This stimulated a discussion around each example, what makes it good or bad and the role of P15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Think it, Do it Q2: Innovation Day Quarter 2 9th July was Innovation Day, a day when we give over our services to supporting social businesses. With the ongoing support of our partner UnLtd, and the inclusion of MSLGROUP London, we were able to be even more ambitious and increase the number of social entrepreneurs we were able to help. Innovation Day Key Facts At the very beginning of the year we met with the helped secure buy-in ahead of the day and meant that senior team at MSLGROUP London to walk them we could try to match individuals to a business they through the ‘Roadmap to Innovation Day’ and secure had voted for. their commitment to the day. Then in March we presented to the full company at their offices alongside The whole company was then organised into four 300 10 21 multidisciplinary teams championed by 3-4 people our event partner UnLtd, and two social entrepreneurs Approximately 300 social entrepreneurs social entrepreneurs who were in charge of building a relationship with supported in previous years, Ben (Active Minds) and supported since 2011 Alex (South London Cares). Enthusiasm for the day their entrepreneur, defining the brief, planning the hours used in planning supported in 2015 day and engaging the rest of their team accordingly. was immediate. As well as the Roadmap tool kit we and preparation supported MSLGROUP London throughout the As has often been the case on Innovation Day, the planning process including regular calls and providing entrepreneurs were overwhelmed (in a good way!) them with briefing and workshop templates. by the support, the quality of the insights into their business and the outputs delivered. And for all of UnLtd, the UK’s largest provider of support to social us, the day was inspirational – an opportunity to businesses, build relationships with a diverse range work together in a different way with the client in of inspiring and innovative social entrepreneurs. Our Innovation Day is now an established part of UnLtd’s the room and deliver work that would make an £25K 95 immediate impact. ‘Grow’ programme. Approximate time people from the For both Salterbaxter and MSLGROUP London, the At Salterbaxter, Innovation Day was preceded by a process went smoothly and the day was a huge success investment for each MSLGROUP London number of engagement initiatives including a vote for despite a tube strike which presented a few last minute social venture the team participated for the four entrepreneurs we wanted to work with. This logistical challenges! the first time and on same day! the same day! P16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 The Innovation Day teams The four enterprises supported by Salterbaxter were: Jermaine and Aysha Julie, Daniela Varley, Kathryn Luckock, Dr Gill Green, Founders and Directors, The Gifted Founding partner and Director, Recre8 Director, Solutions for the Planet Founder and CEO, Storm The Gifted Recre8 Solutions for the Planet Storm® Founded in 2012, The Gifted aims to educate, inspire Recre8 is a psychology-based drama company with a Solutions for the Planet specialise in connecting Storm provides skills-based training in suicide and empower young people through knowledge, using successful record of delivering engaging, informative businesses with schools in their local communities prevention and postvention, and self-harm mitigation podcasting projects and interactive workshops around and consultative programmes with marginalised to solve big global challenges. Their focus is on the for front line staff and volunteers across all sectors. topics such as health and lifestyle, enabling them to groups including persistent young offenders and those energy, utility and construction sector where there The program of training was developed at the take ownership of their future choices. who are at risk of offending. By combining elements of is an urgent need to both retain and recruit University of Manchester and is based in research psychology together with drama, Recre8 are unique in innovative thinkers. and evidence. The Gifted have developed and delivered a range the work they offer. The programmes and interventions of programmes and projects, working with some of Businesses benefit by giving their employees the Their mission is, primarily, to challenge the ‘fear’ and they develop actively challenge perspectives and Hertfordshire’s most vulnerable and disadvantaged opportunity to be mentors in a dynamic learning ‘stigma’ around the subject of suicide. It also works reintegrate individuals back into society by helping children and young people including care leavers and environment alongside young people. And young to encourage open and clear communication between them overcome their limitations. young offenders. Projects include Eat Better Move people are inspired to be the entrepreneurs, scientists, services enabling people who are in psychological More, Reality Check, Real Talk, I Have A Dream and Founded by sisters Anulka Varley-Griffin and Daniela engineers and responsible citizens of the future. pain to access the help and support they need. Inspire Me: Learn, Interact and Podcast. Varley in Birmingham, Recre8 aims to reduce offending Innovation day outputs for Solutions for the Innovation day outputs for Storm® included: behaviour amongst young people who would not Innovation day outputs for The Gifted included: Planet included: – Target audience definition otherwise have been introduced to the arts. – Target audience definition – Target audience definition – Proposition development – Communications plan Innovation day outputs for ReCrea8 included: – Elevator pitch – Tailored messaging – Digital strategy – Partnership values – Targeted messages – Marketing concepts –T raining in social media and digital platforms – Target audience definitions – Competitor review – Partnership ideas – Communications planning – Website wireframes – Communications framework – Brand development MSL UK worked with six entrepreneurs: – Ruth Anslow, hiSbe – James Cropper, Creative Minds Arts Network – Elin Haf Davies, Aparito – Josh Little John, Social Bite – William Makower, DIG (Digital Information and Giving) – Benita Matofska, Compare and Share P17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 The four innovation teams in action at Salterbaxter P18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Think it, Do it Q3: Volunteering Quarter 3 Every year, everyone at Salterbaxter can take one “As a two man business, the tangible contribution that a team of 8 can make in just one day is huge. The group got an immediate grasp of what we do, and what we need to day to volunteer for a cause of their own choice. achieve, and got stuck in pulling apart and putting together our brand personality, tone of voice, and communication strategy. I came away feeling so much clearer about what However, awareness and take up of this opportunity we should be doing online, and how we can engage and bring our community together. I hope the volunteers got as much out of making such an obvious difference to a small has often been low and so we came together to business as we did. Thank you so much!” campaign for it through an If Only quarterly focus. Alicia Lawson, Rubies in the Rubble “Thank you for your amazing help at Heartwood earlier this week! On the day of your visit you helped us to plant 1,017 trees.” Katherine Jaiteh, Heartwood Forest Volunteering In July we established a team of individuals who were Six charities were identified and five were supported: all tasked with identifying a volunteering opportunity –A  rt Against Knives: support to design and that they thought would appeal to their colleagues at develop content for a new website for this innovative Salterbaxter. The group then liaised with the NGOs to charity that uses creativity to change the lives of establish the kind of support required and plan how to disadvantaged young people. make the opportunity accessible for employees. Then they campaigned for their charity in order to encourage –H  eartwood Forest: tree planting for the Woodland all of us to sign up. Trust’s project to create England’s largest new native forest. We set ourselves the goal of achieving 60% participation by the end of the year, which proved to – 240 Project: supporting the daily activities of this be ambitious given that we were already over half way arts and health activity centre for homeless people. through. However, we did achieve 32% and a new – I nspiring the Future: connecting our employees record for the business. And critically we have created with local state schools to talk about our job routes a model that works and we can continue to build on and skills. next year. – Rubies in the Rubble: an innovation day style workshop focused on brand development and digital communications strategy for this fast growing social business that saves ugly fruit and vegetables to make great tasting relishes. P19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Think it, Do it Q4: Climate Change Quarter 4 Activities Our final If Only campaign of the year focused on climate change in order to coincide with world leaders attending the Climate Summit COP21 and the development of the Paris Agreement to keep global warming ‘well below’ 2°c. The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, As well as being part of the organising force behind COP 21, was held in Paris from 30 November to the MSLGROUP event Chance for Change, held at the 12 December 2015. In the run up to the event the university Science Po in Paris during COP21, a number Q4 Climate change team ran a number of knowledge of colleagues also attended. The debate focused on how sharing initiatives including a screening of ‘No Carbon the climate deal would affect the relationships between ‘No impact man’ movie and tool kit Daily COP21 news round ups from multiple sources Man’ and a food miles ‘bake off’. employers and Millennial employees. On their return they presented back to the company and captured On 13 November we streamed the first few hours of outcomes on blogs and in presentations for our clients. 24 Hours of Reality and Live Earth: The World Is Watching, a global day of activity to raise awareness Following COP21 and the publication of the final and inspire action on climate change. At the event Al agreement, we provided a summary of the outcomes Gore shared stories of progress from around the world from Paris for our clients, and this continues to be and talked to influential artists, scientists, thought useful information for our new business meetings and THE RISE leaders and policy makers about developments in clean client development. We also contributed to industry energy and other areas that are bringing us to a turning coverage of the event with PR Week, discussing the point on climate change. Unfortunately what was implications of the agreement for business. planned to be a 24 hour event was cut short by the horrific terrorist attacks that took place in Paris later that day. Amidst even tighter security world leaders still arrived At our Q4 company meeting we also reported back from ‘The Rise of Science’ our thought leadership event held in Amsterdam in October. The event focused on the impact of science based targets and what evidence we OF SCIENCEHow does it mix with sustainability, business strategy and consumer emotion? in Paris as scheduled for COP21. During the two weeks were already seeing of the topic in business. of the event we live-streamed many of the COP21 events and talks, provided daily round ups of the discussions including links to videos, infographics and articles on climate change. Directions 2015 Chance for Change COP21 website P20 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Measure and Report: Social Salterbaxter is the sum of all our people – our collective knowledge, creativity, skills and dedication. Following a challenging period of business change, we need to focus on creating an environment that meets and exceeds expectations of the workplace. This will mean that we can continue to attract and retain the best talent. We promote a culture of openness and this means that we can listen and respond to what our employees have to tell us, and together with them, shape and drive a business that will continue to succeed and grow. “As Salterbaxter has grown over the years, we have changed and adapted our processes and policies to ensure that we harness the power of our people to continuously improve our working lives. Transitioning from an 4.6 72% 3 independently owned business to being part of a global network of Average length female employees days of informal communications businesses introduced new challenges. Through open of service training per employee dialogue and workshopping what our business futures might look like, all staff were involved in managing that change. The conversation will – and must – stay open for us all to succeed.” Tracy Cheung Operations and people manager P21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Measure and Report: Social Achievements and actions Additional social indicators Average daily hours: Students: 0 (target: 2.0) Indicator 2014 2015 8.3 (target 8.5) Interns: 1 (target: 3.0) Average number of full time employees 57 53 For the third year running we’ve continued to make In 2015 our employee development focued on other positive progress on reducing the average number of business priorities and we did not pursue opportunities Average number of contractors 10 10 daily hours worked by our employees. Coming under to engage with students and interns. In 2016 we will our target shows that our efforts in monitoring and take a step back and consider our approach and Average sick days per person 4 4 managing workload is contributing to an improved ambition in light of this lack of progress. Average age 38 38 work-life balance. Gender ratio male:female 37:63 40:60 Employees inspired to work at Salterbaxter: Volunteering days (cumulative days per person): NA (target: 85%) 0.5 (target 1.0) During the year we took the decision to move to In order to encourage uptake of our contractual the Publicis Groupe wide employee engagement volunteering day allowance, we dedicated one of our survey and therefore this indicator was not tracked quarterly themes to promoting this opportunity to employees. Whilst we missed our ambitious target of in 2015. 79% of Salterbaxter employees participated in the survey. Average length of service 60% participation, we still more than doubled uptake We continue to score highly on having a strong from 12% to 32%. Knowing that this format works we vision, good communication and excellent support hope to build on it in future years. of diversity and ethics. However it showed we have 5 more work to do on supporting flexible working and Staff formal training days (cumulative days career development, all of which feed through to 4.6 per person): 0.4 (target: 0.5) staff retention levels. Staff informal training days (cumulative days 4 per person): 3 (target: 2.5) Length of service: We almost reached our target number for average 4.6 (up from 3.8 in 2014) staff formal training days (i.e. externally provided) Despite a higher than average turnover, the average 3 and exceeded our target for informal (i.e. in-house length of service per employee increased. We are mentoring, knowledge-sharing sessions) training. proud that this shows we have been able to retain and develop many of our most experienced staff. We know that career development is a ‘must have’ for the majority of our employees and so we are designing 2 a new appraisals and objectives format which has a Looking forward 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 career pathway map at its centre. In March 2016 we moved to a Publicis Groupe shared 2016 will also see a new company team structure. building in the Baker Street area. With this in mind we This structure is based on up-skilling, knowledge will be reviewing our approach to our programme and sharing and expertise-building in mind. goals for future years. P22 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Measure and Report: Environment Our greatest impact on the environment is indirect, but we feel it is positive. Through our sustainability consultancy to clients we reinforce the need to address global challenges such as climate change and resource depletion. However, in order to advise our clients on sustainability, we need to be able to ensure our own environmental performance is as positive as it can be – we need to practice what we preach. Our approach In 2012 we conducted an operational review in line Originally built in 1904 for Marks and Spencer, in 2013 “With the company move to a Publicis Groupe managed building we have a with ISO 14001. We identified the main areas where Lazari Investments elected to retrofit the Baker Street our direct impact lies: paper, waste, and electricity, and premises, rather than rebuilding it, for Publicis Groupe. great opportunity to work with our sister companies to make a real difference each year we set targets and measure our performance The result was an energy and space efficient building to the wider impacts the building has on the environment. Sharing our office against them. As a small, office-based business our direct with a new atrium, low energy mechanical ventilation environmental impact is relatively minor, but we still aim systems, new lighting systems and a rooftop wildflower space with like-minded people is a real boost to identifying impacts and to ensure best practice behaviour at work and at home. meadow to support biodiversity. The building has a looking at challenging, but credible measures as to how we reduce these We are also conscious of the importance of considering commendation for Conservation and Retrofit (New impacts. The synergies don’t stop with the building – we also have the the environmental impacts thoughout our entire value London Architecture Awards 2015) and was a finalist chain. We recommend print specifications for our in the AJ Retrofit Awards, 2015. opportunity to look at our respective supplier chains and take the best practice clients that minimise the impact of commissioning from each company in order to support our suppliers in improving their print projects. We also use our influence with printing suppliers to improve their environmental credentials. We will be reviewing the implications of the new environmental impacts as well.” managed building on our own environmental reporting. We already also contribute data to the Publicis Groupe 2015 was our last year in independent offices and CR report. Jason Parry, from March 2016 we will be sharing a building with Finance Director a number of other agencies within the Publicis Groupe at 82 Baker Street. P23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Measure and Report: Environment Achievements and actions CO2 emissions (tonnes): Waste: 32.7kg per person (target: 26.1kg) Electricity usage per employee: 2,179 kWh We have two types of waste – recyclable (e.g. paper, (target: 1,952kWh) glass, plastic, cans) and non-recyclable (e.g. food, 15 packaging that cannot be recycled). Our nonCO2 emissions: 6.5 tonnes (6% decrease recyclable waste is reused for other purposes such on 2014) as green energy. We achieved a 2% reduction in electricty use per 10 In 2014, non-recyclable waste per person was 30.1kg employee. Whilst we didn’t meet our target of 10% 6% decrease and unfortunately 2015 saw a 9% increase. Whilst less it was good to see a decrease considering our this increase was small we were obviously far off our leased office space is within a Grade II listed building 6.5 10% less target. However, it was an exceptional year that is less energy efficient than more modern 5 in that we were planning for an office move between buildings. The nature of our lease also gave us Christmas and New Year. Planning for the move began relatively little influence over our energy expenditure, in the late autumn and our numbers for the last quarter other than to encourage minimal use. evidence an increase in waste at this time. Whilst the 0 move was eventually postponed until March 2016 a 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 significant amount of clearing and sorting had already Looking forward taken place. As mentioned previously, in 2016 we moved to a Recycling per person decreased by 15% from 176.3kg Publicis Groupe shared building. We are therefore to 152.4kg in 2015. This indicates that we need to reviewing targets and our approach to reporting continue to remind and refresh our best practice environmental indicators in the future. We will policies on recycling as new joiners begin, and continue to contribute data to the Publicis Groupe to embed this with existing employees as a core CR report. Paper use per employee (kgs): behaviour. In early 2016 in preparation for the office move there was extensive training on recycling procedures for the clear out. 50 Paper: 33.1kg per person (target 29.7kg) In 2014 paper use per person was 34.2kg and our 40 ambition was 10% less for 2015. Whilst we only managed to achieve a 3% reduction it is positive to 3% decrease see an ongoing decrease in usage. We are considering 33.1 how we can continue this trend by incorporating practical solutions for our work-sharing and printing 30 practices in light of the new office environment in 2016. 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 P24 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 KPIs and targets 2015 KPIs 2014 Achievement 2015 Target 2015 Achievement If Only participation days per employee (c) 3.6 2.0 3.1 Employees inspired to work at Salterbaxter 64% 85% NA Number of student placements 0 2 0 Number of interns 1 3 1 Volunteering days (c) 0.2 1 0.5 Paper usage (kg per employee) 33 29.7 (10% less) 33.1 (0.3% increase) Waste to MRF (kg per employee) 29 26.1 (10% less) 32.7 (14.2% increase) Electricity (kWh per employee) 2,169 1,952 (10% less) 2,179 (0.5% increase) Average hours 8.5 8.5 8.3 Staff training formal (days per employee – c) 0.6 0.5 0.4 Staff training informal (days per employee – c) 3.2 2.5 3.0 c = cumulative Looking forward The office move and our new closer working practices with MSLGROUP and Publicis Groupe provides us with a natural opportunity to review our KPIs and targets and our ambition for If Only. From 2016 we will take the opportunity to reconsider what we want to achieve with If Only, how we can be a positive influence with our new colleagues in the building, as well as how we can be inspired by and learn from them. We will continue to contribute to Publicis Groupe’s annual CSR report, but as our data will be captured differently, we will reconsider what we can meaningfully monitor and manage. Continuing to embed sustainable business practices will continue to be a priority, and an integral part of what it means to work at Salterbaxter. P25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Equal Opportunities policy We are an equal opportunities employer. This means that it is our policy to make every effort to ensure that there is no discrimination or harassment of employees, job applicants, clients, contractors or visitors on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, religion or belief, ethnic origin, disability, age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, parental responsibilities, part-time or fixed-term status. Bullying is also a form of harassment and this is also covered by our policy. Our approach In issuing this policy we have three main objectives: of employment, training, salary, work allocation, promotion, and disciplinary and grievance procedures. First, to encourage employees to take an active role Our recruitment, selection, promotion procedures and against all forms of bullying, harassment and general policies and practices will be periodically discrimination; second, to deter employees from reviewed to ensure that this equal opportunities participating in bullying, harassment or discriminatory policy is being implemented. behaviour; and third, to demonstrate to all employees that they can rely upon our support in cases of bullying, All employees are required to follow and implement harassment or discrimination at work. our equal opportunities policy and, if necessary, undergo any training and development activities We are committed to a working environment that to ensure that they can carry out their duties and offers equal treatment and equal opportunities for responsibilities in terms of promoting, developing, all its employees, so that every employee is able implementing and reviewing the policy arrangements to progress to their true potential. Even after in the course of their work. employment has ended, we are committed to ensuring that discrimination does not occur. By supporting Publicis Groupe’s Egalité and Viva Women! initiatives we hope we will reinforce our This policy applies to all aspects of our working commitment to equality of opportunity. practices and therefore applies to the recruitment and selection of employees, terms and conditions In 2015 there were no breaches of this policy. P26 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Health and Safety policy We want our employees to be as safe as possible in our working environment and require all employees to follow these guidelines at all times. While the Company will take all reasonable steps to ensure the health and safety of its employees, health and safety at work is also the responsibility of employees themselves. It is the duty of all employees to take reasonable care of their own and other people’s health, safety and welfare. Employees should report any situation that may pose a serious or imminent threat to the wellbeing of themselves or of any other person. Our approach The Company will provide and maintain a healthy • The Company also recognises its duty to protect and safe working environment with the objective the health and safety of all visitors to the Company, of minimising the number of health and safety including contractors and temporary workers, as related instances. The Company will pay particular well as any members of the public. attention to: The Company may take disciplinary action against any • Maintaining the workplace in a safe condition employee who disregards health and safety rules and and providing adequate facilities and arrangements procedures, or who fails to perform their duties under for welfare at work. health and safety legislation. Depending on the seriousness of the offence, it may amount to potential • Providing a safe means of access to and from gross misconduct rendering the employee liable to the workplace. summary dismissal. • The provision and maintenance of equipment that In 2015 there were no breaches of this policy. is safe. • The provision of such information, instructions, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure the health and safety at work of its employees and other persons. P27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Section 2 Environmental Procurement policy Our approach Paper policy Print procurement policy Where we do not have the final buying decision we will always advise clients to follow our guidelines and We are committed to managing and reducing the All paper specified for our major projects, must adhere Where we have the buying decision, we aim to place will record where they are not able to do so. company’s environmental impacts. The biggest to the following as a minimum: our print with suppliers who are managing their impact we have on the environment is through environmental impacts in a progressive and ISO 14001 is a key part of our criteria and although we • Be ECF (elemental chlorine free) or TCF understand the limitations of this system, we still feel it our supply chain and how we place work with transparent way. (total chlorine free). is a useful assurance process by which we can assess printers on behalf of our clients. Our print and This process is managed through a key suppliers list. a printer’s commitment to environmental management. paper policies can be read here. • A ny virgin pulp must be sourced from sustainably managed forests. We may also consider other suppliers if their activities • The mills which produce the paper should have are transparent enough for us to assess without the ISO 14001 accreditation. ISO programme. We further aim to specify a percentage of those jobs from our ‘Top 10’ list of enhanced environmental paper stocks. All these papers are FSC accredited OR recycled with a minimum of 20% post-consumer waste. We are also looking into carbon neutral papers. P28 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Next steps Looking forward It is an exciting time for Salterbaxter. We have moved to new shared offices, are building our network within Publicis Groupe, and are growing our team in the US. At the same time we are evolving our business proposition to reflect the evolving nature of the work we do for our clients and the role we want to play: building purpose, maximising performance and transforming business. With all this change in mind we are pausing to reconsider how If Only reflects this in the future and rethink what we want it to achieve. Moving away from an emphasis on improving performance and towards increasing social impact. A new strategy will be confirmed in 2016 and part of this will be aour approach to Reporting. Contact “As we evolve our offering to support companies and Caroline Carson brands navigate the changing relationship between business Consultant and society, it’s only natural we reflect this internally. T +44 (0)20 7313 8665 E caroline.carson@salterbaxter.com Inspiring and motivating each other to take action on the www.salterbaxter.com issues that matter to us will still be fundamental to our plans, but more than this, we want to demonstrate the tangible value of our capabilities and actions.” Caroline Carson Consultant
