report 2015 WE SUPPORT Axis participates in the above organizations. Table of contents About Axis 4 President’s message 6 Sustainable governance 8 Intelligent solutions for global challenges 10 Sustainable solutions for a smarter and safer world 12 Stakeholder dialogue 14 Materiality analysis 16 Responsibility along the value chain 18 Economic responsibility 20 Business conduct 22 Environmental responsibility 28 Long-term responsibility – supply chain in focus 35 Social responsibility 38 GRI references 46 This report covers the most important sustainability aspects of our business and how we are managing these in order to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, and to further strengthen Axis as a brand and as a corporate partner. Axis reports according to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines for sustainability reporting, G4 core guidelines. The report covers the fiscal year 2015. Further information can also be found in Axis’ Annual Report 2015 and Corporate Governance Report 2015, both available in English at www.axis.com. About Axis Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter, safer world. As the market leader in network video, Axis is driving the industry by continually launching innovative network products based on an open platform delivering high value to customers through a global partner network. Axis has long-term relationships with partners and provides them with knowledge and ground-breaking network products in existing and new markets. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company listed on NASDAQ Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Highlights >> Canon acquired about 85 percent of the shares in Axis. >> Axis advanced its positions with regard to countering corruption and bribery. The zero tolerance policy against corruption covers employees, the board of directors, suppliers, distributors and partners. >> Axis has offset carbon emissions generated by business trips and has introduced new stricter guidelines for business travel. This carbon offset scheme is carried out in conjunction with a Plan Vivo project and is contributing to environmental and social improvements. >> A Green Design Evaluation Form was introduced in the product development processes in all projects with the aim of integrating environmental considerations into product development in an even better way, while the products should meet quality and functionality requirements. >> A green lease was signed with one of Axis’ property owners in Lund, which means that Axis and the property owner shall work actively together to reduce the environmental burden of the premises and property. >> Axis has a goal to phase out PVC from its products and at the end of 2015, about 70 percent of all network cameras and encoders were PVC-free. >> The supplier auditing processes were improved further. Stricter requirements and collaboration with Axis has meant that many suppliers have improved their sustainability work. >> To further improve the working environment, Axis implemented measures such as creating a new rehabilitation process for employees in Sweden aimed at getting persons who are ill back to work faster and working preventively with health and safety and improving security at workplaces in several different countries. More than 80,000 >> A number of initiatives were implemented in order to promote greater equality and diversity, including a gender analysis study and a salary survey in Sweden. partners HQ: Lund, Sweden Regional offices; Chelmsford, USA Hertfordshire, UK Munich, Germany Paris, France Moscow, Russia Employees in more than Selection of awards 50 Dubai, United Arab Emirates Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China Sao Paulo, Brazil AXIS Q61-E PTZ Dome Network Singapore, Republic of Singapore Camera Series received the Good Design Award, countries known as the “G Mark” Award from the Japanese Institute of Design Promotion. Axis received high rankings on Great Place to Work lists in Sweden, the US and Germany. Axis’ Zipstream technology won the Australian Security Industry Award for Excellence in the category “CCTV Product of the Year” from the Australian Security Industry Association Limited (ASIAL). Axis’ Zipstream technology received the 2015 New Product of the Year Award for Advanced Imaging Technologies from Security Products Magazine in the US. Axis’ Zipstream technology received the Innovative Product of the Year Award from the New Zealand Security Number of Association (NZSA). employees in the Axis group AXIS C3003-E Network Horn Speaker was awarded 2,139 Product of the Year by IoT Evolution Magazine in the US. Axis’ Zipstream technology won the Video Surveillance 6,635 Advanced Imaging Technologies category at the SIA New Product Showcase awards ceremony in the US. SEK million in sales Driving change – with sustainability in continued focus Sustainability is an important and integrated part of Axis’ business During the year, a decision was taken to construct a new headquarters in operations and plays a significant role in our successful growth. We Lund. The building will be environmentally certified and will be strongly aim to take sustainability into account in all business processes and associated with Axis’ long history as an innovative growth company. In throughout the entire value chain. In a rapidly changing world, where we the new headquarters, we will create more meeting places, which are increasingly see a trend towards customized security and video solutions, important for continued advancement of our strong corporate culture we need to find new ways of doing business. We have taken a number of and in order to have a workplace where all employees thrive and develop. important initiatives to participate in and drive this development; while sustainability will continue to be a natural part of our operations and in Ethical business relationships all our business processes. We develop long-term relationships and collaborate closely with our suppliers, which helps to ensure ethical business conduct in the entire Axis develops innovative and intelligent products and solutions that help value chain. people to feel safe and secure. As market leader in network video and as a large employer, Axis acts as a model. We want to act as a model when During the year, Axis has advanced its position in respect of its efforts to it comes to sustainability questions and we have good opportunities to fight corruption and bribery. For example, all distributors have signed an influence our environment. We take long-term responsibility for how addendum to the distributor agreement where they undertake to comply our operations impact end customers, distributors, partners, suppliers, with Axis’ anti-corruption policy. employees, investors and society. Reduced environmental impact Axis works proactively with sustainability. Customers are increasingly Axis’ innovative products and solutions shall be at the leading edge of demanding that we also take responsibility for issues relating to business technology and shall be environmentally friendly and energy efficient. ethics and the environment, among other things. Sustainability considerations shall pervade all processes from product development to logistics flows and end use of the products and solutions. Axis conducts its sustainability work in four areas: economic responsibility, During the year, we started to offset our carbon footprint from business business ethics, environmental responsibility and social responsibility. trips and we continued to phase out PVC from our products, with the Sound corporate governance forms the basis for our sustainability work. goal that all products should be PVC-free. Axis’ sustainability efforts and strategy are based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Attractive workplace Our dedicated and skilled employees and our strong corporate culture, I am proud of all the efforts and progress we have made during the year in characterized by an entrepreneurial spirit, innovation and openness, have terms of minimizing our environmental impact, striving for good working been and remain very important for Axis’ successful growth. conditions and promoting ethical conduct in business relationships and preventing corruption across the entire value chain. I am very satisfied that we have managed to retain our unique corporate culture over the years while expanding in all markets. Successful and eventful year Canon has acquired about 85 percent of the shares in Axis. A strong In order to ensure that we attract and retain the best employees and and long-term principal owner means that we can further strengthen maintain our strong corporate culture, while continuing to grow, we have our competitiveness as we will gain greater access to leading know-how created further leadership training courses, improved the introductory and technology, while we are continuing to operate and develop as an program for new employees and futher developed our various national independent company. and international training programs. PAGE 7 Other measures implemented with the aim of creating an even better We are also continuing to advance our partner network and expand working environment as well as greater diversity and equality, include globally, where we are boosting our presence in emerging markets. a gender analysis study. Good opportunities Driving change Our challenges also include to continue advancing the work on business We have driven the shift from analog to digital video surveillance for ethics across the entire value chain and to retain our strong corporate many years. This shift has largely taken place and the market is now in culture, while we expand. a more mature phase. In line with the changing market, we need to find new growth areas while rapid technological advancements are enabling We are continuing to make sustainability an even more integrated part new, smart solutions. Our ambition is to also drive this change. of our business and in our day-to-day work, in all the areas we operate in to achieve our sustainability targets. We will boost our sales in the fast-growing small and medium-sized installations segment, which is a part of the market still dominated by Axis is well-prepared to meet the challenges faced by the company analog video surveillance. This segment is expected to grow faster than and I am convinced that we will continue to deliver profitable growth. the market as a whole. I am very confident about the future. I look forward, together with our We are developing our offer to include more overall solutions where dedicated and skilled employees to continue driving the change process, software is an increasingly important component. We are continuing to while at the same time, we want to act as a model for the industry when maintain a high innovation rate and we are diversifying by providing more it comes to sustainability, in order to create a smarter and safer world. smart products and solutions in order to offer complete security systems. Ray Mauritsson Thus we are creating new business opportunities for ourselves and our partners as well as new possibilities for end users, while we are President strengthening our position in the market for network surveillance solutions and in other parts of the security market. Sustainable governance Axis focuses on four areas when it comes to sustainability: environmental considerations, social responsibility (human and labor rights), economic responsibility and business ethics. These areas are based on sound corporate governance. This strategy supports and embraces the ten principles of the UN Global Axis’ Environmental Council Compact. Axis became a participant of the UN Global Compact initiative Axis’ Environmental Council contains representatives from R&D, Product in 2007 and we continuously strive to improve our performance in Management, Communications and Operations, as well as members of relation to sustainability. the Management team. The Council works with general environmental issues and initiates projects aimed at minimizing Axis’ environmental As a company listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Exchange, Axis also impact and at integrating environmental aspects into the product applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Furthermore, Axis development process. has accelerated and extended its implementation and testing of controls over financial reporting based on COSO’s (Committee of Sponsoring The Ethics Council Organizations of the Treadway Commission) framework for internal The Ethics Council is composed of representatives from the Management control. team. The council handles ethical issues and consults, discusses and decides on matters related to Axis’ business conduct. Axis aims to make sustainability an integrated part of its business strategy and operations, where continuous improvements are made at Workplace health and safety teams all levels. To support this process, our environmental and sustainabilityThere are two workplace health & safety teams. One team is composed related work follows an organizational framework: of all CLC (Configurations and Logistics Center) managers, a trade union representative, a safety representative and a representative from Human Axis’ Sustainability Council Resources. The other workplace health and safety team is composed Axis’ Sustainability Council has the overall responsibility for sustainability of representatives from Facilities, Human Resources, R&D as well as matters. Responsibilities include, for example, implementation of Axis’ safety representatives. The purpose of the teams is to pursue systematic Code of Conduct and related policies, as well as monitoring company working efforts in the health and safety field at the workplace. activities. The council is mainly composed of representatives from the Axis Management team. Code of Conduct Axis’ Code of Conduct defines the approach, values and guidelines Axis’ Sustainability Project Group that the company and its staff shall apply in matters of business Axis’ Sustainability Project Group contains representatives from the conduct, business relations, human rights, workplace practices and following corporate functions: Human Resources, Global Sales, Quality environmental considerations. The Code of Conduct is based on the & Environment, Finance and Communications. The group is responsible following international principles: for the development of sustainability efforts in different areas and for extending the reporting to cover additional areas within the framework > The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the UN Global Compact initiative. > The UN Global Compact initiative > The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work PAGE 9 Axis’ Sustainability Project Group; Jenny Weeks, Lovisa Petersson, Ausra Reinap, Liv Andresen Radojkovic, Per Björkdahl, Fredrik K Nilsson (not pictured) and Björn Hallerborn (not pictured) PAGE 10 Intelligent solu global challen Axis is a global company and is impacted by political, economic, social, environmental and technological macro trends. A transformation is underway to an economy where solutions and services are demanded as a complement to specific products, which is creating new business models and offers. Axis is well-equipped to meet this shift and sees an increased need for intelligent solutions that enable smarter use of technology and contribute to a safer world. Global demand for smart solutions Axis released the world’s first network camera in 1996, and early Axis is a leading global provider of intelligent security solutions. Axis security networks consisted of interconnected devices in a network. has employees in more than 50 countries and together with over 80,000 Companies can connect different security functions such as alarms, partners, Axis offers network video products and solutions. video surveillance, access control and loud speakers with an emergency center in a connected platform, which can be easily managed remotely. The global market for intelligent security solutions is expected to grow, particularly with new types of applications, analysis functionality, Security, data integrity and personal integrity are of the utmost integrated solutions and innovative customer-specific solutions. A clear importance as more devices are continually connected to each other. shift is also in progress, where customers are increasingly demanding a Security is a prioritized issue for Axis and an integrated part of research service or solution before products. Axis anticipates continued growth for and development efforts when it comes to creating new products and intelligent security solutions in mature markets such as North America solutions. Axis strives to offer the most secure products, applications and and Europe and also in emerging markets. solutions in the market. Axis’ products and solutions support encryption and filtering of IP addresses, authentication, protect content and can Complete solutions support rapid updates when vulnerabilities are detected. In a rapidly changing world where technologies, services and business models are being constantly updated, customers are demanding Axis informs and trains its partners in order to ensure that network more complete solutions instead of product solutions, which ensure that cameras and solutions are installed and used correctly so that the the various components function optimally in combination. Digitalization material is handled, protected and stored in a secure way. Anonymization involving new technologies such as the Internet of Things and cloud and functionality limitations for end users help to further protect services are helping to facilitate this change. personal integrity (read more about Customer privacy and personal integrity on page 27). The development is taking place on a wide front, in more mature markets such as Europe, USA and Japan, but also in many emerging markets As IP-based security products and solutions replace analog systems and where in many cases there is no legacy technology to take account of. are connected together, the volume of information is increasing, which can be converted to commercial advantage using business intelligence. The Internet of Things This increases the need for intelligent solutions and video analytics The Internet of Things (IoT), where various devices and objects are that can create insights and knowledge from the collected volume of interconnected has been around for a long time but is now starting to information and image data streams. seriously gain momentum; from smart cars to more household items communicating with each other and access to a network camera via A current example is counting how many people enter a department Internet using a smartphone. store and working predictively to avoid queues, by opening more cash desks at the exit as more people arrive. tions for ges Urbanization and smarter cities Urbanization is a distinct global macro trend. Urban populations are growing rapidly, especially in emerging economies. This is increasing demand for different types of security-related solutions such as surveillance systems to guarantee the safety and security of citizens, customers and employees. Network video surveillance improves safety in squares, parks, streets and crossings and in public buildings such as schools and government offices. Higher population density is also increasing pressure on critical infrastructure such as public transport services, transport systems and energy supplies. Network video systems have an important role to play. Intelligent surveillance solutions may be deployed to manage and monitor traffic flows, protect critical infrastructure, provide alarms in emergency situations and more rapidly detect accidents so that rescue personnel can arrive at the scene. Protecting and improving societal functions A range of important societal functions are vulnerable and need security solutions such as energy production, healthcare services, educational systems, important industrial production sites and infrastructure. Apart from ensuring safety and security, intelligent solutions also help to improve the efficiency of societal functions, which benefits various public services such as the fire department, police, other public authorities as well as private individuals. Automation of societal functions is an important aspect of the smart city, and intelligent solutions can enhance the efficiency and improve the work of operators, among other things. One example is to monitor traffic lights to avoid traffic jams and improve traffic flows. Intelligent security solutions Axis has a broad portfolio of products and solutions and offers proprietary solutions as well as solutions in conjunction with partners. Many solutions require specialization for application in different segments. Axis has identified the following segments: Banking & Finance, City Surveillance, Critical Infrastructure, Education, Government, Healthcare, Industrial, Retail and Transportation. Axis’ security cameras, video encoders, accessories and access control products are based on open industry standards. The products integrate easily with Axis’ software and with partners’ products and solutions. Axis and its more than 80,000 partners have the world’s largest base of installed network video products and solutions. Axis is well-equipped and positioned to meet the global demand and challenges and the changes that are taking place. Sustainable so for a smarter and safer New guidance system for They are equipped with a “privacy masking function”, which conceals bicycle parking specified locations such as house entrances and windows in order to The City of Utrecht in the Netherlands protect residents’ privacy. wanted a digital guidance system for bicycle parking to help cyclists find The installation of the cameras had an instant effect. A purse snatcher empty parking spaces for bikes in the on a moped was arrested in Minoh using images captured from multiple numerous parking facilities. Nijmegen cameras. In addition, the number of suspicious incidents reports has city center wanted to improve tracking been almost halved1 since 2014 (down from 30 cases to 17). of abandoned bicycles and increase its bicycle parking capacity. A smart camera system from Axis’ partner LumiGuide was installed Intelligent traffic inside the bicycle parking facilities. The solution detects empty spaces flow planning and in the bike racks. Axis HD network cameras were installed on the ceiling optimization and work like human eyes by scanning for free spaces several times a The Municipality of Prato in Italy, minute. The system also “sees” if there is enough room to park a bike is improving traffic planning and in a particular slot. optimization with Axis video surveillance. “We chose Axis because we want to be able to use our cameras for ten years. They are also very discrete,” says Roel van Dijk, CEO LumiGuide BV. Traffic monitoring is a very important issue for Prato Municipality, since providing statistics on The digital parking guidance system ensures that the available parking the number, type and speed of vehicles in transit enables planners to spaces for bikes in the designated areas are utilized better. The system correctly scale new infrastructure projects and adequately estimate also provides the city government in Utrecht with management the dimensions of the roads that can have the most effect in terms of information so the city can respond quickly when parking stations are improving traffic flows. filled to capacity by providing portable bike racks. The installed system, featuring an application from Magenta Lab and cameras positioned at strategic entry and exit points to the city, helps the Municipality to monitor traffic flows and collect a large amount Safer school routes for children of real-time data and statistics. Benefits of the system include the Minoh City in Osaka, Japan, installed Axis security cameras on all following: vehicles can be rerouted and congestion reduced; emergency municipal elementary and middle school routes and reported incidents services can rapidly identify the best and fastest route to their decreased by approx. 50 percent. destination; radio stations can provide detailed information to listeners and users can access live footage on the Internet and make itinerary The Minoh Police were concerned decisions based on real-time data. about a number of kidnapping cases of young children, which “We are fully satisfied with the installed system from all viewpoints. had recently taken place The quality of the Axis cameras combined with the intelligent video throughout Japan and reports function for counting vehicles has proved to be ideal for achieving the of what seemed to be attempted objectives of our municipal administration,” says Mr. Bardazzi, from the kidnapping incidents in the city as Municipality of of Prato. well. So the city council decided to install security cameras to ensure safety on the school routes throughout the city to prevent such crimes against young children. 1 Source, the Minoh City Council Manager’s blog on June 29, 2015. PAGE 13 lutions world Axis’ intelligent security solutions enable enhanced security and safety and also create interesting opportunities for companies, public authorities and organizations all over the world. Bond between family and newborn Innovative access strengthened with IP cameras control system Olomouc University Hospital in the Czech Republic, uses Axis cameras Toyota Center in Helsingborg, Sweden, is in incubators for observation of premature and ill newborns. This enhancing security using an innovative strengthens the bond between the babies and families. access control solution and is getting a more flexible system for drivers when The postnatal department of Olomouc University Hospital is equipped delivering cars and accessories. with 12 incubators, which are used to care for premature and ill newborns. Current medical research has shown that emotional bonds Toyota Center is a full-service facility, are crucial for the successful development and recovery of a child. selling new and used cars, offering servicing and repairs as well as supply Therefore, the chief physician of the department looked for a way to of spare parts. The challenge has been to protect the area from ensure a video link between the mother and newborn using a camera unauthorised access, which has mainly resulted in the theft of airbags, installed in the incubator. GPS units and exclusive alloy wheels. Toyota Center wanted a solution that would make it easier for delivery drivers to access the site and also Axis cameras were installed in all incubators and connected via a video to enhance security in the area. hosting platform from NetRex. Each incubator has secure access for the child’s family. The family can view the child in an intuitive web “We already had a service contract with Securitas Direct for the intruder interface on a tablet, computer or using a smartphone application. alarm, and now we have simply added the new AXIS A8004 Door Station This enables a direct connection between a child in an incubator and unit at the gate. This was a simple solution that added a huge amount of its closest relatives, even in a situation when a personal visit would not value for us,” says Håkan Nordeman, Security Officer at Toyota Center. be possible. A recording is not produced, in order to protect privacy. The network-based entry phone system with a camera was installed “The system using the Axis camera in the NetRex platform has clearly at the gate and additional cameras were installed just inside the gates. been positively received by the families. Mothers and other relatives The drivers now need to present their ID and communication with an who meet for ‘incubator streaming’ very much appreciate that alarm operator ensures that only the right people have access to the they can monitor the child’s development each day with their own site. Toyota can see the number of deliveries and the times of day at eyes, which further strengthens their bond,” says Dr Lumír Kantor, which they arrive, providing a clearer view of the efficiency of the chief physician at the hospital’s business. Footage from the cameras can easily be accessed by Toyota postnatal department. Center’s security manager via an app on his mobile devices so he can check that everything is in order. Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder Dialogue groups Employees Survey A Great Place To Work, online survey with all employees, performance development review Distributors and partInterviews with distributors and partners in all regions where Axis has operations, training, webinars, customer survey ners End customers Interviews with end customers in all regions where Axis has operations Suppliers Interviews with contract manufacturers and other suppliers, training, webinars Investors Survey, meetings, board meetings, Annual General Meeting Society Interviews with representatives from local authorities (Lund) and relevant organization, collaboration with universities, trade fairs and other activities for students, local initiatives and projects PAGE 15 Axis has a large influence on the lives of many people and therefore takes long-term responsibility for how its operations affect the organization’s employees, distributors and partners, end customers, suppliers, investors and society. Axis conducts a continual dialogue with and creates value for its stakeholders, builds relationships and takes responsibility for business ethics as well as for financial, environmental and social matters. Axis is a global company with more than 2,100 employees in more than In order to identify what sustainability issues are most important and 50 countries and over 80,000 partners around the world. Axis strives the priorities for the various stakeholder groups, Axis has conducted to have a continual and open dialogue with its stakeholders: employees, interviews with stakeholders as well as questionnaires and surveys. distributors and partners, end customers, suppliers, investors and society, in order to find out what expectations stakeholders have of our business. Axis has had a dialogue with all stakeholder groups. Turning to investors, Axis gained a new principal investor during the year and Canon has a During 2015, Axis conducted internal workshops with the Sustainability representative on Axis’ Board. Project Group in order to identify relevant aspects and plan how the dialogue with the various stakeholders should occur. These workshops The results of the dialogues have been compiled and analyzed by the were based on the stakeholder dialogues conducted by Axis in 2014. Axis Sustainability Project Group. Read more under Materiality analysis. has also taken account of key external trends that impact the company. LONG -TERM RE S SP KE ON TA ees Distribu IS SI oy part to BI AX pl ne r LIT m iness conduct r s& E s En Y bu vir s le Res l responsibility po E d c u stn ns nta S u p p lie rs ib Axis values: me o m er s Act as one. sibility Always open. on spon re Think big. al Ec So esponsibility ci ic r om on So r st o s cie e ty Inv Materiality analysis The materiality analysis is based on the stakeholder dialogues and shows what the key issues are for Axis’ stakeholders and for the company. The stakeholder dialogues enable Axis to identify what issues and aspects are important for the various stakeholder groups. The materiality analysis was conducted in accordance with GRI G4. Weighting and a careful assessment has been carried out by the Sustainability Project Group. Aside from the stakeholders’ view of what is most relevant, Axis has analyzed what aspects have the greatest impact and importance for the company. Besides the aspects that are ranked most important according to the materiality analysis, Axis also describes other areas of importance for the business. As for legal compliance, which concerns a number of the G4 aspects, Axis regards this as the minimum requirement and the aim of our sustainability work is to raise the bar further. We will continue to report on any legal compliance issues in our sustainability report, but in terms of materiality, we will focus our efforts beyond the legal requirements. One example is that Axis is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact initiative and its ten principles covering human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption serve as a guide for Axis’ sustainability efforts. The following aspects are ranked most important by the stakeholders and have the greatest impact and importance for the company. PAGE 17 responsibility Economic responsibility Consistent profitability is of central importance for Axis and the stakeholders, and is the basis for Axis’ long-term sustainability work. Read more on page 20 conduct Business conduct Long-term relationships are of the greatest importance when it comes to our business conduct. Our suppliers and partners are a central part of our business model and we work closely with them in order to ensure that our expectations are met in respect of business conduct. We work actively to ensure that all our business relations are handled in a responsible, transparent, trustworthy and consistent way. Read more on page 22. Our most important aspects are: > Anti-corruption > Customer satisfaction > Customer privacy and personal integrity responsibility Environmental responsibility Axis’ environmental responsibility ranges from a local and direct responsibility within the organization to a more indirect responsibility outside the organization. We work with our environmental impacts along the value chain, focusing our efforts on where we have a chance to make the most difference. Read more on page 28. Our most important aspects are: > Materials in the products and product energy performance > Our carbon footprint: energy consumption, transports and emissions > Supplier environmental performance Social responsibility responsibility Axis’ social responsibility means an overall positive contribution to society as well as the safeguarding of human rights including health and safety at the workplace. We take longterm responsibility for how our operations impact our employees, suppliers and partners. We are also involved in different initiatives to benefit local communities and the end users of our products in the countries where we operate. Read more on page 38. Our most important aspects are: > Occupational health and safety > Equal opportunities and non-discrimination > Labor practices and human rights in the supply chain PAGE 18 Responsibility along the value chain Axis’ business model has been and is extremely important for the company’s successful growth; including sourcing from suppliers to sales via distributors and partners to end customers. By informing and auditing suppliers and informing partners, Axis works to promote sustainable conduct along the entire value chain. SubThe aspects that are most important for Axis from a suppliers sustainability perspective impact all or parts of the value chain. Anti-corruption Successful business model A xis informs and audits its Axis has six contract manufacturers, a large number of suppliers and informs its partners strategic component suppliers and over 80,000 partners to ensure that all component sourcing, around the world. A strong partner network creates a global manufacturing, sales and distribution occur market presence and means that Axis is well-positioned to in a sustainable way. take advantage of the market’s growth potential. Through long-term and close collaboration, risks can be Axis’ indirect sales model is a core part of the company’s minimized and the company can focus on taking advantage strategy. Sales of Axis’ products and solutions take place via of opportunities, for sustainable growth. distributors, which sell on to system integrators and resellers, Materials in the pr which in turn sell to the end customers. This indirect business Important aspects model means that the direct responsibility for manufacturing, The illustration shows where the important sustainability distribution and installation largely rests with suppliers, aspects have an impact in the value chain. distributors, resellers and system integrators. The important aspects are more relevant in some parts Even though the legal responsibility for Axis’ sustainability of the value chain than others, while some aspects are Supplier environmen efforts only covers the company’s own operations, Axis relevant along the entire value chain. works to ensure that suppliers and partners minimize their environmental impact, act ethically and take economic and To read more about the aspects, see each area on the Occupational health social responsibility. following pages. Equal opportunities a Labor practices and h PAGE 19 Resellers / Contract End manufacturers CLCs AXIS Distributors System customers integrators Customer satisfaction Customer privacy and personal integrity oducts and product energy performance Our carbon footprint: energy consumption, transports and emissions tal performance and safety nd non-discrimination uman rights in the supply chain responsibility Business mission Axis makes it possible for people to create a safer and more secure world for citizens, employees and customers. Axis’ business mission is to drive the shift from analog to digital video surveillance and offer customers all the benefits of comprehensive Vision intelligent network video solutions. Innovating for a smarter, safer world. Mission Together, we pioneer intelligent network technology creating unique possibilities for partners, end users and employees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 21 Economic responsibility For Axis, it is natural to work on a long-term basis to achieve consistent Financial goals profitability and to create value. Axis has always prioritized profitable Axis’ financial goals aim to create a good basis for safeguarding growth. Historically, Axis has shown good growth, been profitable and shareholders’ interests for a long-term increase in value. has had stable finances. The financial goals for growth and profitability enable continual The economic value created by Axis benefits the stakeholders. Economic investments in line with the company’s strategies. Axis’ market-leading value is created for suppliers, distributors and partners, employees, position creates a good basis for achieving growth, profitability and society and shareholders. financial stability. Axis wants to be an industry leader when it comes to sustainable Further information may be found in Axis’ Annual Report for 2015. enterprise. As the market leader in network video, Axis has good opportunities to increase respect for the environment and improve the standard of sustainability efforts across the entire industry. Operating profit/EBIT Sales SEK M SEK M 900 7,000 800 6,000 700 5,000 600 4,000 500 400 3,000 SEK 6,635 million 300 SEK 881 million 2,000 200 1,000 100 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 conduct SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 BUSINESS CONDUCT PAGE 23 Business conduct – business ethics across the entire value chain Axis is the market leader in network video and is driving the development of innovative and intelligent security solutions, and it also has the ambition to act as a model when it comes to business ethics. Axis has long-term and close relationships with its partners, which contributes to ethical business conduct in the entire value chain and ensures that product development, manufacturing, sales and distribution take place in a sustainable way in the long term. Sustainability is a natural part of Axis’ business model and business As part of this approach of working close to its partners, Axis offers processes; from relations with suppliers to products and solutions at end various training courses and programs for sharing of knowledge. customers. All business relationships should be handled in a responsible, Within the framework of Axis Communications’ Academy, Axis since transparent, credible and consistent way. the start in 2005 has conducted a large number of training courses globally about the benefits of network video: 61,000 people have Axis works close to its partners to ensure that they act in accordance participated in classroom training, 33,000 in online courses and more with the company’s requirements. During the year, Axis increased and than 37,000 people have watched education videos. During 2015, clarified its demands for sustainable conduct from partners and added 10,000 people participated in classroom training arranged by Axis even more weight to sustainability efforts in the sales organization. Communications’ Academy. Long-term partner relationships Axis has an indirect sales model, which means that the company Long-term relationships with partners is an important part of Axis’ has a limited insight into projects and activities both forwards and business model. Axis has over 80,000 partners. Together with its partners, backwards in the value chain. The direct responsibility for manufacturing, Axis has the world’s largest base of installed network video products distribution and installation largely lies with suppliers, distributors, and solutions. resellers and system integrators. Axis informs its partners about its sustainability work with the aim that all of its partners should act A shared view on ethical business conduct, openness and transparency ethically. Also see Axis’ value chain on page 18-19. strengthens relationships between Axis and the company’s partners and contributes to sustainable long-term growth. Goals and target fulfilment Anti-corruption Axis has a policy of zero tolerance against all forms of corruption and bribery. >> Almost 100 percent of employees have signed Axis’ anti-corruption policy and have participated in training on these issues. >> All the company’s distributors have signed a supplementary agreement to the distributor agreement, where they undertake to act in accordance with laws and regulations in respect of corruption and bribery and to comply with Axis anti-corruption policy. >> The anti-corruption policy is implemented in all partner agreements at a silver and gold level. >> All suppliers have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and undertake to comply with Axis’ policy of zero tolerance against corruption. During the year, no incidents or suspicions of corruption have come to light. Customer satisfaction Axis aims to have long-term and close customer relationships and very satisfied customers. The latest customer survey, carried out in 2015, showed that 81 percent of customers were highly satisfied with Axis. Customer privacy and personal integrity Axis should handle customer privacy and personal integrity in a correct way. During 2015, Axis received no complaints relating to customer privacy. PAGE 24 BUSINESS CONDUCT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Ethical guidelines and rules Employees undertake to comply with the Code of Conduct, which lays down how they should act in commercial situations, internally and Axis has a Business Ethics Council, which ensures that business is externally. Training about what the Code of Conduct means in the dayconducted in a responsible way and in accordance with the company’s to-day work is part of the introduction program for new employees. business ethics policy. Furthermore, an export control policy is in place to guarantee compliance with export control regulations and Partners are expected, apart from complying with laws and regulations, Axis has signed the UN Global Compact. Axis complies with rules to also observe Axis’ Code of Conduct. Axis works to inform its partners for corporate governance such as the Swedish Code of Corporate about these guidelines and principles and about the expectations related Governance and has continued to upgrade its framework for internal to them. control based on COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission). Supplier Code of Conduct Axis has a number of carefully selected suppliers for manufacturing and Axis’ Code of Conduct assembly of its products. All suppliers have to sign and comply with Axis’ The Code of Conduct establishes the values and guidelines upon which Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on Axis’ Code of Conduct. Axis conducts its operations. The company’s Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, the UN Declaration of Human The Supplier Code of Conduct was introduced in 2011 in order to clarify Rights and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on the requirements on suppliers. Since its introduction, Axis’ supplier Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. requirements have also become more clearly defined. The UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 BUSINESS CONDUCT PAGE 25 “I am really impressed at how much thought and Almost 100 percent of employees have signed an agreement where effort Axis has put into environmentally friendly they undertake not to accept bribes or participate in corruption, in accordance with the anti-corruption policy. All new employees sign this manufacturing and good sustainable practices agreement when they are employed at Axis. This agreement is updated in its business. I think highly of Axis as a brand continuously and all employees sign the anti-corruption policy again at and knowing that Axis is planning for the future regular intervals. strengthens my appreciation of the company’s All employees have also participated in training aimed at learning about products and values.” these rules, Axis’ values and their application in day-to-day situations. The Board also signs the anti-corruption policy and is informed about what it implies. Marcel Bruyns, Product Manager, Axis informs its partners in order to ensure that they act in accordance Pinnacle Security Solutions, South Africa with the anti-corruption policy. This occurs in the form of webinars, at partner conferences and in newsletters to partners. The global anticorruption policy is implemented in all partner agreements at a silver and gold level. If a partner should breach the anti-corruption policy, then the partner agreement is not renewed. The UN Global Compact During the year, the company’s distributors – those that have not previously done so – signed a supplementary agreement to the The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest sustainability initiative and distributor agreement, where they undertake to act in accordance with is based on ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment laws and regulations in respect of corruption and bribery and to comply and anti-corruption. Axis signed the UN Global Compact in 2007 and has with Axis anti-corruption policy. All distributors have now signed the worked according to these guidelines ever since then. These are guiding supplementary agreement, which is a requirement for Axis to renew the principles for how Axis conducts its sustainability work. distributor agreement. Zero tolerance against corruption All suppliers must sign and comply with Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, Axis has zero tolerance against corruption and bribery. The company’s which incorporates Axis’ policy of zero tolerance against corruption market-leading position means that it is extra important to have a strong and bribery. Axis conduct regular audits of suppliers. Suppliers that policy against all types of corruption, bribery and conflicts of interest. fail to comply with the requirements are given the opportunity to take During the year, Axis has advanced its position in relation to anticorrective action and if this does not happen, the suppliers are gradually corruption work. phased out and replaced. Read more about supplier audits on page 35-36. Programs for employees, partners, distributors Whistleblower function and suppliers In order to ensure transparency, Axis has a whistleblower function where Axis has a global anti-corruption policy, which was adopted in 2012, in employees can report suspected cases of irregularities relating to the order to ensure that all business relations are conducted in a responsible, company or if someone becomes aware of something that violates the transparent, consistent and credible way. This policy is part of the company’s Code of Conduct. How the whistleblower function should be program against bribery, corruption and conflicts of interest operated used is described on the Intranet and in the Code of Conduct. Reports by the company and helps to clarify Axis’ standpoint on the issue, both can be made via a special e-mail address that reaches representatives internally and externally. from Human Resources and the Management. PAGE 26 BUSINESS CONDUCT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Customer satisfaction Axis has a long-term and close cooperation with its customers. Enduring customer relationships and satisfied Overall customer satisfaction customers are of great importance for Axis’ long-term growth and success, and the company works actively to (survey 2015) meet customer requirements as far as possible. Customer surveys are conducted regularly at distributors and partners all over the world, in the markets where Axis operates. The latest customer survey to measure Axis’ business 81% highly satisfied performance among sales channel participants was conducted in 2015. The survey was sent to Axis’ sales with Axis channels across 47 countries, and more than 11,000 partners (2013: 80%) responded to the survey. Customers were asked if they were satisfied overall with Axis as a partner, if they would recommend Axis to others and what Axis can improve. 0 The customer survey showed that 81 percent of respondents were highly satisfied with Axis. This very high satisfaction rate has been stable since the last survey was conducted in -50 50 2013. Customer loyalty according to the Net Promoter Score (NPS) was 57. The NPS score has increased by 19 percent 57 NPS* since the survey was first conducted in 2010. (2013: 58) In the survey, product quality, services and people were seen as the best assets of Axis by a large majority of respondents. -100 100 Axis received high ratings for its leadership in IP technology and understanding of the market. Axis is viewed as a reliable, high-quality company and partners are highly satisfied with * Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a common method used to measure customer the attitude of Axis staff. The wide range of products and loyalty. It is calculated as follows: NPS = % of Promoters % of Detractors. solutions is considered the best offer in the market, fulfilling The index ranges from – 100 to + 100, meaning that any figure above 0 is most needs and applications. positive, and results above 50 are very good. Areas with potential for improvement were also identified and followed up and corrective action taken. As a part of the corporate culture, all employees are encouraged to interact with customers to obtain first-hand information Regular surveys about how they perceive the collaboration in order to develop and Axis conducts regular customer surveys in order to measure how further improve customer relationships. The interaction with customers satisfied customers are with the company and how they think Axis can is inscribed in the personnel policy, which covers all employees. improve its work, products and solutions. The results from the surveys are evaluated against previous surveys and feedback is provided to the relevant departments in the organization, so that Axis can take possible corrective action. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 BUSINESS CONDUCT PAGE 27 Customer privacy and personal integrity privacy masks, which automatically blur faces and hide some parts of the images, time restrictions for recording and authority limitations. Axis’ intelligent security solutions enable a smarter and safer world. Axis’ products and solutions support encryption, IP address filtering and The need for surveillance solutions to provide increased security and other forms of data protection. protection is balanced against a potential impact on personal integrity. Apart from legal restrictions for use of surveillance technologies, A major reason why people are positively disposed to surveillance international trade restrictions such as sanctions and embargoes have cameras in public places, according to opinion surveys, is the perception an impact on exports and sales of some products to certain countries. that surveillance cameras counteract crime. By closely following national and international laws, applying sectorspecific best practice and using technological innovations, customers Network cameras can also be employed to monitor traffic flows, emit can obtain the increased security and protection that video surveillance an alarm in emergency situations and can be used for various types solutions offer while impacting personal integrity as little as possible. of intelligent analytics to improve the efficiency of societal functions. For Axis and the company’s partners, it is of the utmost importance to Continual dialogue Axis invites all distributors to examine and inspect how Axis stores and correctly manage personal integrity and customer privacy. Apart from handles data, however, to date no distributors have elected to do so. being necessary to comply with laws and regulations, it is crucial for Axis regularly invites in representatives from public authorities such as retaining long-term customer loyalty and competitiveness. the County Administrative Board to its partner meetings, in order to have a dialogue about questions relating to personal integrity. Protected systems To ensure customer integrity and confidentiality, Axis handles all Questions relating to customer privacy and personal integrity are handled information about partners and end customers in very well-protected immediately by the company and are taken extremely seriously. Axis systems. Axis works continually to further improve security in order to had no reported incidents or complaints relating to customer privacy protect customer information. during 2015. Correct use Axis’ network cameras and solutions are important components in security systems. The end users are responsible for how surveillance cameras are used and how video material is stored, which are the two most important aspects of personal integrity. Axis is careful with its choice of partners, and works actively to inform its partners in order to ensure, as far as possible, that the company’s network cameras and solutions are used properly, and that video material is protected and stored securely. When partners and end users act according to Axis’ recommendations and guidelines as well as national and international laws, the risk that the cameras will be used in an improper way is reduced. Technological innovations in network video enable anonymization and functionality limitations, which increase the protection of personal integrity. Together with partners, Axis has developed advanced software solutions that, when implemented in surveillance systems, can be used to further increase protection of personal integrity and ensure that cameras only record what is necessary. Examples of such functions are responsibility SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 29 Environmental responsibility – environmental considerations throughout the value chain Axis strives to minimize the environmental impact from its operations and from the company’s products and solutions. Most of Axis’ environmental impacts are indirect, related to production, logistics and energy consumption in the product end user phase. Therefore Axis strives to make improvements along the value chain and throughout the products’ entire life cycle. Axis takes local and global environmental responsibility and collaborates with suppliers and partners to minimize the direct and indirect environmental impact and thereby also limit the company’s carbon footprint. Environmental initiatives 2015 Axis implemented a number of measures during the year. These include: >> offsetting carbon for all business trips and introducing new stricter guidelines for all employee business trips >> launching and introducing a Green Design Evaluation Form for more environmentally conscious product development >> signing a green lease for the headquarters in Lund >> introducing a new system solution; GreenSoft’s system solution to collect, validate and maintain data regarding product content. Goals and target fulfilment Facilities Reducing electricity per employee at the headquarters and CLC in Lund. >> Reducing electricity consumption by 5 percent per employee at headquarters compared to 2014. During the year, Axis increased electricity consumption per employee from 2.6 MWh to 2.8 MWh. >> Reducing electricity consumption by 5 percent per employee at the CLC in Lund compared to 2014. During 2015, electricity consumption per employee was reduced from 5.3 MWh to 5.1 MWh. Freights >> Reducing CO2 emissions from freight transports by 20 percent per ton-km by 2016 compared to 2011. During the year, CO2 emissions per ton-km increased by 9.1 percent. Since 2011, CO2 emissions decreased by 7.4 percent. >> Average decrease of 5 percent in CO2 emissions (for Axis-controlled outbound transports) per ton-km to customers, compared to the average CO2 emissions in 2012. Since 2012, there has been a reduction of 1.1 percent. >> Increase ocean and road transport in relation to air transport. Use ocean and road freight for more than 60 percent of transports (ton-km). Transport distribution by mode in 2015: Ocean/road 53 percent (2014: 76 percent) Air freight 47 percent (2014: 24 percent) PAGE 30 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Green Design and the environment, and carries out surveys mapping the use of conflict Axis launched and introduced a Green Design Evaluation Form in its free minerals. product development processes for all projects. The aim is to integrate environmental considerations into product development in an even In addition to complying with applicable legislation and guidelines such better way, while the products also should meet quality and functionality as the EU’s RoHS directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and the requirements. REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals), the use of further substances and materials is restricted The Green Design Evaluation Form makes it easier to evaluate various by Axis such as organic tin compounds, bromine and chlorine. aspects such as optimization of product weight and volume, use of recycled material and restrictions on use of material containing Greensoft substances that are hazardous to health and/or the environment. Other During 2015, Axis evaluated and started the implementation of a new aspects include easy assembly and disassembly of products, number of system solution, Greensoft. Greensoft offers Axis the possibility to components and material waste. systematically collect, validate and maintain data regarding product content. This implies a better overview of compliance data and will Since 2015, the Green Design Evaluation Form shall be used in all save resources. projects. During 2016, a summary will be produced of the concrete results of the Green Design Evaluation Form. Phasing out hazardous materials Axis’ cameras consist of different materials, including aluminum, zinc, The Green Design Evaluation Form follows Axis’ Green Design Guidelines. steel, stainless steel, PC/ABS (polycarbonate/acrylonitrile butadiene These guidelines are based on lifecycle analyses that were conducted styrene), PC (polycarbonate), PA (polyamide), PMMA (polymethyl on a number of cameras. methacrylate), polyurethane, silicone, thermoplastic elastomer, and rubber. Green lease Axis has signed a green lease with one of its property owners in Lund. Halogen-free products The agreement means that Axis and the property owner will work Axis has a long-term goal to offer halogen-free products. According actively together to reduce the environmental impact of the premises to the International Electrochemical Commission’s (IEC) definition, the and property: reduce energy usage and water consumption, consider material should contain less than 900 ppm of chlorine or bromine or environmental impacts when choosing materials for the premises, less than 1,500 ppm of halogens in total to be considered halogen-free. improve waste management, adopt a green IT strategy and aim to Chlorine is mainly found in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and chlorinated flame facilitate employees in using more sustainable forms of transport when retardants. Bromine is found in brominated flame retardants. they travel to and from work. A concrete action plan will be produced during 2016. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) PVC is damaging both to the environment and to human health and can release potentially harmful substances during its life cycle. Axis strives Reduced environmental impact to phase-out PVC plastic from all its products and has been successful Axis works systematically to ensure that product development, material in these efforts. Around 70 percent of Axis network video cameras choice, material origin, components and packaging meet Axis’ strict and encoders are PVC-free. The PVC-free camera models include the quality and functionality requirements, while minimizing environmental AXIS M1124, AXIS M1125, AXIS Q6114-E, AXIS Q6115-E, AXIS Q6128-E, impacts. AXIS P14 Series, AXIS Q35 Series and AXIS P32 Series (products released within series by 2015). This includes using recycled instead of newly manufactured plastics, reducing the number of product parts, choosing low-weight components, Bromine minimizing material waste, optimizing assembly and disassembly, In its work to reduce the use of bromine, Axis conducts thorough improving the efficiency of energy consumption in the operations and surveys of bromine in all components used in the company’s products. in the products, streamlining logistics flows, choosing environmentally Bromine and brominated flame retardants are mainly found in plastics, friendly transports and optimizing product packaging. circuit boards, in electronic components including circuits, transistors and connectors. Material choice Axis works to reduce the environmental impact from material in the products, minimize the use of substances that are dangerous for humans SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 31 Green Design Camera Concept Conscious decisions in the product development process can The camera prototype should have a low weight, be easy reduce a product’s environmental impact without affecting to assemble and disassemble, easy to repair, be efficiently its mechanical requirements or increasing the cost. This is packaged in order to minimize environmental impacts during shown by ‘Development of a Green Design Camera Concept,’ transport and should be possible to recycle efficiently. a thesis that students from the Faculty of Engineering LTH at Lund University, have conducted at Axis. Components that are still in working order should be recycled. Energy should be saved, among other ways by using Green Product Design group environmentally friendly material and production methods as Axis is working to systematically integrate environmental well as modes of transport with a low environmental impact. aspects into its product development processes. Axis’ Green The packaging should have as low weight and volume as Product Design group, consisting of environmental, product possible in order to reduce fuel consumption during transport. development, design and mechanical engineers, works to ensure that the choice of design made in the product Result development phase minimizes the products’ environmental The final concept was a camera made of recycled material impact, which includes choosing components of as low weight with significantly fewer parts than the original model, which as possible, avoiding hazardous materials and using recycled does not need any adhesives or screws to be assembled or instead of newly manufactured plastics. disassembled. By disassembling the camera and stand during transport to the The Green Product Design group initiated the Green Design customer, packaging volume is decreased, thereby reducing Camera Concept project. transport costs and environmental impacts. Green Design Camera Concept project In the next stage, the different aspects will be verified and The aim of the project was to develop a green design concept implemented in the product development processes. for an existing Axis network camera, by modifying the mechanical design. Environmental aspects should play an As a result of this project, conscious choices have been made equally important role as other requirements during the when designing a new generation of the AXIS M10 Series. development work. In the new AXIS M10 cameras, the main parts are made of The overall camera cost should not be affected, and the plastic containing 80 percent recycled material. Green Design Camera concept should meet the same mechanical requirements as the existing camera model – The camera chassis is made of recycled aluminum and will the AXIS M10 Series. be easy to disassemble, improving recycling possibilities. The packaging is optimized which has a positive environmental The main focus of the Green Design Camera concept was impact on transports. choice of material, waste production and energy use. Furthermore, improved design allows automatic adjustment The material should be environmentally friendly, save resources of focus, enabling customers to make adjustments by during production, not contain any hazardous substances, and themselves. This minimizes transport as well as the amount recycled and recyclable material should be used. of scrapped units. Exploded view of AXIS Q6045 MkII Chassis bracket: Recycled aluminium, ADC12 Printed circuit board assembly (PCBA): Contain electronic components made of various metals and plastics. The printed circuit board (PCB) itself is made of epoxy laminate containing flame retardants, silver, copper etc. Chassi: Recycled aluminium, ADC12 Dome bracket: Polycarbonate/acrylonitrile butadiene styrene Screws: Stainless steel Dome ring: Recycled aluminium, ADC 12 Clear dome: Pan/tilt/zoom mechanism (PTZ): Polymethyl methacrylate Cover view: Made of recycled aluminum, ADC12, cables made (PMMA) Dome gasket: Polycarbonate/acrylonitrile of various plastics and metal, e.g. copper Rubber butadiene styrene Recycled material travel and paper consumption. Data for Axis’ Carbon Footprint Report Axis strives to increase the use of recycled material in the products, has been obtained from Axis’ headquarters in Lund, from the company’s e.g. by replacing newly manufactured plastics with recycled plastics. regional offices and from Axis’ configuration and logistics centers. During the year, Axis has phased in and verified two additional plastics containing recycled plastic, which will be used in development projects According to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, a company is starting from 2016. accountable for emissions resulting from operations over which it has control, in either financial or operational terms. The report also includes Roughly 95 percent of the material in Axis products is recyclable or emissions from all outbound and inbound freights controlled by Axis. combustible in accordance with Swedish recycling standards. The The choice of system boundaries has an impact on the results of the packaging material is made of recycled material to some extent. analysis, which needs to be taken into consideration when comparing Axis’ results with those of other Carbon Footprint reports. Energy consumption in the products In the product development process it is important for Axis to address Carbon footprint the energy efficiency of its products and to make product energy Compared to 2014, Axis’ carbon footprint in 2015 increased from 17,209 consumption as efficient as possible. Axis has conducted life cycle to 23,940 tons CO2e, an increase of approx. 39 percent. analyses of a number of products. The analyses scrutinize processes ranging from the product development process and use of the camera The increase is mainly explained by a drastic increase of third party in the customer’s business, to the disposal of the product at end of life. deliveries but also by a change in the calculation of emissions, all in The results of the analyses indicate that between 60 and 80 percent of accordance with the GHG Protocol. In the report for 2015, an additional the total environmental impacts of the studied network cameras are calculation factor, indirect upstream emissions in Scope 3, has been related to energy consumption by the end users. added for e.g. all third party deliveries (road, ocean and air freights). Axis works systematically to further improve energy efficiency by energyThis has had a great impact on the total amount of CO2e emissions. optimizing software and hardware, while ensuring optimal product Approximately 3,000 tons CO2e of 2015’s total CO2e emissions were functionality, performance and image quality. due to the updated calculation method. Upstream emissions have been added in 2015 due to new scientifically accepted emission factors for this data – data that was not available during 2014. Updates in the Addressing our carbon footprint calculation tool will be continuously made as new emission factors are Several activities related to Axis’ operations generate carbon dioxide added when established data are available. emissions, which have an impact on the global climate. Therefore, Axis aims to take responsibility in these areas, as well as in the manufacturing In addition to the above, Axis has also included three new sales offices and design of its products. Part of this work is to reduce our overall in the reporting scope. carbon footprint and to impose stringent demands on our suppliers. By annually monitoring and reporting our carbon dioxide emissions, we get However, besides the updated calculation method, Axis still had a an idea of which processes generate the most emissions and where we significant increase in emissions due to third party deliveries. In 2015, need to focus our attention to reduce our impact. emissions from inbound and outbound freights increased by approx. 28 percent (upstream emission factor excluded). Inbound deliveries were The 2015 Carbon Footprint report focuses on emissions related to accountable for the largest part of this increase. For more information transports, energy consumption of premises, company cars, business regarding Axis’ logistics and the reason for the increase, see page 33-34. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 33 The increase in the number of air freights and the change in calculation Axis cannot impact the electricity connected to ventilation itself – this is of emissions have also had a negative impact on related key performance controlled by the property owner. In late 2015, Axis signed a green lease indicators (KPI). During 2015, Axis has also grown, including considerable with the property owner to further improve collaboration to minimize increases in product sales, number of employees, and in terms of the electricity use at Axis’ premises (see above). extending our facilities. Emissions relative to sales have increased from 3.2 tons CO2e to 3.6 ton CO2e per SEK 100 M. However, if emissions due Another way to reduce electricity consumption is to replace physical data to the change in calculation method are excluded, this KPI figure has servers with virtual servers. At the headquarters, about 85-90 percent actually decreased slightly, from 3.2 to 3.1 CO2e per SEK 100 M. of all servers are virtual data centers. Despite the expansion of the reporting scope, emissions generated by Axis also has a goal that the CLC in Lund should reduce electricity conAxis employees, such as energy and paper use, leased cars and business sumption per employee by 5 percent compared to 2014. In 2015, electricity travel2 were the same as last year, 2.3 tons CO2e per employee. consumption fell from 5.3 MWh per employee to 5.1 MWh per employee. Corporate business travel accounts for a large part of the greenhouse Logistics and transports gas emissions generated by Axis employees and is the second largest Axis continually works on reviewing and streamlining its logistics chain; source of Axis’ total emissions; approx. 12 percent of all emissions. To both inbound transports, from contract manufacturers to the company’s address this, Axis initiated carbon offsetting in 2015 for all business trips. six Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLCs), and outbound transports, from CLCs to distributors. All products should be configured as close If the figure for 2015 – 2,800 tons of CO2e – is deducted from Axis’ total to the final destinations as possible. Axis aims to use ocean and road CO2e emissions, the above KPI for Axis employees would be 1.3 ton CO2e. transports as far as possible; ocean transports from suppliers to CLCs Axis is continuing its efforts to reduce the number of business trips, for and mainly road transports but also air transports of products from example, by conducting webinar training courses and virtual meetings. CLCs to distributors. To read more about the company’s carbon offsetting efforts, see page 34. Manufacturing close to the company’s markets implies greater flexibility, Energy consumption in premises as short transport distances reduce lead times. The goal is to lower At the headquarters in Lund, where 62 percent of all Axis employees delivery costs and reduce CO2 emissions generated by product transports. are based, the target for 2015 was to reduce electricity consumption Axis has manufacturing in the three regions Americas, Asia and EMEA. per employee by five percent compared to 2014. Unfortunately, the electricity consumption increased from 2.6 MWh to 2.8 MWh per Reduced emissions employee on an annual basis. An explanation is that Axis has increased Axis has a target3 of reducing its total CO2 emissions per ton-km for the size of its premises. Another explanation is that the total electricity freight transports by 20 percent until the end of 2016, compared to 2011. consumption for 2015 also includes electricity used for lighting of public During the year, CO2 emissions per ton-km increased by 9.1 percent. Since areas and for ventilation of the headquarters. These sources were not the target was introduced in 2011, Axis has reduced its CO2 emissions included in the total consumption for 2014. per ton-km for freight transports by 7.4 percent. Ton CO2e per sales Kg CO2e per employee Ton CO2e per scope 5 25,000 5 Ton CO2e per SEK 100 M Kg CO2e per employee 4 20,000 4 3 3 15,000 Scope 1 2 2 10,000 Scope 2 Ton CO2e 5,000 Scope 3 1 1 0 0 0 Ton CO2e per 2013 2014 2015 Kg CO2e 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 SEK 100 M 3.9 3.2 3.6 2.7 2.3 2.3 Our total direct and indirect Our own emissions from offices and Approximately 73 percent of Axis’ operation-related emissions (i.e. including third party business travel (excluding third party greenhouse gas emissions were caused by freight transports, deliveries) in CO2e are followed up in deliveries) are measured in CO2e per constituting the largest part of our carbon footprint. During relation to sales. employee. Despite the expansion of 2015, an additional calculation factor, indirect upstream reporting scope, emissions were the emissions, was added in Scope 3, which has had a significant same as last year. impact on the increase of emissions in the scope. 2 Third party deliveries excluded, this figure is therefore not affected by the change in calculation method. 3 Note that Axis’ logistics target addresses reduction of CO2 emissions not CO2-equivalent emissions. The calculations used to measure our target are based on CO2-data from our shipping agents, not data from the Carbon Footprint tool. The reason for this is that improvements made by our shipping agents will not be accounted for in the Carbon Footprint tool since the tool uses general CO2 data. Data from shipping agents do not include upstream emissions. PAGE 34 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 It is mainly the CO2 emissions for inbound transports that have increased; As Axis had significantly more air freight than planned, the distribution by 31.8 percent compared to the average for 2014. CO2 emissions per of modes of transport during the year was not satisfactory. 53 percent ton-km for Axis-controlled outbound transports to customers have was ocean or road transport and 47 percent was air transport (based increased by an average of 2.5 percent during the year, compared to the on gross weight). average for 2014. Since 2012, the reduction was 1.1 percent. Axis aims to manage its logistics chain even more effectively and works The reason why CO2 emissions increased during 2015 was because Axis systematically to reach the set environmental targets, while meeting had significantly more air transports than planned. A rapid change in customer needs, demands and expectations. Service and deliveries to demand occurred for new camera models. Product demand has been customers are always prioritized. Sometimes product transports need strong in the US, but the warehouse is located in Europe; initially Axis to occur by air. only has one warehouse for new products. Due to this quick fluctuation in demand, the company needed to use air freight, both regular air Offsetting CO2 emissions from transports transports and courier flights, to meet customer demand. The fast shift Since 2012, Axis has offset part of its carbon footprint from outbound in demand created shortages and also increased the need of air freight transports in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA). During for inbound deliveries from contract manufacturers. 2015, Axis offset 535 tons of CO2e emissions in accordance with the CarbonNeutral Protocol. The CarbonNeutral Protocol is an independently verified international offsetting scheme, which guarantees that each ton of CO2-equivalent sold is offset by reducing one ton of CO2-equivalent emitted in an offset project. Optimization of packaging Axis is working to optimize and reduce its packaging by using new material and developing innovative packaging methods. In this way, environmental impacts during transports are reduced as well as transport costs. Carbon offsets for business trips In 2015, Axis started using inflatable plastic fitting material for packaging During the year, Axis drew up new stricter guidelines for some of its products, instead of plastic foam (Stratocell) or corrugated business trips with the ambition, among other things, plastic board. of reducing the number of travelers and trips. Starting from 2015, Axis also offsets its carbon footprint for all Inflatable plastic fitting is easier to recycle, weighs less and takes business trips. up significantly less space during transports. The inflatable plastic fitting is also reused. After the products have been delivered from the Axis offset 2,800 tons CO2-equivalents from business travel contract manufacturers to the CLCs in inflatable plastic fitting, the same related emissions during 2015. The offset occurs through a packaging material is reused when the products are later repacked for Plan Vivo project called Trees of Hope in Malawi in which transport on to customers. In this way, resources are saved and there trees, such as mangos, citrus and acacia, are planted in is less waste. cooperation with smallholder farmers. On average, five trees are planted for every ton of carbon dioxide. In 2015, about The new fitting material in some cases has also resulted in reduced 15,000 trees were planted. packaging sizes. The reduced physical space during transports has generated cost savings and has had a positive environmental impact Apart from the fact that the trees absorb CO2, the project on transports. 19 products use inflatable plastic fitting as a packaging has a number of other environmental and social benefits. It material. provides food and fruit for consumption and sale; wood and fodder to livestock; preserves biological diversity; protects Environmental policy the ground and reduces soil erosion and also improves the Axis’ environmental policy defines the environmental work and stipulates organic material in the ground. that the company’s products and solutions should be developed, manufactured, distributed and sold in a way that minimizes environmental With the income from the project, the farmers can buy impacts while complying with national and international laws and livestock, food, seeds and fertilizers and also pay school regulations. The environmental aspect should also be considered in the fees and materials for their children. day-to-day work, in the company’s own operations. The environmental policy is a part of the mandatory introduction program for employees and all employees shall be familiar with the environmental policy. PAGE 35 Long-term responsibility – supply chain in focus Axis has close collaboration with its suppliers and conducts regular audits to ensure that they meet Axis’ requirements. All Axis suppliers, subcontractors and contract manufacturers are expected, in addition to complying with laws and regulations, to act according to the Axis Supplier Code of Conduct. Axis has carefully selected a number of suppliers for manufacturing and Suppliers should have control over their energy consumption, waste and assembly of its products. chemical management, emission levels and have well-functioning water and air purification systems. In the supply chain minerals and metals are mined, oil is pumped for plastics, biomaterial and trees are harvested and chemicals are produced. Suppliers should either be ISO 14001 certified or have a management Energy and other resources are consumed in the factories, creating a system in accordance with ISO 14001, and meet the company’s risk of pollution and hazardous waste. The work in the factories can be requirements in other respects. heavy and dangerous, which means that it is important to have thorough regulations and the employees’ occupational health and safety in focus. Axis’ requirements also include responsible sourcing of minerals aimed Axis has a direct relationship with 220 suppliers in total: 74 in China, 46 at preventing the use of conflict minerals (read more under Conflict in the rest of Asia, 81 in Europe and 19 in Central and North America. minerals). In the first tier of the supply chain, Axis has six contract manufacturers, Axis also inserts an additional paragraph into supplier contracts, when located in China, Mexico, Poland, South Korea and Thailand that produce appropriate, which lists prohibited substances, such as hazardous the printed circuit board assemblies and assemble Axis’ products. In the substances that Axis does not allow in its products. second tier of the supply chain, Axis has strategic component suppliers all over the world. Processes here include moulding and pressure casting. Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct was introduced in 2011 in order to clarify the requirements on suppliers. Since the introduction, the requirements Suppliers are chosen based on criteria including environmental imposed by Axis on its suppliers have become more clearly-defined and considerations, ethics, quality, price, and flexibility, in no particular the collaboration with Axis has meant that many suppliers have improved order of priority. their sustainability efforts. During 2015, three of the suppliers that are critical for Axis in environmental and sustainability aspects made Initiatives 2015 significant improvements in relation to chemical management, waste Initiatives implemented by Axis during the year to further improve management, safety and working hours. collaboration with suppliers and to promote a shared view of sustainability included translation of the Supplier Code of Conduct into Chinese, Thorough supplier audits production of new training material for suppliers and producing a new Axis conducts supplier audits to follow up how suppliers comply with conflict mineral policy. the Supplier Code of Conduct and the company’s requirements relating to environmental impacts, social responsibility and business ethics. The supplier audit processes where also improved during the year. The Suppliers in both the first and second tier are audited. Axis has conducted questionnaire has been clarified to improve the follow-up of completed supplier audits for many years, but in 2008 the company increased the supplier audits; it is easier to follow up deviations, planned improvements requirements considerably on suppliers’ environmental work and on their as well as timeframes for implementation. sustainability efforts generally. Supplier Code of Conduct Suppliers are classified in order to identify which ones have a significant Axis’ suppliers sign and comply with Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, impact on Axis in environmental and other sustainability aspects. This which is based on Axis’ Code of Conduct and the principles of the UN classification is based on risk levels, taking account of country, sector, Global Compact in the areas of anti-corruption, human rights, working trustworthiness and previous experience. In total, 84 percent of suppliers environment and environment. These requirements include prohibition classified as having a significant impact have been audited. of child labor and all types of forced or compulsory labor. PAGE 36 Suppliers not yet audited include new suppliers that are expecting audits as well as larger electronics and accessories suppliers such as Dell and Hitachi. Suppliers that are being phased out have not been audited either. During an audit, Axis environmental and quality engineers visit the factory along with a local representative from the company, where there is one. The inspection takes between one and two days. During an audit, Axis inspects the entire production process up to final delivery, the factory’s environmental impact and working conditions, including the physical working environment for personnel. This includes working hours and working routines, chemical management, fire safety, noise levels, identification and measurement of various kinds of emissions and processes for ensuring that the operations are run in an ethical way. The audit also includes investigating if there is any form of compulsory or child labor. During 2015, Axis has not identified or discovered any form of child labor or compulsory labor. Interviews are conducted with both management and staff. If a supplier does not meet Axis’ requirements, then the supplier and Axis together produce an action plan containing measures to be taken. If the measures Audits during the year are not implemented then the supplier is phased-out and replaced. Excessive overtime work among employees is a challenge at suppliers in China. In consultation with Axis, one of Axis’ Chinese die casting Positive effects from Axis’ supplier audits include improved handling of suppliers has taken measures to correct the overtime situation. The chemicals, reduced risk of accidents and a generally improved working supplier introduced a new wage system, which is based on competence, environment. The risk of environmental and occupational accidents performance and seniority, a new policy and shift work model, which decreases because Axis ensures that suppliers evaluate their risks and has meant that employee overtime has decreased. Since the new system address the ones that are deemed significant. was introduced, overtime has been reduced to a maximum of 36 hours a month (per employee). Axis will continue to closely monitor how the Axis also conducts training with suppliers in order to provide information process is going. about its values and requirements. Axis terminated collaboration with a die casting supplier during the year Auditors because the supplier did not meet Axis’ environmental requirements. Axis has 19 auditors in total. Some of the company’s quality engineers have participated in training in environmental auditing. A large part Axis Supplier Academy of the training occurs through mentorship, where an experienced Axis Supplier Academy is a program for training suppliers locally in environmental or quality engineer always accompanies a less experienced environmental and working environment issues. The training program for environmental or quality engineer. suppliers shall improve awareness and understanding of the requirements imposed by Axis. During 2015, training material was produced regarding Axis’ requirements under the Supplier Code of Conduct. During 2016, supplier training will be conducted. “I believe Axis shows great commitment to product design today and communicates progress well but the challenge is always to really raise the bar and keep innovation at the top of the agenda. Very good Goal and target fulfilment audit work is taking place to ensure compliance 95 percent of the suppliers that have a major impact on with international environmental standards and the Axis in terms of sustainability should have an Axis-approved Supplier Code of Conduct.” environmental and sustainability management system, or be certified according to ISO 14001. Graeme Elder 91 percent of suppliers have such Axis-approved management Sr Social & Environmental Responsibility systems in place, or are certified according to ISO 14001. The Jabil Circuit Inc. remaining 4 percent are new suppliers that are expecting audits or suppliers that are to be phased out for various reasons. PAGE 37 Conflict minerals Axis works systematically to prevent any soSuppliers must report the origin of the minerals called conflict minerals in the company’s products. and describe how they are working to ensure Conflict minerals include gold, tantalum, tin and that their components only contain conflict-free tungsten in cases where they originate from the minerals. Democratic Republic of the Congo and nearby countries. Their extraction creates disputes and Suppliers must identify and inform Axis about trade in these minerals finances armed conflicts. all smelters in the value chain that supply gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. This includes handling Axis follows recommendations and guidelines any irregularities in the event that a smelter does from the electronic industry organization, the not meet the demands imposed by Axis. Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Axis expects its suppliers to comply with Section with regard to taking social responsibility across 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and the entire supply chain. Consumer Protection Act, when applicable, and to have policies and due diligence measures in During the year, Axis established a conflict mineral place that will enable Axis to reasonably assure policy concerning the company’s approach to that the products and components supplied to the conflict minerals. Axis will not accept, tolerate company are conflict-free and do not originate or engage in any sourcing activities, which may from sourcing activities which may finance conflict finance conflict or lead to any form of human or lead to human rights abuses. Suppliers are rights abuse or forced labor. expected to report their status to Axis regarding conflict minerals using the Conflict-Free Sourcing A xis has a well-documented process for Initiative (CFSI) Conflict Minerals Reporting ensuring that the minerals used by suppliers and Template. subcontractors are conflict-free. More than 80 percent of Axis’ suppliers have Under the Axis Supplier Code of Conduct, all reported the origin of the minerals in their products suppliers have undertaken not to supply any and components via the reporting template. components to Axis containing conflict minerals. responsibility SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 39 Social responsibility – what it means for Axis Axis has more than 2,100 employees in over 50 countries. The company’s operations, products and solutions have a great impact on many people’s lives. Axis aims to offer an attractive and secure workplace, take long-term social responsibility and invest in social initiatives which have a positive impact on its own organization and surroundings. Axis as a workplace demands on suppliers and partners (see also the article Long-term responsibility supply chain in focus). Committed and well-qualified employees are an important factor behind Axis’ long-term and successful growth. Axis takes great care to To further improve the working environment, Axis implemented a be an attractive employer and to offer a safe working environment. All number of measures during the year, including: employees should have good development opportunities. The company works actively for increased equality and diversity in the organization. >> drawing up a new rehabilitation process for Sweden aimed at getting persons who are ill back to work faster. Careful recruitment in all markets is very important for Axis’ >> implementation of initiatives to work preventively with continued growth and for maintaining its position as a market leader health issues and enhance safety at the workplace in many in network video. countries: work environment training in Eastern Europe, safety inspections in Singapore, first aid training in Southern During the year, Axis employed 198 people, which was an increase of Europe, introduction of occupational healthcare for all 10 percent compared to 2014. In the Asia Pacific region, 50 percent of employees in Northern Europe and health checks and training those employed during 2015 were women. in preventive healthcare and fire fighting for all employees in South America. Occupational health and safety Axis follows national laws and guidelines for the industry in all countries where the company operates and makes sure to impose the same Goals and target fulfilment Occupational health and safety >> Managers and employees should have a good insight into how Axis handles working environment issues; that the company conducts training and safety inspections, develops action plans when required, and also arranges lectures to prevent ill health. The information initiatives during the year were significant. >> Axis should maintain the same level of absence due to illness as the previous year, 2.2 percent. The level of absence due to illness was 2.43 percent in 2015 (Sweden). Equal opportunities and non-discrimination >> Axis shall raise the profile of women in technological areas in the company. The Axis women’s network has promoted exchange of knowledge and women’s careers. >> Axis shall support initiatives aimed at raising the profile of women externally in the technology field, such as Flickor på Teknis; Axis has helped with financing and personnel for information and training purposes. >> Diversity shall continue to improve internally. A person has been appointed to work specifically with diversity issues. There were no reported incidents of discrimination in 2015. PAGE 40 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Dialogue, training and working environment council Axis has a network, Axis Q Network, for female employees in Sweden. 72 Axis has several important tools for ensuring that the company has a percent of female employees in Sweden participate. The aim is to meet, pleasant and safe workplace: network, inspire, exchange experience and ideas with women outside their own department and to facilitate career development. >> All employees have annual performance development reviews. These allow employees to give their view of Axis as a Surveys, analysis and policies workplace. Action plans are created in connection with the Axis continuously conducts employee surveys. The employee surveys development discussions. aim to obtain an insight into and knowledge of the employees’ view of >> Information about workplace accidents is compiled annually the company as a workplace. Axis has participated in A Great Place To in each country. Work surveys (AGPTW) in Sweden, USA and Germany. Through A Great >> HR managers globally ensure that all regions follow the Place To Work, Axis obtains company-specific results and it can compare correct working hours and that employees never receive less itself to other companies that have carried out such a study. than the minimum salary. >> In Sweden, systematic working environment efforts are Axis has conducted a gender analysis study within the AGPTW framework. ongoing, including annual safety inspections and safety The company has identified some differences between the views of men committee meetings. and women regarding organization and leadership. When required, Axis has created an action plan to work further on these issues. >> Managers in Sweden participate in work environment training. >> There are two workplace health and safety teams in Sweden, Axis has a number of policies, which all employees, managers and Board whose purpose is to pursue systematic working efforts in the members follow. These include a Harassment and Equality policy and health and safety field at the workplace. a Code of Conduct. The policies clearly state what the responsibility of >> All employees, managers and Board members follow policies each person is. Just like other policies relating to Axis as a workplace, such as: a Global Working Environment policy and a Global these policies should be Travel Security policy where Axis has entered into partnership applied to all activities with International SOS and Control Risks. connected to Axis. >> Axis has a Travel Security Portal with information about destinations and health and safety risks as well as a number Career, collaborations Axis corporate that employees can call for 24/7 advice and assistance. and recruitment In order to attract and retain culture is built on Equal opportunities and non-discrimination the most committed and the company’s Axis shall be a workplace which does not allow any form of discrimination skilled employees, Axis offers or harassment based on gender, sexual orientation, race, color, religious good career opportunities core values: beliefs, national origin, ancestry, age, civil status, disability or anything and competitive salaries. Axis else that is protected by law in the countries where Axis operates. operates a bonus program It should be just as easy for women as for men to have a career, regardless of background. that is directed towards all people in the company. All ACT AS ONE ALWAYS OPEN employees have an annual During the year, a number of initiatives were implemented in order to salary review and 97 percent promote greater equality and diversity: of the employees have had >> A salary survey was conducted in Sweden to identify if any a performance development review. THINK BIG salary differences exist between men and women. The survey showed that no significant differences exist between the In order to ensure continued salaries of men and women. good recruitment for future >> A person has been appointed to work specifically with diversity growth, Axis collaborates issues. with schools, colleges and >> Axis has been involved in Commitment Skåne, which means universities. Axis offers trainee positions for theses and sponsors projects that the company, among other things, will offer trainee such as Flickor på Teknis to get more women to apply for technical positions, mentorship and other initiatives to refugees who training courses and TransferTeknik, where Axis provides instruction have obtained a residence permit. This commitment is a way at schools in order to inspire students and explain how it is to work as to help integrate refugees into society. an engineer and about technology. Axis also contributes to research projects at Lund University. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PAGE 41 Freedom of association and collective bargaining All managers have a toolbox for the core values. This includes modules All employees in Sweden and 75 percent of Axis’ employees in total are with questions for conducting exercises and having discussions with covered by collective agreements. All employees have the right to join their teams. trade unions and to negotiate collective agreements, in accordance with local legislation and applicable conventions in each country. Anti-corruption Axis has zero-tolerance against corruption. Almost 100 percent of employees have signed an agreement where they undertake not to Corporate culture and values accept bribes or participate in corruption, in accordance with the antiAll employees must comply with the Code of Conduct and act according corruption policy. All new employees sign the agreement when they are to it and also take responsibility for upholding the company’s values. employed at Axis. The anti-corruption agreement was introduced in 2013 and is updated regularly, when all employees sign the agreement again. The unique corporate culture is an important factor behind Axis’ Anti-corruption training is part of the introductory programme for new successful development and is the basis for continued strong global employees. All employees have also participated in training aimed at growth. The corporate culture is characterized by an entrepreneurial learning about these rules and their application in everyday situations. spirit, openness and taking responsibility and is of critical importance for maintaining innovative power and dynamics in a rapidly growing organization. Training initiatives All new employees participate in an introductory program at the Axis safeguards its strong corporate culture and works systematically headquarters in Lund, to learn about the company’s corporate culture, on strengthening the culture as part of its efforts to create an attractive core values and business strategy and to gain an insight into all areas workplace for all employees. of the operations. There are a number of different initiatives for inspiration and training for both employees and managers. Inspirational lectures are held regularly at ‘brown-bag lunches’ in Lund on various relevant themes. IP@Axis (International Projects at Axis) is an international exchange program where employees gain the opportunity, during a limited period, to travel and work in another Axis office in the world as part of a project or to learn something specific. The program aims at personal development, career development, sharing competencies, improved networking and strengthening the corporate culture. In 2015, 7 people from different parts of the world participated in the exchange program. Relevant training courses are also offered to the employees in consultation with their respective managers. In order to strengthen leadership, which is of the utmost importance in building a strong corporate culture, the following programs are offered: >> Axis Leadership Program, a leadership program for all managers in Sweden. >> New Managers at Axis, a local management program at Axis in Lund. >> International Program for New Leaders, a 10-month long training program for new managers in the entire Group. Axis’ core values ‘Always open’, ‘Act as one’ and ‘Think big’ are important >> Mentorship Program; both an internal and an external parts of the cultural work. The employees work according to the core program, where Axis sends both mentees and mentors. values in their day-to-day work, which means: being open and responsive to colleagues’ ideas and customer needs, working together to reach >> During 2015, a manager’s handbook was developed for the company’s established goals, remaining at the cutting edge and managers in Sweden. creating the best products and solutions for customers. The values are >> All key account managers and regional sales managers an important part of the introductory training for new employees, at participate in the training program Axis Win Win Academy kick-offs and at other events. (see page 42). PAGE 42 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 win win Axis Win Win Academy Axis Win Win Academy is a global development program for Axis Key Account Managers and Regional Sales Managers. The aim is to ensure that Axis has a well-trained, motivated and professional salesforce that can drive sales in line with the company’s long-term strategy and culture. The idea of the program is also to create a meeting platform for employees working with sales in the field, to make it easy to exchange knowledge, share best practice and build competencies. The training focuses on how to create win-win situations with Axis’ partners and customers and how to best be successful together. Hence the name Axis Win Win Academy. Over a three-day period, participants meet at the headquarters in Lund. They receive training in the company’s business and sales fundamentals, the added values that Axis offers and how to communicate these to partners and customers. “It was very nice to go to the headquarters, get to know other people in the organization, and to discuss how to successfully drive sales. Now I can see even more potential for collaboration with partners and customers, which I can derive great benefit from at partner events, for example. It was also valuable to discuss how Axis creates value behind the cost estimates and fact sheets – the value we deliver is so much greater than just the cameras.” Vanessa Tyne Key Account Manager South Africa “The development program is an excellent forum for knowledge transfer and there is a good mix of new employees and of participants who have worked at Axis for a longer period. Axis has a unique corporate culture and I gained a deeper understanding of how important the culture is in the way we do business. We always have to listen to and learn from each other – that includes colleagues, customers and partners.” Thongchai Watanasoponwong Country Manager Thailand and Indochina Region PAGE 43 Axis in figures: Number of employees: 2,139 (1,941) Men/Women ratio: 73/27 (73/27) Average age: 39 (38) Employee turnover: 7.3% (6.8) Workplace accidents: 7 (9) of which none were fatal accidents Employees with university degree: 80% (81) Management team: 2 women, 7 men (2 women, 7 men) Average age Management team: 49 (48) Composition of Board of Directors: 1 woman 7 men (1 woman, 7 men) of whom, employee representatives: 1 woman, 2 men (2 men) Average age Board of Directors: 51 (50) PAGE 44 Axis in society – social engagements Axis’ social responsibility includes charitable work and sponsorship where the company contributes to the local community by supporting various training initiatives, environmental projects and other efforts. Charitable involvement and sponsorship are usually initiated and conducted at a local level. Apart from contributing to the local communities, the projects are beneficial for Axis and for the employees since it gives them the chance to work together for an important cause. This creates pride and loyalty and is enriching for the employees. Some initiatives carried out during the year are described below. USA Czech Republic Axis worked in two locations in Philippi, West Virginia, to fulfil the In the Czech Republic, Axis’ employees spent non-profit-organizations World Vision and Mission 500’s objective a day helping to clean up the Prokopské of providing a more secure world for children. Mission 500’s group údolí nature reserve in Prague: they cut the consisted of industry volunteers grass, cleared leaves and branches, picked and two Axis representatives. Axis’ up rubbish etc. personnel packed food bags and also helped to renovate homes for Axis also has an “equal opportunities agreement” with recruitment families in need. In addition, Axis agencies aimed at promoting equality and diversity in recruitments. sponsored the Security 5K charity run in Las Vegas and 100 employees participated in the event. Sweden A number of sports clubs are sponsored in various sports and sporting events such as Lundaloppet as well as cultural events for example South Africa Thomanders Jul and Lund Comedy Festival. Axis has initiated collaboration with the non-profit organization PitIn addition, Axis sponsors the Stiftelsen Lund Track in order to protect rhinos that are threatened by extinction in a Nyföretagarcentrum, which provides advice nature reserve in South Africa. The rhinos are killed by poachers for their for starting businesses, and the publication horns. It is a challenge to detect poachers in the area. Axis has donated of Natur & Miljöboken teaching materials for three thermal imaging cameras to pupils in grades 4-6 aimed at communicating Pit-Track. The cameras are adapted knowledge about the environment and for outdoor surveillance and can sustainability. handle difficult conditions including total darkness. The thermal cameras Training initiatives include Flickor på Teknis to encourage girls to make it possible for Pit-Track to apply for technology training programs, TransferTeknik, that aims to monitor the nature reserve and provide inspiration for technology training and FooKids, that teaches protect the lives of the rhinos. programming to children. PAGE 45 Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands Singapore Axis provided donations to Make-A-Wish Foundation that fulfils the In Singapore, Axis’ employees collected and donated clothes, comics and wishes of children with life-threatening illnesses. By getting their toys for the Salvation Army to help the needy. wishes fulfilled, the children gain hope and strength to meet the challenges of Axis employees participated in the Yellow Ribbon Prison Run to raise their illness as well as great happiness. funds for the Yellow Ribbon Project, which is spearheaded by the local Together with key partners and Makecommunity for the rehabilitation of ex-offenders. This project brings A-Wish Foundation, Axis also collected together a group of major community and government organizations additional funds at a partner event. responsible for the rehabilitation of ex-offenders. The overall objectives of the project are to raise awareness of the need to give a second chance Another initiative relates to Weeden Heights Primary School, Vermont to ex-offenders and their families, promote acceptance of ex-offenders South, Victoria, Australia, which was affected by theft. Axis donated and their families in the community and to inspire community action cameras and video management software to prevent theft and increase to support the rehabilitation and integration of ex-offenders back into security and safety both for school children and personnel. society. Axis is a sponsor and contributes towards the co-ordination of member agencies’ activities and the development of rehabilitation India initiatives for ex-offenders. In India, Axis donated money and educational materials such as pencils, erasers, activity books etc. to the Vidyaranya Institution, which takes care of disadvantaged girls. Under Axis’ direction, employees also arranged activities such as a drawing competition for children. About this report This report follows Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines for sustainability reporting, G4. We report in accordance with the Core option. This report also serves as our Communication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. Axis has reported its sustainability work since 2010. This is the second time that Axis reports in accordance with GRI, G4, Core. This sustainability report covers the fiscal year 2015. We publish our sustainability report annually. GRI Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous 4,6 G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6-7 reports, and the reasons for such restatements. about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 16-17, 18-19 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Scope and Aspect Boundaries. G4-3 Name of the organization. backcover STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. 11 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 14-15 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters. 5 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 14-15 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 4-5 to engage. countries where either the organization has significant operations G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 14-15 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. in the report. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 16-17 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 10-11 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. and types of customers/beneficiaries). REPORT PROFILE G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. 4-5 G4-28 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 3, 46 G4-10 Report information about employees, workforce, by whom the 43 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 46 organization’s work is performed and significant variations in Comment: April 29, 2015 employment number. G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 46 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 41 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 47 agreements. G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen, GRI Content 46-47 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain. 18-19, 35-36 Index for the chosen option and reference to the External Assurance G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 4-5, 6 Report, if the report has been externally assured. structure, or ownership. G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking 46 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 46 external assurance for the report, scope and basis of any external addressed by the organization. assurance provided, relationship between the organization and Comment: The precautionary principle is part of the Swedish the assurance providers and the highest governance body or senior Environmental Legislation. For Axis the principle is mainly addressed executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s when selecting product materials. sustainability report. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 8, 24-25 Comment: Axis has not sought external assurance for the report. The charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the report has been prepared with guidance from external consultants organization subscribes or which it endorses. with GRI-expertise. G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy 2 GOVERNANCE organizations. G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees 8 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES of the highest governance body and committees responsible for G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial 3 decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. statements or equivalent documents and whether any entity inETHICS AND INTEGRITY cluded in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms 8, 24-25, 41 equivalent documents is not covered by the report. of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-18 Process for defining the report content, the Aspect Boundaries and 15-16 how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 17 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for each Material Aspect. 18-19 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each Material Aspect. 18-19 Advisors: Lof Group Communications Graphic design: Axis Communications Translation/editing: David Murphy, Word of Mouth Communications Photos: Lars Owesson / Martin Olson / Pär Larshand / Pizzuti Studios Photography / Getty Images / iStockphoto / Shutterstock / Johnér Bildbyrå Printing: Tryckfolket, 2016 PAGE 47 Global Compact SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES reference table Indicator Description Page Principle Page ENVIRONMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Energy (DMA) 32 Principle 1 Businesses should support 8, 24 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. and respect the protection of Comment: No indicator data available for 2015. internationally proclaimed human Aspect: Emissions (DMA) 29, 32-34 rights; and EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 29, 32-34 Principle 2 make sure that they are not 35-37 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). 29, 32-33 complicit in human rights abuses. EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). 29, 32-34 LABOR EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. 29, 32-33 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the 35-36, 41 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 29, 32-34 freedom of association and the Aspect: Products and services (DMA) 30-32 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. Comment: No indicator data available for 2015. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced 35-37 and compulsory labor; Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment (DMA) 35-36 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; 35-37 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 35 and EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 35-36 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination 35-36, 39-40 and actions taken. in respect of employment and SOCIAL occupation. Aspect: Occupational health and safety (DMA) 39-40, 43 ENVIRONMENT LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury , occupational diseases, lost days, 39, 43 Principle 7 Businesses should support a 28-36 absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. precautionary approach to Comment: Injury and absenteeism data were not found to be relevant to break down further. environmental challenges; Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity (DMA) 39-40, 43 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote 28-36 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee greater environmental responsibility; category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 43 and indicators of diversity. Principle 9 encourage the development and 28-36 Comment: Only gender and average age have been found relevant for breakdown diffusion of environmentally friendly of data. technologies. Aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices (DMA) 35-37 ANTI-CORRUPTION LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 35 Principle 10 Businesses should work against 23, 25, 35-36, 41 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply 35-37 corruption in all its forms, chain and actions taken. including extortion and bribery. Aspect: Non-discrimination (DMA) 39-40 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 39 Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment (DMA) 35-37 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. 35 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain 35-37 and actions taken. Aspect: Anti-corruption (DMA) 23, 25, 35, 41 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 25, 41 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 23 Aspect: Product and service labeling (DMA) 23, 26 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 23, 26 Aspect: Customer privacy (DMA) 10, 23, 27 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 23, 27 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Contact for the report: Björn Hallerborn PR & Corporate Communications Manager DMA=Disclosure on Management Approach Phone: +46 46 272 34 97 The report and the reported indicators therein have not been subject to external auditing. E-mail: bjorn.hallerborn@axis.com About Axis Communications Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter, safer world. As the market leader in network video, Axis is driving the industry by continually launching innovative network products based on an open platform delivering high value to customers through a global partner network. Axis has long-term relationships with partners and provides them with knowledge and groundbreaking network products in existing and new markets. Axis has more than 2,100 dedicated employees in more than 50 countries around the world, supported by a global network of over 80,000 partners. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company listed on NASDAQ Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Corporate identity no. 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14, 223 69 LUND Phone: +46 46 272 18 00 www.axis.com ©2016 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
