CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 2 CONTENTS RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTENTS 3 RTX and CSR 4 RTX – Vision and mission in a knowledge based business environment 5 RTX – Our code of conduct 6 RTX and human rights 7 Design Services 8 RTX and employees’ rights 9 RTX and environment 10 RTX and anti-corruption 11 Business Communications RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 RTX AND CSR 3 RTX AND CSR RTX strives to act responsibly towards all the Group’s stakeholders. This is a core value in the way we define and implement strategic objectives and action plans. In 2014 RTX adopted the UN’s Global Compact 10 principles for social responsibility, and they form the basis for both our internal and external conduct. By adopting with the UN Global Compact, RTX affirms that the Group supports and enacts the ten general accepted principles of social responsibility. Our operation is global and there are tributes to ensure human and labour In 2015 RTX supported the Denmark natural and cultural differences in rights in all areas where we operate. Collection (in Danish “Danmarks Indbusiness culture and business conduct. samling”) financially and in 2016 RTX UN’s Global Compact is the world’s In 2016 RTX adopted a tax policy. The chose to contribute along with some of largest initiative for corporate social repolicy states that RTX wishes to be a our most important suppliers to Team sponsibility. As RTX wishes to contribresponsible tax payer contributing to Rynkeby with a gold sponsorship. Team ute to society’s positive development, our community. Rynkeby is a Nordic charity cycling RTX has signed up to these principles, team and every summer they cycle to which cover human rights, employees’ In this annual Communication on Paris to raise money for children with rights, the environment and anti-corProgress (COP) RTX describes actions cancer and their families. In 2015 Team ruption. In our contracts and current taken in the past year to improve our Rynkeby donated more than € 6.45 dialogue with our suppliers, RTX also performance on CSR related matters million to the fight against childhood assists in the observance of human as well as the development and goals cancer in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, rights, employees’ rights, the environfor 2017. It is our belief that the target Norway and the Faroe Islands. ment and anti-corruption. setting within CSR and the reporting provides a meaningful track for RTX Yours sincerely As a global working technology comand our shareholders, and it is also pany based on intellectual capital our our belief that these contributions will Peter Røpke employees are the most valuable asset. ultimately make our world a little bit CEO, RTX A/S In order to maintain a healthy business better, and we are committed to share it is therefore important that RTX conthis information with our stakeholders. 4 RTX – VISION AND MISSION IN A KNOWLEDGE BASED BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 RTX – VISION AND MISSION IN A KNOWLEDGE BASED BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT In order for RTX to maintain its position as an attractive sub-supplier of specialized wireless development services and advanced IP products, it is essential that the Group’s employees have a broad insight into the engineering disciplines required to carry out high technology development projects from definition to delivery of wireless communication services and products. The fact that RTX is able to supply tional skilled employees. As a result of adaptable development organization turnkey solutions is down to the skills RTX’s location near Aalborg University enables the transfer and recruitment of its employees. in Denmark, and its presence in Hong of engineers in technological areas Kong, the Group has access to interat short notice. During 2015 we have The structure of the organization national skillset within development, refined our vision and mission stateenables prompt integration of addilogistics and quality assurance. An ments: VISION Our vision is that customized wireless solutions will lead the way. RTX delivers adapted simplicity to users and market advantage to businesses. MISSION RTX’s mission is to enable global brands to freely innovate and launch targeted, unique wireless solutions by providing the specialist knowhow that makes it all possible – wireless wisdom. VALUES – ACHIEVING OUR MISSION At RTX, we describe our values as the underlying principles for how we work and what we offer to our customers. We believe the way we work, with our customers, together, and as individuals, has a significant impact on the performance of our business and the satisfaction of both our customers and our employees. Our employees and our actions define our company. – WHEN WORKING WITH OUR CUSTOMERS We believe that, because our experts are trustworthy and value-adding, we earn long-term partnerships with our customers. – WHEN WORKING TOGETHER We believe that, because our teams are customer and goal oriented, we work openly and efficiently with integrity and mutual respect in an informal environment. – WHEN WORKING INDIVIDUALLY We believe that, because our colleagues are responsible and proud, we experience high levels of competence, job satisfaction and enjoyment. RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 RTX – OUR CODE OF CONDUCT 5 RTX – OUR CODE OF CONDUCT RTX is committed to sustainability. RTX has therefore formalized and developed our code of conduct based on our revised mission and vision statements. The code of conduct includes respect for universally recognized principles on human rights including labour rights, the environment, and anti-corruption. At RTX we have decided to pay particusignificant changes in our supply chain and resources, especially in the initial lar attention to our sphere of consetup, and in our selection of suppliphases, as we are also implementing trol. Therefore, it is at the same time ers our code of conduct has been an similar processes in our operations. The very important to understand RTX’s important assessment tool evaluating Code of Conduct should therefore be position in the value chain. Developpotential suppliers. 75% of our current understood as a tool for cooperation ing and supplying complex products suppliers of produced goods have and dialogue with our supply chain and modules without own production signed our Code of Conduct or have partners about improving systems to facilities makes sourcing of the right affirmed that they support and have manage adverse impacts on human components and products a very imadopted the UN global Compact. Our rights including labour rights, the enviportant competence for RTX to master. target is that the remaining 25% will ronment and anti-corruption. The complete supply chain can be very sign the Code of Conduct or affirm that complex from distant sub suppliers they support or have adopted the UN The aim of this Code is to guide the delivering raw PCBs, semi­conductors, global Compact in 2017. business relationship between RTX and plastic and metal parts, cables, screws suppliers. In case of non-compliance, etc., all operated in a global context RTX recognizes that establishing the RTX will support suppliers improve to our EMS partners for final assembly. required processes outlined in the their management of adverse impacts During 2016, RTX has implemented Code of Conduct requires both time continuously. 1: Suppliers are expected to manage adverse impacts on internationally recognized human rights including labour rights. 2: Suppliers are expected to establish adequate processes to manage all significant potential and actual impacts on the external environment. 3: Suppliers to RTX should establish adequate processes to counter corrupt practices. Such processes should support and be in line with the United Nations Convention against corruption. 6 RTX AND HUMAN RIGHTS RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 RTX AND HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 RTX supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 RTX will make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. At the end of the financial year 2015/16, believe that a good working environgeneral split between male and female the RTX Group employed 213 people: ment and a high level of job satisfacemployees are 17% female and 83% 136 in Denmark and 77 outside Europe. tion results in greater employee satismale. In the staff with engineering or We strive to manage the company faction, higher efficiency levels, lower technical background the spilt is 4% professionally in all aspects. All employstaff turnover and low absenteeism. female and 96% male. ees are offered facilities and working conditions that accord with local conEvery four years, in accordance with Executive management: In April 2013 ditions. RTX assigns great importance the Danish Companies Act, RTX Group the Supervisory Board adopted policy to a healthy physical and psychological employees elect three members of the to ensure a greater number of female working environment and we currently Supervisory Board. In January 2015 the board members elected by the Annual carry out employee satisfaction surveys present three employee representaGeneral Meeting. The objective was that in addition to the mandatory workplace tives were elected to the Supervisory by 2017 the number of female memassessments. The satisfaction survey is Board of RTX A/S. The next election bers on the Supervisory Board should anonymous. The results are analyzed by will take place in the financial year be at least 17% of the board members management with a subsequent sum2018/19. The employee representaelected at the Annual General Meeting. mary shared with the employees. Based tives are elected for a four year period, on these questionnaires, initiatives and they join the Supervisory Board In January 2016, Katrin Calderon was as well as areas of improvement are following the Annual General Meeting re-elected as a member of RTX’s defined by management and employees in January 2019. Supervisory Board by the Annual Genin order to constantly improve RTX as a eral Meeting. This means that women workplace. These surveys have resultOBJECTIVE FOR THE represent 20% of the board members ed in RTX investing in indoor climate UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER elected by the Annual General Meeting. improvements at the Noerresundby site RTX’s staff policy aims to attract and and other actions in order to improve maintain highly qualified and motivated Other management: In order to the satisfaction. The survey also measemployees. With regard to employment promote, facilitate and increase the ure engagement and motivation among and recruitment we endeavour to have number of women in management level our employees. The most recent survey both male and female candidates, positions at RTX, Management defined carried out in 2016 showed that RTX despite the fact that we operate in a the following objectives in 2014/15: To employees are highly motivated and male dominated working environment. increase the percentage of females at committed and the responses from the management level as vacancies arise, employees showed improvements in RTX recognizes that the current based on the selection of candidates their grading compared with the survey percentage of females in our staff of with the appropriate skills and to ensure carried out in 2015. engineers may be too low to secure a that the recruitment firms in question pipeline of future female candidates identify at least one female candidate. The Management team in RTX regufor management level in RTX. In our During 2015/16 there were one vacant larly invite all employees to internal recruitment process RTX therefore position in the RTX management team employee briefings where an open and encourages qualified female applicants but it was not possible to find a matchconstructive dialogue is encouraged. We to seek vacancies as they arise. The ing female profile for the vacant job. RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 DESIGN SERVICES 7 DESIGN SERVICES WIRELESS WISDOM IS SUPERB AUDIO PERFORMANCE The professional audio industry is constantly searching for robust wireless transmission links that can transfer high-resolution audio signals at super low latency. Recent frequency regulation has driven professional systems towards digital modulation schemes and open ISM bands, putting them in competition for spectrum against widely used technologies and applications, such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth™. To develop a highperformance system that can deliver perfect sound in these environments, you need Wireless Wisdom. With years of experience in ProAudio design, development and manufacturing, RTX has the expertise to deliver incredible sound quality in high-density RF environments, whether they are in the home, the studio or difficult radio environments with high inter-symbol interference. If you need ProAudio with a twist – such as low latency, spectrum-efficient high audio quality, long radio range or low power consumption – we have the expertise you need. We have already created ProAudio transmission systems for many of the world’s leading brands. We can help you, too. 8 RTX AND EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 RTX AND EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 3 RTX supports freedom of association and recognizes the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 RTX supports the elimina­tion of all kinds of forced labour. PRINCIPLE 5 RTX supports the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 RTX supports the elimina­tion of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. RTX is involved in promoting the well-­ RTX has achieved the Danish Working purpose is to promote the ongoing being of our employees on an ongoing Environment Services’ “green smiley” development and efficiency of the basis. We want to be an attractive emaward for its Danish workplace, which company and its continued competiployer for all employees, irrespective of recognizes compliance with working tiveness, which is in the interests of gender, religion and ethnic background. environmental regulations on a good both management and the employees. working environment – both physically The committee comprises six memRTX has drawn up policies for senior and and psychologically. bers: two members from the Executive disabled employees, and we have examTeam and four members are elected ples of employees who, in recent years, Management posts a regular newsletdemocratically by secret ballot by all have benefitted from such policies. RTX ter in order to ensure that all employemployees (+ 2 substitutes). In 2015 cooperates with local job centres in their ees obtain knowledge of the tactical the coordination committee has been work assessment schemes, traineeships, and strategic development in the involved in changing the structure and etc. and in some cases we have offered Group. The newsletters are aimed to the administration of the employees full-time positions to individuals followbe inspiration and motivation to work insurance and pension funds. ing their training period with us. aligned towards the common objectives in the Group. Furthermore, the coordination comFreedom of association applies to all mittee has made it possible for the employees in RTX, and RTX complies RTX has implemented Yammer, which employees in the parent company with collective agreements. is our social, digital forum where all to donate their company Christmas employees across functions and napresent to charity and the coordination The safety committee in RTX is part of tional borders have the opportunity to committee also takes decision every our statutory safety organization. This debate with each other, ask questions, year on how to sponsor local sports or committee is responsible for ensuring a post inspirational messages and follow charity activities. good working environment for all emthe achievements of their colleagues. ployees in the company, and it consists RTX conducts yearly salary interviews of both management and employee RTX has established a coordination with the employees and employee representatives (safety representatives). committee in Noerresundby. The development interviews. RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 RTX AND ENVIRONMENT 9 RTX AND ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 RTX supports a precau­tionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 RTX supports initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 RTX supports the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RTX wishes to demonstrate responRTX cooperates with a number of Low Energy (also known as Bluetooth sibility for the environment and to customers who are involved in the deSmart). Compared to the classic reduce our consumption of water, heat velopment of power-management and Bluetooth, the advantage of Bluetooth and electricity. RTX has implemented efficient energy-saving radio technoloLow Energy is that this it is able to energy-saving schemes as ”Wake-ongies. RTX’s continuous development of contribute to significantly lower power LAN” because servers, computers and the DECT standard has led to environconsumption while maintaining the software play a major role in a develmentally friendly and energy-saving communication range. RTX contributes opment company like RTX. improvements to the DECT technology with test solutions that make it possiknown as DECT ULE (Ultra Low Energy). ble for other suppliers to comply with In 2015 and 2016 RTX has invested in lower power consumption standards. efficient cooling facilities for the server One of the advantages of this technolinstallations and the investments in ogy is that it generates energy-saving RTX cooperates with sub-suppliers new and energy efficient IT equipment operations. It also enables an extended to reduce material consumption and will continue during 2017. And RTX will lifetime for batteries in mobile and impact on the environment. RTX also continue to optimize energy saving wireless units. RTX has contributed to encourages its sub-suppliers to use enlight sources when possible. the implementation of this technology vironmentally acceptable raw mate­rials in several customer projects during the and products, and RTX requires them The expected benefits are to reduce year under review. In the same way to comply with directives that regulate the energy and at the same time – but with another wireless technolthe environmental-friendly production improve the indoor climate for the ogy namely Bluetooth – RTX expects and handling of electronic equipment employees in Noerresundby. to take part in major, partly custom(RoHS, REACH and WEEE directives). er-financed projects within Bluetooth 10 RTX AND ANTI-CORRUPTION RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 RTX AND ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 RTX wishes to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RTX strongly disapproves of corruption open and trustworthy organization, policy has been implemented and emin all its forms, including extortion and and that the Executive Management ployees have the opportunity to report bribery. To support this the Supervisory encourages everyone to report any seany unethical conduct to the SuperviBoard in 2013 introduced a whistlerious and sensitive matters relating to sory Board in RTX. No matters were reblower policy in order to emphasize to any breach of the company’s business ported under the whistleblower policy employees that RTX wishes to be an ethics and/or relevant legislation. The during the financial year 2015/16. RTX COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS 11 BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS WIRELESS WISDOM IS SEAMLESS HD AUDIO AND SO MUCH MORE More and more people are using wireless products to talk & work on the go. Whether you need to produce a single standard product or want to develop a unique wireless system for large enterprises, RTX has the technology and expertise to make it happen with a short time to market. As an expert provider of wireless solutions to the telecom industry, we have profound knowledge of telecom and VoIP solutions for business. Since pioneering the first digital cordless telephones rolled out in Europe, a standard that was later adopted in America and Japan, we have developed hundreds of unique products for customers that combine excellent RF performance with crisp and clear audio and an intuitive interface. We have offered PABX integrated cordless solutions for many years and have a unique platform for integrating our system into complete solutions. We have worked with a long list of PBX operators and our portfolio covers a wide range, from single base and generic handsets to systems with several thousand simultaneous users and high-end user-specific android-based terminals. From HD-quality enterprise solutions with seamless handover and audio encryption to wireless VoIP solutions with alarm response and messaging built-in, we can deliver finished standard products or design and develop custom systems for specific applications, users and environments. RTX.DK RTX was established in May 1993. Since June 2000 the Company’s shares have been listed on the Nasdaq Copenhagen Stock Exchange. RTX is headquartered in Denmark and has facilities in Hong Kong and California, USA. RTX possesses a unique combination of both software and hardware know-how. Our team of highly experienced engineers and experts has sound knowledge of all relevant technical and ­professional disciplines. RTX takes projects from the concept stage all the way through specification, design, development, test and verification into final product. In addition, RTX offers production services for OEM and ODM products. RTX A/S Stroemmen 6 9400 Noerresundby Denmark www.rtx.dk
