Corporate responsibility report Building value for the longer term 30 September 2015 Who we are Aberdeen Asset Management is a global asset manager with a broad range of investment capabilities. We are based in 25 countries with 38 offices, over 700 investment professionals and around 2,800 staff. Our assets under management were £284 billion as at 30 September 2015. As a pure asset manager, without the distractions of wider financial services activities, we are able to concentrate all our resources on our core investment management business. Our investment processes strive to be simple and clear. We aim to invest based on these qualities too, as well as focusing on taking a long term view. Contents Investing in our people 2 Investing responsibly 8 Engaging with external stakeholders 12 Managing our environmental footprint 16 UN global compact 18 GRI assessment 19 2 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Introduction As an investor in companies globally we analyse businesses through a critical lens, weighing up the risks and opportunities of each investment decision. And we apply this approach to our own business too, recognising that we need to act in the best interests of our shareholders, clients, employees and wider stakeholders and build value for these groups, over the longer term. This process involves assessing our strategy, our risks and our impact. If we want to succeed over the longer term we need to ensure that customers continue to trust Aberdeen to manage their money; that we can provide an inclusive working environment in which to recruit, develop and retain talented and motivated employees; and that we can generate value for our investors by appropriately managing our risks and seizing opportunities. On an annual basis we refine our approach and continue to make progress in embedding responsible business practices throughout our organisation. As Chair of the corporate responsibility and culture committees, this year we have built on the progress to date. From a people perspective, this includes launching a new learning and development academy for employees; growing our talent programmes; formalising our approach to diversity and inclusion and engaging employees globally in the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation. In terms of our investments, our risk-based approach to the integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into investment decisions has continued to develop across our four asset classes. From a customer perspective, we analyse every aspect of our operating model to ensure the interests of our customers are incorporated at every step. We have also strengthened our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) measures and been more active in public policy than ever before. We hope you will find this update on our corporate responsibility activities helpful and, as always, we welcome your feedback on ways we could improve. Andrew Laing Deputy Chief Executive December 2015 Our key Employees Investee companies Clients and Shareholders and prospects ratings agencies stakeholders Attracting and Performance; retaining talent; transparency; High quality service Value add; return and material creating an inclusive communication on and products; on investment; issues environment; material issues meeting client needs sustainable remuneration performance Suppliers Media Authorities and Communities Professional and regulators governmental Conduct; service Open, clear Positive contribution organisations provision; cost communication Observance of to economy and regulatory laws and society; minimise Engagement on conduct; engagement environmental relevant issues; on relevant issues damage support aberdeen-asset.com1 Investing in our people Culture Recruitment and retention Learning, development and talent management Diversity and inclusion strategy Employee engagement 2 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Culture Culture is integral to Aberdeen, both in terms of how we differentiate ourselves in a competitive market and also in how we manage risks within our business. In 2014 we established a culture committee with a positive culture in our business. These include: the representation from across the Group, including integration of details on our values and culture into corporate, risk, human resources, distribution, brand and training programmes; enhancing our appraisal system communications. Our desired culture is articulated in our so that performance is assessed in terms of what was values, vision and purpose. Over the course of the year, delivered and how it was delivered in line with our we have implemented various processes and procedures corporate values; developing the mechanisms by which to increase awareness amongst employees of these employees are able to collaborate, discuss, challenge and defining tenets of our business. This involved defining ultimately help shape the future direction of the business, what it is we mean by values and culture; explaining notably through our innovation platform Ignite; and why they are important for Aberdeen; and outlining how increasing communications on the importance of culture behaviours will be monitored and measured. both for Aberdeen and our investee companies. We recognise that corporate culture can have a significant During the year the committee has been involved in impact on both reputation and bottom line. a number of initiatives which aim to further embed Recruitment and retention In a competitive market, recruiting talent with fresh To ensure we are attracting diverse talent, we monitor the insight and the right experience is necessary to help gender and ethnic diversity of everyone who applies for, us evolve and continue to create long term value for and is successful in obtaining, an internship at Aberdeen. stakeholders. Recruiting for our future growth and success Using this data we can review our approach to recruiting must take place from entry level through to senior interns and determine where we may need to make management positions. changes to the process. This is especially important given that graduates are recruited solely from the At an entry level, we have a long-established global internship programme. graduate programme and more recently introduced our apprenticeship and Investment 2020 schemes. This year Retention of talent is a key focus globally. We have a we hired 109 interns, 41 graduates, seven apprentices number of initiatives in place including mentoring, reverse and 10 individuals on the Investment 2020 scheme. mentoring and maternity coaching. Some programmes We also provided work experience placements to 13 are global while others have been developed in specific young people through the Social Mobility Foundation, countries to meet the needs of our employees. We are all of whom stated in their feedback that they would like currently working to expand our maternity coaching to to work for Aberdeen in the future. Since 1994, when the US and Asia and to include male employees given the our graduate programme began, we have recruited recent change to legislation in the UK. The programme 219 graduates, 154 of which are still at the company. has been extremely successful, as evidenced by the very We focus on internal promotion and selection to aid high, and sustained, percentage of employees who return the retention of employees who seek to advance their to work following maternity leave. careers. Absenteeism per Return to work following Employee turnover rate employee maternity leave (unplanned) 2.6 days 2015A 94% 2015 10% 2015B 2014: 2.4 days 2014: 95% 2014: 8% A In 2013, PwC complied data from 2,500 companies across the world, and found that UK workers took an average of 9.1 days off sick per year. This was nearly double the 4.9 days US workers took off, and four times as much as their counterparts in Asia-Pacific at 2.2 days. (Source PWC report The rising cost of absence, 2013). B The average US employee voluntary turnover rate in 2014 for Banking and Finance was 13.3% (Source: Compensation Force), while in the UK voluntary labour turnover in Financial Services in 2013 was 11.8% (Source: XpertHR). aberdeen-asset.com3 Learning, development and talent management One of Aberdeen’s five strategic objectives is to achieve We have also further refined our annual performance resilience through diversification of our expertise, management assessment for all employees, so it is more markets, channels and clients. Two important aspects of focused on, and aligned with, the strategic objectives of this are to provide technical leadership and managerial the Group. As part of this enhancement, performance training to improve skills around the fundamental aspects across a spectrum of metrics is more closely assessed in of our business, and to work with individual teams to terms of what was delivered and how it was delivered in establish more specialist needs. In 2015, to formalise our line with our culture and corporate values. approach to learning and development, we launched the Diverse teams, when managed well, make better business Aberdeen Asset Management Academy, an innovative decisions. We therefore ensure that diversity and learning facility which combines our current wide range inclusion are key elements of our training programmes. of learning and development initiatives with a new This year we piloted unconscious bias training for all streamlined approach and capability, allowing employees managers in the UK and 92% of attendees fed back they to record, explore and plan their careers and personal would recommend this course to colleagues. This will development. now be rolled out globally alongside an e-learning course for all employees. With existing employees, we now capture and monitor diversity statistics beyond gender. Where we are legally allowed, we ask all employees if they wish to declare their ethnicity and disability status, which so far has allowed us to collate data for the Americas, UK and Asia Pacific. From this we can determine if there are areas of the business where we need to do more to promote diversity and inclusion. Our Senior Leadership and Emerging Internally, we have sought to raise awareness of what diversity and inclusion means at Aberdeen. We use many Talent Programmes continue to receive channels to do this including; monthly global diversity positive feedback and a number of newsletters which are used to highlight the developments employees from the first Emerging and discussions around diversity and inclusion issues in the workplace both internally and externally; the Talent Programme have now been intranet which we use to celebrate global events such as promoted to senior positions within International Women’s Day, Ramadan and World Mental the company. This includes our new Health Day; and through senior management updates to reinforce our top-down commitment. Country Head for Norway and Head of Asset Management for Property in the We have also started to develop networking groups to enable the business to directly support our diversity UK. Employees selected for these and inclusion objectives. Our networks bring together programmes come from across our people with different backgrounds but a shared interest in global offices and have diverse ensuring Aberdeen promotes inclusion. backgrounds and skill-sets. Health, safety and wellbeing We want to promote a culture of healthier lifestyles Average hours of training Number of people sitting and improve the quality and longevity of life for our per employee professional exams employees and their families. This leads to increased 28 94 productivity, resilience, job satisfaction and loyalty. It also reduces healthcare costs and absenteeism. While we have a number of valuable schemes in hours 2015 2015 place, we recognise the need to do more to develop our approach to employee wellbeing and expand our engagement on material wellbeing issues, including muscular skeletal health, employee resilience and 2014: 26 hours 2014: 104 mental health. 4 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Diversity and inclusion strategy This year we have developed our diversity and inclusion strategy which We also monitor the gender split of attendees to our major events and is focused on the key strands of workforce, workplace and marketplace. will work towards achieving a better balance at all events. Details of how we have embedded diversity and inclusion into our Backroom 2 Boardroom recruitment, retention and learning and developments practices have This is the vision of Anne Richards, our Global Chief Investment Officer, been included in the preceding pages but we also recognise that our to bring together senior women, executives and non-executive board external activities need to reflect our culture and approach to doing members to discuss taking action on gender imbalance in today’s business. Diversity is therefore an important consideration in our boardrooms. Over 20 events have taken place in cities across the globe sponsorship strategy as we want to ensure we are aligned to events since 2011. For more information please visit which promote a wide range of both participants and viewers. www.backroom2boardroom.com For example, during the year we were proud sponsors of the External associations following events: We are committed to supporting a variety of diversity and inclusion • Cowes Week – an event in which a third of all participating skippers organisations and networks so that we are actively participating in, are female as well as learning from the dialogue supporting inclusion in the workplace. • The Men’s and Ladies Scottish Open • The Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia which has a 50/50 split of These include the investors working group of the 30% Club in women’s crews and men’s crews competing Australia, Hong Kong, Malaysia and the UK; the UK Government’s Think, Act, Report scheme; Women on Boards UK and the Women’s Business Forum. Total workforce Managers 54% 46% male female 64% 36% male female 1490 in total 1288 in total 506 in total 279 in total PLC Board of Directors Entry level 71% 29% male female 58% 42% male female 10 in total 4 in total 56 in total 40 in total Group Management Board Investment management 86% 14% male female 67% 33% male female 18 in total 3 in total 572 in total 285 in total Age Age range % of employees 16-25 6 26-35 33 36-45 36 46-55 18 56-65 6 65+ 1 aberdeen-asset.com5 Employee engagement Many factors impact on an individual’s decision to work for, and stay with, a company. These factors include competitive compensation, development opportunities, a culture of inclusion and, for many employees, the opportunity to use their skills outside of work through volunteering and being involved in charitable activities. In the three years since inception, the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation has had a positive impact in all of the communities in which employees live and work, through our local community and emerging markets programmes. At a local level, each of our global offices has the autonomy to select projects they would like to support, within global guidelines. By providing employees with the opportunity to dedicate two working days to assist with charitable projects, we enhance the value of our financial contributions and actively help to tackle social challenges. At the same time, these activities benefit the interpersonal skills of our people and promote team spirit – ultimately strengthening our corporate culture. Year on year the number of employees volunteering increases. After taking part in a volunteering day or office led fundraising activity, positive feedback is cited as teamwork, networking and feeling better about Aberdeen as a business. In 2015, the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation was named the Best Foundation at the Corporate Engagement Awards in recognition of its unique local and global approach and the commitment of all Aberdeen offices. Local communities Global engagement with our local community projects Example: Local community project continues to grow and this year, as with last, some Copenhagen Hellebro great new charities have been identified as well as the The Hellebro association was established in April 2015 development of long term partnerships. One project by Aberdeen, in close partnership with a number of which has involved the collaboration of a number of local homeless charities. It has been built on in-kind stakeholders is that of Hellebro in Copenhagen contributions from Aberdeen’s business partners and a (see example). tremendous effort from local volunteers. In 2015, we once again participated in Global Give and Hellebro provides the only shelter in Greater Gain Day with over 200 employees from 20 cities taking Copenhagen for young homeless people and is open part in a range of local community projects. We hope to in the evenings on every week day. With the number grow this initiative on an annual basis. of young homeless people between 18 and 29 years Further details can be found on our website. of age doubling every year in Denmark, around 3,500 young people in Greater Copenhagen are £1.6m 16% currently not able to focus on obtaining a job or their education while they do not have a permanent home. donated to charitable of our global At Hellebro, these young people are welcomed into causes globally in 2015A workforce volunteered a safe, friendly environment to cook and prepare meals; take a shower; wash their clothes or use the 2014: £1.6m 2014: 17% internet café to seek employment and apply for an 2015: £1.3m 2015: 15% apartment. The Aberdeen Charitable Foundation’s donation covers the operating costs throughout the year. In addition, Aberdeen employees are also actively involved in the daily operation of Hellebro, contributing their time, skills and warm clothes to help homeless young people endure the cold Danish winters. A This includes donations made by the Foundation (£0.9m), the Group (£0.4m) and GAYE employer contributions (£0.3m) but excludes unspent contributions made by PLC to the Foundation. 6 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Emerging markets Now in its fourth year, our emerging markets grant programme continues to make substantial long term investments to charities supporting the education of underprivileged young people. Action for Brazil’s Children Trust SeeBeyondBorders (SBB) (ABC Trust) SBB was our second The ABC Trust was our first emerging emerging markets charity chosen in 2013 to support an markets charity partner when the educational project in Bavel, one of the poorest and most Foundation launched in 2012. We have supported vulnerable communities in Cambodia. The programmes three grassroots projects over the last three years for supported by the Foundation enable teachers to build marginalised children in Brazil who live on the streets and their skills and capability and encourage students, in slums and are subjected to violence on a daily basis. parents and members of the community to engage Outcomes from our support: with and play a role in strengthening education from a community level. Four new programmes have been • AA Criança, São Paulo: our assistance has enabled the introduced this year: organisation to support 287 children and adolescents living in precarious tenements as well as advocating for • Health workshops: 78% of mentees have run regular the rights of the most vulnerable. and effective health lessons and over 120 parents have been involved in health activities at these schools. • ISMEP, Recife: our support has had a long-lasting impact on 524 children aged 6 to 16 years old by • Conditional cash payment programme: 141 children providing a range of cultural, physical and educational and families were supported, resulting in better student activities, ensuring the children keep motivated and attendance and recipient families improving their curious to learn. relationship and attitude towards education. • SIS, Salvador: our help benefited a total of 212 children • A successful pilot supplementary lessons programme aged 3 to 14 years old by enabling SIS to hire an was run across four schools, for students who regularly educational specialist missed lessons and were at high risk of dropping out. to coordinate the • A vision and plan has been developed for two schools, teachers, to acquire focusing on the management skills of the development better school materials teams and building and increase the quality community of the food provided. involvement. These have now been independently presented to the AfriKids community including AfriKids was chosen as our emerging 85% of the 162 parents. markets charity in 2014. We support four educational initiatives for the ChildHope poorest children living in Bolgatanga in the Upper East ChildHope was announced as Region (UER) of Ghana. our fourth emerging markets charity in 2015. Our support will • The School of Night Rabbits (evening classes for street focus on the regions immediately surrounding Lima, Peru. children): three classes held every week for 45 girls and The project aims to create safer school environments in 86 boys. eight schools. The project is estimated to benefit 7,300 • Next Generation Home (home providing education for children who will pass through these schools over the children in need): supporting 30 street children. term of Aberdeen’s partnership, as well as having an • Young Entrepreneurs Programme (young adults leaving associated impact on 400 teachers and 4,500 parents. care and transitioning to independent living): 28 young people assisted so far. • Scholarships: 121 In addition to monetary support, our emerging female and 89 male market charity partners have also provided overseas applicants supported. volunteering opportunities, giving employees a unique experience to see the impact the Foundation is having on the ground. To date, employees have volunteered in Brazil, Cambodia and Ghana. aberdeen-asset.com7 Investing responsibly Equities Property Fixed Income Solutions 8 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 At Aberdeen, our Group purpose is to help people harness the potential of markets to reach their chosen goals successfully. Increasingly, this requires us to integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors – both the risks they pose and opportunities they provide – into our products and services. We integrate material ESG considerations into investment decisions across our four asset classes, taking a risk-based approach when analysing each investment. Equities This year, our approach to the integration of ESG factors companies are also approaching Aberdeen to gain a into investment decisions has continued to evolve. We better understanding of not only what they consider to have a dedicated corporate governance function, coupled be material issues, but what their stakeholders consider with a Responsible Investing (RI) team who focus on to be material too. holistic risk assessment and how ESG factors are included We also continue to offer an SRI screening service in this process. for clients. Companies are assessed by Aberdeen’s Good corporate governance is at the heart of Aberdeen’s experienced RI team which base the exclusion of a business. It is the first quality we look for in the countries company on a list of clearly defined criteria covering the and companies in which we invest, and we are committed three broad areas of social, ethical and environmental to effective and transparent corporate governance in policies and practices. We currently manage more than running our own business too. $2 billion in SRI specific funds. Good governance and stewardship are vital to safeguard During the year, our specialist RI and governance teams the way in which a company is managed and to ensure engaged with many hundreds of companies globally it operates responsibly in relation to its customers, across a wide range of governance and risk management shareholders, employees and the wider community. issues, including board structure and effectiveness, remuneration, carbon intensity, supply chain oversight The Aberdeen Corporate Governance Principles provide and human rights. Further details of some of a framework for investment analysis, engagement and these engagements can be found in our annual proxy voting for investee companies worldwide. We stewardship report. invest for our clients’ portfolios in companies globally and actively target investment in those companies with sound Part of our approach to being good stewards of corporate governance practices. investments on behalf of clients involves active collaboration with other investment institutions. Our statement setting out our commitment to delivering We have been active supporters of the creation of the the aims of the world’s Stewardship Codes brings the Investor Forum in the UK, and our CIO sits on the Forum’s Corporate Governance Principles to life and closely board. We have had active engagement in each of the links them with our investment decisions and ongoing Forum’s activities so far, and continue to work with the ownership on behalf of clients. organisation to help shape its approach and ensure that Aberdeen is committed to exercising responsible it delivers value for investors. We continue to participate ownership with a conviction that companies adopting in long term investment discussions with wider best practices in corporate governance and risk stakeholders, including with industry bodies such management will be more successful in their core as the Principles for Responsible Investment and activities and deliver enhanced returns to shareholders. regulators globally. For our RI team, the principal focus of discussions In 2016, we plan to integrate further our approach to with investee companies is on understanding the link responsible ownership by joining our RI and governance between company strategy, risks, associated objectives teams. We will form a centralised resource which will and targets, and ultimately how these tie to executive operate as a core of specialist knowledge. We will also and board remuneration. This process is a valuable add additional resource to our investment teams so assessment tool for determining whether a group that the analysis of material long term risks is more fully understands its risks and how it will mitigate them going embedded into each region’s assessment of specific forward. We emphasise the importance of materiality and investment opportunities. This will enhance our approach encourage transparency in public reporting. Increasingly as stewards of our investee companies. aberdeen-asset.com9 Property We recognise that while property investment provides Planning for the long term valuable economic benefits and returns for clients, Last year we disclosed our key areas of focus are to: it has, by its nature, an environmental and societal 1. Integrate sustainability risk and cost management into impact. Aberdeen has made four commitments towards our investment planning mechanisms, across all areas responsible property investment. of our business; We are committed to: 2. Implement our energy strategy and sustainability data 1. Identifying, assessing, monitoring and controlling management programme; environmental, societal and regulatory risks at key 3. Work with our property managers to develop and stages of the investment, development and asset implement a consistent or minimum standard management process; approach to responsible property investment 2. Ensuring effective governance and responding to and service delivery; complying with regulatory requirements in every 4. Engage with employees and clients to raise awareness country in which we operate; of responsible property investing. 3. Sharing our knowledge and engaging with central We have made good progress across all areas, and government, with local government and with other the implementation of a global environmental data bodies to encourage best practice in the market and to management system, coupled with an active energy steer government policy; management programme, is a significant step for 4. Working in partnership with our key stakeholder groups Aberdeen. This will enable us to proactively monitor and – our investors, occupiers, employees, suppliers and the report on the utility demand (energy, waste, water) of communities we serve. our investments, and effectively manage and control the sustainability risks our investments face, such as flooding. This commitment is core to our investment practices This approach has been rolled out to approximately and is embedded in all of our key business functions. Our 50% of our funds (by assets under management-AuM), strategy seeks to manage our impact on the environment and we are now extending the programme to the and to control both physical and regulatory risks related remainder of the managed portfolio. The next phase, to climate change. Through effective control of the which will commence in 2016, will be to set long term investment risk profile across all funds and mandates environmental performance targets and report on we seek to avoid obsolescence and to reduce the rate of progress to our key stakeholders. depreciation of our assets. Renewables We leverage the expertise within the RI property As part of our energy management strategy, we continue team and are actively engaged with the EU, national to seek low carbon energy sources. In the UK, we have governments and industry working groups, including assessed our entire portfolio for applicability to install a number of local Green Building Councils, the Global solar panels, and have successfully installed panels at Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (‘GRESB’), the UK a number of locations, either to provide energy to our Better Building Partnership (‘BBP’) and the Institutional occupiers or to landlord controlled areas. Investors Group on Climate Change (‘IIGCC’), to ensure Aberdeen is helping to formulate government policies Below are a few examples from across Europe where we and our management teams are well informed of future have had particular success in managing assets efficiently: government intent and market direction. • Sturegallerian, Stockholm: we have reduced energy consumption by more than 11% on a 12 month period through improved controls and management systems. In 2015, our GRESB scores improved • Vantaa 32.000 sqm2 logistics centre: a total renewal of the storage area lighting system was undertaken and in across all funds, with five of our the first three months of use the new system has investment portfolios earning Green reduced the associated electric consumption by Star ratings. Green Stars recognise approximately 60%. portfolios which have strong • City of London Clean City Awards: Aberdeen won a Platinum Award for 5 Fleet Place and Special sustainability management, Commendation Facilities Management for Regis House. policy, measurement, implementation and quantitative results. 10 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Fixed Income As with our other asset classes, this year we have progressed with integrating the consideration of ESG factors into investment decisions for Fixed Income. In July 2015, we launched our new Responsible Investing Policy for Corporate Debt which details our approach to the examination of ESG factors for corporate debt investments globally. As part of our proprietary credit research process, ESG factors are highlighted by our credit analysts in a standardised fashion to the extent they have a medium or high impact on the credit profile of an issuer. In addition to integrating the analysis of material, credit-impacting ESG factors into each and every issuer review, we also offer clients detailed comparative assessment and scoring of a broader range of ESG factors which can be customised to suit specific ESG requirements. Some of our clients have already chosen to have ESG specialist agencies customise their investment universe according to highly detailed ESG criteria. We are now able to perform this customisation on behalf of clients in a very flexible way. In addition, our Sovereign Debt team is working towards finalising a policy which sets out a Group-wide approach to ESG integration into sovereign debt research. Solutions Property multi-manager Private equity While we can influence ESG issues in indirect property, A key part of Aberdeen’s private equity philosophy is to we have less direct control. We use GRESB to provide focus on capturing long term sustainable returns from a consistent framework both to measure how fund high quality investments. To ensure adherence to this, managers perform on a number of important ESG related our private equity investment research and due diligence issues and to assess how much emphasis managers place process incorporates analysis of ESG factors. This means on understanding the ESG risks and opportunities of the our investment team can more accurately identify and funds they manage. We consider ESG factors as we understand all the potential risks and opportunities would any other aspect of a fund on both an initial and presented by an investment. on-going basis. In addition, we promote the assessment of ESG factors Infrastructure in our investments through active engagement with all Our infrastructure team, which is part of the Alternatives the General Partners (GPs) in which we invest. As part division within Aberdeen Solutions, aligns with our focus of this exercise we issued our first ESG questionnaire on investing for the long term. The funds are unlisted in Q4 2014 to our GPs. This produced largely positive and we have c£2 billion of institutional capital under results and demonstrated how strongly it has become management. Our infrastructure investment policy is ingrained in our GPs’ culture and policy documentation. focused on greenfield social infrastructure, for example, It also provided us with the opportunity to score our schools, hospitals, water treatment facilities and GPs in terms of their ESG capabilities resulting in 70% transport, rather than wider economic infrastructure. having integrated fully in all areas of the business. We Many of the infrastructure assets we invest in are socially will continue to work with the remaining 30% to help beneficial to the communities within which they operate; improve their ESG capabilities. The next iteration whilst others such as roads and waste treatment plants of our questionnaire will be issued during Q4 2015 can be more controversial to local populations and and will focus more on key ESG KPIs and ESG crisis have potential environmental impacts. Before any new escalation processes. investment, we perform a thorough due diligence exercise Quantitative investments which includes the consideration of the environmental We are also developing our approach to equities held by and social impacts the project could have, including any our passive and quantitative operations, ensuring that our mitigating factors. These are considered as part of the stewardship across voting and engagement is as robust as investment approval process. For existing investments, appropriate for these holdings. We take up opportunities we ensure that we understand the long term for dialogue with the boards of these companies and environmental and social impacts and use our rights regularly monitor business performance, governance and and influence on investee company boards to encourage risk matters, seeking to maintain and enhance value over strong governance and effective management of time for our clients. environmental and social risks. aberdeen-asset.com11 Engaging with external stakeholders Our customer focus Our ABC measures Public policy Suppliers Data and customer privacy 12 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our customer focus As an asset manager we are rightly expected to take a close look at every aspect of our operating model to ensure the interests of our customers are incorporated at every step. This is not only a clear expectation of the FCA but is also a driving force behind emerging regulation across Europe. We remain committed to treating customers fairly and analysing our processes to determine whether improvements can be made. Over the course of the year we have focused on three key areas as set out below. These initiatives are being trialled in the UK and Europe but with a view to being rolled out globally: 1) Target market assessment: we have developed a new approach to targeting specific markets for our products, focused on consumer understanding. The approach informs decisions relating to how funds are described, promoted and sold. 2) Use of an independent consumer testing service: Aberdeen’s product team now uses The Wisdom Council to review certain proposed new products prior to launch to ensure fair treatment of customers; that products meet the needs of identified consumer groups; and that consumers are provided with clear information and are kept appropriately informed before, during and after the point of sale. 3) New approach to conduct MI: this requires key oversight committees to obtain relevant and focused management information to determine how Aberdeen is performing against a series of customer expectation statements. The status of the statements establishes an overview of conduct across the organisation and embeds consideration of the end customer into the governance structure of Aberdeen. Our process for managing conduct Head of Conduct Strategy Committees focused on A suite of mandatory g lobal A rigorous complaints conduct from an endemployee training courses handling procedure Works across the business customer perspective, covering a wide range of to ensure the end-customer Ensuring all complaints are including: conduct-related matters is factored into all aspects addressed a ppropriately and including: of the way we do business – Investor Protection in a timely manner. from strategy setting through Committee: oversees the Treating customers fairly; to day-to-day operations. appropriateness of trading Bribery and corruption; activity in Aberdeen’s collective investment Financial crime; products. Personal responsibilities Conduct Committee Pricing Committee: ensures such as personal account A clear brand proposition assets within portfolios are dealing, g ifts and hospitality. P  rovides guidance, advice a nd appropriately priced. Championing focus, openness authority on conduct matters. and collaboration – simply Conflicts Committee: asset management. Reviews management oversees instances where the information on Aberdeen’s interests of Aberdeen may adherence to its conduct conflict with those of our principles. clients. Every two years we undertake a consumer satisfaction survey with Aberdeen UK retail investors. By repeating the survey every two years we are able to examine trends relating to direct customer attitudes towards Aberdeen, our service, communication effectiveness and responsiveness. Our biennial survey FCA outcome 3 Research findings 2013 2015 Consumers are provided with Knowledge of staff 72% 71% clear information and are kept Explaining things clearly 72% 73% appropriately informed before, Speed of response 74% 74% during and after the point of sale. Quality of service 84% 80% Quality of written communication 88% 87% Quality of verbal communication 84% 86% Source: Survey Solutions 2015 aberdeen-asset.com13 Protecting client interests: our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) measures Commitment The application of the ABC policy extends to agents acting, Aberdeen has a zero-tolerance policy to bribery and corruption. or providing services, on Aberdeen’s behalf and partners in The top level management of Aberdeen, being the Board of joint ventures. Aberdeen conducts due diligence, taking a Directors and the Group Management Board, are all dedicated proportionate and risk based approach, in respect of persons to preventing bribery by all persons associated with Aberdeen who perform or will perform services for or on behalf of and fostering a culture within Aberdeen in which bribery Aberdeen in order to mitigate identified bribery risks. and corruption are never acceptable. This is reiterated in the This includes employees and third party service providers. communication of the Group strategy and the Group ethical Agreements with third parties include a commitment to abide standards and highlighted further in a video message by the by relevant bribery legislation and any breach of such would CEO highlighting the importance of our commitment and initiate an immediate review of the contract. compliance with ABC. Aberdeen has implemented a programme of internal Aberdeen is committed to complying with all relevant communications, including training, to deter acts of bribery laws, including anti-corruption laws as highlighted in the by enhancing awareness and reinforcing understanding of Group ethical standards. Furthermore, Aberdeen supports personal responsibilities under the ABC policy. Awareness international and regional legal frameworks in relation to ABC, raising measures are focused on ensuring employees are aware such as the UN Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC). of the existence of the ABC policy and related procedures and All the countries in which we operate have ratified UNCAC are familiar in broad terms with their core content; know how or are in the process of ratifying. In addition, Aberdeen is a to locate the policies and procedures; know where to go to seek signatory of the UN Global Compact, the tenth principle of help or guidance and are familiar with the requirement and which commits participants to avoid bribery, extortion and ability to whistleblow on improper conduct. other forms of corruption. Training provides the knowledge and skills needed to employ Implementation the Group’s procedures and deal with any bribery related At Aberdeen, we are subject to varying ABC requirements, problems or issues which may arise. Computer based training is dictated by the jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. provided to all teams and face-to-face training is to be provided In order to ensure the highest standards are applied, we follow to those in more high risk teams. a globally consistent approach to managing ABC at all levels of our business and in all regions in which we work. An important aspect of internal communications is the establishment of a secure, confidential and accessible means Our ABC policy and related policies cover expected standards for internal or external parties to raise concerns about of behaviour, our commitment to bribery prevention, and our bribery on the part of associated persons. Aberdeen utilises general approach to mitigation of specific bribery risks. a confidential, independent whistleblowing reporting line. The purpose of the ABC policy is to define clear principles All issues or queries can be raised by employees via line which outline Aberdeen’s position on bribery and corruption. management, local compliance personnel and the AFC team, Our procedures implement our bribery prevention policies and and any suspicions can be reported using the whistleblowing are designed to mitigate identified risks as well as to prevent reporting line. deliberate unethical conduct on the part of associated persons. Monitoring The ABC policy applies to all employees and is available both The Group monitors and reviews implementation of procedures internally and externally on the Aberdeen website. designed to prevent bribery by persons associated with it and Responsibility for controlling and mitigating the risk of make improvements where necessary. Monitoring and review is unethical business practice resides at all levels of the Group. conducted by Compliance and Internal Audit. It does not rest solely within the Risk and Compliance functions The AFC team monitors the effectiveness and reviews but in all business units and corporate functions. However, the implementation of the ABC policy as part of the risk senior management retain ultimate responsibility and assessment, regularly considering its suitability, adequacy accountability for the implementation of the ABC policy. and effectiveness. Any improvements identified are made as The Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) team has day to day soon as possible. Internal control systems and procedures are responsibility for the implementation of the ABC policy and the subject to regular audits to provide assurance they are effective ABC programme. The ABC programme is proportionate to the in countering bribery and corruption. In addition to regular bribery risks that the Group faces and to the nature, scale and monitoring, Aberdeen reviews its processes in response to other complexity of the Group’s activities. stimuli, for example regulatory changes in countries in which Aberdeen assesses the nature and extent of its exposure to we operate and enforcement action. potential external and internal risks of bribery on its behalf There have been no reported breaches of our ABC policy in the by persons associated with it. The risk assessment is periodic, past three years. informed and documented and is completed globally. The results of the risk assessment are fed into an ABC heat map and then used to allocate resources accordingly. 14 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Public policy As Aberdeen’s business has grown, so too has our focus engagement with officials and members of the European on how we communicate with governments, regulators, Parliament, most recently responding with our views on trade bodies and other key stakeholders. plans to introduce a capital markets union. As one of Europe’s largest independent fund managers, At a senior level, our CEO chairs the Prudential we recognise our responsibility to help shape a policy Regulatory Authority Practitioner Panel and is a member environment which operates in the long term interests of the International Advisory Board of the Monetary of our clients, our employees, our shareholders and the Authority of Singapore and the International Advisory wider fund management sector. Board of British American Business. Our CIO is a member of the FCA Practitioner Panel, the Scottish Government’s Our Public Affairs team works closely with employees Financial Services Advisory Board, a member of the across the business and is an active participant in relevant Leaders of 2020 Women on Boards and is the vice-chair consultations and reviews. For example, in the last year, of a global council supported by the World Economic we have submitted responses to the UK Government’s Forum to explore issues on the future of insurance and consultations on pension reforms and with a new asset management. Our Deputy CEO also serves on the European Commission in place, we have increased our board of the Investment Association. Suppliers Our suppliers play a key role in our ability to This year, we rolled out a new supplier due diligence operate effectively. questionnaire which includes questions on key issues such as: risk management; anti-financial crime; outsourcing; For Aberdeen, the largest risk is posed by a small information security; data privacy; business continuity; number of strategic service providers. To manage our staff policies and environmental management. This supplier risk, we have a global outsourcing risk oversight Group-wide approach is a further development in our framework which is applied to all suppliers and sets work to mitigate risk exposure, work with suppliers who out clearly defined roles, responsibilities and standards share our business standards and encourage our suppliers for all employees across the Group. Key components to operate in a responsible manner. of this framework include a risk assessment of all service providers; an internal outsourcing risk oversight More locally, in the UK, Aberdeen is a Living Wage committee; and regular meetings with our critical Employer, does not employ any individuals on zero hours service providers to discuss service performance, risk and contracts and continues to comply with the Prompt compliance. In addition, our business continuity plans Payment Code. incorporate outsourced services and exit plans are in place where assessed as necessary. Data and customer privacy Aberdeen is committed to ensuring all personal which we operate, leveraging our global cyber security and sensitive data within our possession or control, programme which is focused on the protection of the whether that of our employees or clients, is handled confidentiality and integrity of Aberdeen’s information correctly throughout its entire life cycle. We continue assets. Aberdeen is committed to the UK Government’s to strengthen our global, cost-effective solution which Cyber Essentials Scheme and continues to work with addresses commonality amongst privacy regulations specialist partners, asset management peers and and substantially addresses our requirements in this industry bodies to adopt and enhance privacy and important area. Aberdeen’s approach is to meet or exceed security best practices. legal and regulatory requirements in every jurisdiction in aberdeen-asset.com15 Managing our environmental footprint Overview Performance 16 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our greatest environmental impact is indirect, through the investments we hold. We do however work to reduce our direct impacts, recognising this is the right thing to do and also has business benefits including reducing utility costs. This year, we have maintained our ISO140001 certifications and successfully achieved Carbon Trust Standard re-accreditation. In addition, we have undertaken a root and branch review of our Environmental Management System (EMS) to determine how we can further embed a culture of environmental improvement in our global offices. In 2016, our new EMS will be extended to cover all offices, with differing requirements based on their ability to influence. This is a significant step forward and we hope this initiative will contribute to driving continual improvement. We will also use this new approach and process to review and set long term efficiency and reduction targets. We continue to focus on improving energy management at our offices, including implementation of new technology such as installing PIRs and LEDs at our new offices in Edinburgh One; the installation of new technology at our new Luxembourg office; and continual monitoring of our energy consumption at Bow Bells House, London. ISO 14001 certified in the UK We share best practice on areas such as waste management and plant maintenance throughout our offices. We remain focused on managing business travel, and are continuing our programme of installing videoconferencing facilities and expanding the use of this globally, in an effort to use technology to reduce travel. Environmental data This year, comparison on a like for like basis of our carbon emissions shows that we have had a 2% reduction in our global emissions intensity. We continue to recycle over 65% of our total waste in the UK and, in an effort to reduce our business travel, have increased use of videoconferencing by 70%. Total global emissions for carbon reporting CO2e emissions (tonnes) Scope Emissions source 2015 2014 1 Natural gas 414 179 Group owned vehicles 118 132 Diesel 4 Refrigerant gas loss 28 28 560 343 2 Electricity and district heating 4,885 4,205 Total 5,445 4,548 Intensity ratio: Emissions per FTE for Scope 1 and Scope 2 1.86 1.72 We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) for our methodology and have used operational control as our boundary for reporting. We have gathered data from invoices on energy consumption, register of refrigerants and service logs of owned vehicles. The UK emissions factors Defra/ DECC (2014) have been used in all instances where country specific emissions factors are unavailable. aberdeen-asset.com17 UN Global Compact In 2013, to demonstrate further our support for the adoption of responsible business practices, we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The ten principles provide a framework against which we can benchmark our performance and work to improve our practices. The table below provides a reference to the relevant section in our CR report against which our progress on the principles can be assessed. Issue areas UN Global Compact Principles Relevant sections Human rights Principle 1 Investing in our people & Businesses should support and respect the protection of Engaging with external internationally proclaimed human rights stakeholders Principle 2 Investing in our people & Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Investing responsibly human rights abuses Labour Principle 3 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Investing responsibly effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Investing responsibly and compulsory labour Principle 5 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Investing responsibly Principle 6 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Investing responsibly respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Managing our environmental Businesses should support a precautionary approach to footprint environmental challenges Principle 8 Managing our environmental Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater footprint & Investing environmental responsibility responsibly Principle 9 Managing our environmental Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of footprint & Investing environmentally friendly technologies responsibly Anti-corruption Principle 10 Protecting client interests: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, our ABC measures. including extortion and bribery 18 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 GRI Assessment Once again, we have chosen to align our report to the GRI KEY G3 Sustainability Reporting Framework Financial Services Yes Sector, supporting our commitment to transparency. No This disclosure has not been externally assured by a third Partial party and, therefore, the information below is self-assessed Not material based on a pragmatic interpretation of the guidelines. A. Standard disclosures: profile Profile Disclosure Reference / comments Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the CR report – Introduction by the Andrew Laing organisation (for example, CEO, Chairman, or equivalent senior (Deputy CEO and Head of the CR Steering position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation Committee) and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CR report – Introduction Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual report 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Annual report 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Annual report 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Annual report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Annual report and types of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Annual report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Annual report structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Annual report Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) December 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr@aberdeen-asset.com 3.5 Process for defining report content CR report – Introduction 3.6 Boundary of the report We report on all aspects of the business. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the We report on all aspects of the business. report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, All information relates to Aberdeen Asset outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly Management PLC. affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Where possible we use international standards and measurement techniques. The techniques adopted have been disclosed within each section. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information No material restatement required. provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, No significant changes on prior year. boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the This GRI appendix. report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Once again we have chosen not to have our assurance for the report report independently assured given its limited length and data content and the extensive internal review process in place at Aberdeen. aberdeen-asset.com19 Profile Disclosure Reference / comments Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees Annual report – Corporate governance report under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the highest governance body is Annual report – Corporate governance report also an executive officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the Annual report – Corporate governance report number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Annual report – Corporate governance report recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Annual report – Remuneration report governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Annual report – Corporate governance report conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and Annual report – Corporate governance report expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of CR report – Culture conduct and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the The CR Steering Committee is chaired by Andrew organisation’s identification and management of economic, Laing, Deputy CEO. The committee meets environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks quarterly to discuss developments, achievements and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with and issues faced. Andrew Laing reports to PLC internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Board directly. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Annual report performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or We adopt a precautionary approach to principle is addressed by the organisation environmental management, as set out in our group wide environmental policy (available on our website). We recognise that our activities have both direct and indirect impacts on the environment and the communities in which we operate and so accept our responsibility to identify and manage these impacts as effectively as possible. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social We have been a member of the FTSE4Good charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation Index since 2002 and are a signatory to the PRI subscribes or endorses and UN Global Compact. We respond to the annual CDP survey and our UK business is ISO 14001 certified. We are also members of, and/or submit data to, a large number of other organisations globally including over ten corporate governance associations, six global property organisations, Business in the Community (UK), the Carbon Trust and the UK Government’s Think, Act, Report initiative. Further details can be found in our annual stewardship report. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/ As above. or national/international advocacy organisations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation CR report – Introduction 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom CR report – Introduction to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of CR report – throughout engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through CR report – throughout stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 20 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 B. Standard disclosures: performance indictors 1. Financial services – sector specific guidelines Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Product portfolio FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components CR report – Investing responsibly applied to business lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social CR report – Investing responsibly risks in business lines FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and CR report – Investing responsibly compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the CR report – Investing responsibly environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to & Investing in our people business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding CR report – Investing responsibly environmental and social risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, Annual report size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a CR report – Investing responsibly specific social benefit for each business line broken down by & Annual report purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a CR report – Investing responsibly specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down & Annual report by purpose Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of Annual internal audits for CR and responsible environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures investing policies and procedures. Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s CR report – Investing responsibly portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative CR report – Investing responsibly environmental or social screening FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares Stewardship report over which the reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 2. Economic Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Economic performance EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Annual report operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the CR report Managing our environmental organisation’s activities due to climate change footprint & Investing responsibly EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government None Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based CR report Engaging with external suppliers at significant locations of operation stakeholders suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management CR report – Investing in our people hired from the local community at significant locations of operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and CR report – Investing responsibly & services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, Employee engagement in-kind, or pro bono engagement aberdeen-asset.com21 3. Environment Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume As an office-based company our operations do not consume significant quantities of raw materials. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Not material because Aberdeen does not use significant quantities of recycled materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source This information is not currently available. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source This information is not currently available. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source As an office-based company our operations do not have a significant impact on water consumption. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Not material to Aberdeen as our offices are to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside located in urban areas and therefore do not have protected areas a material impact on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity outside of protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and As above. services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Emissions, effluent and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 5,445 tonnes of CO2e (4,548 in 2014) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 7,030 tonnes of CO2e (4,579 in 2014) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions CR report – Managing our environmental achieved footprint EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight As an office-based company, Aberdeen does not have any activities that result in significant air emissions other than those incorporated within GHG reporting. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight As above. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination As an office-based company, our operations do not result in significant water discharge. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 76 tonnes of general waste UK only (71 tonnes in 2014) 155 tonnes of recyclable waste UK only (150 tonnes in 2014) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills The only area where this may be relevant is in the refuelling of emergency generators. No significant spills took place in the reporting year. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and CR report – Managing our environmental services, and extent of impact mitigation footprint EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that Not applicable to Aberdeen’s operations. are reclaimed by category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Nil non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 22 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 4. Labour practices and decent work Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and CR report – Investing in our people region, broken down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee CR report – Investing in our people turnover by age group, gender, and region Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Aberdeen is a signatory of the UN Global agreements Compact and upholds the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all of its operations. Aberdeen also upholds the International Labour Organization conventions and respects collective bargaining and freedom of association. In countries where an employee delegate or works council is not present, employees are encouraged to share their opinions with line managers or human resources representatives. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Minimum notice periods, where applicable, are changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements governed by state or local law. Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, CR report – Investing in our people. There were and number of work related fatalities by region and by gender no accidents or near misses in the current or prior year as reportable by RIDDOR. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control CR report – Investing in our people. No programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, employees are involved in occupational activities or community members regarding serious diseases which have a high risk of specific serious diseases. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and CR report – Investing in our people by employee category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that CR report – Investing in our people support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and CR report – Investing in our people career development reviews by gender Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees CR report – Investing in our people per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by This information is not currently available. employee category, by significant locations of operation 5. Human rights Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment This information is not currently available. agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business This information is not currently available. partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective This information is not currently available. actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right CR report – Investing in our people to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights aberdeen-asset.com23 Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Child Labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Given the nature of our business this is not a significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to material risk. contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Given the nature of our business this is not a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and material risk. measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour 6. Society Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Local community SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community CR report – Employee engagement engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks CR report – Protecting client interests: our related to corruption ABC measures All employees and business units are assessed. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption CR report – Protecting client interests: our policies and procedures ABC measures All employees are trained in our ABC policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CR report – Protecting client interests: our ABC measures There have been no reported breaches of our ABC policy in the past three years. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Engaging with external stakeholders – public development and lobbying policy As one of Europe’s largest listed independent fund managers, we are asked from time to time to give house views on regulatory policy and business issues, and are invited to take part in an increasing number of public forums, whether conference, media or trade association related. We therefore have a formal policy committee in place which is chaired by the Head of Public Affairs. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political It is the Group’s policy not to make contributions parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. for political purposes. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, No such actions were faced in the financial year. anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and during the year. regulations 24 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 7. Product responsibility Performance indicators Disclosure Location of disclosure Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Due to the nature of the business our products products and services are assessed for improvement, and and services do not have significant health and percentage of significant products and services categories subject safety risks. to such procedures Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures In most of the countries in which we operate and percentage of significant products and services subject to there are strict regulations which govern product such information requirements and service information. We ensure that we comply with these standards. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes All financial promotions and image advertising related to marketing communications, including advertising, are reviewed by the Compliance department via promotion, and sponsorship an internal database prior to distribution. We comply with the service information regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations There were no such incidents in the financial year. and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of There were no such complaints in the financial customer privacy and losses of customer data year. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws There were no such fines in the financial year. and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services aberdeen-asset.com25 Contact For more information please email csr@aberdeen-asset.com 26 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 aberdeen-asset.com27 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH Telephone: +44 (0)20 7463 6000 Fax: +44 (0)20 7463 6001 aberdeen-asset.com Registered in Scotland No. 82015. Registered Office 10 Queen’s Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG 121021661
