FOR A BETTER WORLD İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 INDEX 04 ABOUT OUR REPORT 06 MESSAGE TO STAKEHOLDERS 08 CORPORATE PROFILE 12 FACTS AND FIGURES OF 2015 14 GROUP COMPANIES AND BUSINESS AREAS 14 CUSTOMER PROFILE 15 SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD 18 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 19 Corporate Management 20 Sustainability Management 26 STAKEHOLDER OPINIONS 33 STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES 36 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 38 Sustainable Development and Contributions to Economy 42 Energy Investments 45 Local Procurement Practices 46 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 47 Occupational Health and Safety www.icdas.com.tr 50 Employee Engagement 53 Relations with Local Community 56 Social Investments 74 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 75 Environmental Management 76 Waste Management 77 Water Management 80 Emissions Management 83 Energy Management 89 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 89 Economic Performance Indicators 90 Social Performance Indicators 96 Environmental Performance Indicators 101 APPENDIX 101 Publications 101 Awards 102 UN Global Compact Principles 104 GRI G4 Content Index İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 3 With our sustainability report, we provide our stakeholders with the opportunity to evaluate the measurement, monitoring and improvement works we conduct with regard to management of our affects that occur as a result of our activities. ABOUT OUR Scope of our Report and Restrictions Sustainable Steel Production Performance REPORT1 In our works we conduct with our managers, we took into consideration the steel and energy production, which are the main Indicators. We carried our commitments for corporate business lines of İÇDAŞ, in determining the responsibilities up to international dimenWe are proud to present the forth the strategic matters. Information contained in this report covers activities of all facilities sion by signing UN Global Principles Convention in 2012. We increased our aware2015 sustainability report that aims to of İÇDAŞ between 1 January 2015 and 31 ness regarding “Sustainable Development December 2015 unless otherwise stated. Goals (SDG) determined by UN Global explain our works that direct our economic, Network in 2015 and included our pracenvironmental and social performance and Principles of our Report We prepared our report based on GRI Globtices related to compliance with UN principles in our report. our sustainability vision as well as its results al Reporting Initiative (see www.globalreporting.org) which is globally recognized Our Next Report to our stakeholders. GRI G4 in accordance option Core We are planning to issue our next report, where we aim to explain our 2016 susIn addition to significance, sustainability tainability performance, in the first half of context and integrity principles of GRI, we 2017. took into account World Steel Association’s 1G4-17 4 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 5 OUR MESSAGE TO OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE ECONOMY OUR SENSITIVITY TOWARDS ENVIRONMENT Given the economic impacts, our growth investments, our We carry on our operations in the industries holding high STAKEHOLDERS2 local and national economic contributions are the issues environmental impacts. Our practices such as emission coming to the fore. All investments we have made to our management we have sustained for the purpose of conbusiness hold indirect contributions to the national econoserving climate, waste management we have executed for my and society. Foundation of our environmental and sothe purpose of preventing environmental pollution and our cial investment is also based on our sound financial strucstudies within the framework of water management we ed Facility located in Biga, Çanakkale. In addition to this, ture. have initiated for the aim of conserving natural resources we have maintained steel export to 34 countries and have constitute a vital part of our enterprise. reached the 17th company position performing the most We continue to provide support as İÇDAŞ to 100 Coasters export of our country. İÇDAŞ covered approximately 4 % Turkish Star Project stipulating renewal of Turkish Maritime Total budget amount we have allocated to the projects we of the electricity generated by private sector in Turkey with Trade Coaster Fleet initiated in 2012. This year, we have have developed for the purpose of conserving environment 8,13 billion kWh in 2015 in energy generation. We have launched Turkish Star-3.5000 DWT general cargo ships on is over 290 million TL in 2015. 32 % out of this budget met the electricity generation with 11,9 million kWh we sea. We have initiated construction of Turkish Star-4.5000 accounts for operating expenses of environmental investhave generated as İÇDAŞ from sustainable energy resourcDWT general cargo ship. ments. es through RES we commissioned in 2015. Direct investment have made so far on Çanakkale lands is Through our Artificial Reefs and Biodiversity Support ProjBesides economic effects of our industries on the country over 5.5 billion dollars. We employ our employees from ect, we continue to maintain our studies we have initiated and society, we are well aware of our social and envithe locals in the rate of 83% at Değirmencik Facility. Posifor the purpose of conserving living being diversity in the ronmental impacts arising out of our operations. We have tive consequences of our local employment policy are fregeography we carry on our operations. We have 15 wind managed our important economic investments we have quently mentioned with our public stakeholders; that unempower plants this year as an important investment in main created since our establishment as a whole with our social ployment issue in Biga region has been resolved thanks to heading of efficiency studies and renewable energy. and environmental responsibilities and we have created İÇDAŞ is strongly emphasized by our stakeholders. requisite systems and infrastructure to maintain our current Our primary goal in waste management is recovery of Bülend Engin insight. While creating this infrastructure, we have taken THE VALUE WE HAVE ATTACHED the wastes. We separately collect all wastes including the General Manager into consideration 10 fundamental principles set out with TO OUR EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY wastes received from ships in our port in compliance with the objective of protecting human rights, improving workthe legislation and send them to licensed recycling facilities Dear Stakeholders, ing conditions, conserving environment and preventing and we either recycle or dispose of them. We disposed TIn all our operations and investments, occupational health of 78 % of the wastes in Değirmencik Facility and 88 % corruption for the business world set forth by the United and safety and our relations with employees and the locals of the wastes in Bekirli Facility by way of recovery. Our In our fourth report incorporating economic, social and Nations Global Compact and we entered into force the constitute our primary social impact. It is our mission to objective is to cancel out the waste volume send for landfill environmental performance of İÇDAŞ in 2015, we strive United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2012. Under ensure our working environment to be safe and efficient, to until 2020. to share our targets in regard to our practices pertaining the leadership of world leaders in 2015, we have been provide our employees with fair working environment, to to how we manage and develop our influence area in line closely pursuing 2030 Sustainable Development Goals establish communication with our employees, to recognize We have been managing water issue in İÇDAŞ Değirwith the sustainable development. (SDGs) set out for the purpose of putting severe poverty personal reliability and development opportunities. Based mencik Integrated Facility under the name of “Sustainable to an end and combating injustice and adapting climatic on the data we have obtained from the surveys we have Water Management Project” since 2007. While we fully We carry on our operations in steel and energy industries changes and we devise the operations we have conducted conducted each year, satisfaction and welfare of our emmeet our requirements of water in our facilities from the sea, with critical significance in sustainable development of for sustainable development in line with UNGC Sustainployees are continuously increasing. as İÇDAŞ, our continuous goal is to carry out sustainable Turkey and taking a sound economic structure to the fuable Development Goals. ture. İÇDAŞ is a steel, energy and ship producer holding development and growth and to enhance environmental While devising our social and environmental investments, and social values we have created for our stakeholders. employer, contractor and investor qualities and environIn this report, while managing sustainability commitments, we duly act by taking into account the priorities of the local If you share your questions relating to the information conmentally friendly and innovative technologies. 2015 has you will have an opportunity for reviewing the practices we people we refer as “our neighbours” inhabiting in these tained in this report and other opinions and suggestions turned out to be a negative portrait in terms of steel inhave been executing and their results. While identifying areas where our facilities are located. Since our estabwith us, this shall help us create more value towards you. dustry. While raw steel production of our country declines our influence areas that we shall manage in respect of suslishment, we have carried out and shall carry out several in the rate of 7,4 %, the said decline has been construed tainability, we have set off by considering the issues with works in regard with increasing life quality of society, imas the sharpest third shrinkage following Ukraine and the vital importance for whole humanity such as biodiversity proving educational opportunities and social life and meetUSA among the biggest 15 steel producers. Although our country has been adversely affected from recession in the and reduction of natural resources alongside energy supply safety and renewable energy resources. In this current ing social requirements. Bülend Engin world steel industry, our country has been in the biggest year, we have revised the issues we have focused on the We sustain our education (UMEM Specialized Vocational tenth steel exporter position in the world with 16,76 million meetings held with our directors and employees. We have Training Project, schools, scholarships) and sport (İÇDAŞ tonnes since 2015. While steel industry demonstrated an strengthened our commitment to sustainability by conductSport Club) investments embracing young population in adverse performance in 2015 when compared with 2014, ing a myriad of interviews by taking as a basis the conour region and our investments pertinent to maintaining orientation of global increasing capacity surplus of productribution of İÇDAŞ to regional development together with our cultural heritage addressing entire society (Troia, Keers by a wide range of countries primarily China and Rusour public stakeholders and the expectations of our public mer Parion and Apollon Smintheion Excavations Sponsorsia has been effective from the prices with damping to the stakeholders from İÇDAŞ. Our report incorporates a critiship) as a holistic approach. world markets. In a period where international competition cal section on which we have conveyed valuable opinions is vehemently implemented, we have carried out 9,3 % of and views of our public stakeholders. steel production of our country in our Değirmencik Integrat2G4-01 / G4-28 / G4-32 6 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 7 As İÇDAŞ, the biggest private sector steel producer with its production capacity and one of the institutions which carry out the highest level of exportation in our country, we have been manufacturing steel since 1970. In addition to steel production, we operate in the fields of energy, shipyard, logistics (sea, land), transportation (air), port management, construction, insurance, mining, agriculture and husbandry. Our Değirmencik Integrated Facility that is subordinate to Biga district of Çanakkale incorporates three steel plants with five and a half million ton/year capacity, three rolling plants with three million tons/year capacity, three-unit 405 Megawatt thermal power plant, shipyard, two piers, one dock, the biggest private sector port facilities with daily 30 thousand tons of loading capacity and 60 thousand tons of unloading capacity and auxiliary facilities of these units. OUR CORPORATE PROFILE3 As İÇDAŞ, the biggest private sector steel producer with its production capacity and one of the institutions which carry out the highest level of exportation in our country, we have been İÇDAŞ Bekirli Thermal Power Plant located in Çanakkale satisfies all electrical manufacturing steel since 1970. energy requirement of over 2,6 million people with an installed capacity of 1.236 MW. 3G4-03 8 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 9 Log, construction steel, plain bar and commercial bar are the starting points for such rolling materials as profile and wire rod. They are long, square and continuous casting semi-finished products with varying cross sections of 100 mm-200 mm. Construction steel is a type of steel that was produced as an alternative to flat surface construction steel that is used in reinforced concrete structures, that has replaced it in time and that has protrusions (nervures) on their surfaces. Wire rod is a semi-product metal rod which is made by hot rolling, generally has round cross-section and which is rolled in form of bobbin. It is used in production of welding electrode, steel mesh, wire, bolt, spring and similar products. The electrical power generated in our thermal power plants is transmitted via TEDAŞ (Turkish Electricity Distribution Inc.) to many points from banks and finance sector to malls and restaurants, schools, houses and public bodies as well as customers operating in fuel, informatics, steel, finance and investment, construction, food, concrete, electronics, energy, logistics, OUR PRODUCTS4 mining, automotive, health, agriculture textile and transportation, and notably hotels and industrial organizations. Log, construction steel, and wire rod we produce in our steel Electricity generation amount provided for in our Wind Power Plant project we execute in facility and electrical power we produce in our plants are Biga region is 192.895.200 million KW hour annually. 120 thousand tons carbon release products with international standards. While steel products mitigation will be enabled with this production amount. First Wind Power Plant turbines (12 turbines) with a total generation capacity of 60 million KW hours were put into service withare used in such sectors as construction, automotive and in 2015 and 11,9 million KW hours electricity generation was achieved. With our wind power plant turbines, we aim to create portfolio diversity, preserve ecological balance as machine manufacturing, electricity generated in thermal plants well as achieving carbon trade. is transmitted to corporate customers via state network. We include the ships we produce in our shipyard predominantly into İÇDAŞ’s own fleet. To date, we have produced 13 ships including chemical tankers and dry cargo vessels and one towboat. We landed Turkish Star-3 cargo ship, which we started constructing in 2014 on water in September 2015 and started construction of Turkish Star-4 cargo ship in June 2015. 4G4-04 10 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 11 İÇDAŞ FIGURES İÇDAŞ FIGURES IN 20155 IN 2015 •ECONOMIC• •SOCIAL• CORPORATE PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE CORPORATE PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY PROFILE Steel %55,29 4624 % 83 %4,96 6,88 Billion TL Energy %39,75 Consolidated Net Sale %39,75 %55,29 Other %4,96 Number of Group Değirmencik Facility Distribution of Net Sales Employees Local People Employment Rate 7.828.235 TL 675 Million USD 34 Our Social Number of Countries to Investments 17th Company which we perform exportation of Turkey in terms of exportation (2015) •ENVIRONMENTAL• 290.103.150 TL 15.000 ton 1.692 MW 8.136.463.288 kWh Our Environmental Investment Capacity of Steel Scrap we Total Installed Capacity -Thermal Power Plants Electrical Generation and Operation Expenses recover in 1 Day Bekirli %73 1.236 MW İÇDAŞ Eloctricity %67,45 Değirmencik %24 405 MW İÇDAŞ Steel %32,40 2,94 million ton WPP %0.15 Raw Steel Production (9,3% of Turkey’s total raw steel generation) Wind Power Plant %3 (3,98% of the total electricity generated by 51,2 MW private sector in Turkey in 2015) (Rates on Turkey are based on data from Turkish Steel Producers Association and Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation) 12 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 5G4-09 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 13 • OUR GROUP COMPANIED AND THEIR ACTIVITY AREAS6 • Distribution of our Electricity Customers Number of Our Electricity Subscribers: OUR GROUP COMPANIED AND THEIR ACTIVITY AREAS 2496 OUR COMPANIES ACTIVITY AREA İÇDAŞ Çelik Enerji Tersane ve Ulaşım San. A.Ş. Steel Production, Electricity Generation, Naval Construction Bank and Finance %38,30 %3 İÇDAŞ Elektrik Enerjisi Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. Electricity Production 8.3 0 Other %21,23 .23 %21 İÇDAŞ Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satış İthalat ve İhracat A.Ş. Electricity Sales DEMİR SANAYİ Demir Çelik Ticaret ve Sanayi A.Ş. Rolling Industry %13,98 ERAS Taşımacılık Taahhüt İnşaat ve Ticaret A.Ş. Land Transportation Logistics %7,53 BİGAİR Havacılık ve Taşımacılık Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Airway Hotels %6,45 İÇDAŞ Dış Ticaret A.Ş. Agriculture and Husbandry Food %4,65 45 İÇDAŞ Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş. Insurance Textile %2,96 6, % 13 % ,98 İÇYAPI İnşaat Taahhüt ve Ticaret A.Ş. Construction Health %2 ,53 %7 % %4,65 AVM %1,48 2 %2,96 %1 ,40 • OUR CUSTOMER PROFILE • 7 Fuel %1,40 %1,48 Our International Steel Customers Domestic Steel Customers %82 %65 Merchants End Users %18 %35 • IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS IN REPORTING PERIOD8 • End Users: Construction companies, wire-nail-bolt, steel mesh and electrode producers Merchants: Distribütörler, aracı firmalar We landed Turkish Star-3 cargo ship on water in September 2015. We started construction of Turkish Star-4 cargo ship in June 2015. Steel Exportation Market %1.5 %7 Asia We put 16 wind power plants with 51,2 MW, total capacity of which Europe %12 was 60 MW and total quantity of which was 12. South America %45 Africa North America %34.5 6G4-13 / 7G4-08 8G4-13 14 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 15 9 CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS ASSOCIATIONS, FOUNDATIONS, İÇDAŞ REPRESENTATIVE IN THE DUTY CHAMBERS AND UNIONS ADMINISTRATION Chamber of Shipping Bayram Yusuf ASLAN Member BİSİAD Biga Industrialists and Businessmen’s Association Bülend ENGİN Member BİSİAD Biga Industrialists and Businessmen’s Association Şerif MUTLU Member BSTP Biga Civil Society Platform Şerif MUTLU Member BSTP Biga Civil Society Platform H. Agah AYHAN Member CARES Sustainability Committee Mustafa BALCI Member CARES Annual Technical Committee Meetings Enver ÖZGÜN, Mustafa BALCI Committee Member Çanakkalespor Football Club Association Tuncay TAVUS Board Member ÇİB – Steel Exporters’ Association Adnan ASLAN Board Member ÇİB – Steel Exporters’ Association / Technical Committee Work Enver ÖZGÜN, Mustafa BALCI, Ediz ÖKSÜZ, Unrecorded Economy Prevention/Product Tracking Nilgün AKSOY System– Committee Member ÇTSO Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry Bülend ENGİN Board Chairman ÇTSO Chamber of Commerce and Industry Şerif MUTLU Council and Accounts Commission Member Union of Railroad Transportation ( DTD ) Ali Zeki ERCAN Member Chamber of Shipping ( DTO ) Naci ASLAN Council Member ENSAR Foundation Şerif MUTLU Board Member EUROFER Eurofer The European Steel Association Corporal Member EÜD – Electric Producers’ Assocation Bülend ENGİN Board Member GAN TÜRKİYE – Global On-the-Job Training Network H. Agah AYHAN Member GİSBİR – Turkish Shipbuilders’ Association Corporal Member IREPAS – International Construction Iron Producers’ and Murat Cebecioğlu President Exporters’ Association İKV – Economic Development Foundation Corporal Foundation Supporter İMMİB Istanbul Mineral And Metals Exporters' Association Corporal Member İSO – Istanbul Chamber of Industry Ayhan ASLAN Professional Committee Member İSO Istanbul Chamber of Industry Enver ÖZGÜN Environment Specialization Board (ÇİK) Member İTO Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Corporal Member KİSAD – Lime Association Corporal Member KOSDER Koster Owners and Operations Association Hakan BASA Member MESS – Turkish Metal Industrialists Union Corporal Member MÜSİAD – Independent Industrialists and Businessmen’s Şerif MUTLU, Ömer Faruk ÖZDEMİR, İsmail Board of Supervisors and Directors Member Association YAMAN, Mustafa BALCI, Murat ÖZTÜRK, Eyüp TAN TÇÜD – Technical Quality Committee Enver ÖZGÜN, Mustafa BALCI TSE 708 – Updating works on Construction Steel Rod Standard. TÇÜD – Turkish Steel Producers’ Association Bayram Yusuf ASLAN Board Chairman and High Advisory Council Member TÇÜD Turkish Steel Producers’ Association Tacettin ASLAN High Advisory Council Member TÇÜD Steel Journal, Broadcasting Board Member Bülend ENGİN Member TMD – Associations of Miners of Turkey Naci ASLAN Representative TSE – Turkish Standards Institute Enver ÖZGÜN, Mustafa BALCI Mirror Committee Member (Standard Preparation and Expressing Opinions with regard to Steel sector) TURMEPA Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association Özge ÖZENSOY Member TÜRK TRADE Foreign Trade Association Of Turkey Corporal Member 9G4-16 16 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 According to the sustainability questionnaire we conduct with our employees, agreement rate to the expression “İÇDAŞ manages all business procedures by observing transparency, fairness, accountability and responsibility (corporate management) principles” increased by 4% compared to the previous year. • CORPORATE MANAGEMENT 1 0 • STRATEGY AND Members of the Executive Board of İÇDAŞ, which is a family company, are responsible for practices in parallel risks and determined the policies for these risks. Our policies determined to manage the sustainability-relatMANAGEMENT to the company’s economic, environmental and social ed risks are contained in İÇDAŞ Management Policies performance equally. Each of the members, and notably Book. founders of the company, is experienced people of TurkThe Disciplinary Regulation, which contains the rules to ish business life that leads their sectors. Key approach of be applied at workplaces for actions in violation of workour executive board in terms of self-evaluation is achiever’s health, labour safety, information safety and busiing growing and sustainability targets of the company. ness discipline, is composed of principles that should be All of our executive board members, who may have We carry our activities with our vision to offer products different positions in all our companies, have executive followed by all our employees. Relevant complaint cases are handled by the disciplinary board if they are related and services at universal standards and qualities in steel functions in these companies. Executive boards of the companies are composed of family members and there to issues covered by the Disciplinary Board or department managers and directors in the case that other matand energy sector and our leadership in fulfilling our are no independent members. ters are concerned. Members of the executive board manage the risks and responsibilities for the community and environment. As opportunities regarding sustainability daily because of The most important communication channel by which the Executive Board takes suggestions and opinions of their executive functions and there are constantly in conİÇDAŞ, we aim to be among the top 10 companied in tact. The executive board follows its position in Turkey’s employees is İÇÖS Recommendation System. 10 recommendations reached the system from our employees in İstanbul Industry Chamber and preserve our success in the top 500 industrial establishments as well as data and report of TÇÜD about the sector regularly and makes 2015 and 5 recommendations that were deemed feasible by our management were put into practice. The capacity of responsible industrialists. decisions instantly, if necessary. recommendations that were put into practice were about Our companies use SAP system to achieve internal conincreasing labour and material efficiency and decreastrol and risk management including sustainability risks. ing labour safety risks. The Executive Board defined its present and potential 10G4-34 18 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 19 • OUR STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS12 • The strategy questionnaire we conducted with the participation of our high level administrators as well as the results of the sustainability evaluation questionnaire in which our employees participated in helped us to evaluate and better understand our triple effects from the perspective of our employees. As a result of the evaluations we made with our administrators in the strategy workshop, we examined the matters of strategic importance for our company separately in terms of environment and community; we carried out the pri• SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT11 • oritization work and formed İÇDAŞ Strategic Sustainability Matrix. As İÇDAŞ management, we aim to increase susİÇDAŞ STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS MATRIX HIGH tainable steel and energy production by prioritising the matters of environmental management, labour ITS IMPORTANCE AND EFFECT ON STAKEHOLDERS safety and quality and benefiting from innovative EVALUATION AND DECISIONS REGARDING THE COMPANY LABOUR HEALTH AND SAFETY management culture and up-to-date, scientific, efficient and effective work methods. Enabling our RELATIONSHIPS WITH LOCAL EMISSIONS employees and the residents of the region to live COMMUNITY in a healthy and clean environment constitute teh WASTE MANAGEMENT basis of our sustainability strategy. EMPLOYMENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE By signing UN Global Compact in 2012, we carried the values and principles we have embraced since the day we were established up to a corpoEDUCATION WATER MANAGEMENT rate responsibility dimension in global sense. We PRESERVATION OF BIODIVERSITY promise the whole world that we will be a good “corporate citizen” with this compact that is based ENERGY MANAGEMENT on respect for environment and human rights, ensuring a healthy work environment, fighting corruption, high-quality production and social responsibility mentality. Creating value for our stakeholders in all our processes constitute the basis of our mentality. The LOW ITS IMPORTANCE AND EFFECT ON İÇDAŞ REPUTATIONAL, LEGAL, FINANCIAL, OPERATIONAL principles we have specified in order to render our sustainability mentality more clear and comprehensible for our stakeholder also represent our Matters that affect reputational, legal, financial and operational performance of our company and that have greater constant commitments for the purpose of managimportance both for our company and our stakeholders were contained in right upper part of the table. These matters ing our sustainability effects in all businesses and constituted the main headlines of the report and we explained related performance of our company in detail within investments of our company. the report with data.13 Our main purpose in our desire to form such a matrix is to be able to specify the matters that our priority stakeholders, as much as our company, places importance on and decide on our plans and targets within the framework of these matters. We aim to exchange ideas with higher number of our stakeholders and improve the matters we will focus on and corresponding current aims in the periods ahead. G4-20 G4-21 G4-25 11G4-20 / G4-21 12G4-18 / G4-22 / G4-23 / 13G4-19 20 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 21 • OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES14 • • Determining and using the technology that is convenient for preservation of environment, prevention and elimination of pollution, developing projects and ensure their implementation, • Taking the necessary measures by determining the waste management policy related to our establishment in order to dispose of the pollutants caused by our establishment in such a way as to give no harm to the environment and improving our environment performance constantly, • Reducing CO2 emissions caused by products and services, • Formulating constantly growing and developing performance criteria with management systems and objectives, • Abiding fully by national laws and regulation and international conventions that pertain to our sector in terms of environment and conducting any kind of measurements, analyses and controls based on environmental standards and ecological criteria in order to conserve the environment and prevent pollution, • Ensuring that economic decisions are considered together with ecological decisions so as to improve our position in the sector in a balanced and constant manner, • Ensuring utilization of natural resources needed in our production within the framework of sustainable development by upholding their protection-usage balance, • Developing operational policies by taking into consideration demands of all implementing agencies and organizations, non-governmental organizations as well as people living around us, • Preventing environmental accidents and occupational accidents, • Implementing a continuous education program for our employees in order to render the environmental practices effective and increasing environmental awareness. G4-20 / G4-21 / 14G4-22 / G4-23 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM STANDARDS CERTIFICATES OUR CORRESPONDING FACILITIES DATE ISO 27001 Information Safety Management System Steel Facilities (Non-Production Unites) 2014 Shipyard Facility Safety Certificate Shipyard 2014 ISO 17025 Laboratory Quality Management System Environmental Control Laboratory, Fatigue Test Laboratory 2012 ISO 14064-1:2006 Greenhouse Gas Emission Verification Standard Steel Facilities, Power Plants, Shipyard, Lime Facility, Port 2012 ISO 50001 2011 Energy Orientation System Steel Facilities, Power Plants, Shipyard, Lime Facility, Port 2011 CARES BS 8902:2009 Sustainability Management System Steel Facilities 2011 ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System Steel Facilities, Power Plants, Shipyard, Lime Facility, Port 2005 OHSAS 18001:2007 Labour Health and Safety Management System Steel Facilities, Power Plants, Shipyard, Lime Facility, Port 2005 CARES BS EN 9001:2008 Quality Management System Steel Facilities 1998 ISO 9001 2008 Quality Management System Steel Facilities, Power Plants, Shipyard, Lime Facility, Port 1994 OUR EC CONFORMITY CERTIFICATES OUR CORRESPONDING FACILITIES DATE Steel Slag Aggregate Production EN 13043:2004 Steel Slag (Artificial Aggregate) Facilities 2015 Steel Slag Aggregate Production EN 12620:2003 Steel Slag (Artificial Aggregate) Facilities 2015 Quality Assurance System Conformity Certificate Ready Mixed Bekirli Ready Mixed Concrete Facility 2013 Concrete Production TS EN 206-1:2002/A2:2006 G Conformity Certificate Ready Mixed Concrete Production TS EN Bekirli Ready Mixed Concrete Facility 2013 206-1:2002/A2:2006 Fly Ash Production TS EN 450-1:2006 İÇDAŞ Elektrik Enerjisi Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 2012 Aggregate Production EN 12620:2003 and EN 13242:2002 Havdan Limestone Aggregate Facilities 2012 Steel Slag Aggregate Production EN 13242:2004 Steel Slag (Artificial Aggregate) Facilities 2012 G4-25 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 23 • COMMUNICATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS15 • We have platforms where we can exchange ideas 82% of our employees participating in sustainability and information with our stakeholders at questionnaire say: “Positive impacts of İÇDAŞ on Turkish least once a year. economy are known and appreciated by all stakeholders. Satisfaction level of our employees in this regard showed a OUR STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNICATION PLATFORM COMMUNICATION FREQUENCY 3% positive increase compared to last year. İÇÖS, Intranet Always Labour Health and Safety Meeting Monthly Our stakeholders are the people and bodies that are affected by our activities today and in the future and that have Employees and Unions impacts on the economic, social and environmental values we create with their behaviours and decisions at the Notice Boards Always same time. As İÇDAŞ, we establish communication with all our key stakeholders, inform them in various platforms Shareholders Executive Board Meeting Weekly or take their opinions about our activities. Call Centre and Customer Portal Always In order to be able to make self-evaluation about our sustainability performance, the sustainability questionnaire, which we conducted with participation of our 741 employees from all of our facilities, was also applied in this Seminar-congressfairs A few times in a year reporting period as it was in the previous years. Customers Mutual visits Always As a result of the sustainability definition questionnaire, which we materialized with participation of our senior adProduct Information Brochure A few times in a year ministrators and the strategy workshop we conducted following this, we reviewed our key stakeholders who have the most intense economic, social and environmental interaction with our company and our strategic priorities.16 Factory visit and briefing Once in a year Public and Regulatory Bodies Personal meeting Indefinite Local Community and Administrations Personal meeting A few times in a week PUBLIC AND EMPLOYEES Memberships Monthly EMPLOYEE REGULATORY Professional Chambers / AND UNIONS FAMILIES BODIES Industrial Chambers Presentations on environment, Labour Health and Safety etc. A few times in a year NONCUSTOMERS Non-governmental Memberships Monthly GOVERNMENTAL organizations ORGANIZATIONS Cultural trips A few times in a year Employee Families Picnic and social organizations Weekly PROFESSIONAL LOCAL SOCIETY CHAMBERS AND Suppliers Ethical Supply Policy Information Once in a year İÇDAŞ ADMINISTRATION Personal meetings Weekly Media Members UNIVERSITIES MEDIA Telephone, e-mail, social networks A few times in a week AND RESEARCH MEMBERS Introductory factory visits and presentations 1-2 times in a week INSTITUTIONS Universities and Research Institutions Occupational education Always Introductory factory visits and presentations 1-2 times in a week SHAREHOLDERS Students / Potential Employees/Interns STUDENTS Presentations on environment, labour 1-2 times in a week POTENTIAL health and safety etc. EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS INTERNS G4-24 / G4-25 /15G4-18/G4-24 / 16G4-26 / G4-29 G4-24 / G4-25 / G4-26 24 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 25 •STAKEHOLDER OPINIONS17 • •STAKEHOLDER OPINIONS17 • HAMZA ERKAL, Governor İSMAİL IŞIK, Biga Mayor “IT SHALL BE A GREAT HONOUR AND SATISFACTION FOR US IF İÇDAŞ SHALL BE A “İÇDAŞ HAS BROUGHT IN A NEW ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE IN THE ISSUE SPONSOR TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS ORGANIZED IN OUR DISTRICT, PROVIDE A OF RENEWABLE ENERGY TO OUR REGION.” SUPPORT TO EDUCATION AND SCIENTIFIC DEVELOPMENT IN OUR UNIVERSITY.” İÇDAŞ ranks in the first 10 industrial organizations of our country in terms of investment, production, export and İÇDAŞ, which is one of the prominent organizations of Çanakkale and Turkey and the world, gains holistic benefits employment capacities of our country. Within this context, that this company carries on its operations in Biga district among the economic benefits it has brought in to our region. After participation of İÇDAŞ, the metal union that is the is a real honour for our province and our country. We would also feel appreciation in receiving contribution and biggest civil society in Biga and even in Çanakkale has joined our social and cultural life. İÇDAŞ has significantly resupport of İÇDAŞ in vocational schools, university, social projects and publicity activities in our province. duced the employment issue in Biga by providing employment to approximately 5000 employees. İÇDAŞ maintains Production operations of İÇDAŞ are divided under three main headings. Service production such as iron-steel proits support in all areas in respect with the requirements of our municipality within the context of the region and has duction, energy generation and shipyard, mining and transport. These three industries I have listed hereinabove are been providing contributions and sponsorship to most of cultural-artistic activities held by our municipality. İÇDAŞ the industries having a strategic importance for our country. These industries provide high employment rates and is a very important social stakeholder with the projects it has conducted with Çanakkale 18 March University and added values. İÇDAŞ is a facility having production and quality standards in the world wide basis. infrastructure aids it has performed for the villages of Biga. Upon the operations of İÇDAŞ in our region, economic Contributions of İÇDAŞ to economical and social development and contributions it has offered to the citizens and transformation and development efforts in Biga have surprisingly improve other districts. public institutions located in Biga and in its vicinity can be clearly observed. Development of educational institutions, supply and sub-industry branches and service sector is a prominent indicator of this process. This contribution of İÇDAŞ is deemed worth of awards each year within the scope of environmental management. I really find very İÇDAŞ has caused a locomotive effect and led to development of iron steel clustering in both Biga Organized Indusimportant the display system measuring air quality in 7/24 basis in our region installed by İÇDAŞ. We witness that trial Zone and our region. İÇDAŞ has been producing in accordance with international standards, fulfilling continuous environmental inspecIn this regard, it is needed to highlight another consideration. The most remarkable trait of İÇDAŞ in terms of our tion monitoring air quality. Sustainability issue of energy is of utmost importance in all regions where the industries country is that it has reached a large share of export and a wide range of export market. İÇDAŞ makes a substantial are located. 19 RES units having commenced to produce energy by İÇDAŞ have gained a new environmental percontribution to our objectives of reducing our deficit of 500 Billion Dollars export and current transactions for 2023 in the incentives it has offered to investment and service sectors of our state. spective in the issue of renewable energy to our region. We kindly would like to extend our gratitude to İÇDAŞ for their sensitivity in the issue of environmental management and social projects it has conducted so far. Another point that needs to be emphasized herein is that such large scale of industrial organizations have a considerable immense contribution in fulfilling a development rate between 4-5 % per year and maintaining its stability although our country is in a ring of fire and it shelters approximately 4 million refugee mass. In the visits to Biga and Award Ceremony of Value Adders to Biga Economy, I have an opportunity of closely observing such developments. It shall be a great honour and satisfaction for us if İÇDAŞ shall be a sponsor to social responsibility projects organized in our district, provide a support to education and scientific development in our university. On this opportunity, we congratulate firstly the shareholders and directors of this organization providing prominent contributions to our province and country and wish that their contributions to the economy of our country are increasingly enhanced. 17G4-25 17G4-25 26 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 27 •STAKEHOLDER OPINIONS17 • •STAKEHOLDER OPINIONS17 • ÖMER ŞAHİN, Çanakkale President of Provincial Council ERDAL ASLAN, The District Director of Biga National Education “İÇDAŞ HAS A VISIONARY STRUCTURE DISPLAYING SENSITIVITY TO ECOLOGICAL ISSUES “BIGA HAS COME TO THE FORE IN VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AS A RESULT OF AND OFFERING CONTRIBUTIONS TO CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE REGION.” THE ACTIVITIES EXERCISED BY İÇDAŞ.” İÇDAŞ is one of the leading organizations in development of both Biga and entire Çanakkale region. İÇDAŞ has givAs regards our social stakeholders, İÇDAŞ is the institution we have opened maximum courses and we have mostly en impetus to development of Biga and has brought in vitality to the region by making a significant contribution to the interacted with. Given the population increase of Biga in the last ten years, we witness that this increase has occurred heritage of Biga. I believe that the local population with 46000 today shall gradually increase and the development upon arrival of İÇDAŞ employees at Biga. New requirements arise in the region with multiplier effect thanks to factoin Biga peninsula shall attract other investors to our region. Given a vision of 25-30 years, I believe that a regional exry employees of İÇDAŞ; an economical improvement affecting all tiers of society emerges. While aging rate of our pansion shall be experienced in terms of industry and commerce in coastline of Çanakkale. One of the biggest levers population is increasing, the young population arriving at Biga from outside cities provides us with new students. 15 constituting this project is that the strait shall be constructed soon. Another lever is that İÇDAŞ started to operate in % of the students currently come to Biga from other districts depending on their preferences on high school level. Oththe region 14 years ago. In addition to this, İÇDAŞ is not an organization preoccupied with only “production” issue. er districts demand İÇDAŞ Industrial Vocational High School more than before. Biga has become a hub of regional attraction in the last 2-3 years together with support of İÇDAŞ in the field of vocational training. “Biga has come İÇDAŞ has a visionary structure displaying sensitivity to ecological issues and offering contributions to cultural deto the fore in Çanakkale within the scope of vocational education as a result of the activities exercised by İÇDAŞ.” velopment of the region. İÇDAŞ Congress Hall, nature and biodiversity studies, beekeeping, orchards and fattening farms are some of these important contributions supported by İÇDAŞ in Çanakkale. I believe that İÇDAŞ shall be a Based on our current data, education of Biga and success of the students rank in second number after Çanakleading stakeholder in the future in evaluation of the potential of geothermal resources in our region it possesses in kale-Merkez district. Given the last two-three years in the student success, trend is always going up. In addition to terms of both industry and tourism and investment expectations in geothermal issue shall be carried out under the this, our students are trained in Karabiga under the light of sport culture thanks to the support provided by İÇDAŞ. leadership of İÇDAŞ. After one of our schools in Karabiga has become the champion of Turkey in the field of basketball, İÇDAŞ has become a sponsor for constructing a sport hall to the region. Thanks to this support of İÇDAŞ, our students are able to perform basketball sport from the primary school 2nd class. Besides, employees of İÇDAŞ are well equipped in the issue of social and cultural aspects. That İÇDAŞ has been coordinating the projects to be performed with our students and student parents in our region in the social and cultural field, İÇDAŞ employees that are the students parents have been pioneering the other firms in this field and new generation is raised with the values of İÇDAŞ in educational field is of very valuable gain in terms of social aspect. 17G4-25 17G4-25 28 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 29 •STAKEHOLDER OPINIONS17 • ŞADAN DOĞAN, Chairman of Biga Chamber of Industry and Commerce “İÇDAŞ HAS RESOLVED UNEMPLOYMENT ISSUE IN THE REGION WITH COMPREHENSIVE HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY EXTENDING FROM EDUCATION TO EMPLOYMENT.” Presence of İÇDAŞ in Çanakkale and Biga providees gigantic gains in order for industrial culture to be improved and expanded in our region. Given the extent of employment opportunities, İÇDAŞ makes a positive contribution to regional economy of Biga by employing personnel from primarily Biga and other districts of Çanakkale. Training projects held by İÇDAŞ in vocational high schools in Biga create a significant added value within the scope of intermediate-workforce needed by the regional industry and İÇDAŞ has resolved unemployment issue in the region with comprehensive human resources strategy extending from education to employment. İÇDAŞ is also very accomplished in our region in the field of sustainable energy with 19 RES projects that it has commissioned. Energy is one the issues required to be resolved by our country and that sustainable energy resources are being installed in our region by İÇDAŞ makes us happy in terms of sustainability vision of Biga industry. As Biga Chamber of Industry and Commerce, we conduct a wide range of reviews regarding “environmental sensitivity” and we mention the significance of environmental management. Within this context, no adverse issue relating to İÇDAŞ has been reflected to Biga Chamber of Industry and Commerce. Upon this opportunity, we congratulate the board of directors and all employees of İÇDAŞ for environmental sensitivity it has been leading so far. 17G4-25 30 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 31 Our strategic matters from the perspective of our stakeholders19: Our Strategic Sustainability Objectives21: SUBJECTS EMPLOYEES AND SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS MEDIA LOCAL PUBLIC OUR STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY COMPLETION COMPLETION COMMUNITY AND OBJECTIVES COMPLETED OBJECTIVES UNIONS MATTERS OBJECTIVE STATUS ADMINISTRATIONS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic performance Analysing and using local ores in Our works on usage of local ores 2019 Ongoing Employment steel production continue Labour Health We landed Turkish Star-3 cargo ship Continuing coaster production and Safety on water in September 2015. We within the scope of Turkish Star Continuous Continuous started construction of Turkish Star-4 Education project cargo ship in June 2015. Local societies We increased the number of Raising our employment figures Continuous Continuous shipyard personnel in 2015 because Emissions in local investments National and Local Economic of ship manufactures. Biodiversity Contributions Continuous railway transportNo wagons were added to 176 ones Energy 2020 Ongoing wagon investments in 2015. Water In consequence of We landed Turkish Star-3 cargo ship Waste water Sea transportationwagon global economic in September 2015. We started and other carrying ship production 2020 decrease, objective construction of Turkish Star-4 cargo investment revised to the year wastes ship in June 2015. 2020 Facility works continued in year Cement and clinker facilities 2016 Ongoing 2015. COMPLETION COMPLETION SOCIAL PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES COMPLETED OBJECTIVES Our Cooperation with Stakeholders and OBJECTIVE STATUS Public Policy Development Activities20: Achieving zero accident rate Continuous Continuous It is the continuous target. Education works continue all the time. Providing Labour Health and We provided Labour Health and In the environmental meetings organized by the Turkish Steel Producers Association (TÇÜD), which we are a member Labour Health and Safety Safety training for 100% of our Continuous Continuous Safety training for all personnel who of, we create an opportunity to act together regarding common problems by exchanging information and experiemployees started work in 2015. ence about sector-related environmental issues. Through the Turkish Steel Producers Association, the executive board Providing Labour Health and We provided Labour Health and of which is chaired by our chairman of the executive board, we make cooperation with the public bodies in prepaSafety training for 100% of our Continuous Continuous Safety training for all subcontractors ration of legislations. We contributed to preparation of many legislations as a result of these efforts. subcontractors that started working in 2015. We monitor by conducting Our company takes part in works that are organized by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization and that are Increasing satisfaction of our satisfaction questionnaire. Our predominantly conducted in relation to alignment with the European Union Legislation. Our company has been a Continuous Continuous employees investments continue all the time to member of Tübitak MAM Industrial Services Cooperation Programme (EHİP) for eight years. We follow the developimprove the physical conditions. Employment ments occurring in many fields such as informatics, industry and environment via EHİP. We have collected 823 Rendering İÇÖS Recommendation recommendations in total by the end Continuous Continuous Along with the companies in the same sector that operate in Marmara Region, our company is one of the five partsystem more effective of year 2015. We put 292 of these recommendations into practice. ners (with equal shares) of Marzinc Marmara Geri Kazanım San. ve Tic. A.Ş., the recycling facility where flu dust with high zinc content can be processed. Providing 70500 man*hour We provided 84874 man*hour Education 2015 Completed education for our employees education. 32 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-26 /19G4-25 / 20G4-27 21 G4-26 / G4-27 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 33 Our Strategic Sustainability Objectives21: Our Strategic Sustainability Objectives 21: COMPLETION COMPLETION COMPLETION COMPLETION SOCIAL PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES COMPLETED OBJECTIVES ENVOIREMENTAL PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES COMPLETED OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVE STATUS OBJECTIVE STATUS Continuing our social investments We continue works and cultural R&D works to use thermal power mainly in the fields of education, Continuous Continuous investments within the body of İÇDAŞ plant ashes in production of gas sports and culture Sports Club. Reducing the amount of waste concrete continue. We aim to use Waste Management 2020 Ongoing 993 people visited our facilities in sent to sanitary landfill coal ashes in gas concrete with Raising the number of people the works performed by 18 Mart 2015. Students made up about 97% of visiting our facilities up to 15.000 2020 Ongoing University the visitors while NGO representatives as of 2011 constituted the remaining 3%. We continued to satisfy all water Continuing to obtain fresh water In 2015, our 12 engineer friends requirement of our Değirmencik Water Management from the sea and preserving the Continuous Continuous working for İÇDAŞ delivered lessons of and Bekirli facilities from the sea limited water resources Continuing to provide education in 29 hours in total weekly. These included in 2015 Continuous Continuous Biga Occupational High School basic lessons on steel and energy as Saving 30% on the energy well as lessons on environment, labour consumed in lighting by using safety and quality. 2016 Ongoing economical LED lights in field Works continue Introducing 200 youngsters to illumination Relationships with Local Community swimming, 300 youngsters to We achieved participation beyond the Saving 2,5% on electricity Continuous Continuous sailing and 300 ones to surfing targeted figures consumption in arc furnaces by every year replacement of the previous 2016 Ongoing Works continue Contacting greater number of regulation system of Steel Plant Completed 1 Arc Furnace youngsters by increasing the Total number of students became 423, 2015 number of students within the body 215 of which were licensed. Reducing the maintenance work of the sports club Energy Management that is performed every other Continuing parion excavations main year for each mill and that is to 2018 Ongoing Excavations continue sponsorship last for a minimum of 9 days 2016 Ongoing Works continue Continuing Apollon Smintheion down to 4 days, putting it into 2021 Ongoing Excavations continue service 5 days earlier and thus, Excavations sponsorship saving 36.000.000 kWh Starting Troy excavations Our excavations with 5-year 2020 Ongoing Turning the part of the service water sponsorship sponsorship contract continue Reducing service water that goes for the purpose of cooling consumption of around 2500 COMPLETION COMPLETION 2016-2017 Continues hydrogen production facility and ENVOIREMENTAL PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES COMPLETED OBJECTIVES m3 monthly in Bekirli Plant and OBJECTIVE STATUS FGD booster fan into closed cycle saving 8000 9500 kwh/month and achieving saving are planned. Decreasing road transport and We performed our logistic activities focusing on railway and sea Continuous Continuous Continuing TÜBİTAK MAM Reports for 2015 were prepared and mainly by sea and railway in 2015 2016 Continues transportation Environment Monitoring Project works continue Raising the total number of We planted 1.673 saplings in 2015. Preservation of Biodiversity 2023 Ongoing Ensuring yearly reporting of planted trees up to 1 million 1300 of the saplings are Akasya trees. Works continue for preparing 2015 biodiversity in the region where Continuous Continuous 16 turbines entered into service in report our Biga facilities are located Raising our renewable energy rate 60 MW Wind Power Plant project in 2016 Ongoing Reduction of emissions to 3,6% in total energy generation 2015. The objective is planned to be achieved in 2016. Monitoring and broadcasting the Data is monitored online by the air quality in our facility impact Continuous Continuous Ministry area online 16 turbines entered into service in Completing Biga Wind Power Plant 2016 Ongoing 2015. We aim to complete it in the investment first half of 2016. 34 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 35 OUR ECONOMIC 60 MW PERFORMANCE Karabiga Wind Power Plant We put 16 Wind Power Plants in 2015. We obtained 0.15% of our electricity generation from Wind Power Plant turbines) Fulfilling our social and environmental commitments while growing in economically constitutes the basis of our corporate culture in İÇDAŞ. We believe that this triple trivet (environmental management, social responsibility and 176 Wagons financial performance) are the most important pillars that Trabzon, Ankara, Konya, Gölcük, Sakarya, Bursa Our Steel Centres in Turkish Railway Line ensure growth. We are the second private sector institution with the largest fleet Today, economic competition is shaped by continuity of production, usage of clean and environment-friendly technologies and low product costs. In parallel with the developments that occur in the world, we aim to maintain our position in the market with high-quality products, to be able to compete, grow and industrialize by preserving the ecological balance with the investment works that can integrate with the contemporary world. In addition, we embrace it as a principle to reduce the economic burden of our country’s dependency to foreign countries within the context of energy generation of our industry and country. 82% of our employees participating in the sustainability questionnaire say: ‘İçdaş created significant amount of economic values for its stakeholders (employees, suppliers, shareholders, local community, public bodies).’ Expectations of our employees in this regard increased by 3% compared to the previous year. 36 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 37 • OUR CONTRIBUTIONS TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND ECONOMY • Our financial sustainability is very important to all of our stakeholders from our shareholders and employees to our suppliers and local neighbours. Our environmental and social investments are based on our strong financial structure. We aim for projects that offer employment opportunities, contribute to production and add value to the nature, our culture and human life with our investments. Today, as İÇDAŞ, we are the leader steel, energy and ship producer that make a turnover of more than 8 billion TL and that is a supplier of innovative technology solutions, employers, contractors and investors with wide-ranging environment-friendly technologies. We enable a significant amount of foreign currency inflow into our country every year and create an economy family consisting of around 10 thousand people with direct employment for 5 thousand and indirect employment for that many people. Steel Production In terms of capacity, we are the biggest private sector investor. 9,3% of total production of Turkey, which the ninth steel producer in the world, materializes in İÇDAŞ facilities. Being the 17th establishment with the highest exportation level with 650 millions in 2015, we ranked second in steel sector according to Turkish Exporters Assembly data with a share of 6,3%. Energy generation In 2015, İÇDAŞ produced 3,98% of the energy generated in Turkey, 5,5 billion kwh being produced in Bekirli and 2,63 billion kwh in Değirmencik. Railway Transportation We are the private sector organization with the second biggest railway fleet with 176 wagons. Our annual transport capacity is 350 thousand tons with the • TURKISH STAR PROJECT • current railway infrastructure. As İÇDAŞ, we aim to move product and raw material transport to railway and thus, lower our costs and preserve nature with less Construction of four coaster ships is completed as of 2015 in emission compared to road transport. We established steel centres at five points of Turkey to be able to use the railway line effectively. Turkish Star Project 100-coaster Turkish Satar Project that provides for renewal of Turkish Sea Trade Coaster Fleet, which is used in load transport in the Mediterranean basin and the Black Sea, started in 2012. İÇDAŞ, which will Shipyard Activities and Sea Transportation contribute to the project with five coasters, completed its four coasters, which it started to construct for We make remarkable economic contributions with the activities carried out the purpose of enhancing competitive power of our country in sea trade-which is projected to rejuvenate at our ports which have high approaching and loading/unloading capacity. in the whole world after 2012and which cost 30 million dollars in its facilities in Çanakkale, Biga. The Wagon-carrying ships are among our investment plans. With the investments project will cost 37,5 million dollars in total. The coasters, which were designed conveniently for river concerned, we aim to reach railway connection at Bandırma Port by ship and transportation, comes to the forefront with their environment-friendly properties and fuel saving. Coasters prevent embarkation and disembarkation manipulation by performing loading of İÇDAŞ, which are designed by Turkish engineers, will render service in transportation of dry load, from the factory directly to the wagons. Furthermore, this will enable direct exspecial load and container. portation from Tekirdağ to Europe. 38 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 39 Our Investments which started in 2015 and those which have just started: PROJECT LOCATION BUDGET COMPLETION STATUS/OBJECTIVE Construction and assembly works continue. 12 wind power plants were put into service Wind Power Plant Biga Çanakkale 100 million USD in 2015. 7 plants will be put into service in 2016. Biga-Bekirli Cement and Clinker We started construction works in November and Biga250 million USD Facilities 2014. The construction continued in 2015. Karahamzalar Railway Transportation – Domestic 11 million Euros Ongoing Wagon Investment Integrated Steel Production Değirmencik Biga 1 billion USD Permission procedures continue. 2020 Facility Turkish Star -3, 5000 DWT Değirmencik Biga 7,5 million USD Completed in September 2015. General Cargo Ship Turkish Star -4, 5000 DWT General Cargo Ship Dezğirmencik We started construction in June 2015. 7,5 million USD production (construction Biga Production continues. started) Değirmencik-2 Ash Landfill Değirmencik Biga 6,5 million USD 2016 – Construction continues Bekirli-2 Ash Landfill Bekirli Biga 6,5 million USD 2016 – Construction continues The Target of Steel Production with local resources: Due to narrowing and contamination in the steel sector in the world and Turkey, we are working on more efficient production processes that can be alternative to scrap. We aim to perform production by analysing economic convenience of local ores and using local resources. In this way, we are planning to make more quality and more cost-effective production by using local resources. With regard to the environment, we continue to work on producing electricity from waste heat originating from arc furnace and mill heating furnace procedures where we use high energy. Our Local Economic Contributions: Our direct investments on the soils of Çanakkale have been worth 5,5 billion dollars to date. Indirect effects of these investments on local community and economy are much more and long-termed. Our approach which strengthens these effects is to prioritize local community for employment. Detailed information on our social and environmental investments, support projects for education, sports and culture and the indirect economic effects which we created is indicated in “Our Social Performance” section of our report. 40 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 41 • ENERGY INVESTMENTS • 94 percent of our employees who participated in the İÇDAŞ Biga WPP Project sustainability questionnaire say that... As a result of the tender organized by Turkish ‘İÇDAŞ should invest in renewable energy sources in Electricity Transmission Company (TEIAS) on 12 May 2011 wind power stations, we initiated the electricity production.’ The expectations of our employees 60-megawatt İÇDAŞ Biga WPP project in Biga, in this issue have increased by 7% compared to last year. Çanakkale. We keep on the project in accordance with all national environmental and other legislations. The energy sector in Turkey with foreign dependency rate of around 70% today promises a remarkable We put 16 wind turbines into operation in 2015. potential. The energy import which was the biggest item in Turkey’s foreign trade deficit in 2014 was Our total budget for 12 WPPs is 52 million euros. 84.5 billion dollars. It is of critical importance not only for the entire world but also for the sustainability We have contributed to the local economy by creof Turkey in order to ensure supply security in energy. Population growth, industrialization and urbanating new job opportunities during the construction ization increase the demand for energy a little more each day. In our country, base load power plants of the Project and the operation of the facilities. whose reliable electricity production is higher than other plants for the supply of uninterrupted power The generation amount stipulated in the license of which is the main input of the industry are required. İÇDAŞ Biga WPP project is 192.895.200 kWh annually. With this generation amount, 120 thouAll these developments and also the need for high-quality and uninterrupted energy to carry out İÇDAŞ’s sand tons of carbon emission reduction amount activities increase our sensitivity about reducing foreign dependence on energy supply and supply securican be achieved With İÇDAŞ Biga WPP project, ty in energy. Due to the very high foreign dependence on natural gas, we continue to invest in coal-based we intend to create portfolio diversity in the genand environmentally friendly power plants. eration of energy and to achieve carbon trading in addition to the protection of the ecological balance. We are planning to develop and record the İÇDAŞ Biga WPP project in accordance with the Gold Standard VER (GS VER) as a voluntary emission reduction project. The greatest feature that distinguishes the Gold Standard VER from other VER standards is the development of the project in accordance with sustainable development and environmental principles. This alignment will be provided through consultation with stakeholders about the effects of the project on sustainable development and environment and ensuring the stakeholder participation during the process. We aim to contribute to the transition of our country to the low carbon economy by entering the Voluntary Carbon Market through receiving a Gold Standard certificate for Biga WPP. 42 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 43 • WIND ENERGY • Local Procurement Practices: The energy that can be obtained from wind commercially is considerably more than all the energy that man is We meet the needs of our company, mainly raw material supply, from various regions of Turkey and the world.. currently obtaining from all the other resources. 1% of the energy coming from the sun and absorbed by the The word “local” refers to the borders of Turkey for İÇDAŞ when we say ‘supply’. . We determine our local world turns into kinetic energy in the atmosphere. If we assume that this energy is equally distributed into the procurement policy and selection criteria with the list of our suppliers and purchasing procedures. earth, the energy that can be obtained in the land areas is calculated to be 3.4x1014 Watt, which is 22 folds of the commercial energy used in the world now. When the quality/price balance is optimum in purchasing practices, we prioritize the domestic procurement alternatives. The materials procured internationally at the most are scrap and coal, while the products procured It is accepted that wind power plants of 5 MW-capacity can be established per square kilometer in the areas domestically at the most are fuel oil, machinery and equipment. Numerically, the number of our domestic supplithat are 50 meters above the ground level and have over 7.5 m/s wind speed in Turkey. In light of these ers consists of 93% of total suppliers; however 50% of expenditure is on import due to the costs of the products assumptions, a Wind Energy Potential Atlas (REPA) where the wind resource data were provided using the purchased. In addition, as a result of our efforts on domestic supply since 2012, we increased our domestic medium-sized numerical weather prediction model and micro-scale wind flow model was prepared. Turkey’s rate from 16% to 50% in 2015. wind energy potential is determined to be 48,000 MW. The total area which is equivalent to this potential corresponds to 1.30% of Turkey’s surface area. In 2014, electricity generation from wind has met 3.27% of the total consumption of Turkey and electricity was generated from 8367 GWh of wind. The consumption coverage Suppliers Procurement Rate ratio in the first 11 months of 2015 stood at 4.37%. %7 Domestic Procurement Domestic Procurement %50 %50 Import Import %93 İÇDAŞ Supply Chain Structure 22: İÇDAŞ SUPPLY CHAIN STRUCTURE DOMESTIC INTERNATIONAL Total number of suppliers 2946 229 The estimated number of suppliers in 12000 800 the supply chain CHARACTERISTICS: Russia, Ukraine, European Marmara: 2.358 Community, the European Free Trade Association Environmentally friendly, has no carbon emission. Reduces air pollution. Aegean Region: 134 (EFTA), America, China, Central Anatolia Region: 360 Colombia, South Africa, Locations of supplier by country or A renewable energy source, no costs for obtaining fuel. region Eastern Anatolia Region: 18 India, Japan, Black Sea Region: 32 Canada, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, Czech Republic, Avoids the importation of raw materials used to generate energy and creates prosperity in economy. Southern Anatolia Region: 6 Finland, South Korea, Hong Kong, Iran, Latvia, Mediterranean Region: 38 Hungary, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, Taiwan, Provides employment in the areas where the electrical cannot be reached and improves living standards, VIETNAM accelerates development. Main manufacturers, licensees, Scrap, coal, HBI, pig, auditors, consultants, Ensures regional development and employment. ingot, spare parts Supplier Types brokers, wholesalers, subsuppliers and supervision contractors, contractors, No risk of being affected from the changing fuel and energy prices. transporters firms Ability to be installed anywhere where suitable conditions are provided. Approximate value of payments made 2,875,834,426.00 TL $1,064,631,676.27 to suppliers (£2,878,177,021) 44 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 45 84875 Hours %47,10 Rate of Our Of Training nion Member Employees The number of our union member employees increased by 2,69%. The primary stakeholders of İÇDAŞ are its local people, including employees and employees’ families. While conducting our relations with our employees within the framework of the Human Resources Policy and planning our social and environmental investments, we act considering the priorities of the local communities, as we define ‘our neighbors’, where our facilities are located. Occupational Health and Safety The steel industry is among the main metal industries and is one of the industries accepted to be ‘heavy’. The continuous transportation of heavy and massively huge materials and machines from one place to another, molten metal the temperature of which increases up to 1,800 degrees, toxic and corrosive substances, odor, smoke and noise pose important risks in terms of occupational health and safety. The health and safety of our employees is at the top of our strategic priorities. As İÇDAŞ, we pay the utmost attention to the health of our employees and the occupational safety in line with our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Policy and Occupational Health and Safety Management System practices. In order to adapt to the occupational health and safety legislation which has been amended during the integration process of our country with the EU acquis, we are implementing OHSAS 18001Occupational Health and Safety Management System as part of our risk management strategy. This system allows our company to assess the health and safety risks in a consistent manner, to reduce the risk of accidents, to identify near-miss SOCIAL risky situations and to improve its overall performance. In 2015, we provided 8.223 man*hour OHS training to our employees. PERFORMANCE 22 The details of our OHS Policy are available in the İÇDAŞ Management Policies Book. The data on our OHS performance are available in the ‘Our Social Performance Indicator’ section of our report. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 We have determined that the most important social OHS Training (Man/Day) 3.902 5.539 4.104 7.130 8.233 impacts of our activities in İÇDAŞ are created within In 2015, we have provided trainings to 8,233 people in total, 6,149 of whom have received OHS trainings, the framework of the health, safety, development of while 2,084 of whom have received orientation trainings. The reason why the number is higher than the number of employees is that the same people take more than one training. employees and our responsibilities towards the local community in the area where our facilities are located. We OUR ACCIDENT INCIDENCE RATES 2013 2014 2015 Rolling Mill conduct all of our steel and energy production operations 20,08 15,81 22,31 Steelworks 24,24 15,82 18,61 with the zero accident goals. Utility Services 16,17 17,38 6,54 Oxygen Facility 34,36 15,43 21,20 46 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 22 G4-12 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 47 Radiation Safety Management İÇDAŞ is a leading company in the sector with the investments it has made on radiation safety and its measurement systems. There is a steel scrap input from many different points of the world to our facilities on a regular basis. We have a rigorous and systematic control system to recycle junk without creating environmental and safety risks. We do not procure scrap from the countries with high risks of flammable substances, chemical waste or radioactive waste and contamination in their content and we make controls at each stage from the acceptance of the scrap to the facilities until their processing. We provide the steel scrap coming from abroad from licensed scrap processing facilities. İÇDAŞ scrap assessors visit suppliers regularly in order to check whether they have sufficient technical requirements to process the scrap or not and give approvals to them. Scrap is loaded on the ship by undergoing a radiation and chemical substance control under the supervision of independent international audit firms. We have 8 Fixed Radiation Gauges at our gates, including 4 at the port entrance and 4 at the highway entrance. The steel scrap taken into the scrapyard after the entry control goes through an expert check here again. In order to avoid the potential problems originating from human or equipment errors, steel scrap is subjected to the radiation control immediately after the melting process. At this stage, a radiation gauge is available in the smoke and dust collection facility to detect the radiation. The melting operation is continuously monitored with the devices located in each of the 3 smoke absorption facilities. After all these stages, it is highly unlikely not to detect a radioactive source. But still steel products are checked one last time before leaving our facility. All the products are taken out of the plant through sensitive door type Fixed Radiation Gauges. İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 49 • RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR EMPLOYEES • İÇDAŞ Suggestion System (İÇÖS) İÇDAŞ Board defines our employees as the most İÇÖS started in 2008 with the initiative of the İÇDAŞ Board of Directors in order to benefit from the ideas and advices of employees and improve the communication between the management and the employees. We have announced the valuable asset of the company. Our employees are purpose and the scope of the system, the benefits it will bring to the company and its employees in a manual in detail. among our prior stakeholders within the scope of Employees put the İÇÖS suggestion forms they write about all kinds of improvement suggestions for efficiency, OHS, environment, quality and so on in the İÇÖS suggestion boxes located in the cafeterias. These suggestions are collected sustainability as in all matters. periodically and analyzed in the İÇÖS unit meetings. The suggestions found applicable in this review are submitted İÇDAŞ Board defines our employees as the most valuable asset of the company. Our employees are to the İÇÖS executive committee. The board approves the appropriate suggestions and initiates the efforts to put them among our prior stakeholders within the scope of sustainability as in all matters. We have defined the into force. part of our mission for our employees as “providing fair attitude, teamwork, open communication, perİÇÖS is executed by a committee consisting of 20 people including work units and the executive board. We have sonal safety and development opportunities by keeping our environment safe and efficient” and we will collected a total of 823 suggestions from the initiation of the system until the end of 2015. We put 292 of them into maintain this culture. operation. Today, the most important elements of İÇDAŞ’s becoming a global company with its production, capacity and technology are the human resources, knowledge, skills, experience and diligence it has. We aim Local Employment to develop our operations and move forward with happy and participatory human resources through While hiring for Değirmencik Integrated Plant, our company’s choice is to hire among local human resources. This ensuring both health and safety and personal development. approach not only facilitates the alignment between employees, but also it plays an important role in the quality of life As it is a large-scale and labor-intensive sector, there is high number of unionized employees. Another in the region. Today, more than three thousand local people are directly employed by İÇDAŞ, the regional employment method developed to ensure the participation of employees in decision making processes is the monthly created by our company through outsourcing reaches six thousand people. review meetings where the representatives of trade unions and workers’ representatives attend. By the end of 2015, the ratio of total senior management who are employed from the local people to all managers is 37%. In Değirmencik integrated plant, 83% of our employees and in Bekirli power plant, 72% of our employees are employed from local people. Training and Development During the reporting period, 84 thousand 875 hours of training have provided to İÇDAŞ personnel in many different subjects including job security and personal development. DISTRIBUTION OF TRAININGS BY SUBJECT NUMBERS MAN*DAY OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY TRAINING 36.858 ORIENTATION TRAINING 22.216 VOCATIONAL TRAINING 8.749 SINGLE POINT TRAINING 8.312 INFORMATION SAFETY TRAINING 4.272 QUALITY TRAINING 2.152 PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT TRAINING 1.91 ENVIRONMENT TRAINING 348 ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS TRAINING 56 TOTAL 84875 Average hours of training based on employee categories and other training data are included in the section ‘Our Social Performance Indicators’ of our report. 50 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 51 Equal Opportunity and Human Rights We are trying to create equal opportunities independently the world, our country has a low rate of female employof sex for anyone who works in our company as of their ment as well. recruitment. We embrace the principle of equal pay for equal work in İÇDAŞ, as noted in our Human Resources We do not have any operations that may have significant Policy. The wage increase of our employees is made in line risks related to child and forced labor in our group. Our with our performance evaluation system each year. rules relating to human rights and working conditions are described in our human rights policy stated in İÇDAŞ Female employment in our group constitutes 2.64% of the Management Policies Book in detail both for the company total employment rate. The low rate of women working and our suppliers. The rate of our employees on collective in our company is not due to the specific choices of our bargaining agreement to all employees is 47.1%. 5% incompany but entirely due to the production-related nature crease has occurred in this ratio in the last two years.23 of the steel and energy sectors. As in all sectors throughout Working Environment and Other Opportunities The benefits provided to full-time employees other than The services and benefits provided to employees insalary include heating, marriage, birth, death, military, clude wage for employees on sick leave and meeting child, education, food, vehicle, shoes, natural disasters, their treatment expenses in private health institutions, food, cleaning supplies benefits, bonuses, holiday and right to have advance payment, labor services, health paid annual leave allowances. center, housing and accident insurance. Children can participate in the activities in İçdaş Sports Club for free. • OUR RELATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITY • 76% of our employees participating in the sustainability survey says that ... ‘In the eyes of the local people living in the vicinity of the facility, İÇDAŞ is a company that respects their rights, protects public health and safety and creates a positive impact in the area with its activities.’ As İÇDAŞ, we have aimed to protect local people’s interests and values from the first day we started our investment. Our executives are mainly selected among the local community, which plays an important role in this goal. We aim to reach the people in this region primarily and we respect the culture, history and traditions of the region in all our investments and corporate responsibility efforts that we make. 52 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 23 G4-11 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 53 Plant Introduction Visits As we receive requests to see and to be informed about our company and facilities on site from the public and as we see that public does not have sufficient information on the production and environmental implementations of our company, we started to organize plant introduction visits with the support of the İÇDAŞ Media and Public Relations Department between March-October each year since 2010. We intend to inform all the external stakeholders in our regions through direct observation starting from the immediate vicinity on the matters such as environment and water management systems, social responsibility practices, work environment, innovative production technologies of İÇDAŞ and to be in solidarity with the local people that develops each year and to create a common positive perception in different segments of the society. Within the last five years, 5.794 people consisting of university, college, high school and elementary school students, chambers of commerce members, NGOs and representatives of associations, local and central government representatives, MPs and media representatives paid study visits to our facilities. 97% of the 993 guests that we have hosted in 2015 include students, while the remaining 3% consists of NGOs. We ensure the transfer of this practice into broader sections of the society through the involvement of the opinions and ideas on these visits in written and visual media. By reaching 15 thousand people who have seen our facilities and practices, we aim to create a respected corporate perception in 10% of the population in our region through direct observation. We plan to continue this practice for eight months of the year with four-six groups of visitors in a month for the next six years. Outcomes and Achievements ECONOMIC SOCIAL Depending on the “need for skilled staff” which is This practice ensured closer communication berequired the most by our facilities in the region, tween facility officials and external stakeholders these practices contributed to steering potential and helped external stakeholders take part in employees who would meet this need into vocamany activities carried out by our internal staketional preferences. In economic terms this practice holders. We started to receive the requests of exwill help our facilities to provide employment in ternal stakeholders to participate in the practice sufficient number and qualifications in the region as well. in the long term. ENVIRONMENTAL CORPORATE The most important achievement of the practice is The practice highly praised by the external stakethe contribution to the understanding of the sensiholders developed the corporate sense of belongtivity of our facilities towards environmental values ing of our employees and improved their work by the public. Each visitor who witnesses this sensimotivation. While İÇDAŞ creates a strong sense tivity has become the messenger of our company. of trust in stakeholders with its collaborative approach, the company’s business performance and the meaning of awards that our company has won in several categories become more understandable in the general public. 54 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 55 We carry out our social investment program with the motto ‘Healthy-Social-Well-educated Youth; Robust Society’ under the main headings of education, sports, and culture. We keep on our educational and sports investment that embrace young people in the region and the investments that we make to protect our cultural heritage addressing the whole society in order to become a well-educated, sound, energetic, social, selfconfident with its thousands of years of cultural heritage and prosperous society. Between the years 2004-2015, we have made investments whose economic value exceeds 60 million TL. Only in 2015, we made 7,8 million TL social investment. Social and environmental infrastructure supports include the financial and material assistance that we made to build and repair structures such as roads, bridges, mosques, parks, pipelines and so on. SUPPORT WE PROVIDE TO LOCAL PEOPLE AND LOCAL ECONOMY 2015 Social and Environmental Infrastructure 681.314 TL Sports 693.241 TL Education 5.697.743 TL Cultural 755.936 TL TOTAL 7.828.261 TL OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENT Since the day we were founded as İÇDAŞ, we have made many efforts to improve community’s quality of life, to improve social life through educational opportunities and to meet social needs, and we continue to do so. 56 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 57 Educational Support Biga Industrial Vocational High School The main reason behind our educational investments is the lack of qualified personnel. Our investments In the development of our country, we know the value of 72 of which are related to education include school and dormitory construction and infrastructure supvocational and technical schools and the students who ports, student scholarships, vocational training and similar projects. We granted 88 thousand TL scholgraduate from these schools, and we strive to provide arships to 439 students in 2015. Thus, we granted a total of 3.2 million scholarships to 1,858 students them with job opportunities. in the last 5 years. Founded nearly a thousand square meters of land, offiNUMBER OF STUDENTS AND SCHOLARSHIP AMOUNTS cial opening ceremony of Biga İÇDAŞ Vocational and YEAR 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Technical Anatolian High School was held with the participation Canakkale Governor Hamza Erkal on October Vocational High Schools 25 20 23 26 22 22, 2015. Universities 258 281 344 331 8 General Manager of İÇDAŞ Bülend Engin, Biga GoverOther 14 48 75 68 86 nor Gökhan Görgülüaslan, Provincial Education Director Total Students 277 326 379 438 439 Zülküf Memiş, Biga Mayor Ismail Işık, Karabiga Mayor Muzaffer Karataş, Lapseki Mayor Eyüp Yılmaz, Security TOTAL 426.895 TL 464.775 TL 655.570 TL 865.980 TL 888.120 TL Director Yılmaz Özden, AK Party MP Bülent Turan, Secretary General of Special Provincial Administration Can Aksoy participated in the opening ceremony. Support to Sports Students welcomed them by giving flowers to the Governor Hamza Erkal and İÇDAŞ General Manager Bülend We are planning to support the development of our employees and the young people in our region Engin. The Governor Mr. Erkal thanked İÇDAŞ and stated in his speech that “I am also a vocational high school including the children of our employees as healthy, sportive and competitive young people with high graduate. Biga is among the most developed districts of Çanakkale. Biga is one of the most needed districts as self-confidence and team spirit. In this scope, as well as laying the foundations of İÇDAŞ Sports Club, we an intermediate element in industrial production. We have acquired a good vocational school to respond to this also support other sports branches and clubs in our region. need. Students who will graduate from here will be employed in these good establishments with the professions they gain here. They will both make a living and serve their home towns”. Support to Cultural Development Biga Industrial Vocational High School to which İÇDAŞ contributed 4,6 million TL consists of 5 floors including the basement and ground floors. It has 14 classrooms, 9 workshops, 4 laboratories, administrative rooms, a In order to bring the universal values of our country to light and introduce the historical and cultural cafeteria and a library. 500 students are studying in the school. richness of our region to the world, we are undertaking the task of contributing to the development of the Anatolian Cultural History by supporting the Troia, Parion and Smintheion Excavations. 58 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 59 UMEM Specialized Vocational Training Project Trainings by the İÇDAŞ Employees in Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart UniIn a study by the Turkey Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges TOBB on the problems of the versityÇOMÜ and in Biga Vocational High School private sector across our country, UMEM project initiated in 2010 after determining the lack of skilled workers as the most important problem is a public project organized by TOBB in cooperation the MinisIn our region, there were significant problems in the employof interest of İÇDAŞ. Within this scope, the curriculum was ment of young people who graduated from the related debrought in compliance with the market practices by a comtry of Labor and Social Security. partments of the higher education institutions without considmission established with the officials of İÇDAŞ and Biga Voering the developing investments and sectors as well as in cational High School officials, and started to be implemented The main aim of the program is to bring unskilled labor to business life and at the same time to provide finding the skilled workers required by the private sector. in 2013-2014 academic year. The vocational courses in the a solution to the need for skilled workers in the private sector in the region. The target set by the Ministry second grade are given by a group of successful engineers of Labour and Social Security and İşkur is to provide training to one million unemployed people in the As a result of the meeting held between İÇDAŞ General Manworking in İÇDAŞ. Sometimes students are taken to the factoagement and Rectorate of Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart Univerry for the practical classes. country every five years and to bring 90% of them to business life. sity at the end of 2011-2012 Academic Year, an agreement was reached on initiating the “Electric Power Generation, Program Consultant Academic Member İsmail HACIKURU enUnder UMEM project, the courses on ‘Steel Mill Worker, Welder, Rigger, Lather and Steel Manufacturer” Transmission, Distribution” and “Metallurgy” programs in sured that the program was prepared in a way that students were provided in Biga İÇDAŞ Vocational and Technical Anatolian High School. So far, a total of 238 Biga Vocational High School. And then the “Grounds of Prowould have the maximum efficiency in their professional life. trainees have been certified and graduated. As long as the practice continues, İÇDAŞ will continue to gram Initiation” prepared by Biga Vocational High School With the education notes and practical lectures given by our Management were submitted to the University Senate and engineers under the leadership of İSMAİL HACIKURU, they provide corporate support to the project. then the Higher Education Council (YOK). intended to form the basis of the professional lives of students. The programs deemed appropriate by the Council of Higher As the only major heavy industrial enterprise in and around Education started teaching with 30 people additional capacÇanakkale, we also ensure comprehensive education for stuOutcomes and Achievements ity in 2012 2013 academic year. At the same academic year, 25 students were enrolled in the Metallurgy, while dents with the content of the classes prepared for the processes in iron and steel electricity industry as well as the matters 27 students were enrolled in the Electric Power Generation, such as the working conditions in heavy industrial conditions, Transmission and Distribution program. In 2013 – 2014 acaquality control, occupational safety and environmental issues. ECONOMIC SOCIAL demic year, both programs were at full capacity and accepted 30 students. In 2015,12 engineers working in İÇDAŞ gave a total of 29 238 certified trainees participated in the workIt is a very meaningful project initiated to find a hours of lectures per week. These lectures are the basic coursforce by starting to work in Steel Mill, Rolling Mill, solution to unemployment, which is the most imThe existing relations between Biga Vocational High School es on steel and energy as well as the ones on Environment, and İÇDAŞ were reinforced further with the start of the Safety and Quality. Power Plant, Port and Auxiliary Facilities within portant social problem of the society. Within this above-mentioned programs which are directly in the areas İÇDAŞ. framework, those who were brought to the business life not only had a job but also had a profession. NAME OF THE CLASS SUPERVISOR Integrated Factory Structure Burçak YILMAZ Composite Materials Serhat ŞENYILDIZ CORPORATE Plant Electricity II İbrahim TANIŞMAN The support we provide to the program has aroused great respect among all sectors of society. With this practice Scrap Preparation and Quality Olçun ÖKSÜZ that helped local people be employed as well as obtain a profession, İÇDAŞ has added a new dimension to the Factory Mechanic Maintenance II Mücahit DURAN corporate social responsibility approach. Occupational Safety and Environment IV Arzu BALLI Occupational Safety and Environment II Ulusal BAYKAN Tundish Metallurgy and Continuous Casting II R.Çağrı ÜNZAL Quality Assurance and Standards Ayça TEKİN Ladle Metallurgy II Serdar ERDEMİŞ Arc Furnace and Optimization II Tamer ÖZAN Refractory and Areas of Use II M.Cem TOKSÖZ 60 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 61 Outcomes and Achievements Fattening Farms, Beekeeping and Sheep and Goat Breeding Location: Değirmencik – Bekirli villages/Biga District SOCIAL Animals bred: Fish, bee, cow, sheep, chicken, geese, turkey, duck ECONOMIC Products: Fish, comb honey, spring honey, extracted honey, pollen, carcass meat, egg Although it is not possible to calculate the numerWe expect that the practice will offer a significant The external stakeholders who support the practices in order to benefit from the technical ical net economic contribution of the practice, we contribution to the education lives of young people support at the national level and to exchange information: believe that students will have a faster adaptation where they can look confidently to the future. to the business life and their jobs as a result of • Biga District Directorate of Food, Agriculture and Livestock the training supported by practical experience • Big Red Meat Association and that they will have increased efficiency. • Çanakkale Beekeepers Association INVESTMENT IN LIVESTOCK PRACTICES (1.000 TL) Location 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL CORPORATE Fattening Farms 450 750 776 1.850 806 Beekeeping 35 40 55 60 40 We think the facilities operated by skilled employWe believe that this practice would contribute to ees who are experts in their field would be in a the formation of a corporate structure which is Sheep and Goat Breeding 20 40 85 20 80 more efficient operation in the protection of enviefficient and competitive with the employment of ronmental values. skilled and qualified personnel at every level of facilities. Agricultural Practices Location: Değirmencik Biga Products: Pepper, tomato, apple, plum, bean, cauliflower, melon, cabbage, lettuce, parsley, eggplant, grape juice, cucumber, raisin, jam, tomato paste The external stakeholders who support the practices in order to benefit from the technical support at the national level and to exchange information: Agriculture and Livestock Activities24 • Çanakkale Provincial and Biga District Directorate of Food, Agriculture and Livestock When it comes to Biga where our Değirmencik facility is located, agriculture, livestock and industry come to • Local and national fertilizer companies minds. Due to the rapid increase in the industrial investments in the region, the breeders who are engaged in agriculture and livestock developed a skeptical attitude towards the industry. The driver of the agricultural and INVESTMENT IN AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES (1000 TL) livestock practices of İÇDAŞ was to show the local people in practice that an industrial development done Location 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 correctly would not have a negative impact on agriculture and livestock. Agriculture 150 250 300 100 100 We carry out Fattening Farms (2007), Fish Farm (2008), Beekeeping (2010), Sheep and Goat Breeding (2011) and Agricultural Practices (2007) which are performed by the Agriculture and Animal Breeding Department with its agricultural engineers and technicians, veterinarians and expert beekeepers. We consume Outcomes and Achievements over 80% of our products, including different rates for every product, in the plant in general. ECONOMIC SOCIAL Although they are outside of our main business areas give importance to agriculture and animal husbandry We increased financial resources being transferred We provided employment to the local people and we practices due to the positive economic, social and environmental impacts they create and we are increasing to the region with the supply of raw materials from established a model facility in the region. our investments in these areas each year. The stakeholders that are positively affected by our activities in the the local growers. We provided model gardens to the region. region primarily include animal breeders ,farmers, agricultural equipment and fertilizer dealers, seed dealers and agricultural laboratories in the region . ENVIRONMENTAL CORPORATE The most important challenge in developing our activities was the supply of skilled staff and we are able to overcome it with internal training. We were able to resolve the concerns of local people in a positive way by We enriched the biodiversity in the region. We improved our company’s reputation in the eyes of society and the public. allowing them to visit our facilities and opening the door of our business. 62 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 24 G4-15 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 63 • İÇDAŞ SPORTS CLUB • As of 2015; In 2008, we started to give sponsorship in swimming in • In Sailing and Surfing: Çanakkale and we established Çanakkale Sailing School in A total of 113 sports students, including 41 certified 2010. We incorporated all the sportive activities in İÇDAŞ • In Swimming: A total of 168 sports students, including 82 certified Sports Club in 2011. • In Basketball: A total of 36 sports students, including 26 certified • In Chess: Although Çanakkale is the city which has the second longest coastline of 671 km in Turkey, it did not A total of 82 sports students, including 57 certified have an infrastructure that enables the performance of sea and water sports. Doing water sports such • In Archery: as swimming, sailing and other water sports in the global standards requires expensive equipment A total of 24 sports students, including 9 certified and infrastructure, we established the Sailing School in Karabiga town in 2004 as a first step to allow large masses to do these sports completely free. In 2008, we started to give sponsorship in swimming The number of students who are still studying in in Çanakkale and we established Çanakkale Sailing School in 2010. We incorporated all the sportive 2015 is 423. The number of students who have reactivities in İÇDAŞ Sports Club in 2011. ceived education in 2015 is 1344. We also included Archery to the activities in the fields of sailing and swimming, wind surfing, chess and Within the scope of Sports Club activities, we rebasketball in 2015. ceive support from Turkey Sailing Federation, Turkey Swimming Federation, Çanakkale Provincial According to the TUIK data, almost 55 thousand of Çanakkale population consist of the people who are Directorate of Youth and Sports, Çanakkale Sailing in the 5-14 age group and suitable for sports trainings and whose quality of life can be improved by City Representative, Çanakkale Swimming City Repconscious sports activities. We set the primary objective of the project as contributing to raising healthy, resentative, Çanakkale Governorship, Biga District self-confident, competitive and sportive individuals who have the team spirit by taking advantage of the Governorship, Çanakkale Municipality and Karabigeographical advantages of the area. In this way, we aim to strengthen our corporate image, to increase ga Municipality in the provision of venues, regional our brand awareness, to contribute to the development of the region’s economy and tourism. and national competition organizations and logisIn 2015, archery was included among the sports that we are engaged in. tics. In addition, in order to bring talented children with a high physical potential into the swimming sports, we make a review in all primary schools in the city center in cooperation with the Provincial Directorate of Youth and Sports and the Directorate of National Education every year. 64 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 65 Outcomes and Achievements ECONOMIC SOCIAL As Çanakkale became prominent in sports branchThanks to İÇDAŞ Sports Club, thousands of young es such as sailing, swimming and surfing, it startpeople were introduced to sailing and swimming ed to be a province of choice for sports tourism sports. We have trained 2,422 students in total. 8 in our country and economically revived. Today, students were selected for the national team and the young people talented in swimming move to managed to represent our country in international Çanakkale to carry out their activities in İÇDAŞ competitions. 2 of our students entered the nationSports Club and prefer continuing their education al team preliminary squad. All the coastline towns and social lives in our region. in our region host sailing tournaments, competitions and shows, our sportspeople started to set sail in the domestic and international competitions and achieve significant rankings. These achieveSPORTIVE ments boosted their self-confidence and pave the way for more significant achievements. 2015 Activities 6 of our athletes were called up to the Turkish Sailing Federation camps and the national team squad due to their achievements. The major events • We participated in the 1st Stage competitions of Çanakkale Children’s and Junior’s Chess League that they participated were 2011 Winter Regatta held on 10-11 January 2015 with 2 teams and our teams were placed 1st and 2nd rankings among Italy and 49th Balkan Championship. In the 49th CORPORATE 41 players in 7 teams in Stars League. In the Children’s League we participated with 6 teams, there Balkan Championship held in Slit, Croatia, our were a total of 252 players including 101 players in 16 teams in ABYDOS group, and 110 players In our region, the first institution that comes to mind athlete was placed the 9th ranking among 77 athin 18 teams in SESTOS group. In ABYDOS group, our teams were placed the 1st and the 2nd, and in sailing swimming is now İÇDAŞ Sports Club. letes and represented our club, city and country the 3rd rankings in SESTOS group. successfully. Our athletes were also listed among Our athletes are a source of pride for our com2015 successful sportspeople by Directorate of pany with their sportive lives, team spirit and the • On 13-15 March 2015, our players were placed the first three in category A and the first two in category B in the international tournament named “İÇDAŞ ÇANAKKALE VICTORY, 100th ANNIVERYouth and Sports. achievements in the competitions they participate. SARY CUP”. • In surfing, Duru Gündoğmuş and Zeynep Türkoğlu became the Turkey Champions in the Techno 293 women’s class, and Berkay Okumuş finished the 2nd in the Half-Year Cup held at the beginning of the semester of 2015. In addition, the player of our club, Duru Gündoğmuş Ataköy was granted “the best sportspeople of the year” award in the ceremony held in January 2015 in Ataköy Olimpiyat Evi. • In the Half-Year Sailing Cup Laser Radial women’s class held in 2015, Buket Aslan and Hilal Özsoy were placed the 2nd and the 3rd, respectively and they were listed among the 2015 successful sportspeople of Directorate of Youth and Sports. Our successful sportspeople were invited to the national team sports camps by the Turkish Sailing Federation. • 12-Year-old Nisa Kahriman who participated in the Open Water Swimming Championship held by the Turkish Swimming Federation on 30-31 May 2015 in Foça District, İzmir was placed the first by 200 meter difference against her rivals who were much older than her. Drawing the attention of swimming authorities, an athelete of Çanakkale İÇDAŞ Sports Club, Nisa Kahriman became the Turkish Women’s Champion by swimming 2,5 km in 33 minutes 51 seconds. • 12-Year-old Asya YAVAŞ who participated in the Open Water Swimming Championship held by the Turkish Swimming Federation on 30-31 May 2015 in Foça District, İzmir was placed the third in 2.5 km category. • They were entitled to participate in 10 provincial competitions and also 4 TYF Non-Provincial Swimming Competitions by being successful in the pre-selections in swimming since October 2015. 66 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 67 5th Biga Sancak Beyi Osman Bey Traditional Archery Festival As İÇDAŞ, we also support the different sports branches that are out of club but played in our region. We sponsored the traditional Shooting and Archery Festival held in the name of Biga Flag Officer Osman Bey in Biga Çınarköprü Village on 7-8-9 August 2015. The festival organized in the area where Battle of Granicus was held ended after the horse shows, archery shows, illustration of the Battle of Granicus, award ceremony and offering various refreshments. More than 500 domestic and international athletes participated in the organization and thousands of people from Biga and local people had the opportunity to watch the event. During the festival, the famous products and arts of Biga were exhibited. In addition, the archers of 18 Mart University, Biga Vocational High School whom we incorporated into the İçdaş Sports Club made a performance. Some of these athletes placed in different competitions. Main Sponsorship for the Excavations in the ancient city of Parion Main Sponsorship for Apollon Smintheion Excavations Kemer village / Biga/ Çanakkale Gülpınar Town/ Ayvacık / Çanakkale The foundations of waking the Parion, a significant port point and it was seen that there were still some people Started in 1980, Apollon Smintheion excavations have been carried out under the leadership of Prof Dr. city off the Marmara Sea of the Dardanelles located in and organizations responsive to protecting cultural valCoşkun Özgünel, by a team of almost 30 people and with the support and supervision of the Ministry of Culture the region called Propontis in ancient times from its deep ues and İÇDAŞ INC. Co, one of the important industrial and Tourism. We have been carrying out the main sponsorship of these excavations since 2011. We have sleep were laid by the surface surveys conducted by Prof. enterprises of our country and the region undertook the provided sponsorship worth 1,047,071 TL so far, 161,192 TL of which was in 2015. Dr. Cevat BAŞARAN and his team in 1997. main sponsorship of Parion excavations for 10 years. The most important result suggested by the surface surParion excavation gained great momentum and became We aim to maintain Apollon Smintheion Excavations for 10 years, exhibit the excavated works to visitors in a veys conducted in 1997, 1999 and 2002 was the fact one of the most important archaeological excavations more qualified museum, reorganize the archeological site as a must-see tourist attraction and restore the Apolthat the cultural values of Parion which hosted a huge hisof our country in terms of scope of the equipment and lon Temple and bring it to the cultural world. We are planning to carry out all these targets with a total of four torical potential were vanishing day by day and scientific excavation team and the work volume. The excavations million TL sponsorship in 10 years. excavations must be initiated in Parion immediately. The were conducted under the leadership of Prof. Dr. Cevat excavation applications did not result in positively from BAŞARAN from Erzurum Atatürk University, Department 1997 and 2004; however, following the investment deciof Archeology From 2005 to 2014, And then following sion taken by İÇDAŞ, one of the most important industrial his quitting the excavation leadership due to health probenterprises of our country and the region, in the area, the lems, the excavations have been now carried out under findings of Parion Southern Necropolis in the foundation the leadership of Prof. Dr. Vedat KELEŞ who is the Head excavations of the primary school construction initiated of Archeology Department, Ondokuz Mayıs University. for the renewal of Kemer Village Primary School upon Excavations participated by students and experts from the request of Kemer Village Headman’s Office clearly various university continue mainly in 9 major sectors input forward that the decisions to start urgent scientific cluding restoration, conservation, landscaping, projects excavations in this area were so accurate and ignited the and publications. A Civilization is Awakening: The projwick of waking Parion from its sleep. ect called Parion confronts us as a good example of this kind of work. As İÇDAŞ, we support Parion excavations The salvage excavations conducted by Çanakkale Muin terms of the provision of technical materials, services, seum with the support of İÇDAŞ Inc. and then scientific logistics, accommodation, and participation in seminars excavations started under the leadership of Prof. Dr. Cevand conferences, publications, and our sensitivity about at BAŞARAN in 2005. At the beginning, there were sigbringing the cultural treasure of Parion out, protecting nificant challenges in the excavations conducted under and transferring them to the future generations. hard conditions; however the year 2008 was a turning 68 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 69 2015 Activities • In the position of the next two columns on the southeast corner of the temple, a base, drum, embossed drum, capital, architrave and imitation were raised up to be exhibited as the elements of frieze architectural facade layout. • In the cella, naos parts of the temple, cleaning work was done and the foundation and beam walls of the infrastructure were highlighted. • The gaps between the foundations were highlighted rubble stone blockade in line with the data obtained during the excavations. • The surface cleaning was done in the architectural marble elements raised up again. • One of the marble blocks cleans and having material problems, surface protection was used for testing purposed in order to evaluate the outcome for protecting the material. • The ramps on the temple which were necessary for repair work were removed and the temple was unearthed in four directions. • The activities for grouping of architectural blocks were carried out. Outcomes and Intended Achievements SOCIAL In the Parion excavations, the archeology students from contributions are made to raising the awareness of the almost all the universities in our country work on a volpublic about cultural assets of our society. unteer basis and they add color to the social life of the While Parion Ancient Site and Apollon Smintheion exregion with the activities they organize in the excavation cavations make cultural contributions to the Archeology sites, Kemer village and Gülpınar town. world with their scientific data about ancient times, they In the archeology meetings organized by Çabisak in will also make continuous contributions to the regional Çanakkale after the end of excavations each year, the and domestic economy as a ruins that hosts increasartifacts found in Parion excavations are shared with ing number of domestic and international visitors in anyone having an interest in archeology and culture. the tourism sector. The internal and external number of Many schools around, non-governmental organizations stakeholders to be positively affected by the efforts will and public officers visit Parion and Apollon Smintheion increase each year depending on the promotion of the excavations collectively and they are provided with the excavations and will be 500 thousand people annually. on-site information by the excavation presidency and CORPORATE ECONOMIC İÇDAŞ strengthens the corporate image in society by bringThe artifacts found in excavations arouse ing the cultural heritage into society, enlightening the past great interest among the public. Already, experienced on these lands in the light of the science, supa thousand of visitors are coming to Keporting Parion excavations as an institution that contributes mer Village, while more than 30 thouand respects all environmental values. We will keep on our sand visitors are coming to the ruins of support to Parion ve Apollon Smintheion excavations in acSmintheion and offer economic contribucordance with our excavation sponsorship contract in the uptions to the region. coming periods as well. 70 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 71 • TROY EXCAVATIONS • Troy is undoubtedly the asset that has the broadest reputation in the entire world in Çanakkale area. Little Archaeologists Project Apollo Smintheion is a sanctuary in Troy and the findings found in here are of great importance supporting and strengthening the existence of Troy. In order to end the challenges that happened due to the lack of sponsors for İÇDAŞ not only supports the emergence of historical values through excavations, but also strives for the younger Troy which is the subject of Homer’s Iliad and a tourism brand of our region with the highest recognition in the generation to be aware of these artifacts. world and to present this unique cultural treasure to the world tourism with its along with the Troy Museum under construction, İÇDAŞ decided to be the sponsor of the excavations for 5 years with a budget of 1 million TL. The second “little archaeologists” which has been implemented as a social responsibility project to create awareness of the historical monuments and heritage took place in 2015. Students aged between 7 and 17 in Çanakkale We aim to increase the share of the people in Çanakkale which is obtained from tourism revenues by contributing to participated in excavations in the Ancient City of Parion and Apollo Smintheus Temple. Small archaeologists had the increase in the visitors of the Troy ruins and to conduce to bringing new artifacts into light into the cultural assets information about historical places, and looked for historical artifacts in the ‘simulation excavation area’ prepared of our country through new excavations. for them. After the event the students were given a “Small Archaeologist Certificate of Participation”. The excavations started in 2015 with a team of 40 people. The stakeholders that would be positively affected by the On the first day of the event, 19 Mayıs University Faculty of Arts and Head of the Department of Archeology Assoc. project are almost 300 thousand people including Çanakkale 18 Mart University, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Dr. Vedat Keleş who headed the excavations in the ancient city of Parion gave information to the students and an visitors of the ruins, representatives of Çanakkale tourism sector. excavation practice was done in the area. In Ancient City of Parion which dates back to the 8th century BC and which is the biggest excavation in Turkey and one of the most important ones in the world, an excavation area was Outcomes and Intended Achievements created for the little archaeologists in the theater area. Little archaeologists tried to uncover some objects placed under the ground before. Struggling to dig like professional archaeologists with small hoes, trowels and brushes at their hands learned the ECONOMIC SOCIAL challenges of the uncovering historical artifacts and that it requires patience. They gathered the ceramic pieces and In the excavations, we aim to bring new artifacts into the globThe excavation activities will be carried out with the participacopper utensils they uncovered in the boxes they would move with precision. Then they washed them and examined al cultural heritage and to serve the domestic tourism with an tion of academic members and students from many different the texts, symbols and signs on these pieces. increasing number of visitors by maintaining the Troy ruins universities in the archeology world. Therefore, the scientists regularly and continuously. Our short term goal is to increase will make a contribution to the development of the science of Highlighting that the historical awareness of children and young people will be raised with these projects, the excathe number of visitors to 200 thousand people annually by archeology in our country and to increasing the prestige of vation leader of the Ancient City of Parion Assoc. Dr. Vedat Keleş who headed the excavations in the ancient city of putting the Troy museum into service and make an additional our country in the global archeology with the artifacts found contribution to the accommodation and other revenues of both in these excavations and the papers they write. In addition, Parion Vedat Keleş stated that “It is very important to protect the historical monuments. Therefore, with this practice, the ruins and the tourism sector in Çanakkale. as the excavation activity is a dynamic process, we plan to we aim to raise more sensitive children in the next years about historical artifacts. Turkey is full of archaeological introduce our city through many seminars, conferences, exhivalues. We ensure that those who participate in the event understand the archeology science and see the processes bitions and events in international arena throughout the year in which these archaeological artifacts are unearthed”. by sharing the developments experienced during the excavations with large masses. The second day of the little archaeologists event was held in one of the most sacred sites in the Northwestern CORPORATE Anatolia, Apollon Smintheion Temple dating back to the Hellenistic period (330-30 BC) and located in Gülpınar Sponsoring the TROY excavations which is the brand with village of Ayvacık district, Çanakkale. The little archaeologists informed by Assoc. Dr. Vedat Keleş who headed the highest recognition of the world cultural heritage and our excavations in the ancient city of Parion Coşkun Özgünel made an excavation in here as well. While giving the country is as an expression of our vision of sustainable proENVIRONMENTAL Small Archaeologist Certificate of Participation to the students participating in the excavations, he stated that “The duction as İÇDAŞ. We will keep on our support to TROYA exAs an industry organization, we aim to be a role model preservation of historical monuments and historical values is possible with you. We would like to have young people cavations in order to bring our cultural assets to our country, to with an emphasis on environmental values and our cultural allow our heritage to be brought into light, to contribute to the heritage. Such activities in our country which is an open air amateurishly specialized in these values. And we applaud İÇDAŞ wholeheartedly due to this social responsibility cultural and artistic promotion of our region and to improve museum with its rooted historical heritage will help the brand project”. our corporate image. values of our industry organizations to take part in the internationally platforms with respect. The project was realized with the participation of 200 children. 72 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 73 355,1 million m3 %88 Re-Usable Water Amount / Year Rate of Recycled Waste Bekirli Facility %78 Rate of Recycled Waste Değirmencik Facility Since the day we were established, we have been keeping on our investment to protect the environment and human health both in our steel production facilities and power plants in all the processes from the selection of raw materials to the delivery of our products to customers. Environmental Management OUR ENVIRONMENTAL Değirmencik is the largest capacity steel plant with arc furnaces in our country. Every day, we melt thousands of tons of steel scrap and recycle with the most advanced technology and we turn them into steel products. We check the PERFORMANCE scrap in detail in all the stages from the selection, supply of auxiliary products and materials to their acceptance and processing in the facilities. (The information on Radiation Safety Management is included in the ‘Health and Safety’ section in our report.) We transport our raw materials by sea and railways in order to keep its carbon emissions per unit production. İÇDAŞ We manage all of our activities and our investments in İÇDAŞ had Turkey Locomotive Industry (TULOMSAS) manufactured 176 railway cars for the first time in Turkey and started to transport steel scrap by railways from different places of Anatolia. within the framework of our environmental policy with a The manufacturing techniques used in our facilities and all of our investments are compatible with the Best Available sustainable growth goal that allows for the prevention of Techniques Reference Documents published by the European Union. We use the cleanest and most environmentally friendly production techniques in the world and continually improve these techniques. We carry out the activities relatenvironmental pollution, reduction of waste, efficient use of ed to more efficient use of natural resources and energy efficiency in accordance with ISO 50001 Energy Manageenergy, control of emissions and responsible consumption of ment System principles. We manage our environmental impacts in steel plants, power plants, lime plants, shipyards and ports with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. natural resources. In 2015, the total investment amount in the projects we developed to protect environment is over 290 million TL. 31% accounts for the operating costs of environmental investments. 74 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 75 Environmental Expenditure ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURE (TL) 2013 2014 2015 Operating costs of environmental 100.592.997 TL 111.427.820 TL 90.362.892 TL activities 25 • WATER MANAGEMENT • Environmental Investments 8.825.315 TL 3.397.596 TL 199.740.258 TL TOTAL 109.418.312 TL 114.825.416 TL 290.103.150 TL 76 percent of our employees who participated in the sustainability questionnaire say that... ‘The actions taken Waste Management by İÇDAŞ in managing water resources and efficient use We analyze the waste generated in our facilities on a regular basis and monitored the metal rates in the slag and flue dusts, and record them. We make improvements by comparing our waste per unit product to the values are enough.’ The expectations of our employees in this in the EU Best Available Techniques Reference Documents. issue have increased by 4% compared to last year. The most important issue in waste management is the process-related waste. The waste generated by our facilities is steel mill slag, steel mill flue dust, rolling mill scale and the thermal power plant ash. Except process waste, In İÇDAŞ Değirmencik Integrated Facilities, we have been carrying out water management under a our facilities generate waste oils, ELT (End of Life Tyre), packaging waste and organic waste. “Sustainable Water Management Project” with a holistic approach since 2007. Our primary goal in waste management is the recovery of waste. Including the waste coming from ships to our port we collect all the waste separately and send them to the licensed recycling facilities or we dispose them of Our project was selected one of the best 24 practices in the field of Sustainable Development and Green in accordance with the legislation. In 2015, we disposed of 55% of our waste by recycling, 15% by reuse and Economy of Turkey by the Ministry of Development, United National Development Program (UNDP), 8% recovery. Business World and Sustainable Development Association n 2012 and we were proud to represent our The arc furnace slags of İÇDAŞ are processed in our artificial aggregate facility, and are turned into artificial country in Rio+20 Summit held in Brazil. aggregate that has the EC Declaration of Conformity (CE Document). İÇDAŞ is the first and only steel plant that manufactures artificial aggregate from arc slags in the EC standards. As we obtain all the process and domestic water that we use in our facilities from sea, there is no water resource adversely affected by our activities due to water extraction. We meet 99% of our water requireOur Değirmencik facility is the largest capacity recycling facility in our country as we are recovering more than ments in steel plants, while 98% of it is met from the sea water in power plants. 15 thousand tons of steel scrap per day during agricultural production. TOTAL WASTE (ton) Water Consumption(1.000 m3/year) 2011 1.077.210 2011 2.640 2012 702.627 2012 2.449 2013 750.040 2013 2.628 2014 788.720 2014 2.813 2015 652.531 2015 3.091 500.000 1.000.000 2000 3000 76 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 25 G4-14 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 77 SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT26 Fish Farming in the Cooling Water Discharge The second stage of the practice is fish farming. We have aimed One of the most important natural resources used in our facilities is ‘water’. While water is used in steel to farm 100 thousand sea bream and sea bass annually through manufacturing, cooling down and bringing the steel into the desired quality standards, it is also importfish farming in the cooling water discharge. With this project, ant in cooling down the machinery and equipment in the facility. Water is one of the main sources in we not only carry out fish farming activities in the cooling waenergy production. The energy released from fuel combustion makes the boiler water superheated steam ter discharge for the first time in our country, but also meet the and electrical energy is generated when the steam moves the turbines and then the generators. 180 m3/hour water needs completely from this cooling water. Another important aspect of this project is to show that the effect In case all the facilities work at full capacity, the daily fresh water need of Değirmencik Integrated Faciliof cooling water on the ecosystem is sustainable. What makes ties is about 8,000 m3. The use of water in our production processes in such intensity gives an important fish farming in cooling water discharge is that the temperature environmental aspect to water in terms of conservation of water resources and energy management. of such water is suitable for farming fish in all the seasons and To this end, we put the “İçdaş Sustainable Water Management Project” into operation in 2007. We it does not require any investment for water supply. monitored technical and financial many parameters in operating the project efficiently and assessing its results. The first investment cost of the facility is 150 thousand dollars. With this project, we have farmed 195,730 sea brasses and Under the project, we completely ended the use of underground water, which is a limited resource, and 97,971 sea breams in the facility since 2008. we aim to meet all the fresh water needs of the facility from the sear as an unlimited resource, to generate electricity from the cooling water discharged to the sea and to establish a fish farm in the discharge water. Electricity Generation from Cooling Water Discharge Facility to Produce Fresh Water from Seawater The third part of the practice is the seawater HEPP project. (The details of this project are included on page 83) Section ‘Energy Management’.) The first phase of the three-step process is to obtain fresh water from seawater by reverse osmosis. With this facility, we aimed to completely put an end to the use of underground water by closing 32 wells and to meet the fresh water needs which were 3,500 m3/day in in 2006 but expected to be 7,000 m3/day Waste Water Management and Monitoring Water Quality in parallel to the production completely from seawater. The total cost of the facility is around 3 million 650 thousand dollars. Although the cost of unit fresh water is higher than the well water, we have made All the water we use in steel manufacturing is treattreated in a physical treatment facility and then disthis investment decision. We produce 12 thousand m3 fresh water in the facility per day. With this aced and recovered and then used again. We recovcharged to the receiving environment. tivity, we both protect the underground water and the use of the same resources in the agricultural area er the vapor we use in the energy generation after more efficiently. Another indirect positive effect is to decrease the risk of moving the seawater wedge we condense it. The only waste water that can be As the temperature parameter is required to be contowards the fresh water. regarded as process-related is cooling water in our tinuously monitored in the hot water discharge, a facilities. Since the cooling water extracted from the “Continuous Wastewater Monitoring System” is insea is able to cool the discharge water without constalled at one discharge point in Bekirli and 2 in tact and there is no chemical contamination, we can Değirmencik facilities. We constantly monitor the discharge such water into the sea again. temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, conductivity and flow rate at stations and forward the results to Other than the cooling water, we have domestic the Ministry of Environment and Urban Development waste water discharge at 14 points and a car wash every five minutes. waste water discharge at a few points in Değirmencik facilities, while we have domestic waste waIn our facility, a waste water laboratory qualified by ter discharge at 4 different points, 2 physical and the Ministry of Urbanism and Environment, and ac1 chemical treatment in Bekirli facilities. We have credited by Turkak is available. İÇDAŞ EnvironmenEnvironmental Permit and Licenses for Waste Water tal Control Laboratory has the world-class technical Discharge for all the discharge points. While the equipment in order to carry out all the analysis padomestic water mud is removed by the Municipality rameters it is authorized. Sewage Truck, the car wash-related waste water is 78 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 26 G4-14 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 79 Outcomes and Intended Achievements Monitoring Carbon Emissions In 2010, we became the first facility in Turkey that 2012. The Regulations include the procedures and calculated the carbon footprint arising from steel principles on monitoring the greenhouse gases to ECONOMIC SOCIAL manufacturing. As a result of activities carried out be generated in the activities such as electricity and Since the biodiversity in the sea is not affected Environment and ecosystem is an issue that may in calculating the carbon footprint and sustainabilisteam production, cement, steel, aluminum and cethanks to the discharge of the cooling water in line affect everyone. With this system, we eliminate ty, we have received a Sustainable Steel Certificate ramics, which constitute a significant portion of emiswith the standards, we do not have any impacts possible negative impacts. from the British CARES organization in 2011. sions, at the facility level and their verification and on the ecosystem and on the local people interestreporting to the Ministry of Environment and Urban In order to take the greenhouse gas inventory of ed in fishing. Planning. The infrastructure that we have established our company, 13 personnel received a training on so far and the measurements we have made as a ISO14064-1 Recognition of the Guide on Calculatcompany provide us with ease in fulfilling our legal ing and Reporting Greenhouse Gas and Removals ENVIRONMENTAL CORPORATE obligations in the next period. at the Organizational Level provided by Bureau Veritas. In 2011, the amount of greenhouse gases We calculate the carbon footprint for 2015 in accorContinuous Wastewater Monitoring System projWe are among the founders of the Continuous was audited by Bureau Veritas in October 2012 and dance with the Ministry of Environment and Urban ect is one of the investments in the environment. Wastewater Monitoring Stations in Turkey. Our As the cooling water extracted from the sea is discertified upon being approved in December 2012. Planning, “Regulations on the Follow-up of Greencorporate consciousness is our sensitivity to the charged in accordance with the standards, there We created the carbon management framework for house Gas Emissions” published in the Official Gaenvironment. Therefore, we allocate large budis no negative impact on the ecosystem. The use of the calculation, reporting and management of greenzette No.29003 on 17 MAY 2014 and Circular on gets to environmental impacts and environmental house gas emissions and we have been performing Monitoring and Reporting the Greenhouse Gas Emissea water, which is a sustainable source is more investments and are implementing the required our greenhouse gas calculations in accordance with sions published in the Official Gazette No.29068 on a environmentally friendly method than the use of limited freshwater resources. applications. ISO 14064 since 2012. 22 July 2014. The previous calculations were made in accordance with the ISO14064-1 Recognition of The Regulations on the Follow-up of Greenhouse Gas the Guide on Calculating and Reporting Greenhouse Emissions which was the basis of the implementaGas and Removals at the Organizational Level. EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT tion of the actions to be taken in establishing climate protection policies and struggling against the climate In our enterprise that hosts energy and steel production facilities, emission is one of the most important change in our country was put into force in April environmental parameters. Emissions management is a part of environmental management in İÇDAŞ and is compliant with local legislation and the EU criteria. All the emission points in our facilities operate in line with the national limit values and International Best Available Techniques. DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS(T CO2 ) YEAR DIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS*** In addition to emission measurements carried out in chimneys, we have been performing the dust emis2011 822.105,00 sions measurements that have to be done every two years and at two points according to the legislation 2012 703.831,00 STEEL FACILITIES at eight stations established on the borders of the facility and we have been reporting them since 2006. 2013 790.831,00 2014 679.811,20 The dust retention efficiency for the dust filter bags and the fume absorption and dust collection system 2011 3.395.524,00 used in steel production and lime plants is 99.99% for the dust particles over a micron. 2012 3.085.942,00 POWER PLANT 2013 3.162.852,00 2014 2.869.405,10 2011 0 2012 0 SHIPYARD 2013 0 2014 0 2011 121.053,00 2012 225.757,00 AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2013 223.611,00 2014 204.539,80 80 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 81 2015 EMISSION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION AMOUNTS • ENERGY MANAGEMENT • SOURCES * ( ton CO2 ) İÇDAŞ DEĞİRMENCİK FACILITIES 2.299.624 75 percent of our employees who participated in the sustainability İÇDAŞ BEKİRLİ FACILITIES 2.556.619 questionnaire say that... ‘İçdaş’s energy efficiency investments and activities towards the goal of making production with the awareness *2015 data were recalculated based on the new circulars of the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning. on environmental issues are enough.’ The expectations of our employees in this issue have increased by 3% compared to last year. Monitoring the Air Quality with Continuous Emission Measurement System (SEÖS) The share of the steel industry that needs high amount of enresources and to achieve maximum performance in facilities Under the circular on “Continuous Emission Measurement Systems”, ”, we completed the system that measures ergy within the total energy consumption of Turkey is around through measures taken to decrease electricity and natural gas CO, O2, volumetric flow, dust parameters in the Lime Kiln chimney in November 2015 with almost 150 thou6%, while the share within the energy consumption of all the consumption in facilities, and we monitor our performance. sand TL budget in addition to the systems we established in Değirmencik and Bekirli Facilities. We established industries is around 15%. Given these rates, the environmental We work on the projects on the recycling of the waste heat in the infrastructure of the system launched to monitor the emissions from the plant chimneys by the Ministry of Enimportance of the efficiency to be achieved in energy producthe steel mills and rolling mills together with the international vironment and Urban Planning in 2007. Although we had not had any obligations to publish these data in that tion and consumption is so high. Energy efficiency is comcompanies specialized in their area of business. We prefer patible with the measures that boost energy security and the energy efficient lighting products in our facilities. period, we were measuring the emission values instantly using the continuous emission gauges in the chimneys of reduction in emissions though energy efficiency directly affects the steel facilities and thermal power plant and we were publishing these data on the corporate website (www. Our energy efficiency practices have thought us the philosthe climate protection. icdas.com.tr) together with the camera images of the chimneys based on the transparency principle. With this ophy to do the same quality work/service by creating less As in all the facilities with arch furnaces in steel production, CO2 emissions and therefore with less costs. Thanks to the system, we continue to manage our initiative that began on a voluntary basis under the legal obligation today. 65% of the total energy needs account for the electrical enerenergy we have acquired, we are contributing to reducing gy in İÇDAŞ. Fossil fuels are largely used in electricity producour country’s foreing dependency as well. We get the chance tion in Turkey. to become more competitive by following the technological developments, continually exploring the best practice opportuUnder the activities of ISO 50001 Energy Management nities and reducing our costs. System in İÇDAŞ facilities, we have been implementing our improvement actions plans to protect the energy and natural ELECTRICAL CONSUMPTION YEAR ELECTRICITY (kWh) 2011 2.143.439.394,70 2012 2.176.757.065,20 STEEL FACILITIES 2013 2.316.760.582,60 2014 2.156.661.165,60 2015 1.841.771.646,70 2011 315.244.466,00 2012 313.784.489,00 POWER PLANT 2013 314.889.499,00 2014 320.517.321,00 2015 288.378.379,40 2011 1.243.204,20 2012 2.075.630,00 SHIPYARD 2013 1.864.743,70 2014 1.635.093,10 2015 1.881.116,70 2011 185.123.411,10 2012 207.669.715,00 AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2013 206.265.103,70 2014 209.881.621,30 2015 203.547.046,60 82 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 83 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION We think that sustainable development and biodiversity conservation are two inseparable issues. Biodiversity is an important indicator where we can see the results of the environmentally-friendly production techniques we use in our industrial activities and the measures we take for the protection of the environment. In addition, biodiversity conservation means the protection of the ecosystem balance, which also means protection of the needs of future generations and therefore includes social benefits. Monitoring and protection of biodiversity is of paramount importance as it serves the two out of three elements of sustainable growth, namely contributing to both the environment and the society. Our systematic field work related to monitoring of biodiversity to identify the plants and animal species in and around the facility started with the photography taken by our biologist. At first, we started to record the species in the forestry and freshwater ecosystems around the facilities. We have been carrying out monitoring work in terrestrial, aquatic and marine ecosystems around our facilities since 2013. This work continues with steady weekly field trips and as our facilities are located in an area both marine-coastal ecosystems and forest ecosystems are found. In the studies on marine ecosystem, we have received assistance from the On Sekiz Mart University, School of Marine Science and Technology. Considering some species on phylum basis in 19 diving observations; Electricity Generation from Cooling Water Discharge we have identified 69 species including 35 species of fish, 2 species of arthropod, 5 species of Polychaeta worms, 5 species of echinoderm, 4 species of Knids, 13 species of mollusk, 5 species of macro algae. In 2008, we started to take actions to establish hydraulic turbines on the cooling water discharge line of In the study we conducted on land, we benefitted from the Ecosystem Monitoring Reports that we prepared the steel facilities and thermal power plant. We commissioned the facilities in 2009 in order to generate under the WPP project. The Ecosystem Assessment Report for spring months was issued by Hacettepe Unielectrical energy from seawater. In 2011, we commissioned four 6000 kWh installed hydroelectrical versity, Department of Biology, while the Ornithological Monitoring Report for autumn was issued by the power plants that we built at the cooling water discharge points of the steel facility and thermal power Mediterranean University, Department of Biology We obtained other data in the report from the systematic plant No.2 with an investment of 15 million USD. field observations. We use contactless sea water cooling systems in order to cool the water used in our products and maWe created a park where farm animals live in the garden of Değirmencik Integrated Facilities. Animals can chinery in the steel plant, and the vapor used in the thermal power plant. We discharge the seawater that move freely in a total of 33 decares including 10 decares of forestry, 20 decares of outdoor and 3 decares cools the process water into the sea again. The energy spent in 2015 to press the water into the thermal of rivers and are raised in line with ecological conditions. In this area; chicken, rabbit, turkey, geese, duck, power plant at 30 cm elevation and the steel plant at 50 cm elevation was around 99 million kWh due sheep, peacocks, quail, swan, pigeon, dove species are found. to the field conditions of water. As a result of the recovery of 25% of such energy with HEPP, we get economic and social, and environmental benefits. In 2014, we used the 24.1 million kilowatt hours of electricity that we generated in p-our hydroelectric and steel power plants and we produced an economic value of TL 4.8 million in the name of our company. Given the fact that the annual average power consumption is 2,490 kWh 11per capita in Turkey, we are producing the energy to be consumed by more than 11 thousand people in a year in our own facilities without creating emissions and by ensuring the efficiency conditions instead of extracting it from the grid and we are using it in our processes. Hot Charging Application To improve energy efficiency, therefore to reduce carbon emissions and reduce energy costs, we performed our hot charging application project in Steel Mill 3 and Rolling Mill 5 that we started in November 2013 and completed in March 2014. Trying to put this practice into operation in other rolling lines with the sustainable improvement principle, we had a total of 5,450,227,089 TL economic gain in 2015 and also reduced gas consumption. In addition, we reduced the risk of any occupational accidents as a result of less Scheuerle transport and forklift movement. 84 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 85 As a result of the evaluations made by IUCN (International Wildlife and Natural Resource Conservation Union) in Europe, based on the Red List, there is one species among the wild mammal species in the category of “NT” (Near Threatened) which means “Close to be Endangered”. According to IUCN, EN (Endangered): A species highly likely to be become extinct in the wild life (Vulture Neophron percnopterus) and VU (Vulnerable) (Damageable): A species which has the risk of becoming extinct in the wild life. (Greater spotted eagleAquila clanga) In our region, the total number of animal species that lives in our region permanently or uses the migration routes in our region is 386. The number of listed plant species is 146. Artificial Reefs and Biodiversity Support Project Ornithological and Wildlife Observation Activities, one of the studies conducted in the terrestrial ecosystem is Çanakkale has 8% of Turkey’s coasts with a coastline of 671 kilometers. Within the borders of the city, there performed in company with the Mediterranean Univerare two islands that are rich in fishing grounds with 137 km coastline (Imvros and Bozcada), the Dardanelles sity and local and migratory species are identified. We which is 62 km in length and has great importance in terms of migration routes of fish, and a significant part issue 3-month reports in this activity where we identify of the Gulf of Saros which is important terms of fishery resources. In addition, the fact that one of the starting migration routes. Numerous predator species such as points of international waters in Aegean Sea is in Çanakkale makes the city one of the most important fishing white pelicans, white storks, red-rumped swallows and centers in Turkey. barn swallows, and endemic species are not available. More than a thousand coastal fishing boats and around ten seine vessels operate in the region. Almost a hunThey are generally migratory species. Species like gulls, dred troll and seine boats come from Marmara and Black Sea as well almost a hundred boats during summer sparrows and cormorants are among the local species of to Çanakkale water for scoop netting. this region. It is known that Caretta Caretta sea turtles live in our region. Based on the idea that the artificial reef units to be created in these areas will support professional and amateur fishermen, we started the project by signing a protocol with the On Sekiz Mart University in June 2013. We intend to report our work each year. The purpose of the project; We will compare these reports and prepare final reports. • Supporting local fishing including professional, amateur, small-scale and industrial We aim that these results which are of fundamental imfisheries portance for our future generate new projects. We will identify specific endemic or endangered species in the re• Contributing to the protection and development of marine biodiversity gion through field studies, and we will improve protection • Providing a suitable environment to the living creatures in the sea in the region, projects for such species. supporting the increase in the amount of living creatures • Creating and maintaining feeding and protection grounds for some species • Preventing illegal fishing activities Under this protocol, diving activities were conducted by the Faculty of Marine Sciences and Technology in and around our port and the first underwater identifications on the existing biodiversity were made. Under the project titled “Çanakkale will Breath by Enhancement of Fishing Biodiversity” prepared by the surrounding villages after this project, diving activities were conducted in 17 points in Çanakkale and artificial reef areas were determined. A total of three areas including one in Değirmencik Village and two areas in Bekirli Village were deemed appropriate for artificial reef activities. We decided to implement the Artificial Reef project based on the feasibility results report issued in March 2014. With the completion of the permit processes, we started to implement the project in October 2014. We have allocated a total budget of 750 thousand TL for the project completed in July 2015 and 979 artificial reefs in total were created, including 679 in Değirmencik, and 280 in Bekirli. Based on the observations, it was found that there is no change in the number of fish diversity but an increase in the number of fish and the fish used the reefs as nesting areas. 86 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 87 TÜBİTAK MAM Biga Peninsula Environmental Monitoring Project PERFORMANCE Upon the recommendation of our Environmental ManageTÜBİTAK MAM. To provide a comprehensive ecosystem ment Departments, we intended to monitor the regional ecosystem a year before we commissioned the facilities monitoring, we started to monitor air, soil, surface fresh water, sea water, ground water and rain water quality, INDICATORS in order to monitor the effectiveness of the measures we vegetation, water and emission discharges at the plant take to protect the environment and to provide our stakeand noise. holders with scientific data in our Thermal Power Plant •ECONOMIC• started to be constructed in 2009. The project that began Under the project, monitoring stations are available in the in July 2010 is one of the largest environmental monitorregion starting with the Marmara Sea coasts of the Biga ing projects in our country in terms of scope and content. peninsula up to the foot of the Mount Ida. The stations are The scope of the project which will continue for five years visited each month regularly by TÜBİTAK MAM personnel İÇDAŞ following the operation is an area of 40 thousand km2 and all the samples are taken in almost 3-4 days and the ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED İÇDAŞ STEEL UNIT ELECTRICITY GRI where our facilities are located in the center from the Marmonitoring activities continue. The analysis results are preAND DISTRIBUTED ENERGY GENERATION mara Sea and the Gulf of Edremit and contains all our sented as a report every 6 months by TÜBİTAK MAM and facilities in the area, and it includes all our facilities in submitted to us. We submit a copy of these reports to the the region. We chose TUBITAK MAM for execution of the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning. Economic Value Created (Income) TL 5,996,548,176 984,977,495 EC1 project thinking that executing the project by a public institution would be impartial and credible and as the scope TÜBİTAK MAM has issued 11 interim reports so far inof the project is very large. We finance the project with a cluding the tenth and eleventh in 2015 under the project ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO STAKEHOLDERS total cost of 750 thousand TL as İÇDAŞ. which will complete its fifth year. The investment amount Operational costs TL 5,453,892,058 1,024,825,500 EC1 in the project that has a total period of 78 months is 743 We expanded the scope of the project initiated to monithousand 717 TL so far and the total cost of the project is tor the emissions at the first stage and we put the project 892 thousand 715 TL. Benefits for employees TL 232,862,151 52,224,616 EC1 into the final form in the meetings with various experts of Benefit for state TL 369,673,268 62,737,896 EC1 Outcomes and Achievements Benefits for capital suppliers TL 0 0 EC1 ECONOMIC SOCIAL Benfits for the society TL 1,057,464 5,206,943 EC1 Although the project does not provide direct financial The project can be applicable after some contribution to our company, we believe in the long revisions are made based on the specific term, it will provide significant environmental and inconditions of the region in other indusEconomic value not distributed (profit) TL -60,936,766 -160,017,460 EC1 stitutional benefits stemming from the project. trial facilities in other regions. The technical officials of TÜBİTAK MAM and our company have the opportunity to acquire many new experiences with this project. ENVIRONMENTAL With this project, we will ensure the securing of the ecosystem. With this Project, very important data will be obtained upon the completion of thousands of CORPORATE analysis on air, soil and water quality in the Biga Peninsula. There will be comprehensive study that covers Monitoring the ecosystem in the region all the region on how the environmental parameters by independent public institutions shows in the regional ecology will be oscillated in time and the self-confidence of our company and the reasons of these oscillations. This work closely increases the confidence of our stakeaffects the plants, animals and abiotic system in the holders in the region in our facilities. region as well as local people. 88 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇDA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 89 PERFORMANCE EDUCATIONAL INVESTMENTS ALL EDUCATION INDICATORS ACCORDING TO EMPLOYEE UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI CATEGORY Senior Management Man/hour 8,4 6,7 4,6 1 10 Medium level managers Man/hour 12,8 29,8 10,2 6,86 11,2 •SOCIAL• Supervisers Man/hour 38,9 36,7 9,7 5,88 13,62 LA9 Manager / Engineers Man/hour 46,6 34,3 19 11,88 22,63 Other personnel Man/hour 20,9 11,4 8,4 15,46 16,69 REGION: TURKEY FEMALE MALE ACCORDING TO GENDER UNIT 2011 2012 20*13 2014 2015 GRI Male Man/hour 23,4 13,9 9,7 15,1 20,3 ACCIDENTS UNIT 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 GRI LA9 Female Man/hour 36,5 15 11 4,6 8,2 Accident frequency rate Rate 23.9 7.79 5.85 17.08 16.96 12.33 EDUCATION TYPES UNIT 2013 2014 2015 GRI Occupational disease LA6 Rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 rate Occupational Development Hour 5.985 25.217 8749,7 Death Number/Year 0 0 0 0 1 1 Personal Development Hour 24.792 1.944 1910 LOST DAYS UNIT 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 GRI Labour Health and Safety Hour 32.834,50 38.164,80 36946,5 LA9 Lost day rate due to Other (explain if any) Hour 11.767 58.68,2 37357 Rate 4.77 1.56 0.4 3.39 3.14 3.44 occupational accident Total Education Hour Hour 75.378,50 71.194 84963,2 Lost day rate (absence LA6 rate) for such reasons as Rate 2.12 2.05 2.09 75.29 74.73 79.92 illness etc. EDUCATIONAL INVESTMENTS LABOUR HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAININGS OTHER TRAININGS Number of accidents related to sub-employers are followed. Other data is not available. **Accident frequency: number of accidents that occur in one million work hour According to Employe UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI NA=Total number of accidents / (Total number of employeesx300 daysx7,5 hours) (total lost days x7,5 Category hours) x 1.000.000 1 accident involving death=7.500 lost days Senior Man/hour 0,7 m.d 1 m.d 8 7,7 6,7 3,6 1 2 Management Excessive muscle strain Contact with excessive Medium Level heat Man/hour 2 7,3 1,9 4,6 7,6 10,8 22,5 8,3 2,3 3,6 Managers LA10 Puncture or stinging by Cut caused by an Supervisors Man/hour 10,2 17,3 1,8 5,2 11,48 28,7 19,4 7,9 0,7 2,14 an object object Manager/ Man/hour 23,7 16,4 9,5 8,5 19,39 22,9 17,9 9,5 3,4 3,24 Burr splash Splashing of chemical Engineers substance to the eye Other Man/hour 12,2 7,4 2,3 11,1 11,57 8,7 4 6,1 4,36 5,12 Personnel ACCIDENT TYPES Clash of moving object Getting squeezed and the person between two objects According to UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI Gender Fall of a person Fall of a piece Male Man/hour 13,3 8,6 2,7 14,4 11,608 10,1 5,3 7 0,72 8,7 LA10 Clash with a stable Traffic accidents Female Man/hour 18,2 6,5 3,1 3,3 7,1 18,3 8,5 7,9 1,3 1,1 object or person Exposure to toxic and detrimental substance 90 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 91 WORK FORCE 27 WORK FORCE ACCORDING TO EMPLOYMENT OTHER GROUPS UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI UNİT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI TYPE White Collar Female Person 84 88 97 91 92 Female 12 30 30 8 4 White Collar Male Person 393 452 513 526 515 Percentage 0,29% 0,65% 0,62% 0,17% 0,09% Foreigner Blue Collar Female Person 35 63 75 35 30 G4-10 Male 90 219 206 84 47 Blue Collar Male Person 3.615 4.043 4.159 4.150 3.987 Percentage 2,18% 4,41% 4,25% 1,75% 1,02% TOTAL Person 4.127 4.646 4.844 4.802 4.624 LA12 Female 4 8 7 4 4 ACCORDING TO CONTRACT TYPE UNİT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI Percentage 0,10% 0,17% 0,14% 0,08% 0,09% Full-time Employee Female Person 119 151 172 126 122 Handicapped Male 104 117 119 125 118 Full-time Employee Male Person 4.007 4.494 4.671 4.675 4.501 G4-10 Percentage 2,52% 2,52% 2,46% 2,60% 2,55% Part-Time EmployeeFemale Person 0 0 0 0 0 Part-Time Employee Male Person 1 1 1 1 1 ACCORDING TO MANAGEMENT UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI CATEGORY ACCORDING TO LOCATION UNİT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI Female 0 0 0 0 0 Working in İstanbul Office Person 71 75 79 69 72 Percentage 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Female Senior Management Working in İstanbul Office Male Person 314 320 338 332 341 Male 11 9 9 8 6 Working in Değirmecik Integrated Percentage 0,27% 0,19% 0,19% 0,17% 0,13% Person 19 28 44 30 30 Facility-Fem. Female 7 7 7 5 4 Working in Değirmecik Integrated Person 2.863 3.167 3.380 3.525 3.451 Percentage 0,17% 0,15% 0,14% 0,10% 0,09% Facility Mal. G4-10 Medium Level Managers Working in Bekirli Thermal Power Male 51 48 51 51 48 Person 29 48 49 27 20 PlantFem. Percentage 1,24% 1,03% 1,05% 1,06% 1,04% Working in Bekirli Thermal Power Person 751 919 840 698 597 PlantMal. Kadın 7 8 9 10 10 Working in AnatoliaFem. Person 0 0 0 0 0 Oran 0,17% 0,17% 0,19% 0,21% 0,22% Working in AnatoliaMal. Person 80 89 114 121 113 Supervisors LA12 Erkek 133 123 138 138 173 ACCORDING TO GENDER UNİT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI Oran 3,22% 2,65% 2,85% 2,87% 3,74% Person 4.008 4.495 4.672 4.676 4.502 Kadın 15 17 25 21 21 Male Percentage 97,12% 96,70% 96,45% 97,38% 97,36% LA12 Oran 0,36% 0,37% 0,52% 0,44% 0,45% Person 119 151 172 126 122 Manager/Engineers Female Erkek 219 249 264 263 267 Percentage 2,88% 3,30% 3,55% 2,62% 2,64% Oran 5,31% 5,36% 5,46% 5,48% 5,77% ACCORDING TO AGE UNİT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI Kadın 90 119 131 90 93 Female 51 56 58 46 45 Oran 2,18% 2,56% 2,71% 1,87% 2,01% Percentage 1,24% 1,21% 1,20% 0,96% 0,97% Other Personnel 30 years and below Erkek 3.588 4.059 4.204 4.216 4.002 Male 1.580 1.602 1.414 1.384 1.463 Percentage 38,28% 34,48% 29,19% 28,82% 31,64% Oran 86,94% 87,37% 86,90% 87,80% 86,55% Female 59 88 104 69 65 Percentage 1,43% 1,89% 2,15% 1,44% 1,41% Between 30-50 years LA12 Male 2.311 2.760 3.101 3.134 2.883 Percentage 56,00% 59,41% 64,02% 65,26% 62,35% Female 9 7 10 11 12 Percentage 1,00% 1,00% 0,21% 0,23% 0,26% 50 Years and Above Male 117 133 157 158 156 Percentage 2,83% 2,86% 3,24% 3,29% 3,37% 92 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 27 G4-10 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 93 STRUCTURE OF THE EXECUTIVE UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI BOARD Female Members Ratio 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 30 years and below Ratio 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Between 30 50 years Ratio 33,33% 33,33% 33,33% 0,00% 0,00% LA12 50 Years and Above Ratio 66,67% 66,67% 66,67% 100% 100% Foreigner Ratio 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Handicapped Ratio 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% STATUS PLACE 2014 2015 2015 FIGURES Other 64% 63% 37 Senior Manager Employment Status Local 36% 37% 21 BEKİRLİ Employees Employment Other 25% 28% 171 Status Local 75% 72% 443 DEĞİRMENCİK Employees Other 17% 17% 583 Employment Status Local 83% 83% 2851 2014 2015 Ratio of employees under collective labour agreements to total 44,41% 47,10% number of employees28 28 G4-11 94 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PERFORMANCE NON-RENEWABLE DIRECT ENERGY SOURCES YEAR COAL (GJ) NATURAL GAS (GJ) GRI INDICATORS STEEL FACILITIES 2011 3,303,058.00 3,403,887.00 2012 2,213,921.00 3,422,325.00 2013 2,993,739.00 3,401,405.00 •ENVIRONMENTAL• 2014 2,290,834.00 3,314,688.00 2015 2,454,380.00 3,407,085.00 SECONDARY ENERGY PURCHASED FROM YEAR ELECTRICITY ELECTRICITY(GJ) GRI POWER PLANT 2011 34,112,750.00 17,169.00 NON-RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES (KWH) AND CONSUMED 2012 30,667,457.00 10,708.00 2011 2,143,439,394.70 7,716,381.80 2013 30,915,214.00 7,599.00 EN3 2012 2,176,757,065.20 7,836,325.40 2014 28,121,666.00 13,398.00 STEEL FACILITIES 2013 2,316,760,582.60 8,340,271.40 2015 25,033,111.00 21,628.00 2014 2,156,661,165.60 7,763,918.10 SHIPYARD AND AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2011 696,268.00 110,278.00 2015 1,841,771,646.70 6,630,377.93 2012 631,904.00 110,560.00 2011 315,244,466.00 1,134,880.10 2013 598,256.00 100,763.00 2012 313,784,489.00 1,129,624.20 2014 604,964.00 103,784.00 POWER PLANT 2013 314,889,499.00 1,133,593.10 2015 518,311.00 99,614.00 2014 320,517,321.00 1,153,862.40 OTHER NON-RENEWABLE YEAR DIESEL FUEL (GJ) GASOLINE (GJ) AIR GRI 2015 288,378,379.40 1,038,162.20 GREENHOUSE GAS CONDITIONING EN3 EMISSION SOURCES GASES AND 2011 1,243,204.20 4,475.50 SOURCE GASES 2012 2,075,630.00 7,472.30 (KG) SHIPYARD 2013 1,864,743.70 6,713.00 2011 382,575.00 469 4,348.40 2014 1,635,093.10 5,886.30 2012 454,031.00 535 6,574.40 ALL FACILITIES EN3 2015 1,881,116.70 6,772.00 2013 427,368.00 463 28,558.00 2011 185,123,411.10 666,444.30 2014 456,163.00 471 21,279.70 2012 207,669,715.00 747,611.00 AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2013 206,265,103.70 742,548.40 PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER YEAR RECYCLED AND GRI 2014 209,881,621.30 755,567.80 THAT IS RECYCLED AND REUSED REUSED 2015 203,547,046.60 732,769.40 (m3/YIL) STEEL FACILITIES 2014 355,251,280.00 EN10 ENERGY GENERATED FROM RENEWABLE YEAR HYDROELECTRIC HYDROELECTRIC GRI 2015 334,933,900.00 ENERGY SOURCES AND CONSUMED (kWh) (GJ) AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2014 20,592,000.00 WITHIN THE FACILITY (OXYGEN FACILITIES) 2015 20,160,000.00 2011 4,766,000.00 17,157.60 2012 6,125,000.00 22,050.00 The values we entered in the resued water section are the water we describe as closed circuit (cleaned after STEEL FACILITIES (HES4) 2013 7,945,000.00 28,601.80 usage and reused) in steel facilities and oxygen facilities 2014 7,934,000.00 28,562.40 2015 6,834,000.00 24,602.40 EN3 2011 15,300,800.00 55,082.90 2012 19,366,000.00 69,717.60 POWER PLANT (HES1-2-3) 2013 21,201,000.00 76,323.00 2014 19,648,000.00 70,732.80 2015 17,284,700.00 62,224.90 96 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 97 TOTAL WITHDRAWAL ACCORDING YEAR WATER (SOURCE: SEA) COOLING WATER GRI GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS YEAR DIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS INDIRECT CO2 GRI TO SOURCE (T CO2) EMISSIONS 2011 1,994,780.00 163,399,500.00 2011 822,105.00 1,028,851.00 2012 1,821,476.00 233,802,000.00 2012 703,831.00 1,044,173.20 STEEL FACILITIES STEEL FACILITIES 2013 1,692,197.00 220,625,000.00 2013 790,831.00 1,110,650.90 2014 2,036,897.00 221,790,720.00 2014 679,811.20 1,035,197.00 2015 2,182,217.00 157,922,000.00 2011 3,395,524.00 0 2011 363,945.00 188,862,424.00 2012 3,085,942.00 0 2012 411,461.00 210,893,657.00 POWER PLANT 2013 3,162,852.00 0 POWER PLANT 2013 586,288.00 222,110,730.40 EN8 EN15 EN16 2014 2,869,405.10 0 2014 376,687.00 218,600,476.30 2011 0 597 2015 422,047.00 227,323,699.00 2012 0 978.6 2011 281,735.00 None SHIPYARD 2012 215,727.00 None 2013 0 895.1 SHIPYARD AND AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2013 349,778.00 None 2014 0 769.2 2014 399,187.00 None 2011 121,053.00 88,859.00 2015 487,076.00 None 2012 225,757.00 100,369.40 AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2013 223,611.00 100,401.40 Sea-borne water values are the water fed for reinforcing the evaporation losses occurring in closed-circuit water 2014 204,539.80 98,016.10 TOTAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE YEAR WASTE WATER COOLING WATER GRI (m3/YIL) DISCHARGE** DISCHARGE 2011 191,625.00 163,399,500.00 Calculated in line with “Regulation on Follow-Up of Greenhouse Gas Emissions” of the Mİnistry of Environemnt and Urbanization, which was published in 2012 191,625.00 233,802,000.00 the Official Gazette dated 17 MAY 2014 and no. 29003, 2015 data and provisions of Communication on Monitoring and and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which was published in the Official Gazette dated 22 July 2014 and no. 29068. Previous calculations were made in line with the provisions of STEEL FACILITIES 2013 191,625.00 220,625,000.00 Guidelines on Measurement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and their Removal at Installment Level. 2014 191,625.00 221,790,720.00 2015 191,625.00 157,922,000.00 2011 54,750.00 188,862,424.00 EMISSION SOURCES (2015) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION 2012 54,750.00 210,893,657.00 AMOUNTS POWER PLANT 2013 54,750.00 222,110,730.40 (Ton CO2) (2015) 2014 54,750.00 218,600,476.30 İÇDAŞ DEĞİRMENCİK FACILITIES 2,299,624 2015 54,750.00 227,323,699.00 EN22 İÇDAŞ BEKİRLİ FACILITIES 2,556,619 2011 18,250.00 None 2012 18,250.00 None SHIPYARD 2013 18,250.00 None 2014 18,250.00 None 2015 18,250.00 None 2011 142,350.00 None 2012 142,350.00 None AUXILIARY FACILITIES 2013 142,350.00 None 2014 142,350.00 None 2015 142,350.00 None ** Waste Water is discharged into the sea from four different points via canal after physical treatment. Waste water discharge amount was calculated depending on capacities of package treatmnet facilities. As treatment number has not changed, the annual difference that occurred in our waste water amount is at an ignorable rate. 98 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 99 TOTAL WASTE ACCORDING TO AT TA C H M E N T S TYPE AND DISPOSAL ALL FACILITIES METHOD ACCORDING TO TYPE UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI • P U B L I C AT I O N S • Hazardous Wastes Ton 11,509.60 5,466.40 32,320.50 54,302.00 47,689.84 EN23 Nonhazardous Wastes Ton 1,065,700.10 697,160.90 717,719.30 734,418.20 604,841.18 EN23 NAME OF PUBLICATION PUBLICATION SCOPE EDITOR DATE Total Waste Ton 1,077,209.70 702,627.20 750,039.80 788,720.20 652,531.01 EN23 İÇDAŞ Environmental ACCORDING TO Carbon Management in Steel Sector Carbon Summit 2-3 April 2015 UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI Management Unit DISPOSAL METHOD Turkey Disaster Management Reuse Ton 75,009.40 45,777.00 45,989.40 50,529.00 95,803.23 EN23 İÇDAŞ Disaster and Emergency İÇDAŞ Lab. Health & 28 January Strategy Document Strategy Communication System Safety Unit 2015 Recycling (Remaining Development Workshop Slag, Cüruf, Scale, Ton 731,411.80 467,460.50 413,904.60 460,531.00 359,843.38 EN23 Optimization of Chemical Consumption Package Wastes) during Resin Regeneration in Condenser İÇDAŞ Lab. Health & 6-7 October Recycling (Flue Dust, Water Purification Facility in Thermal 5th National Efficiency Congress Safety Unit 2015 Waste Oil, Ash End-ofTon 16,377.80 13,012.50 126,063.30 96,382.40 49,573.29 EN23 Power Plant Rejenerasyonu Sırasında Life Tire) Kimyasal Tüketiminin Optimizasyonu Landfill (Coal Ash and Workshop on Health and Safety Ton 254,410.70 176,377.50 164,082.50 181,277.80 147,311.11 EN23 Health Risks and Labout Safety Issues in İÇDAŞ Lab. Health & 23 December Slag, Domestic Wastes) Hazards in Metal Recyling Metal Recycling Sector Safety Unit 2015 Sector Total Waste Disposed Ton 1,077,209.70 702,627.20 750,039.80 788,720.20 652,531.01 EN23 Importance of Communication in 100th SHIP WASTES ACCEPTED İÇDAŞ Lab. Health & UNIT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI Year of Çanakkale Battles and Disaster Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart 17 April 2015 TO THE FACILITY Safety Unit Communication University Hazardous Waste (Bilge m3/ Water, sludge, Waste 449.2 522.6 201.5 348.9 490.71 EN23 year Oil) Nonhazardous Waste m3/ (Domestic Solid and Liquid Wastes) year 205 259.1 746.6 681.2 711.45 EN23 • AWA R D S • NAME OF THE COMPANY GIVING NAME OF AWARD THE AWARD Environmental The application entitled “İÇDAŞ Water Management System” which we Sustainability Academy lodged in water management category managed to attain the final. Social We joined “TİSK 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Awards” with the Turkish Confederation of Employer project entitled “mini archeologists” and this project made it to the finals. Associations (TİSK) 100 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 101 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES İÇDAŞ is a member of Global Compact. UN Global Compact is an innovative corporate responsibility approach that proposes universal principles to create a common development culture in the business world in constant competition. Being a party to the Global Compact whose vision is “Sustainable and inclusive global economy,” is completely voluntary. The companies being a party to the compact increase their economic benefits in the medium term and feels the prestige and honor of fulfilling their communal responsibilities in the most conscious and beneficial manner in the short term. HUMAN RIGHTS WORKING STANDARDS Principle 1: Business world should support the Principle 3: Business world should support the declared principles of international human rights freedom of association and collective bargaining of employees. and respect the protection of these rights. Principle 4: Business world should support the Principle 2: The business world should take all termination of forced labor. necessary measures not to be accomplices to Principle 5: Business world should support the human rights abuses. termination of child labor. Principle 6: Business world should support the termination of discrimination in employment and recruitment. ENVIRONMENT ANTICORRUPTION Principle 7: Business world should support the Principle 10: Business world should work against prudential approaches to environmental proball forms of corruption, including extortion and lems. bribery. Principle 8: Business world should take more initiatives to encourage environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business world should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 102 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-01 p. 6-7 Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Exclusions CORPORATE PROFILE Economic Performance p. 36-42, 89 None G4-03 p. 8-9 Employment p. 50-52, 90-94 None G4-04 p. 10-11 G4-05 Back Cover (p.106) Occupational Health and Safety p. 46-49 None G4-06 İÇDAŞ only operates in Turkey. Training and Education p. 51 None G4-07 Incorporation G4-08 p. 9 Local Community p. 53, 56-73 None G4-09 p. 12 Emissions p. 80-82, 99 None G4-10 p. 62, 63 Biodiversity p. 85-88 None G4-11 p. 52 G4-12 p. 47 Energy p. 83, 96-97 None G4-13 p. 14-15 Water p. 77-79, 98 None G4-14 p. 77-78 G4-15 p. 42 Effluents and Waste p. 76, 98 None G4-16 p. 16 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 p. 4-5 and Back Cover (p.106) G4-18 p. 24-25 G4-19 p. 21 G4-20 p. 24-25 G4-21 p. 24-25 Our sustainability strategy, basis of identifying material aspects and key G4-22 stakeholders have been restated. (p.24-25) G4-23 Scope and boundaries have not changed since the previous report. (p.24-25) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 p. 24-25 G4-25 p. 23-32 G4-26 p. 24-25 G4-27 p. 32-33 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 p. 6-7 G4-29 2014 G4-30 Annual G4-31 Back Cover (p.106) G4-32 p. 6-7 G4-33 None GOVERNANCE G4-34 p. 19 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 p. 19 104 İÇDAŞ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 İÇ DA Ş SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP OR T 2 015 105 İÇDAŞ ÇELİK ENERJİ TERSANE VE ULAŞIM SANAYİ A.Ş. Mahmutbey Mahallesi Dilmenler Caddesi No:20 34212 Bağcılar/İstanbul 0 (212) 604 04 04 İÇDAŞ ÇEVRE YÖNETİM BİRİMİ 0 (286) 395 10 10 | icdas@icdas.com.tr
