June 30, 2016 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMITTAL Re: Communication on Progress (COP) From: January – December 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To Our Stakeholders: When Microchip Technology Incorporated (“Microchip”) joined the United Nations Global Compact (“UN Global Compact”), it was because we wanted to promote responsible business conduct, uphold labor and human rights, and continue to operate in an ethical and environmentally responsible way. In this document, our latest Communication on Progress (“COP”), we are proud to share selected examples of how Microchip has integrated these shared values in our operations, supply chain, and through our work with local communities. Since our last COP, I am happy to convey that we achieved our stated objective of performing a comprehensive corporate-wide assessment of our operations. These efforts are documented and publically available in Microchip’s most recent Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, which is available on our website at http://www.microchip.com/about-us/corporate-responsibility/sustainability. While we have always placed great emphasis on complying with applicable laws, we are also proud of the voluntary environmental and social initiatives that we undertake. We are committed to being a company of which our stakeholders can be proud, and pleased to be counted among other like-minded signatories to the UN Global Compact. Steve Sanghi Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Microchip Technology Incorporated Microchip Technology Incorporated 2355 West Chandler Blvd. Chandler, AZ 85224-6199 Main Office 480-792-7200 Fax 480-899-9210 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Microchip and its worldwide subsidiaries support human rights and social responsibility. As a semiconductor company with a global presence, we are careful to maintain compliance with local laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where we operate. In addition, we participate in voluntary programs like the UN Global Compact that encourage additional diligence on human rights issues. We have strong human resource policies that protect and uphold human rights, including equal treatment and freedom from discrimination, freedom of religion and expression, and others enumerated in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Microchip supports regulatory and industry-driven efforts to ensure our global staff and suppliers are treated ethically. Microchip’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code”) requires compliance to laws and ethical behavior by its employees, agents, contractors and consultants. The Code includes reporting procedures and accountability provisions that may include immediate termination of employment or business relationships at Microchip’s discretion. Microchip also shares the global concern regarding the human tragedies occurring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the desire to establish transparent supply chains free of slavery and human trafficking. In furtherance of these aspirations, Microchip has developed publically-facing webpages that outline our efforts and commitments. Microchip’s Code of Conduct, Conflict Minerals Program, and Slavery and Human Trafficking Statements are all accessible from Microchip’s Corporate Responsibility homepage: http://www.microchip.com/aboutus/corporate-responsibility/corporate. 2 Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Microchip is a United States-headquartered company with global operations. These operations include primary manufacturing located in the United States, assembly and test operations in Thailand, and engineering design centers and sales offices located around the world. Microchip complies with all legal requirements related to labor, including prohibitions on forced or compulsory labor, child labor, and discrimination. Additionally, with very few exceptions for internship-type programs in the United States which are allowed by law, Microchip requires all employees to be 18 years of age or older. While none of Microchip’s employees are unionized, we do acknowledge the right to collective bargaining where allowed by law. We have strong employee programs to support workers and their families, including robust benefits plans and career development opportunities. Implementation The Microchip Learning Center perpetuates Microchip’s strategic and competitive culture in alignment with Microchip’s Guiding Values (http://www.microchip.com/about-us/careers/microchip-culture). In order to support our internal customers’ continuous improvement, we design, deliver, and coordinate programs using a variety of systems, methods, and tools to meet performance development needs. We believe continuous education and training are critical to maintaining Microchip’s competitive edge. Microchip invests in our employees future by ensuring access to our training is available in native languages and during times that accommodate our global presence and workforce. Moreover, Microchip offers our employees the opportunity to pursue relevant higher education. Microchip emphasizes our Guiding Values and ethics in our training programs, human resources policies, and our facilities operations. Learning and development at Microchip are a joint effort between employees, managers and the Global Organizational Learning and Development department. In addition to the 33 full time and 16 part-time training professionals around the world, in 2014, 442 managers and employees were involved in delivering practical leadership and technical training to their peers. Microchip’s courses cover a range of training topics: orientation to the company, team skills, communication skills, leadership skills, technical knowledge of Microchip products applications, sales process training, computer skills, and operational manufacturing skills. We are proud to have been recognized many times for our successes and accomplishments related to our employee training programs. 3 Measurement of outcomes In 2013 and 2014, our San Jose, CA area facilities were honored with the “Top Workplaces Program” award from the Bay Area News. This program looks at surveys filled out by employees and then ranks companies based off the survey results. In 2012 and 2013, Microchip received the “Training Top 125” award from Training Magazine, which recognizes companies with robust workforce training and development programs. Each year, the City of Gresham, OR, looks to recognize individuals and businesses for the advancement of the local economy. In 2013 and 2014, Microchip was awarded the Gresham Resource Efficiency Assistance to (Great) Businesses Program award. In addition to our nationally-recognized internal training and employee development programs, Microchip furthered its commitment to workforce training by partnering with Mt. Hood Community College, investing in new equipment and facility upgrades, and supporting community outreach programs such as FIRST Robotics. Microchip Technology (Thailand) (“MTHAI”) was one of 551 companies from a total of more than 200,000 companies to receive the “Thailand National Safety Award 2014” from the Prime Minister. MTHAI has received this award annually from 2010 to 2014. The award is presented by the Ministry of Labor to outstanding companies in Occupational Health and Safety, Management system. Every company must pass the “Best Practice” regulation from the Thailand Labor Department. The regulation supports a safe and happy workplace for every employee in Thailand. Receiving this award means that we are the best among the best in terms of safety, health and environment. Together, everyone at MTHAI made a major contribution to our success. Some example activities are as follows: • Employee Safety Self-inspection: an activity where everyone checks their own safety in the workplace before starting to work. • Supervisor communication center: an activity where supervisors and managers transfer safety information from our intranet database to employees on the manufacturing production line. • Safety Committee’s regular inspection. In 2014, Microchip again won the Alfred P. Sloan Awards for Excellence in Workplace Effectiveness and Flexibility for eight straight years. The award distinguishes Microchip as one of the top practitioners of workplace flexibility in the United States, which have created exemplary workplace environments that support employees’ need for flexibility. The award is part of the When Work Works flexible-workplace initiative, a partnership between the Society for Human Resource Management and the Families and Work Institute. 4 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our commitment to environmental responsibility begins with compliance with laws and regulations in each of the areas where we operate, regardless of global location. We have a dedicated Environmental, Health and Safety team that ensures we meet all local, state, national, and international requirements. We have an environmental policy in place at all manufacturing facilities, and we have an environmental management system in place at our Gresham Fab 4. Both of Microchip’s Thailand facilities operate under a certified ISO14001 Environmental Management System. Microchip’s Corporate Environment, Health, and Safety Policy Includes the Following Components: • Microchip is committed to compliance with all relevant environmental laws and regulations. • Microchip actively manages its business in an environmentally responsible manner, consistent with its Mission and Guiding Values and the principles set forth in this policy. • Microchip is committed to prevention of pollution through such strategies as minimizing utility usage, minimizing raw material usage and encouraging recycling. At Microchip, we specialize in high-efficiency semiconductor microcontrollers, analog, wireless, and human interface products. Microchip offers many different products that help our customers’ design and manufacture environmentally-preferable products. For example, our products are used in “smart home” energy monitoring, LED lighting applications, and low-power home appliances (which allow appliances to cycle into sleep modes to save energy). We see the continued development of high-efficiency products to be central to our R&D efforts, providing customers with environmentally-preferable options while making us a supplier of choice. In addition to our focus on environmentally-preferable products, we also seek out ways to directly minimize the environmental footprint of our operations. For example, one popular program is Microchip’s trip reduction programs for Chandler, Tempe, and Gresham facilities, which give employees incentives to use a carpool, take a bus, bike, or walk to work. We also ask our employees to recycle waste products in the workplace, like paper, glass, and plastic. Implementation As our company grows and we add production capability and new facilities, our carbon footprint has grown. Nevertheless, we are committed to managing our emissions through cost-effective emissions-reduction activities. Our focus on energy efficiency in our facilities is paying off, and we have a variety of successful programs across our global facilities. 5 We also track and report our carbon footprint each year, including participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project. In addition to our mandated carbon reporting for two of our semiconductor manufacturing sites, we also voluntarily report emissions from all of our manufacturing, design, and logistics facilities worldwide. This commitment to measuring and reporting our carbon footprint is helping us to be more consistent in identifying emissions-reductions opportunities and to be more transparent in communicating our environmental performance with stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes Microchip’s energy use has increased as we have grown and engaged in several large acquisitions that have increased our footprint, number of facilities, and headcount significantly. We recognize the increased responsibility that comes with the privilege of growth. Accordingly, during that same time period, we have implemented over 10 new projects in Thailand alone and a handful in our already efficient United States locations that have helped reduce our energy use by over two million KWH/year. Moreover, Microchip continues to strive for efficiency and the resulting energy savings. As such, we actively migrate the production of products to our most efficient manufacturing centers wherever possible. For example, Microchip’s Hauppauge, NY, design facility uses an innovative groundwater extraction and re-injection system to provide low-energy input cooling capacity, satisfying a portion of HVAC needs, with an energy savings of 345 MWH/yr. Microchip’s Tempe, AZ, Fab 2, replaced an old, direct drive motor on wet scrubber 7-1 with a high efficiency motor and variable frequency drive, with an energy savings of 135,780 KWH/yr. 6 Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Compliance with international laws is a key aspect of conducting the business of Microchip in an ethical manner. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines and defines Microchip’s requirement that our staff, suppliers, and customers comply with international laws that prohibit bribery and similar acts to gain additional business or other favorable treatment. These laws include, but are not limited to: the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, and the People’s Republic of China’s Criminal Law. Global anticorruption laws make it a crime for companies to bribe or provide anything of value to government officials and other individuals in order to obtain new business, maintain existing business, or receive other benefits. It is unacceptable for any Microchip executive, director, or employee to act in any manner that is contrary to these laws. Further, we consider our suppliers, representatives, and distributors as critical to achieving our mission. Therefore, we expect our partners to similarly abide by our ethical guiding values, including compliance with global anti-corruption laws. We encourage our partners to not only comply with these laws, but to participate in the enforcement of our policies by reporting suspected violations of these laws by any person to Microchip pursuant to HR-675 Reporting Legal Non-Compliance. We take our obligation to follow all relevant laws and regulations seriously and provide a breakdown of all of our work and efforts in our corporate social responsibility report, available at http://www.microchip.com/about-us/corporate-responsibility/corporate Measurement of outcomes Our commitment to conducting our business operations with integrity and in an ethical manner is an integral component of our Guiding Values, and we want to make sure that we have results to prove it. We are proud to report that there have been no allegations or substantiated findings of corruption or bribery for the current reporting period. 7
