QUICK NAVIGATION CEO’s review p. 3 Strategy and value creation p. 8 Financial performance p. 22 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2 Contents About this report 2 About this report CEO's review 3 The Finnair Group’s core business consists of airline business and travel Finnair in brief 5 services. The purpose of the Annual Report and its GRI section under Strategy and 2015 Highlights 6 the G4 reporting framework, to be published at the end of February, is to account for the company's financial, economic, social and environvalue creation Strategy and value creation 8 Megatrends 9 mental impacts, and to explain their strategic business significance. The report’s intended audience consists of shareholders, investors, analysts, p.8 Operating environment 10 Strategy and value creation 12 media, customers, employees, other interested stakeholders and the general public at large. Stakeholder engagement 18 Responsibility at Finnair 19 Finnair considers sustainability a critical and strategic aspect of busiMateriality 20 ness performance, thus sustainability reporting is an integral part of its Finance Key performance indicators 21 annual reporting framework. The report describes the Finnair Group’s material activities in 2015 across all its units. Material aspects are listed p.22 Finance 22 on page 20. Key figures 23 The Report of the Board of Directors 25 Finnair has made efforts to facilitate reading its financial statements Financial statements 37 and to clarify the overall picture that can derived from them. Firstly, Calculation of key figures 79 the notes of Finnair’s financial statements have been combined to busiAuditors' report 80 ness related sections in order to give a more relevant and less complex Tax footprint 82 picture of the whole. Each section sets out the accounting principles applied in producing these notes together with any critical accounting Governance 84 estimates and sources of uncertainty. Secondly, interesting figures have Management principles 85 been highlighted by circling them, and these as well as other highCorporate Governance Statement 90 lights are explained in a text box marked with a star. Thirdly, illustrating Risk management and major risks 100 charts have been inserted in various sections of the financial statements Remuneration Statement 105 so as to facilitate understanding the figures. Board of Directors 112 Governance Executive Board 113 p.84 Information for shareholders 114 Glossary 116 Contact information 117 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 3 CEO’s review The year 2015 marked the beginning of a new In 2015, we showed Courage in launching the next era for Finnair in many ways. We maintained a phase of growth in our long-haul traffic by becoming Pekka steady angle of attack in spite of the turbulence the first European airline to operate the new A350 Vauramo in the global economy: we improved our year-onaircraft. We also stated this move would need to be year performance each quarter, and achieved a supported by increasing our feeder traffic capacity positive operational result for the full year. At the and recruiting more personnel for flight operations same time, our share price more than doubled. in particular, but also in ground services. At the A350 same time, we have worked to introduce Simplicity Our revenues grew by 1.7 per cent during the year, for instance to our processes and pricing for cargo, We became the first although we focused on our core business and let and by introducing a Light ticket product for passenEuropean airline to operate go of several non-core functions. During the last gers who do not travel with checked bags. Meanthe new A350 aircraft. quarter, our rate of growth was bordering on six while, our Commitment to Care is reflected, besides CEO percent, driven by passenger traffic. One of the our customer service, also in the way we all pull in financial highlights of the year was the growth of the same direction. @pekkavau ancillary revenues by a whopping third to slightly above 100 million euros. Our direction is clear: we want to offer the smoothest, fastest connections in the northern We carried a record number of passengers in 2015: hemisphere via Helsinki, and the best network to the more than 10 million, along with well over 100 world from our home market. Our vision is a unique million kilogrammes of cargo. Despite a significant Nordic experience for our passengers. In 2015, we x2 increase in seats, we saw continued improvement in have made significant progress towards these goals. our passenger load factor and punctuality, and while our customer satisfaction scores also remained The aviation industry competes on a global scale In 2015, our share good, our sights are set even higher. and is continuously evolving: some legacy carriers price more than doubled. have fallen by the wayside, while many others are Last year we worked together with our personnel undergoing significant renewal programs or actively to crystallise the values that inspire everyone at participating in the current process of consolidation Finnair. Our new values are Courage, Simplicity in the industry, of which there were many examples and Commitment to Care. I am delighted to see last year, too. We actively monitor the competitive how these values are already being reflected in our landscape, and strive to develop our strengths to day-to-day operations: ensure our ability to succeed in an intensely competSTRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 4 itive industry. For example, in 2015 we focused on In the long run, financial success is based on sustainrefining our brand and improving the profitability ability. We are committed to implementing the of domestic traffic. sustainability principles of the UN Global Compact initiative in our operations. In 2015, our corporate Finnair is emerging from a dramatic transformation, social responsibility efforts focused on equality and as the company focused on its core business and the non-discrimination, as well as promoting responachievement of cost savings to ensure its competitivesibility in the supply chain. Our environmental ness and viability. The goal of these moves was to reporting was again recognised in the form of our create a sustainable foundation for future growth. inclusion in the CDP Nordic Disclosure Leadership We must continue to keep our eyes on costs now, index. Also notable with regard to our sustainability while our growth is yet accelerating for take-off, reporting is the adoption of the GRI G4 framework. in order to reach sustainable growth. I would like to take this opportunity to express my A growth organisation requires a new type of DNA, warmest thanks to our passengers, partners and which is why we are taking determined steps to shareholders for the successful year we had in 2015. develop our management practices and investing in Special thanks must be extended to our personnel the wellbeing of our personnel. We have a number for their good work and uncompromising commitof programs already underway as well as in develment to Finnair’s renewal. We are well positioned to opment in these areas. Growth and new aircraft keep moving forward with vigour and unity! exhilarate and inspire our personnel. I have seen this with my own eyes, both on the ground and in the air, including dozens of A350 flights that I hosted last year as part of our marketing activities. Want to know more? Visit Finnair.com STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 5 Finnair in brief Finnair is a network airline specialising in passenger and cargo traffic between Asia and BusinessBusiness areas and keyareas and key shareholders shareholders Europe. Helsinki’s geographical location gives Finnair a competitive advantage, since the fastest connections between many European destinations and Asian megacities fly over State of Finland Finland. Currently, Finnair serves 15 Asian destinations across 9 countries, to a mix of 55.8% financial centres and leisure destinations. In addition, from summer 2016 onwards, Finnair will launch new services to Fukuoka in Japan and Guangzhou in China. Finnair also serves Travel Services 3 North American destinations and approximately 60 destinations in Europe. Finnair’s vision is to offer its passengers a unique Nordic experience, and its mission is to offer the smoothest, fastest connections in the northern hemisphere via Helsinki and the best network to the world from its home markets. Finnair is the only Nordic carrier with a Airline Business 4-star Skytrax ranking and a member of the oneworld alliance. In 2015, Finnair’s revenues amounted to 2,324 million euros and it had personnel of 4,817 at the year-end. Others 44.2% Organisation set-up and key shareholders Finnair Plc’s shares are quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki. The State of Finland holds 55.8 per cent Key revenue sources and split 82.6% of the company’s shares. The business is divided into two business segments: Airline BusiKey revenue sources and split Passenger transportation ness and Travel Services. 4.9% Ancillary** Airline Business area is responsible for scheduled passenger and charter traffic as well as 91.1%* cargo sales, customer service and service concepts, flight operations and activity connected Airline Business with the procurement and financing of aircraft. In 2015, the segment generated 91 per cent 8.7% Cargo of Finnair’s revenue. Largest share of the revenue comes from passenger ticket sales and belly cargo, but the importance and share of acillary revenues is growing fast, at a rate of 32 EUR 2,324 3.7% per cent in 2015. million Other *** (2015) Travel Services (Tour Operators and Travel Agencies) area consists of the tour operator Aurinkomatkat (Suntours), its subsidiary operating in Estonia, the business travel agency Tour operators 8.9%* Finland Travel Bureau (FTB), and Amadeus Finland, which produces travel sector software Travel Services and solutions. The segment comprises 9 per cent of Finnair’s annual revenue. Travel agencies * Based on total revenue excluding Group eliminations. ** Includes: extra baggage fees, advance seat selection, upgrade options, Economy comfort product in long-haul, Sky Bistro in short-haul economy. *** In 2014 included: Travel Retail Store operations, Finncatering business; in 2015, other revenues consisted primarily of aircraft leases. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 6 Year 2015 Highlights Strategy update Finnair shed light on its feeder fleet development plan In May, as a part of its annual strategy review, Finnair's In November, Finnair announced it would lease two A321 Board of Directors approved a new vision and updated the narrowbody aircraft on a tempory basis in its European company’s mission and strategic targets. Finnair’s new traffic due to the capacity increase resulting from the new vision is to offer its passengers a unique Nordic experience, A350s. In December, Finnair announced having ordered and its mission is to offer the smoothest, fastest four aircraft of the same type with longer lease periods. connections in the northern hemisphere via Helsinki, and At the same time, Finnair stated it would sell two small the best network to the world from its home markets. The Embraer jet aircraft and one ATR propeller aircraft. updated strategic objectives are to double Asian traffic by 2020 from the 2010 level, deliver a unique customer Investments in cargo terminal and WiFi connections experience and achieve world-class operations as well as to In March, Finnair announced and began the construction of create shareholder value. In addition, commitment to care, a new COOL Nordic Cargo Hub terminal at Helsinki Airport. simplicity and courage were adopted as the company’s The terminal will include special cargo handling areas for values. pharmaceutical and life science products (Pharma) as well as perishable products, including fish and seafood. The new state-of-the-art terminal will have a high level of warehouse automation to ensure high quality air freight A350s kicked off Finnair’s growth service and competitive handling cost. The terminal is to be The first of the 19 state-of-the-art A350-900 XWB aircraft opened during spring 2017. ordered by Finnair arrived to Finland on 7 October. These In addition, Finnair announced it would install WiFi aircraft will substantially increase Finnair’s passenger and connections in its Airbus fleet. The first wireless services cargo capacity, reduce fuel consumption and improve on Finnair aircraft were seen already by the end of 2015, as travel comfort. the new A350 XWB aircraft joined the fleet. In 2016, Finnair Before moving to long-haul routes, the first A350 was will begin to install WiFi connections in its long-haul A330 operated for a couple of weeks on European and domestic aircraft and in the Airbus narrowbody aircraft used in its routes, receiving overwhelming publicity and positive European traffic. feedback. By the end of the year, Finnair had three new A350s, flying to Shanghai, Beijing and Bangkok. In order to implement its growth plans, Finnair launched the recruitment of 200 new pilots and over 400 cabin crew. In addition, 50 extra personnel will be needed for ground services. © Marco Spuyman/Schiphol Airport STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 7 Norra ownership arrangements Finnair received several awards during the year In January, Finnair entered into a Memorandum of FlightStats named Finnair as the most punctual European Understanding with StaffPoint and GWS on ownership airline in 2014. The World Airline Awards chose Finnair as arrangements concerning Norra (formerly Flybe Nordic), the best airline in Northern Europe for the sixth time in a which operates Finnair’s regional traffic. Hence, the joint row. The cabin design of Finnair’s Airbus A350 XWB aircraft venture received a new majority owner in lieu of Flybe UK. won first prize in the Commercial Aviation Economy/ The negotiations were protracted, but in the end an Business Class category at the International Yacht & Aviation agreement was reached at the beginning of November, when Awards 2015. Furthermore, CDP, an organisation promoting StaffPoint and Kilco became Norra’s joint majority owners. sustainability reporting, identified Finnair as a Nordic leader in reporting climate change related information to investors IATA Environmental and Pharma certificates and other stakeholders, and awarded Finnair a position on In January, Finnair became the first airline in Europe and the Nordic Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). Finnair’s second in the world to be certified in the second phase disclosure score in 2015 was 99/100. of the IATA IEnvA environmental programme. Meanwhile, Finnair Cargo was the first in the world to pass IATA CEIV New routes and product reforms In spring, Finnair expanded its purchased traffic agreement with Norra, and its number of destinations increased thus by eight as of 1 May 2015. In addition, Finnair announced it Pharma certification programme, which is a testament to would open new routes to Gdansk, Luleå and Umeå. These top-notch standardised service for perishable pharmaceuroutes are also operated by Norra as purchased traffic. tical products. New seasonal routes for the summer season 2015 were Athens, Dublin, Malta, Split and Chicago. Miami was Finnair bolstered its balance sheet for fleet renewal established as a new year-round destination. At the beginning of October, Finnair issued a 200 million In March, Finnair introduced Light, a new ticket type for euro hybrid bond. This marked the largest corporate hybrid passengers travelling with hand baggage only on European bond in Finland to-date, and it would enable Finnair to fund or Middle-Eastern scheduled routes. A completely new its fleet renewal, valued approximately at 2 billion euros, Nordic Sky in-flight entertainment system was introduced on competitive terms as a whole, and to keep its liquidity in the A350s, whose diverse offering, services and WiFi and capital structure on a solid basis. Towards the end of keep the passengers better entertained and more the year, Finnair also announced the sale and leaseback of comfortable during long-haul flights. During the year, four A350 aircraft, which was estimated to result in Suntravels focused particularly on digital services and one-time gains totalling 160 million euros between 2015 vacation concepts tailored specifically for different © P. Pigeyre/Airbus and 2017. customer segments. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 X STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 9 Megatrends affecting Finnair Shift in economic and political focus from the and services online, and immediate feedback. United States and Europe to developing countries Impact on the industry Consumers want and expect network connections Megatrend and Finnair Our response The gradual shift in economic and political focus from everywhere they go. Social media spreads news the United States and Europe to developing countries, rapidly and requires businesses to react quickly. The shift in economic • Traffic between Asia and • Renewal of the new generation and Asia in particular, is the strongest of the megaand political power to Europe grows long-haul fleet from 2015 onwards Asia trends affecting the aviation industry. Asian corporaAirlines must anticipate changes, adapt to them and • Intense competition • New Asian destinations, tions are becoming globalised and their significance provide opportunities for buying, using services and continues additional flights on the world market is growing. The middle class is sending feedback online. Consumers want network • Increased importance • Increasing Finnair’s of understanding Asian understanding of Asian markets growing rapidly in many Asian countries. access before, during and after their flights. They markets increasingly want digital entertainment services • Good stakeholder relations Asian travel will increase, and competition will intenduring flights. Urbanisation • New markets are created • Fastest route between Asia and sify, as Asian airlines expand their operations to inter• Intensifying competition Europe continental flights. At the same time, airlines and More advanced customer identification will also Technological • Increasing significance of • Developing online services governments will also have to negotiate for more allow airlines to offer tailored services and a persononline services and network development traffic rights. Asian customers determine the expected alised customer experience. connections • Developing inflight entertainment systems standard of quality for service and products, and • New opportunities for non-Asian airlines must increase their understanding Increasing significance of sustainability serving customers • Developing the service experience of Asian culture and customers. Political decision-makers, consumers and other • Unique Nordic customer stakeholders require businesses to operate more experience Urbanisation responsibly and transparently. Regulation and Sustainability • Increase in regulation and • Investments in a more Migration flows from rural areas to cities continue to reporting obligations will increase, and busireporting requirements environmentally friendly and accelerate, particularly in China and other developing nesses are required to be more diligent in moniefficient fleet and operations • Increasing significance of countries. In Asia in particular, the number of cities toring the ethical dimensions of their supply chains. open communication • Developing our operations with more than five million inhabitants will grow, as will Consumers monitor the responsibility of compatowards greater efficiency and responsibility the number of connections between such cities. New nies’ operations and give feedback on social media. • Monitoring the supply chain markets will be created for airlines as traffic between these megacities grows. Competition will intensify as The airline industry will face stricter regulations • Participating in joint sustainability projects in the regional airlines begin to operate on these routes. on emissions and noise, with increased regulation industry resulting in added costs such as tax-like payments. Technological progress, increase in the signifi• Developing our reporting and Airlines must increasingly cooperate on issues related stakeholder communications cance of network connections and digitalisation to safety, emissions, noise and passenger rights. related to responsibility Technological progress is leading to changes in purchasing behaviour, the comparability of prices STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 10 A changing operating environment The airline business is cyclical by nature and heavily important duty of Finnair’s management is to influenced by external factors. Typically, revenues are high during economic upswings and considerensure a successful future for the company. The policies, guidelines and processes used at External factors influencing ably lower during periods of economic downturn. Finnair assist the management in managing airlines For individual airlines, the yield also fluctuates on and developing operations. The management the basis of the holiday and business seasons. is also responsible for identifying changes and risks in the operating environment Changes in consumer Airlines must make decisions on significant and making decisions to improve Finnair’s preference, expectations, fleet investments years before price-and-quality competitiveness. purchasing patterns and demographics conscious travellers make their purchase decisions. Aircraft delivery times may take years, which means Finnair’s financial performance is described that airlines have to plan their business for the long on page 22 onwards and Finnair’s governance term, often at least 10 years ahead, especially in is described on page 84 onwards. Global economic cycles long-haul traffic. This includes, among other things, Fuel price a plan for future destinations and network, the type Competitive, growing industry of aircraft required and the regulations they must Based on ICAO statistics and Airbus’ forecomply with. cast, revenue passenger kilometres have doubled every 15 years and are expected It is often very difficult to foresee how the market to continue to do so.* Airbus further foreSeasonal leisure and will change between the order and delivery of an casts that air traffic between emerging Exchange rates business travel aircraft. With the low margins in the airline business Asia and Western Europe will grow at an and the high capital expenditure needed to operate average rate of 4 per cent annually between an airline, it is crucial to optimise all aspects of busi2013 and 2033, and between China and ness operations to succeed. It is also crucial to build Western Europe at an average rate of 5.6 per resilience and flexibility for unexpected changes in cent annually over the same period. This Political environment Weather, natural the market environment. will provide substantial opportunities for and rules & regulations disasters, pandemics growth. or other external shocks Management measures must ensure competitiveness Today, approximately 23 million people Finnair’s goal is to generate shareholder value by travel between Finnair’s current Asian and focusing on its core business, and investing in European destinations every year, and an competitiveness and profitable growth. The most estimated 45 per cent of these are transfer * Source: ICAO, Airbus Global Market Forecast 2014. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 11 passengers without direct connections to their final destination.** Asian traffic already represents approximately half of Finnair’s passenger traffic, and Japan is currently Finnair’s second-largest market after Finland. In the future, the share of traffic to and from China is expected to grow. The airline industry is highly competitive, and with the growth of the industry, the competitors have not just changed, but also multiplied. Finnair’s competitive landscape can be roughly divided into two parts: European short-haul point-to-point traffic and Asian long-haul transfer traffic. In short-haul point-to-point traffic, airlines with the lowest cost structures typically have the strongest competitive positions, and competition is mainly driven by price. On the long-haul transfer traffic scene, airlines with the largest network providing smooth and efficient end-to-end journeys typically have the strongest positions. European network carriers, Finnair included, have revised their operating methods and adjusted their cost base in recent years in response to competition from low-cost airlines and airlines based in the Air traffic Middle East. Intense competition has led to more doubles consolidation, alliances and joint ventures in the industry, with the aim of improving capacity discievery 15 years. pline and profitability. ** The figures are Finnair’s estimates. The estimates are based on MIDT data collected on the sales volumes of travel agencies and Finnair’s estimates of airlines’ sales through their own sales channels, such as websites. Numbers reflect destination cities rather than airports. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 12 Strategy and value creation The cornerstone of Finnair’s strategy is leveraging traffic. In spite of its small size, the company was its geographical competitive advantage and the fastest connections in the growing market of air among the largest airlines in terms of market share on the routes it operates. Finnair gains a traffic between Asia and Europe. Finnair’s network – the smoothest competitive advantage The creation of value for Finnair’s shareholders and connections between Asia and Europe from Helsinki’s other stakeholders is based on the company’s ability Finnair’s business model is that of a network carrier, to operate and grow its route network resourceand it specialises in traffic between Asia and Europe. geographical location. efficiently and profitably, the way it treats customers, Helsinki’s geographical location provides Finnair with Chicago employees and other stakeholders and commits a structural competitive advantage, as geographical New York Miami them to the company, and the ability to take the proximity allows it to offer the fastest and most direct environmental and other external impacts of operconnections to the growing Asian markets. ations into consideration. Ultimately, the critical factors in the creation of value are the effectiveness Finnair is also the only European airline that can of the processes used at Finnair, and the ability of operate flights to most Asian destinations in a Finnair’s management to develop the company and 24-hour aircraft rotation, which means that the routes manage the risks associated with operations. can be operated as round trips within 24 hours at regular times using a single aircraft. This enables very A strong position on the domestic high aircraft utilisation in long-haul traffic, reduces HELSINKI market and punching above its weight the need for additional crews due to flight time in Asian traffic restrictions, and decreases fuel consumption and Finnair holds a solid position in Finnish air traffic. emissions thanks to shorter flight times. Due to the small size of its domestic market, the Tokyo focus of the company’s growth has, for several Helsinki’s geographical proximity means that travel Nagoya Osaka decades, been on the rapidly growing market of times are more than two hours shorter on average Seoul Asian traffic. Asia has been one of the fastestcompared to one-stop flights via European hubs, Beijing Shanghai growing air traffic markets in recent years, and its and more than four hours shorter compared to Xi’an importance is expected to increase further in the flights via hubs located in the Middle East. Helsinki Hong Kong Chongqing short and medium term. The share of Asian traffic Airport also supports the growth of traffic between Ho Chi Minh City Bangkok is higher at Finnair than at its competitors, which Asia and Europe: its three runways, connection Delhi Phuket* Krabi* Singapore puts the company in an ideal position to benefit times as short as 35 minutes, and uncongested from these growing markets. In 2015, Asian traffic airspace make Helsinki Airport a good airport for accounted for approximately 50 per cent of Finnair’s connecting flights. * Seasonal destination STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 13 Finnair’s strategic objective is to double its Asian traffic by 2020 compared to 2010. Finnair currently operates flights to fifteen Asian destinations in nine different countries, including financial hubs as well as holiday destinations. Finnair’s next Asian destinations are Fukuoka in Japan and Guangzhou in China, both to be launched in summer 2016. Finnair also operates flights to three cities in North America and approximately 60 destinations in Europe. Our membership of the oneworld alliance increases the size of our network to nearly one thousand destinations around the world. Close cooperation with alliance partners in North American and Japanese traffic in particular is a priority for Finnair. Membership of the oneworld alliance and joint businesses strengthen Finnair’s market position and reduce the risks related to growth. For customers, they provide an even broader choice of destinations as well as more flexible routing and pricing options. For airlines, joint businesses are a way to gain benefits Our membership of typically associated with consolidation in a highly competitive industry without actual mergers, acquithe oneworld alliance sitions or equity transfers between partners. Alliincreases the size of our ance partnerships and joint businesses have a significant impact on Finnair’s revenue. network to nearly one Finnair’s ability to operate its network safely and thousand destinations punctually from one of the world’s northernmost air traffic hubs is integral to value creation. The transfer around the world. of passengers, baggage and cargo to connecting flights is ensured through efficient processes and cooperation with airport authorities. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 14 Finnair entered a new phase in 2015: Updated strategic objectives: Finnair's values: Commitment to Care, • Double Asian traffic by 2020 from the Simplicity and Courage Finnair’s direction: a unique Nordic experience 2010 level • We care about our customers and each other. Finnair’s new vision is to offer its passengers a • Deliver a unique customer experience We take responsibility and operate responunique Nordic experience. and achieve world-class operations sibly. • Create shareholder value • Simplification means clear processes, openFinnair’s route network connects Asia, North ness, transparency, clarity, efficiency and the America and the northern regions of Europe and The core of Finnair’s strategy is taking advantage of professional development of operations. beyond through its hub at Helsinki Airport. The the growing demand for traffic between Europe and • Courage means a broadminded attitude operations are based on quality, reliability, safety Asia. The strategy is based on the growing markets about the future. It involves inspiration, creaand design inspired by Nordic pure nature. Finnair’s in Asia, fast connections between Europe and tivity, persistence, the courage to ask, and the vision is expressed for example in easy-to-use digital Northeast Asia, quality service and cost-efficient, courage to give feedback. services and in the enhancement of Business Class punctual operations. Helsinki’s geographical locaservices. The goal is that, as a result of the service tion provides Finnair with a natural competitive offered at the airport, in lounges and on board, advantage, as the fastest routes between many desticustomers arrive at their destinations relaxed and nations in Europe and megacities in Asia go through with peace of mind. Helsinki. Finnair’s vision is to offer Finnair’s vision gives direction to all Finnair To achieve these strategic objectives, the company’s its passengers a employees and partners in the areas of customer service, operations and the development of the Board of Directors has approved six strategic implementation areas for 2015–2017: unique Nordic company’s operations and services. experience. • Intercontinental growth with a focus on Finnair’s mission: fast and smooth connections Northeast Asia Finnair’s mission is to offer the smoothest, fastest • A unique customer experience connections in the northern hemisphere via • People and the Finnair culture Helsinki, and the best network to the world from its • Digitalisation home markets. • Funding and capital structure • World-class operations STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 15 Airbus A350 XWB aircraft started a new era Finnair has ordered a total of 19 Airbus A350-900 To proceed with its growth strategy, Finnair will also Finnair’s fleet strategy is critically important to both XWB aircraft from Airbus. By the end of 2015, expand and modernise its European fleet by selling revenue growth and cost management. For an operFinnair had taken delivery of three A350 aircraft. its older and smallest narrow-body aircraft and ator of Finnair’s size, an all-Airbus fleet increases According to the current delivery schedule, Finnair replacing them with new, larger aircraft. With a view operational efficiency and flexibility through optiwill have five of these aircraft by mid-2016, seven by to the growing long-haul traffic, feeder capacity will mised crew utilisation, centralised spare parts the end of 2016, 11 by the end of 2017, and 19 by the also be increased by adding seats to existing narrowpurchasing and more streamlined maintenance end of 2023. body aircraft. The company further plans to replace programs. It also enables efficient fleet utilisation its smallest aircraft with larger ones over the next and flexibility in scheduled traffic. The growth of Finnair’s long-haul fleet from 2016 few years. Increasing aircraft sizes and the number onwards: of seats allows Finnair to create additional capacity Long-haul capacity evolution to take off The introduction of new Airbus A350 XWB aircraft with delivery of A350* as cost-efficiently as possible. provides the foundation for Finnair’s growth strategy Aircraft Aircraft and enables controlled and profitable growth. The The Finnair fleet is described in more detail on next-generation A350 aircraft were introduced in 20 pages 27 and 28. our scheduled traffic in October 2015, marking the beginning of a new era for Finnair. Finnair was 15 the first European airline to operate these aircraft. A350 aircraft substantially improve travel comfort 10 and enable the company to offer new value-added services to customers. The improved fuel efficiency 5 and lower emissions of the new aircraft increase cost competitiveness and meet the growing demand for more environmentally friendly and sustainable 0 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 air traffic. The new aircraft also increase Finnair’s passenger and cargo capacity in long-haul traffic. A330 A340 A350* * First deliveries in Q4 2015, last deliveries in 2023 A record number of passengers: Finnair flew more than 10.3 million customers in 2015. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 16 Finnair’s strategic strengths are: recruit industry professionals to achieve our goals. Helsinki – a permanent geographical • Solid position in the domestic market. Flight personnel and ground service employees play competitive advantage • Ideally positioned to benefit from the growing a major role in operating our network and creating Our home airport plays an important role in the Asian markets; the customer experience, but equally important creation of value for customers and Finnish society. –– Asian traffic represents roughly 50 per cent to value creation is the capacity of our experts to Combined with our own expertise, it ensures the of Finnair’s traffic develop our product, negotiate traffic rights and punctuality of flights, good customer service and a –– The company is among the largest airlines in manage partnerships, for instance. reliability rating of over 98 per cent for connecting traffic between Asia and Europe flights. • Favourable geographical location; Finnair’s personnel, wellbeing at work and key –– Shortest distance to Northeast Asian destinaprojects affecting personnel are described in the The geographical location of our home airport gives tions enables the fastest routes and 24-hour GRI section. us a permanent competitive advantage compared rotation of aircraft to European airports located more to the west and • The introduction of next-generation Airbus Environmental impacts south. Finnair’s network strategy makes Helsinki A350 XWB aircraft brings significant financial The airline business has many environmental impacts, Airport an active hub of international air traffic advantages and enables controlled and profitthe most significant of which are carbon dioxide and logistics. Finnair’s current route network and able growth emissions and noise. The infrastructure required by its future expansion ensures that Finland will have • Increasing aircraft sizes in the European fleet air traffic also places a load on the environment. At more direct flight connections to other parts of the will improve cost efficiency the same time, the airline business benefits society by world than domestic demand alone could support. • Strong cash flow and disciplined use of providing connections and creating jobs. This has a significant impact on the travel opportucapital nities of Finns and on the Finnish business sector. • Excellent operational quality and efficiency The most significant way to reduce the environAviation accounts for almost 4 per cent of Finnish • Top-class service – Northern Europe’s best mental impacts of flying is investing in nextGDP**, and according to an analysis conducted in airline* generation aircraft, such as the Airbus A350 XWB. autumn 2014 by ETLA, the Research Institute of the In addition to fleet investments, Finnair has Finnish Economy, Finnair is the 10th most signif* Source: Skytrax World Airline Awards report published in summer 2015 improved fuel efficiency through operational measicant company for the Finnish economy.*** One ures and by making better use of infrastructure. of Finnair’s strategic goals is to continue to grow air traffic through Helsinki by leveraging Finland’s We take pride in our committed personnel The environmental impacts of Finnair’s operations geographical location. The airline business is a labour-intensive industry are described in the GRI section. ** Oxford Economics, ”Economic Benefits from Air Transport in Finand our success depends significantly on our ability land”. http://www.iata.org/policy/Documents/Benefits-of-Aviation-Finto commit our personnel to the company and land-2011.pdf *** ETLA Brief 28. http://pub.etla.fi/ETLA-Muistio-Brief-28.pdf STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 17 Value creation at Finnair Inputs / Business Model Value created Key capitals and impacts Our vision, Human capital mission, strategy Fastest connections 4,817 personnel, training hrs 33.9/ between Europe and Asia employee, expertise Our governance Customer value Financial Our values Customer satisfaction 8.1/10 Interest-bearing debt EUR 346.3 million Equity capital EUR 727.5 million Financial Operating result EUR 121.7 million, Immaterial Business processes: Products/outputs taxes, traffic charges, return on equity Traffic rights, overflight rights, and debt investments customer data, quality certifications, • Production process • Passenger transportation route network, brand and (network, fleet and traffic (10.3 million passengers) Natural customer preferences planning, resource • Cargo transportation Emissions 2,920,810 ton allocation, ground services, (131 million kilos) CO2, noise, waste Natural flying, procurement) • Travel packages 834,517 tons of jet fuel • Customer process • Customer experience Social • Commercial process and service Traffic connections, Social and partnerships • Other direct and indirect employment, Suppliers and partners, AJB/SJB joint employee experience 3.63/5, business distribution network, alliance added value to partners, brand value, cooperation, public affairs innovative and sustainable products Fleet and infra Support processes Over 70 aircraft Finance, HR, Legal, Communications, public affairs and corporate responsibility STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 18 Stakeholder engagement How Finnair communicates and cooperates with its stakeholders Subjects Channels Customers Travel experience, customer service issues, product quality, on-time performance, Surveys, research, written feedback, Finnair website, social media, customer events, customer emissions and noise reduction, safety, recycling, responsible sourcing, responsible service encounters at every stage of the journey, messages to Finnair Plus customers, Finnair tourism, charityand corporate responsibility projects via Finnair Plus. mobile app, Blue Wings –inflight magazine. Personnel Occupational health and wellbeing at work, target setting, Code of Conduct and Intranet, internal blogs, theme weeks, Yammer, personnel events, We TogetherWellbeing At ethical issues, safety and security, changes to improve profitability, values and Work survey, occupational health services, performance evaluation and development planning, business practises, increasing trust, reducing environmental impact on the job, discussions with labour organisations, Leadership forum, Career Gate. corporate responsibility in partnerships, changes affecting personnel. Shareholders and Market environment and competitive landscape, the company’s operations, Stock exchange bulletins under periodic and on-going disclosure obligation; interim reports, investors corporate responsibility, goals, reporting, strategy and financial position. financial statements, report of the Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Statement. Annual General Meeting; investor, analyst and media meetings and events; corporate website; Carbon Disclosure Project. Aviation sector Safety, emissions reduction, emissions trading, air traffic management, biofuel and Membership in IATA and AEA; cooperation forum for sustainable tourism; membership in supply chain development, sustainable tourism, economic impacts of the sector. oneworld alliance; Joint Businesses; cooperation with Finavia and other airport operators; sector seminars and working groups; manufacturers. Authorities and Safety, emissions trading, air traffic management, supply chain responsibility, Dialogue with local, national, EU-level authorities and governments; dialogue with governments government reporting, economic contribution of aviation, impact of operations on environment and authorities in destination and overflight countries, events and other cooperation with Finnish and noise, traffic continuity, biofuels, employee relations. Consumer Agency, Flight Safety Authority (TraFi), embassies and other relevant Finnish and foreign actors. NGOs and sustainable Greenhouse gas emissions reduction, environmental impact reduction, public Cooperation with Finnish Association for Nature Conservation, UNICEF, Finnish Red Cross, Cancer design companies health measures, disaster relief, wildlife protection, common interest projects for Society of Finland and other NGOs. Membership in the Carbon Disclosure Project. Partnerships sustainability and development cooperation, supply chain responsibility. with sustainable design firms such as Tikau and GlobeHope. Suppliers Cooperation efforts to reduce emissions and other environmental impacts, Contractual cooperation, Finnair procurement guidelines and Supplier Code of Conduct, extranet. monitoring of responsibility everywhere in the value chain. Media Daily operations and irregularities, company strategy and business, emissions Press releases, press conferences, visits by reporters, press trips, interviews, websites, reduction, personnel relations, financial sustainability, economic contribution of media desk, social media, Blue Wings magazine. aviation, ethics, charitable cooperation projects, trends in traffic, biofuels, emissions trading, noise, impact of aviation on local economy and mobility. General public Customer service, product quality, labour relations, economic contribution of Communications via media, websites, e-mail and lectures; social media including blogs, Facebook, aviation, ethics, emissions reduction, presence in local economies, charitable Twitter and Sina Weibo. cooperation projects, corporate citizenship. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 19 Sustainability review — Leave no one behind In recent years, commitment to sustainable development and social The Airbus A350 XWB aircraft, which was first introduced in Europe responsibility has increased substantially and globally among by Finnair, represents a significant step forward from the sustainability Kati both private sector and countries. The best results for sustainable perspective as well: its fuel efficiency and emissions efficiency are very Ihamäki development can be achieved through cooperation between governhigh, while its noise is substantially lower than other aircraft types, both ments, businesses, associations and citizens to pursue shared goals. outside the aircraft and inside the cabin. Advanced technology also means that the Airbus A350 XWB is pleasant to work and travel in. Cooperation and the role of the private sector was also emphasised in the launch of Sustainable Development Goals and agenda introduced Our new values — Commitment to Care, Simplicity and Courage — by the UN in September 2015. The goals guide sustainable development play an important role in defining and implementing Finnair’s direction efforts from the present until 2030, and their purpose is to end extreme with respect to sustainability. poverty and achieve sustainable development in all areas, including the economy, human well-being and the environment. The founda• We care about our customers and each other. We take responsiDirector tion for the plan lies in cooperation: the various participants in society bility and operate responsibly. Corporate Sustainability must promote and finance development through their own actions. • Simplification means clear processes, openness, transparency, Government responsibility and the expertise of non-profit organisaclarity, efficiency and the professional development of operations. @Katiihamaki tions cannot be replaced by companies’ responsibility projects, but • Courage means a broadminded attitude about the future. It utilising the competencies and resources of all of the parties involved involves inspiration, creativity, persistence, the courage to ask, can achieve long-lasting global results. and the courage to give feedback. Another milestone achieved in 2015 was the agreement signed at the Another significant step was our adoption of the G4 standard in our COP21 climate conference in Paris. The target of the joint commitGRI reporting. In cooperation with our stakeholders, we carried out a ment is to stop global warming at 1.5 degrees. The aviation sector was materiality assessment with regard to sustainability and updated our excluded from the agreement text, as IATA (International Air Transport selected indicators based on the assessment. We will increase the depth Association) and ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation, of our reporting based on the chosen aspects, and we will strive to under the UN) have made efforts for several years to create a joint increasingly take into account the impacts of our supply chain. In addiglobal market-based emissions reduction model. Good results on tion to the change of the reporting framework, we also launched other this front will hopefully be achieved in October 2016, in the General cooperation and sustainability projects, which will be described in Assembly of ICAO which will hopefully agree on emissions reduction more detail in the report’s GRI section. mechanisms for aviation. The market-based mechanism promoted by IATA and ICAO would significantly support other emissions reduction ”Leave no one behind” is the UN’s sustainable development theme for measures in the industry. the coming years. At Finnair, we are committed to promoting sustainable development in cooperation with our partners and stakeholders. For Finnair, the year was highly significant. The major milestones were Our goal for this year is to define the key aspects of the SDG program the arrival of the new Airbus A350 XWB aircraft and the launch of in terms of their relevance to Finnair’s operations, and to focus particuFinnair’s updated values. larly on these areas in our work. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 20 Identified material aspects In 2015, Finnair updated its materiality analysis for corporate responsibility in accordance with the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The materiality analysis was used to identify the key economic, environmental and social impacts in Finnair’s value chain as well as impacts on business and stakeholder decision-making. Identified material themes Environment Economy The materiality analysis was based on identifying corporate responsibility issues emerging from and aspects Finnair’s business environment through an analysis • Fuel efficiency • Financial performance and of industry trends, legislation, corporate responof corporate • Energy and greenhouse gas future competitiveness emissions • Local economic impacts sibility reporting guidelines, the reporting of peer companies and issues highlighted by various stakeresponsibility • Environmental legislation holders. and regulation • Efficient air traffic The identified corporate responsibility aspects management were assigned priorities in expert workshops based • Biodiversity on their business impact and stakeholder interest. The results of the prioritisation were reviewed with Ethical business the representatives of key stakeholders. Finnair’s Executive Board and Board of Directors approved conduct and the results of the materiality analysis. responsible sourcing Personnel Customer Finnair’s material corporate responsibility themes and aspects, defined as a result of the materiality analysis, are presented in figure on the right and • Code of conduct • Employee safety • Customer wellbeing and safety the management principles from page 85 onwards. • Anti-corruption and • Competence development, • Customer satisfaction The impacts, and indicators related to the material anti-bribery policies wellbeing, diversity, equality • Punctuality themes and aspects will be presented in detail in the • Human rights and non-discrimination GRI section to be published in February. • Purchasing practices and supply chain sustainability STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 21 Key performance indicators Indicator (KPI) and target level Actions taken in 2015 Performance in 2015 FINANCIAL INDICATORS • Operational result at least 6% of revenue • Seeking additional revenue through product and service × Operational result 1.0% of revenue development • EBITDAR at least 17% of revenue • Fleet investments, read more on page 27 onwards × EBITDAR 9.9% of revenue • Norra divestment, read more on page 25 onwards • Return on capital employed (ROCE) at least 7% √ Positive operational result • Discontinuing the operations of the NGA freighter airline √ ROCE 12.2% • Hybrid bond issue, read more on page 26 onwards • Adjusted gearing no more than 175% • Aircraft financing arrangements carried out in 2015 √ Adjusted gearing 45.8% read more on page 25 onwards • To pay, on average, at least one-third of the earnings per The Board proposes that no dividend be distributed for 2015 share as a dividend during an economic cycle. The aim is to also take account of trends and outlooks in the company’s earnings, financial situation and capital needs for any given period OTHER BUSINESS INDICATORS • Fuel consumption per available seat kilometre (ASK) • Airbus A350 enter into service × Fuel consumption / ASK increased by 10.01% compared to 2014 will decrease (growth due to changes in traffic structure) • Reducing emissions Read more in the GRI section • Emissions per available seat kilometre will decrease × CO2 emissions / ASK increased by 10.01% compared to 2014 (growth due to changes in traffic structure) • Customer satisfaction • Developing the product, service and network √ Overall customer satisfaction 8.1/10 to better meet customer needs Read more in the GRI section • The We Together @ Finnair employee wellbeing survey • Management programs and training programs √ Employee wellbeing survey was reformed in 2015 Read more in the GRI section Overall personnel experience 3.65/5 • Decrease in absences due to sickness × Absence rate due to sickness was 4.8% in 2015 (4.6% in 2014) STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 23 Key figures * Comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due to change in accounting principles related to treatment of overhauls. Revenue Revenue by product Distribution of revenue and costs by Distribution of operating expenses currency in 2015 € 2,316.0 million € million € million % % 2,500 2,500 2,324.0 100 2,324.0 2,284.5 2,000 2,000 80 1,500 1,500 60 1,000 1,000 40 500 500 20 0 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 14 15 Distribution of Distribution of costs revenue by currency by currency Passenger revenue, change +7% Ancillary services EUR CNY Other Fuel 26% Ground handling & catering 11% Cargo revenue, change -21% revenue, change +32% USD KRW Staff costs 15% Other costs 10% Travel services revenue, Other revenue, JPY SEK Leasing, maintenance, Other rental payments 7% change -3% change -34% depreciation & Sales and marketing 3% impairments 14% Expenses on tour Traffic charges 11% operations 3% Operational result** Result before taxes Capital expenditure and net cash flow from operations € million % € million € million 50 4 150 113.3 350 329.7 23.7 100 300 25 2 1.0 250 50 0 0 200 171.0 0 -25 -2 150 -50 100 -50 -4 -100 50 -75 -6 -150 0 11 12 13* 14 15 11 12 13 * 14 15 11 12 13 * 14 15 % of revenue Gross investments ** Operating result excluding changes in the fair Net cash flow from operations values of derivates and in the value of foreign currency denominated fleet maintenance reserves, nonrecurring items and capital gains. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 24 * Comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due to change in accounting principles related to treatment of overhauls. Interest bearing liabilities and liquid Return on equity (ROE) and return on Equity ratio, gearing and adjusted gearing Adjusted net debt** composition funds capital employed (ROCE) € million % % € million 800 15 14.4 120 1,200 708.2 12.2 100 695 708 700 10 600 80 900 5 60 45.8 500 40 35.5 400 346.3 0 600 20 300 -5 0 346 333 200 -20 300 -10 100 -40 -49.8 0 -15 -60 0 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 * 14 15 11 12 13 * 14 15 Interest bearing debt Return on equity (ROE) Equity ratio Debt Cash Liquid funds Return on capital employed (ROCE) Gearing Cap. Leases Adjusted net debt Adjusted gearing ** Calculated as: LT debt + ST debt + capitalised operational lease expenses (7x) – (cash equivalents + other financial assets) Number of persons employed by Finnair Number of passengers Available seat kilometres (ASK) and Available tonne kilometres (ATK) and at year-end revenue passenger kilometres (RPK) revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) million 8,000 12 35,000 5,000 4,633.1 31,836 10,294 4,500 10 30,000 25,592 4,000 6,000 25,000 3,500 4,817 8 3,076.6 20,000 3,000 4,000 6 2,500 15,000 2,000 4 10,000 1,500 2,000 1,000 2 5,000 500 0 0 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Available seat kilometres (ASK) Available tonne kilometres (ATK) Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK) Revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 25 The Report of the Board of Directors 2015 Business environment from intense competition and overcapacity. The revenue of the Siberian Joint Business remained Traffic continued to grow in Finnair’s main markets in 2015. Scheduled market capacity between unchanged as the total traffic capacity between Europe and Japan contracted slightly, which strengthHelsinki and Finnair’s European destinations grew by approximately 4.7 per cent year-on-year, while ened Finnair’s relative market position. In summer 2016, Finnair will become the only airline to offer direct market capacity between Finnair’s Asian and European destinations grew by 2.5 per cent yearnon-stop flights from Europe to four major cities in Japan. on-year.* Finnair’s market share was 57.9 per cent (52.4) in European traffic and 4.5 per cent (4.8) in traffic between Europe and Asia.** Significant events during the review period Passenger demand grew in line with the increased capacity, and unit revenues in Finnair’s passenger traffic grew in our major operating areas in Europe and Asia. At the same time, the Norra transaction completed development of unit revenue was weaker in North America, where our capacity growth has been On 7 January 2015, Finnair, Staffpoint Holding Oy (Staffpoint) and Oy G.W. Sohlberg Ab (GWS) faster.* There were signs of a recovery in the demand for consumer and business travel in all areas. signed a Memorandum of Understanding regarding an arrangement according to which Staffpoint The adjusted supply of packaged travel by tour operators active in Finland for the year 2015 was in and GWS would own a combined 60 per cent of Flybe Nordic. On 31 March 2015, Finnair acquired balance with the demand. Flybe Group plc’s (Flybe UK) 60% ownership of Flybe Nordic AB for a transaction price of one euro, Cargo traffic between Asia and Europe suffered from overcapacity throughout the year, which and Flybe Nordic was transferred to Finnair’s ownership on an interim basis. The contract flying further weakened average yields and load factors in Finnair’s primary markets for cargo traffic. agreement with Flybe Finland was expanded from 1 May 2015 onwards so that all routes previously The appreciation of the dollar against the euro diluted the advantage gained by airlines from the operated by Flybe Finland at its own commercial risk were transferred to Finnair’s commercial risk. substantial decrease in the price of jet fuel that began in autumn 2014. At the same time, it signifThe name of Flybe Finland was changed to Nordic Regional Airlines Oy (Norra), and the name of its icantly increased other dollar-denominated costs. However, several different income currencies parent company Flybe Nordic was changed to Nordic Regional Airlines AB. appreciated against the euro, which had a positive effect on Finnair’s euro-denominated revenue. In early November, Finnair, Staffpoint and Kilco Oy agreed on an ownership arrangement to have The US dollar is a significant expense currency in Finnair’s operations, while the Japanese yen and 60 per cent of the shares of Nordic Regional Airlines AB transferred to Staffpoint and Kilco Oy for Chinese yuan are significant income currencies. the price of one euro. Instead of Oy G.W. Sohlberg Ab (GWS), which was previously involved in the negotiations, the partner was Kilco Oy. The transaction was completed at the end of November. The Strategy implementation arrangement did not have a significant financial impact on Finnair in 2015. In May, as part of Finnair’s annual strategy work, the Board of Directors approved the company’s new vision and updated mission, as well as its updated strategic and financial targets. Finnair’s new Discontinuation of the operations of the cargo airline NGA vision is to offer its passengers a unique Nordic experience, and its mission is to offer the smoothest, Finnair’s associated company Nordic Global Airlines Ltd (NGA) decided to discontinue NGA’s operfastest connections in the northern hemisphere via Helsinki, and the best network to the world from ations, effective 31 May 2015, for financial reasons. Finnair Cargo Oy owned 40 per cent of NGA, and its home markets. The company’s updated strategic targets are to double Finnair’s Asian traffic by the other shareholders were Neff Capital Management LLC, Daken Capital Partners LLC and Mutual 2020 from the 2010 level, deliver a unique customer experience, achieve world-class operations and Pension Insurance Company Ilmarinen. The discontinuation of NGA’s operations did not have a create shareholder value. material impact on Finnair’s cargo business or Finnair’s financial position. Joint businesses Investment decisions on a new cargo terminal and wireless connectivity across the fleet Of Finnair’s joint businesses, the Atlantic Joint Business covering flights between Europe and North In March, Finnair announced an investment of approximately 80 million euros in a new cargo America increased its market share in the premium segment but, in economy class, it suffered terminal and an investment program of approximately 30 million euros to bring wireless Internet connectivity to the majority of the current wide-body and narrow-body fleet. Both investments will * For the sake of comparability, the figures exclude Finnair’s seasonal charter-type routes changed into scheduled traffic in 2014 and 2015. be allocated over the next few years. ** The figures are Finnair’s estimates. The estimates are based on MIDT data collected on the sales volumes of travel agencies and Finnair’s estimates of airlines’ sales through their own sales channels, such as websites. The basis for calculation is destination cities, not airports. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 26 Aircraft sale and leaseback agreements Issuance of hybrid bond At the end of March, Finnair finalised the sale and leaseback transactions referred to in the memoOn 13 October 2015, Finnair issued a 200 million euros hybrid bond with a fixed coupon rate of randums of understanding signed in December 2014 between Finnair and GOAL German ­Operating 7.875 per cent per annum. The hybrid bond is treated as equity in the IFRS consolidated financial Aircraft Leasing GmbH & Co for the sale and leaseback of three Embraer 190 aircraft owned by statements. The hybrid bond was significantly oversubscribed and allocated to more than 100 invesFinnair and operated by Norra. Also in March, Finnair finalised the sale and leaseback transactions tors. In conjunction with the issue of the new hybrid bond Finnair redeemed and annulled a share of referred to in the memorandum of understanding signed in December 2014 between Finnair and 81.7 million euros of the 120 million euros hybrid bond issued in 2012. Doric Asset Finance GmbH & Co. for the sale and leaseback of six ATR 72 aircraft owned by Finnair and operated by Norra. After the conclusion of the sale and leaseback agreements, Finnair continued Sale of facilities at Helsinki Airport to Finavia to sublease the aircraft to Norra. The transactions had a non-recurring positive impact of approxiIn December, Finnair sold certain facilities at the Helsinki Airport to Finavia as part of the developmately 40 million euros on Finnair’s operating profit for the first quarter of 2015. ment of the infrastructure of Helsinki Airport. The transactions comprise Finnair’s present cargo In the fourth quarter of 2015, Finnair concluded a sale and leaseback with GECAS of its first two terminal to be decommissioned in 2017 and an office building currently owned jointly by Finnair and Airbus A350 XWB aircraft on their delivery dates, 6 October and 16 December 2015. In September, Finavia. In addition, the termination of a land lease agreement for one aircraft hangar was advanced Finnair estimated that the non-recurring items associated with the renewal of the long-haul fleet will in order to enable Finavia’s investments to expand the Helsinki Airport terminal. To replace the have a combined positive impact of approximately 70 million euros in the second half of 2015. The hangar, Finnair purchased another hangar from Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company. The transnon-recurring items are related to the sale and leaseback arrangements of two A350 aircraft and the actions enable the development of Helsinki Airport in accordance with Finavia’s and Finnair’s growth phasing out of A340 aircraft from the fleet owned and managed by the company. The actual non-replans. Their combined non-recurring positive impact on Finnair’s operating profit in 2015 was curring items were approximately 10 million euros higher than estimated due to the appreciation of approximately 15 million euros. the dollar. In December, Finnair entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with GECAS on the sale and Financial performance in 2015 leaseback of two more A350 aircraft to be delivered in 2016 and 2017. Calculated at the exchange Revenue in 2015 grew by 1.7 per cent year-on-year to 2,324.0 million euros (2,284.5). Revenue was rates effective at the turn of the year, the arrangement, including the gain on sale and currency gains boosted by higher passenger traffic revenue and negatively affected by a decrease in cargo traffic and on pre-delivery payments and currency hedges, was estimated to have a positive non-recurring net yields as well as the elimination of revenue from businesses sold in the comparison period. Capacity impact of approximately 90 million euros on Finnair’s operating profit. The actual financial impact measured in available seat kilometres (ASK) grew by 3.1 per cent year-on-year. depends on the euro-dollar exchange rate at the time of delivery of each of the aircraft. The income Operational costs excluding fuel increased by 2.5 per cent year-on-year to 1,720.5 million euros will be recognised in connection with each delivery, which, given current delivery schedules, will be (1,678.8). Fuel costs, including hedging and costs incurred from emissions trading, decreased by 9.8 reflected in the Q3 2016 and Q1 2017 financial statements. per cent to 595.5 million euros (660.4). Fuel costs were reduced by the dollar-denominated price of jet fuel declining by approximately 42 per cent year-on-year, but the positive impact of this developRenewal of the feeder fleet ment was dampened by the dollar appreciating against the euro by approximately 17 per cent over In November, Finnair announced it will increase the capacity of its European feeder traffic by the same time period. Due to Finnair’s hedging policy, changes in the price of jet fuel have a delayed replacing its small narrow-body aircraft with larger ones. As the first step, Finnair will temporarily effect on costs. damp-lease two A321 narrow-body aircraft for one year starting from May 2016. Traffic charges increased to 258.5 million euros (230.9), primarily due to the appreciation of the In December, Finnair announced it will add seating capacity in 2017 to its current Airbus narrowdollar. Personnel costs increased by 2.5 per cent to 353.2 million euros (344.5). Overall, euro-debody aircraft by modifying storage and technical space at the front and rear of the aircraft. The value nominated operational costs decreased by 1.0 per cent from the comparison period, totalling 2,316.0 of the investment is approximately 40 million euros, and it includes 22 narrow-body Airbus aircraft million euros (2,339.2). Finnair’s EBITDAR was 231.2 million euros (176.6). The company’s operain Finnair’s fleet. tional result, which refers to the operating result excluding non-recurring items, capital gains and Later in December, Finnair announced it will lease four new Airbus A321-200 narrow-body changes in the fair value of derivatives and in the value of foreign currency-denominated fleet mainaircraft from BOC Aviation in the first half of 2017 for a minimum term of eight years. At the same tenance reserves, was 23.7 million euros (-36.5). time, Finnair announced it had agreed on the sale of one ATR turboprop aircraft and two Embraer The change in the fair value of derivatives and in the value of foreign currency denominated fleet E170 regional jet aircraft. The transactions have been completed and the aircraft in question have maintenance reserves amounted to -12.3 million euros (-43.7). The non-recurring items for January– been removed from Finnair and Norra traffic in January–February 2016. December amounted to 110.2 million euros (7.7) and primarily consisted of positive items related STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 27 to sale and leaseback agreements for A350, ATR and Embraer aircraft, as well as costs related to the Finnair has a 200-million-euro short-term commercial paper program, which was unused at the phasing out of A340 aircraft. The operating result was 121.7 million euros (-72.5), the result before end of the year. Net cash flow from financing amounted to 18.1 million euros (-180.3). Financial taxes was 113.3 million euros (-99.1) and the result after taxes was 89.7 million euros (-82.5). expenses were 9.7 million euros (26.9) and financial income stood at 1.3 million euros (3.5). Unit revenue at constant currency (RASK) decreased by 1.0 per cent year-on-year and amounted to 6.17 euro cents (6.23). Ticket revenue per available seat kilometre in passenger traffic increased Capital expenditure by 3.2 per cent year-on-year and amounted to 5.50 euro cents (5.33). Unit cost excluding fuel at In 2015, capital expenditure excluding advance payments totalled 329.7 million euros (82.4) and constant currency (CASK excl. fuel) increased by 0.6 per cent and amounted to 4.52 euro cents was primarily related to the fleet and engine improvements. The amount also includes the two A350 (4.49). aircraft that were sold and leased back in 2015. Cash flow from committed investments for the full year 2016, including advance payments, is estimated at approximately 420 million euros, with investBalance sheet on 31 December 2015 ments in the fleet representing a majority of this total. Net investments will be approximately 220 The Group’s balance sheet totalled 2,050.3 million euros at the end of the period under review million euros, taking currency hedges into account and provided that all aircraft sale as well as sale(1,885.1 million euros on 31 December 2014). Shareholders’ equity increased to 727.5 million euros and-leaseback agreements disclosed to-date are finalised as planned. (514.3), or 5.69 euros per share (4.02). Shareholders’ equity increased year-on-year, primarily due to Cash flow from committed investments for the full year 2017 is estimated at approximately 325 the company’s comprehensive income showing a profit, as well as the issuance of a hybrid bond. million euros, or 60 million net, taking currency hedges into account and provided that all aircraft Shareholders’ equity includes a fair value reserve that is affected by changes in the fair values of sale as well as sale-and-leaseback agreements disclosed to-date are finalised as planned. oil and currency derivatives used for hedging as well as actuarial gains and losses related to pilots’ Finnair will add seating capacity to its current Airbus narrow-body aircraft in 2017 by modidefined benefit plans according to IAS 19. The value of the item at the end of December 2015 was fying storage and technical space at the front and rear of the aircraft. The value of the investment is -67.9 million euros (-87.4) after deferred taxes, and it was affected particularly by changes in the approximately 40 million euros, and it includes 22 narrow-body Airbus aircraft in Finnair’s fleet. actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit pension plans. In addition to investments in the fleet, in March Finnair announced an investment of approximately 80 million euros in a new cargo terminal and an investment program of approximately 30 Cash flow and financial position million euros to bring wireless Internet connectivity to the majority of the current wide-body and Finnair has a strong financial position, which supports business development and future investments. narrow-body fleet. Both investments will be allocated over the next few years. In January–December 2015, net cash flow from operating activities amounted to 171.0 million euros The current favourable state of the credit market and Finnair’s good debt capacity enable the (24.2). The change was mainly due to profit being higher than in the comparison period, as well as financing of future fixed-asset investments on competitive terms. The company has 30 unencumchanges in working capital. Net cash flow from investments amounted to 78.6 million euros (14.4) and bered aircraft, the balance sheet value of which corresponds to approximately 66 per cent of the value was affected by the finalisation of sale and leaseback agreements for nine aircraft in the first quarter, of the entire fleet of 0.7 billion euros. The balance sheet value includes three finance lease aircraft. and particularly by the finalisation of sale and leaseback agreements for two new A350 aircraft in the fourth quarter. By comparison, sale and leaseback agreements were finalised for four A330 aircraft in Fleet the corresponding period in the previous year. After the end of the review period, Finnair secured a financing arrangement of approximately 135 million euros for its latest A350 aircraft. A further two Fleet operated by Finnair similar financing arrangements are being prepared. Finnair’s fleet is managed by Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finnair Plc. The equity ratio was 35.5 per cent (27.3) and gearing was negative at -49.8 per cent (0.3). The At the end of 2015, Finnair itself operated 46 aircraft, of which 16 are wide-body and 30 are narrowadjusted gearing was 45.8 per cent (107.5). At the end of December, interest-bearing debt amounted to body aircraft. Of the aircraft, 23 are owned by Finnair, 20 are leased and 3 are on finance lease. 346.3 million euros (427.6) and interest-bearing net debt was negative at -362.0 million euros (1.4). In 2015, Finnair gave up two A340 wide-body aircraft and took delivery of three new A350-900 The company’s liquidity remained strong in the review period. The Group’s cash funds amounted XWB wide-body aircraft. Two of the new aircraft were sold immediately to GECAS pursuant to to 708.2 million euros (426.1) at the end of December. In addition to the cash funds on the balance sale and leaseback agreements, while the third was initially funded by cash until it was financed in sheet, the Group has the option of re-borrowing employment pension fund reserves worth approxJanuary 2016 using a Japanese Operating Lease with a Call Option (JOLCO) structure, where the imately 430 million euros from its employment pension insurance company. Using these reserves transaction amount is treated in Finnair’s IFRS financial statements as a loan and the aircraft as requires a bank guarantee. Finnair has an entirely unused 180-million-euro syndicated credit agreeowned. ment, which was intended as reserve funding and matures at the end of July 2016. The average age of the fleet operated by Finnair was 10.1 years at the end of December 2015. Advance payments related to fixed asset investments were 77.5 million euros (66.4). STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 28 Fleet operated by Finnair on 31 Dec 2015* Fleet operated by Norra on 31 Dec 2015* Leased Change Aircraft Leased** Average Change (OperaAverage from owned by (Operational age from tional (Finance age Seats # 31 Dec 2014 Finnair leasing) 31 Dec 2015 Ordered Seats # 31 Dec 2014 Own leasing) leasing) 31 Dec 2015 Ordered ATR 72 68–72 12 6 6 6.4 Narrow-body fleet Embraer 170 76 2 2 9.8 Airbus A319 138 9 7 2 14.4 Embraer 190 100 12 5 7 7.5 Airbus A320 165 10 6 4 13.4 Total 26 0 13 13 7.2 0 Airbus A321 209/196 11 4 7 9.1 Wide-body fleet * Nordic Regional Airlines Oy’s Air Operator Certificate (AOC). Airbus A330 289/263 8 0 5 3 6.2 ** Finnair has leased these aircraft and subleased them to Nordic Regional Airlines. Airbus A340 263/257 5 -2 5 10.7 Airbus A350 297 3 3 1 2 0.1 16 Business area development in 2015 Total 46 1 23 20 3 10.1 16 The segment reporting of Finnair Group’s financial statements is based on business areas. The reporting business areas are Airline Business and Travel Services. * Finnair’s Air Operator Certificate (AOC). Airline Business Renewal of the long-haul fleet This business area is responsible for scheduled passenger and charter traffic as well as cargo sales, Finnair has ordered a total of 19 Airbus A350 XWB aircraft from Airbus, three of which were delivcustomer service and service concepts, flight operations and activity connected with the procureered in 2015. As the entry into service of new aircraft involves airline-specific preparations and ment and financing of aircraft. The Airline Business segment comprises the Commercial, Operacomprehensive inspections, there may be slight changes to the announced tentative delivery dates. tions and Resources Management functions as well as the subsidiaries Finnair Cargo Oy, Finnair According to the current delivery schedule, Finnair will have five A350 aircraft within the first half Flight Academy Oy and Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy. The segment also includes aircraft maintenance, of 2016, seven by the end of 2016, 11 by the end of 2017, and 19 by the end of 2023. The investFinnair Travel Retail Oy and Finnair’s property holdings, office services and the management and ment commitments for property, plant and equipment, totalling 1,818 million euros, include the maintenance of properties related to the company’s operational activities. upcoming investments in the long-haul fleet. Finnair plans to phase out its A340 aircraft by the end of 2017, following the successful delivery Key figures 2015 2014 Change % and entry into service of the A350 XWB aircraft. Finnair has agreed to sell the oldest A340-300 Revenue and result aircraft it owns for part-out in the first half of 2016, and to sell its remaining four Airbus ­A340-300 Revenue, EUR million 2,205.7 2,167.7 1.8 aircraft back to Airbus in 2016 and 2017. The agreement between Finnair and Airbus ensures a Operational result, EUR million 17.1 -43.5 > 200% smooth transition from A340s to A350s, mitigating potential operational risks related to fleet Operating result, EBIT, EUR million 113.4 -78.4 > 200% renewal and the impairment risk associated with the A340 aircraft. Finnair has the possibility to Operating result, % of revenue 5.1 -3.6 > 200% Personnel adjust the size of its fleet flexibly according to demand and outlook due to its lease agreements of Average number of employees 4,002 4,232 -5.4 different durations. Fleet operated by Norra (purchased traffic) Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra) operates a fleet of 26 aircraft for Finnair on a contract flying basis. Of the aircraft operated by Norra, 13 are owned by Finnair and another 13 are leased. Of the aircraft listed below, one ATR turboprop aircraft and two Embraer E170 regional jet aircraft will be sold in the first quarter of 2016 pursuant to agreements that have already been signed. In addition to the aircraft shown in the table, Finnair has subleased four E170 aircraft to AS Estonian Air. Their planned return to the lessors in late 2015 was delayed after Estonian Air entered into liquidation in autumn 2015 and was declared bankrupt on 29 December 2015. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 29 Traffic performance 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (Narita) route and leases freighter capacity for flights between its hubs, namely Helsinki and ­Brussels Passengers, thousands 10,294 9,630 9,269 8,774 8,013 and Helsinki and London, in partnership with IAG Cargo. Available seat kilometres, millions 31,836 30,889 31,162 30,366 29,345 Available cargo tonne kilometres decreased by 2.8 per cent in 2015. Belly cargo capacity grew Revenue passenger kilometres, millions 25,592 24,772 24,776 23,563 21,498 in all traffic areas, but overall capacity declined due to a significant decrease in dedicated freighter Passenger Load Factor, % 80.4 80.2 79.5 77.6 73.3 traffic compared to 2014, when Finnair still operated its own freighter traffic to Asia. Capacity was reduced by the discontinuation of freighter flights to Hong Kong in December 2014 and increased by Cargo and mail, tonnes 130,697 149,141 146,654 148,132 145,883 the growth of wide-body traffic and leisure flights being changed to scheduled flights, which means Available tonne kilometres, millions 4,633 4,644 4,709 4,647 4,571 that the routes are included in cargo capacity. Revenue cargo tonne kilometres in Finnair’s scheduled Revenue tonne kilometres, millions 3,077 3,130 3,107 3,029 2,824 traffic decreased by 0.1 per cent year-on-year in spite of a capacity increase of 11.2 per cent. More Overall Load Factor 66.5 67.4 66.0 65.2 61.8 than 70 per cent of the cargo tonnes carried are flown in Asian traffic, followed by Europe (19%), North America (7%) and domestic flights in Finland (2%). The revenue of Airline Business in 2015 increased 1.8 per cent from the previous year and amounted to 2,205.7 million euros (2,167.7). Revenue was boosted by improved ticket and ancillary service Air traffic services and products sales and decreased particularly by the discontinuation of NGA’s cargo traffic operations and the general decline of cargo revenue. Revenue from passenger traffic constituted approximately 82 per Route network and alliances cent of the segment’s revenue, while ancillary revenue constituted slightly over 5 per cent, cargo Finnair offers connections between Asia and Europe with over 200 route pairs and also operates more revenue approximately 9 per cent, and other revenue slightly less than 4 per cent. The segment’s than 800 flights weekly from Helsinki to other Finnish and European destinations. The number of flights operational result was 17.1 million euros (-43.5). to Asia per week was at most 75 in the summer season 2015, and 78 in the winter season 2015/2016. Revenue from passenger traffic in 2015 increased from the previous year, and profitability Finnair is part of the oneworld alliance and it also engages in closer cooperation with certain improved due to factors including higher ancillary revenue and the favourable development of the oneworld partners through participation in joint businesses, namely the Siberian Joint Business and exchange rates of income currencies. Ticket revenue per available seat kilometre in passenger traffic Atlantic Joint Business, which are agreements on revenue sharing and price coordination for flights increased by 3.2 per cent overall. Ancillary service revenue per passenger grew by 23.7 per cent yearto the route areas in question. on-year to 10.16 euros per passenger. As of the second quarter 2015, flights that were previously operated by Norra at its own commerCapacity measured in available seat kilometres decreased by 2.0 per cent year-on-year in Asian cial risk now count as Finnair flights. This increased Finnair’s number of destinations by eight. Finnair traffic. The reasons for the decrease included cabin configuration changes to wide-body aircraft also launched new routes to Gdansk, Luleå and Umeå. These routes are also operated by Norra. In the that reduced the number of seats and improved travel comfort. At the same time, capacity in North summer season 2015, Finnair launched new seasonal routes to Athens, Dublin, Malta, Split and Chicago. American traffic increased by as much as 26.2 per cent due to Finnair operating flights late in the In addition, Finnair expanded its codeshares in Europe with its oneworld partner airberlin year to Chicago, Toronto and Miami, in addition to New York, in a change from the previous year. starting from the beginning of May, as well as in Asia and Australia with Japan Airlines and Qantas. In addition to the introduction of new routes, the 5.3 per cent growth in capacity in European In August, Finnair announced new scheduled flight destinations for the summer season 2016 from traffic was attributable to flights that were previously operated as leisure flights now being operated Helsinki (Edinburgh, Billund, Svalbard, Pula, Zakynthos, Skiathos, Santorini, Mytilene, Preveza, as scheduled flights, as well as flights that were previously operated by Norra at its own risk being Rimini, Verona and Varna) as well as weekly flights from Oulu to Hania and Alanya. In long-haul transferred to Finnair in the second quarter. Domestic capacity increased by 10.6 per cent as routes traffic, Finnair announced the launch of Miami as a year-round destination as well as increased that were previously operated by Norra at its own risk were transferred to Finnair. connections to Chicago during the summer. Finnair will also introduce new Asian destinations in Total passenger traffic capacity grew by 3.1 per cent and revenue passenger kilometres increased the summer season, with three weekly flights to Fukuoka and four to Guangzhou. by 3.3 per cent. Revenue passenger kilometres increased in all traffic areas except Asia, where they Finnair’s cargo airline Finnair Cargo expanded its route network in September by signing a partnerdeclined slightly. The overall passenger load factor increased by 0.2 percentage points year-on-year, ship agreement with IAG Cargo. The two companies share the capacity of a freighter operated twice a to 80.4 per cent. week between London and Helsinki, which makes London Finnair Cargo’s third European cargo hub Cargo traffic revenue decreased substantially year-on-year, but profitability was largely unchanged in addition to Helsinki and Brussels. The new cargo connection combines the cargo flight networks from the previous year. Cargo traffic during the review period consisted primarily of belly cargo of Finnair and IAG Cargo, allowing Finnair to introduce tens of new cargo destinations in North on scheduled flights after Finnair discontinued its own separate freighter flights to Asia at the end America. The freighter operates between Helsinki and London on Wednesdays and Saturdays, and of 2014. In addition, Finnair Cargo sells and manages JAL Cargo’s capacity on the Helsinki–Tokyo Finnair operates a wide-body aircraft on the London route on Mondays, Fridays and Sundays. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 30 Awards Changes in senior management In January, FlightStats named Finnair the most punctual European airline in 2014. The oneworld Pekka Vähähyyppä (M.Sc. Econ, eMBA), Finnair’s Chief Financial Officer and member of the Execalliance was recognised as the most punctual airline alliance in the same survey. utive Board, joined the company on 17 August 2015. Mika Stirkkinen, Vice President, Group In June, the World Airline Awards chose Finnair as the best airline in Northern Europe for the Treasury, acted as interim CFO from the beginning of May until 17 August. sixth consecutive time. The award is based on an independent Skytrax survey of some 18 million travellers from more than 160 countries. In the same survey, the oneworld alliance was named Best Personnel Airline Alliance for the third consecutive year. Finnair employed an average of 4,906 (5,172) people in 2015, which is 5.1 per cent fewer than in The cabin design of Finnair’s Airbus A350 XWB aircraft won first prize in the Commercial Aviathe comparison period. The Airline Business segment employed an average of 4,002 (4,232) people. tion Economy/Business Class category at the International Yacht & Aviation Awards 2015. Travel Services employed an average of 567 (645) people and other functions 337 (295) people. The In November, Finnair was identified as a Nordic leader for the quality of climate change related number of employees in an employment relationship was 4,817 (4,981) on 31 December 2015. information that it has disclosed to investors and the global marketplace by CDP, the international not-for-profit that drives sustainable economies. Finnair was also awarded a position on the Nordic Amendment of Finnish employee pension legislation Disclosure Leadership Index with a score of 99/100 in 2015. In November 2015, the Finnish Parliament passed an amendment to Finnish employee pension legislation, which inter alia increases employees’ statutory retirement age. Finnair issued a stock Travel Services (Tour Operators and Travel Agencies) exchange release on the potential financial effect of the amendment on 24 September 2015 in This business area consists of the tour operator Aurinkomatkat (Suntours), its subsidiary operating connection with the issue of a hybrid bond. in Estonia, the business travel agency SMT (and, until 27 December 2015, its Estonian subsidiary The Board of Directors of Finnair Pension Fund has made a decision in principle that amendments Estravel), as well as Amadeus Finland, which produces travel sector information systems and soluto pension legislation are incorporated in the rules of the fund so that the obligations of the fund will tions. Aurinkomatkat Suntours serves leisure travellers, offering package tours designed for various not change due to any changes in employee pension legislation. travel motivations and customer segments. Finnair pilots’ pension benefits, which exceed the existing statutory pension benefits in Finland, form part of their collective labour agreement. Finnair considers that the liabilities related to the Key figures 2015 2014 Change % pilots’ pension benefits will not increase or change as a result of the legislative amendment. Finnair Revenue and result has obtained a legal opinion on the matter. Revenue, EUR million 208.1 216.7 -4.0 Finnair has not recognised a supplementary obligation due to the amendment of the employee Operational result, EUR million 6.7 7.0 -5.0 pension legislation. Operating result, EBIT, EUR million 8.3 5.9 39.8 Operating result, % of revenue 4.0 2.7 45.6 Shares and shareholders Personnel Average number of employees 567 645 -12.1 Shares and share capital On 31 December 2015, the number of Finnair shares entered in the Trade Register was 128,136,115 The revenue of Travel Services in 2015 decreased by 4.0 per cent from the previous year and and the registered share capital was 75,442,904.30 euros. The company’s shares are quoted on amounted to 208.1 million euros (216.7). At the same time, the segment’s operational result NASDAQ Helsinki. Each share confers one vote at the General Meeting. improved due to factors including SMT’s sales growth and excellent profitability, although the segment’s operational result declined slightly, to 6.7 million euros (7.0). On 29 December 2015, SMT Government ownership sold its stake (71.3%) in Estravel, its subsidiary operating in the Baltic countries, to its Estonian busiAt the end of 2015, the Finnish Government owned 55.8 per cent of Finnair’s shares and votes. ness partner. The Group recorded a gain of two million euros on the sale. Estravel had a personnel of According to the decision made by the Finnish Parliament on 20 June 1994, the Government must 168 employees. own more than half of Finnair Plc’s shares, and decreasing ownership below this level is subject to a The performance improvement program of Aurinkomatkat Suntours progressed ahead of Parliament decision. schedule. Previously implemented improvements related to sales steering and product renewal resulted in the load factor for package tours remaining high (97%), particularly late in the year, and higher average prices than in the comparison period. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 31 Share ownership by management Finnair Plc largest shareholders as at 31 Dec 2015 Number of shares % Changes 2015 On 31 December 2015, members of the company’s Board of Directors did not own any Finnair 1 State of Finland; Office Counsil Of State 71,515,426 55.8 0 shares, and the CEO owned 64,675 shares. Members of the Executive Board, including the CEO, 2 KEVA 6,200,875 4.8 50,000 owned a total of 223,859 shares, representing 0.17 per cent of all shares and votes. 3 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3,675,564 2.9 0 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3,354,002 2.6 935,000 Own shares 5 Kyöstilä Heikki 2,870,000 2.2 1,540,000 6 Tiiviste-Group Oy 2,450,000 1.9 0 Finnair did not acquire its own shares in 2015. In the first quarter, the number of shares held by 7 State Pension Fund 2,100,000 1.6 0 Finnair increased by 14,893 shares that were returned to Finnair pursuant to the rules of the compa8 Nordea Funds 1,584,784 1.2 -1,560,133 ny’s performance share plan for 2010–2012. In the fourth quarter, the company transferred 1,780 of 9 OP Funds 1,431,600 1.1 204,631 its own shares as incentive bonuses to members of the FlyShare employee share savings plan. The 10 Veritas Pension Insurance Company 1,250,000 1.0 0 Board of Directors decided on the transfer of shares in accordance with the employee share savings 11 Etra Invest Oy 1,000,000 0.8 0 plan and based on the authorisation granted by Finnair’s Annual General Meeting 2015. On 31 12 Finnair Plc Staff Fund 759,000 0.6 -151,000 December 2015, Finnair held a total of 325,205 of its own shares (312,092), representing 0.25 per 13 Etola Erkki 750,000 0.6 750,000 cent of the total share capital. 14 Taaleritehdas Funds 600,000 0.5 -300,000 15 Norvestia Plc 423,394 0.3 -26,357 Flagging notifications No flagging notices were issued in 2015. Nominee registered 11,177,265 8.7 1,753,828 Others 16,994,205 13.3 Acquisition and delivery of own shares and returns of shares Total 128,136,115 100.0 Acquisition value, Period Number of shares EUR Average price, EUR 2004 422,800 2,275,666.49 5.38 Number of Number of Breakdown of shares at 31 Dec 2015 shares % shareholders % 2005 -37,800 -209,838.54 5.55 1–200 663,418 0.5 7,276 47.1 2005 150,000 1,516,680.00 10.11 201–1,000 2,950,724 2.3 5,504 35.6 2006 -383,097 -2,056,847.88 5.37 1,001–10,000 6,659,516 5.2 2,435 15.8 2007 0 0.00 0 10,001–100,000 4,632,874 3.6 186 1.2 2008 235,526 1,538,956.35 6.53 100,001–1,000,000 7,243,692 5.7 19 0.1 2009 0 0.00 0 1,000,001– 94,789,970 74.0 9 0.1 2010 22,758 114,719.52 5.04 Registered in the name of nominee 11,177,265 8.7 12 0.1 2011 0 0.00 0.00 Not converted into the book entry system 18,656 0 2012 0 0.00 0.00 Total 128,136,115 100.0 15,441 100.0 2013 600,000 1,684,650.10 2.81 2013 -731,019 -4,055,744.86 5.55 2014 33,864 85,801.22 2.53 2014 -940 -2,334.40 2.48 2015 14,893 37,734.40 2.53 2015 -1,780 -6,764.00 3.80 31 Dec 2015 325,205 922,678.40 2.84 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 32 Shareholders by type at Number of Number of Shareholder agreements 31 Dec 2015 shares % shareholders % Finnair is not aware of any shareholder agreements pertaining to share ownership or the use of Public bodies 88,640,706 69.2 12 0.1 voting rights. Households 16,979,790 13.3 14,862 96.3 Private companies 6,156,498 4.8 452 2.9 Financial institutions 4,037,782 3.2 19 0.1 Change of control provisions in material agreements Associations 905,602 0.7 35 0.2 Some of Finnair’s financing agreements include a change of control clause under which the finanFinnish shareholders, total 116,720,378 91.1 15,380 99.6 cier shall be entitled to request prepayment of the existing loan or to cancel the availability of a loan facility in the event that a person other than the State of Finland acquires control of Finnair either Registered in the name of a nominee 11,177,265 8.7 12 0.1 through a majority of the voting rights or otherwise. Outside Finland 219,816 0.2 49 0.3 Nominee registered and foreign 11,397,081 8,9 61 0.4 Share-based incentive schemes shareholders, total Employee share savings plan FlyShare Not converted into the book entry system 18,656 0.0 In February, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided to launch a new 12-month savings period under Total 128,136,115 100 15,441 100.0 the FlyShare Employee Share Plan. The objective of the plan established in 2013 is to encourage the employees to become shareholders in the company, and thereby strengthen the employees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and to reward them over the long-term. Approximately 700 Finnair employees, or 16 per cent of those invited, participated in the third phase of the Shareholding by number of shares owned Shareholding by type plan in 2015. The share savings plan is described in more detail in Finnair’s Remuneration Statement and on the company’s website. Previously concluded share-based plans are described in Finnair’s % % Remuneration Statement and on the company’s website. Share price development and trading At the end of December 2015, Finnair’s market value stood at 694.5 million euros (317.8), and the closing price of the share was 5.42 euros (2.48). During 2015, the highest price for the Finnair share on the Nasdaq Helsinki Stock Exchange was 5.50 euros (3.01), the lowest price 2.49 euros (2.30) and the average price 3.54 euros (2.32). Some 25.5 million (10.8) of the company’s shares, with a total value of 90.1 million euros (25.0), were traded. The number of shares recorded in Finnair’s Trade Register entry was 128,136,115 at the end of the period. The Finnish state owned 55.8 per cent (55.8) of Finnair’s shares, while 8.9 per cent (7.6) were held by foreign investors or in the name of a nominee. 1–200 0.5% Public bodies 69.2% Registered in the name of 201–1,000 2.3% Households 13.3% a nominee 8.7% 1,001–10,000 5.2% Financial institutions 3.2% Outside Finland 0.2% 10,001–100,000 3.6% Private companies 4.8% Not converted into the book entry system 0.0% 100,001–1,000,000 5.7% Associations 0.7% 1,000,001– 74% Registered in the name of the nominee 8.7% Not converted into the book entry system 0% STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 33 Finnair share 2011–2015 Comparison European Airlines Comparison Nasdaq Helsinki EUR 6 200 150 5 150 4 100 3 100 2 50 50 1 0 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Average price Finnair Finnair European Airlines OMX Helsinki OMX Helsinki benchmark Number of shares and share prices 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Dividend policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Average number of shares The aim of Finnair’s dividend policy is to pay, on average, at least one-third of the earnings per share adjusted for share issue pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 as a dividend during an economic cycle. The aim is to take into account the company’s earnings trend Average number of shares adjusted for share issue and outlook, financial situation and capital needs in the distribution of dividends. In 2015, earnings (with diluted effect) pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 per share from the result of the period (before hybrid bond interest) was 0.70 (-0.65) euros, and earnThe number of shares adjusted for share issue at ings per share was 0.57 (-0.71) euros. the end of financial year pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 Finnair Plc’s distributable equity amounted to 181,101,862.30 euros on 31 December 2015. The The number of shares Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that no dividend be distributed for 2015. adjusted for share issue at the end of financial year (with diluted effect) pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 Corporate responsibility Number of shares, end of the financial year pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 Financial, social and environmental sustainability is integral to Finnair’s overall business strategy and Trading price highest EUR 5.50 3.01 3.25 2.64 5.37 5.72 operations. Finnair wants to be a responsible global citizen and respond to its stakeholders’ needs, Trading price lowest EUR 2.49 2.3 2.40 1.67 2.30 3.61 also from the perspective of responsibility. Finnair is cooperating with industry operators and the Market value of share capital authorities in areas such as reducing the climate impacts of aviation. Dec. 31 EUR mill. 695 318 355 305 295 646 Finnair’s target is to reduce its CO2 emissions by 20 per cent per revenue tonne kilometre from the 2009 No. of shares traded pcs 25,456,779 10,750,318 26,024,070 19,668,495 21,422,076 27,299,521 No. of shares traded as % of level by 2017. The shared objective of the aviation industry is carbon neutral growth from 2020 onwards. average no. of shares % 19.87 8.39 20.31 15.35 16.72 21.31 The new A350 XWB wide-body aircraft that joined the Finnair fleet in the autumn take not only travel comfort but also energy efficiency to a new level, as their fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions per seat are a quarter lower than those of the A340 wide-body aircraft being replaced. As a result, the new aircraft will significantly reduce the carbon dioxide emissions arising from Finnair traffic. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 34 Job satisfaction among Finnair’s personnel was evaluated in 2015 by a new employee survey, We Exceptional variation in fuel price and the potential of the recent decrease in fuel price to be Together @ Finnair. The employee experience score, which is the average score for all of the statements passed on to flight ticket prices or lead to an increase in capacity in Finnair’s main markets as well in the survey, was 3.63/5 and the employee commitment score was 3.85/5. The results of the survey as sudden, adverse changes in currency exchange rates constitute a risk for Finnair’s revenue develhave been discussed at the company level as well as at the unit and team levels. At the company level, opment. The reduction in the demand for passenger or cargo flights due to slowing or non-existent Finnair’s focus areas in 2016 include the development of wellbeing at work and leadership. economic growth in Finnair’s main markets also constitutes a risk for Finnair’s revenue developFinnair’s own operations do not directly involve significant human rights risks or impacts. ment. However, indirect risks and impacts may occur in relation to the supply chain and outsourced operPotential capacity increases and product improvements among Finnair’s existing or new competiations. In order to improve the monitoring of its own operations and those of its entire supply chain, tors may have an impact on the demand for Finnair’s services. In addition, joint operations involving Finnair launched a project in 2015 to develop methods to assess the realisation of social responcloser cooperation than airline alliances, and joint businesses, are expected to develop further. sibility and human rights and related risk assessment. In conjunction with this, Finnair joined the The achievement of the strategic advantages and cost reductions sought through Finnair’s partSEDEX cooperation agreement concerning supply chain auditing tools as part of the oneworld allinership and outsourcing projects involves risks. For example, quality or availability issues and/or ance. In 2015–2016, Finnair is also participating in a joint project of travel industry operators and unexpected additional costs of partnerships and suppliers can have a negative effect on Finnair’s UNICEF to examine the status of children’s rights within travel service production chains. The pilot product, reputation and profitability. phase of the project was carried out in Vietnam, and the findings of the project will be utilised in The use of the next-generation Airbus A350 XWB aircraft involves risks associated with new techother destinations in the future. nology and roll-out processes. In addition, the implementation of Finnair’s strategy includes signifiA comprehensive revision of Finnair’s Code of Conduct is scheduled to be completed in the first half cant operating and internal changes, which involve risks. of 2016. As part of the renewal, an internal whistleblowing channel was established in autumn 2015. The aviation industry is affected by a number of regulatory projects at the EU and international Key performance indicators for corporate responsibility are described above on page 21. levels. Estimating the impacts of the regulatory changes on airlines’ operational activities and/or costs in advance is difficult. Examples of such regulatory projects include international regulation Reporting related to emission trading, noise regulation and other environmental regulation, EU regulations on Finnair has reported on environmental sustainability since 1997, and in 2008 became one of the first privacy protection and the decision made by the Court of Justice of the European Union in October airlines to report according to GRI guidelines. The Global Reporting Initiative, formed with the support 2012 regarding flight passengers’ rights. In addition, regulations on the reporting of non-financial of the United Nations Environment Program, is the most widely recognised international authority on information (responsibility) and other stakeholder requirements have increased substantially. sustainability reporting. Finnair’s Annual Report for 2015, including the GRI section to be published at Geopolitical uncertainty and other potential external disruptions may, if materialised, significantly the end of February 2016, covers the financial, economic, social and environmental performance of the affect Finnair’s operations. Finnair Group in accordance with the new GRI G4 framework, and it seeks to identify and explain the Finnair’s risk management and risks related to the company’s operations are described in more strategic business ramifications of this performance. Finnair will also report on its UN Global Compact detail on the company’s website at www.finnairgroup.com. targets as part of the report. Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Significant near-term risks and uncertainties Due to the seasonal variation of the airline business, the Group’s revenue and profit are generally Aviation is an industry that is globally sensitive to economic cycles and reacts quickly to external very much at their lowest in the first quarter and at their highest in the third quarter of the year. The disruptions, seasonal variation and economic fluctuations. In the implementation of strategy, Finnair growing proportional share of Asian traffic increases seasonal fluctuation due to destination-specific and its operations involve various risks and opportunities. Finnair has implemented a comprehenseasons in Asian leisure and business travel. sive risk management process to ensure that risks are identified and mitigated as much as possible, In addition to operational activities, fuel price development has a key impact on Finnair’s result, although many risks are not within the company’s full control. To exploit value creation opportunities, as fuel costs are the company’s most significant expense item. Finnair’s foreign exchange risk arises Finnair is also prepared to take and manage risks within the limits of its risk-bearing capacity. primarily from fuel and aircraft purchases, aircraft leasing payments and sales revenue denominated The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to potentially have a significant impact in foreign currencies. Significant dollar-denominated expense items are aircraft leasing payments on Finnair’s business, financial result and future outlook within the next 12 months. This list is not and fuel costs as well as traffic charges. The largest investments, namely the acquisition of aircraft intended to be exhaustive. and their spare parts, are also mainly denominated in US dollars. The most significant income currencies after the euro are the Japanese yen, the Chinese yuan and the Swedish crown. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 35 The company protects itself against the risks of currency, interest rate and jet fuel positions by Events after the review period using different derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options, according to the risk management policy verified by the Board of Directors. Fuel purchases are hedged for Finnair secured financing for its third A350 aircraft 24 months forward on a rolling basis, and the degree of hedging decreases towards the end of the In January, Finnair secured financing arranged by BNP Paribas for the full market value of its third hedging period. The higher and lower limits of the degree of hedging are 90 and 60 per cent for the Airbus A350-900 XWB aircraft, which was delivered on 30 December 2015. The transaction amounts following six months. to approximately 135 million euros and it was implemented using a Japanese Operating Lease with a Call Option (JOLCO) structure, where the transaction amount is treated in Finnair’s IFRS financial Sensitivities in business operations statements as a loan and the aircraft as owned. (rolling 12 months from date of financial statements) 1 percentage point change Passenger load factor (PLF) EUR 21 mill. Outlook Average yield of passenger traffic EUR 19 mill. Despite of the demand outlook for passenger and cargo traffic in Finnair’s main markets involving Unit cost in passenger traffic (CASK ex. fuel) EUR 16 mill. renewed uncertainty, Finnair estimates that, in 2016, its capacity and revenue will grow. Hedging ratio The lower price of jet fuel supports Finnair’s financial performance in 2016. In accordance with its 10% change, disclosure policy, Finnair will issue guidance for its expected full-year operational result in connec10% change taking Fuel sensitivities (rolling 12 months from without hedging into tion with the January-June interim report. date of financial statements) hedging account H1 2016 H2 2016 Fuel EUR 32 mill. EUR 14 mill. 68% 53% FINNAIR PLC Hedging ratio Board of Directors Currency sensitivities USD and JPY (rolling 12 months Currency distribution (rolling 12 months from date of from date of financial % 2015 2014 financial statements) statements) 10% change, 10% change Sales currencies taking hedging without hedging into account EUR 59 58 USD* 3 3 see below see below see below JPY 8 9 EUR 18 mill. EUR 9 mill. 67% CNY 7 7 KRW 3 3 SEK 5 5 Other 15 15 Purchase currencies EUR 53 52 USD* 40 41 EUR 56 mill. EUR 10 mill. 81% Other 7 7 * The sensitivity analysis assumes that the Chinese yuan and the Hong Kong dollar continue to correlate strongly with the US dollar. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 36 Financial indicators 2011–2015 INCOME STATEMENT 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 CASH FLOW 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Revenue EUR mill. 2,324 2,284 2,400 2,449 2,258 Operational cash flow EUR mill. 171 24 142 155 51 change % 1.7 -4.8 -2.0 8.5 11.6 in relation to revenue % 7.4 1.1 5.9 6.3 2.2 Operational result EUR mill. 24 -36 12 43 -61 in relation to revenue % 1.0 -1.6 0.5 1.8 -2.7 PERSONNEL 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Operating result EUR mill. 122 -72 8 34 -88 Personnel on average 4,906 5,172 5,859 6,784 7,467 in relation to revenue % 5.2 -3.2 0.3 1.4 -3.9 Net interest expenses EUR mill. -2 -9 -10 -13 -14 * The dividend for year 2015 is a proposal of the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting. ** Equity ratio has been restated to reflect the changed calculation formula. See more information in Note 5.4 Restatement of key ratios. in relation to revenue % -0.1 -0.4 -0.4 -0.5 -0.6 Result before taxes EUR mill. 113 -99 27 15 -111 in relation to revenue % 4.9 -4.3 1.1 0.6 -4.9 Finnair is net debt free – adjusted gearing also declined to 45.8 per cent Finnair’s interest-bearing net debt -362 million euros decreased to negative when liquid funds increased to 708 million euros especially BALANCE SHEET 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 due to positive cash flow from operating activities, sale and leaseback transactions and issue of hybrid bond. Further, adjusted gearing, including operating lease payments in addition to interest-bearing debts, decreased 60 percentage points Equity and non-controlling interests EUR mill. 727 514 678 775 753 from last year to 45.8 per cent due to strengthening of equity and increase in liquid funds. The adjusted gearing was significantly lower Equity and liabilities total EUR mill. 2,050 1,885 2,118 2,231 2,357 than the maximum level of 175 per cent set by the Board of Directors. Gross capital expenditure EUR mill. 330 82 77 41 204 As a result of positive development of earnings, the return on capital employed (ROCE) increased almost 19 percentage points from in relation to revenue % 14.2 3.6 3.2 1.7 9.0 last year to 12.2 per cent. Average capital employed EUR mill. 1,008 1,106 1,295 1,413 1,550 Dividend for the financial year* EUR mill. 0 0 0 13 0 Interest-bearing liabilities EUR mill. 346 428 593 569 729 Liquid funds EUR mill. 708 426 459 430 403 Gearing Interest-bearing net debt EUR mill. -362 1 134 138 326 € million % in relation to revenue % -15.6 0.1 5.6 5.6 14.4 900 120 727 800 708 100 KEY FIGURES 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 695 700 80 Basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) EUR 0.57 -0.71 0.11 0.01 -0.75 600 60 Equity/share EUR 5.69 4.02 5.30 6.06 5.89 500 45.8% 40 Dividend/share* EUR 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.00 400 346 20 Dividend/earnings* % 0.0 0.0 0.0 121.2 0.0 300 0 Dividend yield* % 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.2 0.0 200 -20 Cash flow from operating activities/share EUR 1.34 0.19 1.12 1.21 0.40 -49.8% 100 -40 P/E ratio 9.46 -3.47 25.02 174.96 -3.07 0 -60 Equity ratio** % 35.5 27.3 32.0 34.7 31.9 11 12 13 14 15 Net debt-to-equity (Gearing) % -49.8 0.3 19.9 18.0 43.5 Adjusted gearing % 45.8 107.5 79.2 77.8 108.4 Aircraft lease payments, 12m rolling x 7y Interest-bearing liabilities Gearing Return on equity (ROE) % 14.4 -13.8 3.2 1.4 -10.9 Cash funds Equity Adjusted gearing Return on capital employed (ROCE) % 12.2 -6.5 3.6 2.8 -5.2 = Highlights STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 37 Financial statements 1 January–31 December 2015 How to read Finnair Financial Statements? Contents Finnair has made efforts to facilitate reading these financial statements Consolidated income statement 38 3 Capital structure and financing costs 56 and to clarify the overall picture that can derived from them. The notes Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 38 3.1 Financial income and expenses 56 of Finnair’s financial statements have been combined to business related sections in order to give a more relevant and less complex picture of Consolidated balance sheet 39 3.2 Financial assets 56 the whole. Each section sets out the accounting principles applied in proConsolidated cash flow statement 40 3.2.1 Other current financial assets 57 ducing these notes together with any critical accounting estimates and Consolidated statement of changes in equity 41 3.2.2 Cash and cash equivalents 57 sources of uncertainty. Secondly, interesting figures have been highlightNotes to the consolidated financial 3.3 Financial liabilities 57 ed by circling them, and these as well as other highlights are explained statements 42 3.4 Contingent liabilities 59 in a text box marked with a star. Thirdly, illustrating charts have been inserted in various sections of the financial statements so as to facilitate 3.5 Management of financial risks 59 understanding the figures. 1 Segments and operating result 43 3.6 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 60 1.1 Segment information 43 3.7 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities 62 Notes to the financial statement have been combined into sections based 1.2 Operating income 44 3.8 Derivatives 62 on their context. The aim is to give a more relevant picture of the Finnair 1.2.1 Revenue by product 45 3.9 Equity-related information 64 Group and its business. The content of each section is described and explained in the beginning of that section and marked with . 1.2.2 Revenue by currency 45 1.2.3 Trade and other receivables 45 4 Consolidation 65 Specific accounting principles are attached to the relevant note. The 1.2.4 Deferred income and advances received 46 4.1 General consolidation principles 65 accounting principles can be recognised from character . 1.3 Operating expenses 46 4.2 Subsidiaries 65 1.3.1 Operational expenses by currency 46 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals 66 Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty have been presented together with the relevant note and specified with character . 1.3.2 Leasing expenses 46 4.4 Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale 66 1.3.3 Other expenses 46 4.5 Investments in associates and joint ventures 66 Highlights related to the section are explained in a separate text box 1.3.4 Other liabilities 47 4.6 Related party transactions 68 to underline significant matters. 1.3.5 Provisions 47 4.7 Application of new and amended IFRS standards 1.3.6 Items excluded from operational result 47 and IFRIC interpretations 68 Interesting figures have been highlighed with circle and explained in the highlights text box as described above. 1.3.7 Employee benefits 47 1.3.7.1 Employee benefit expenses and share-based payments 47 5 Other notes 69 1.3.7.2 Pensions 51 5.1 Income taxes 69 5.2 Disputes and litigation 70 2 Aircraft and other intangible and tangible 5.3 Events after the closing date 70 assets and leasing arrangements 53 5.4 Restatement of key ratios 70 2.1 Tangible assets 53 2.2 Leasing arrangements 54 6 Parent company financial statements 71 2.3 Intangible assets 55 Calculation of key ratios 79 Board of Directors’ proposal on the dividend 79 Auditor’s Report 80 List of accounting books and voucher types 81 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 38 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income EUR mill. Note 2015 2014 EUR mill. Note 2015 2014 Revenue 1.1, 1.2 2,324.0 2,284.5 Result for the financial year 89.7 -82.5 Other operating income 15.7 18.3 Other comprehensive income items Operating expenses Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Staff costs 1.3.7 -353.2 -344.5 Change in fair value of hedging instruments 3.9 -14.1 -87.0 Fuel costs -595.5 -660.4 Translation differences 0.6 0.4 Other rents 1.3.2 -159.4 -159.7 Tax effect 2.8 17.4 Aircraft materials and overhaul -118.9 -119.4 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Traffic charges -258.5 -230.9 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans 1.3.7.2 37.7 -4.1 Ground handling and catering expenses -250.3 -251.8 Tax effect -7.5 0.8 Expenses for tour operations -79.6 -76.7 Other comprehensive income items total 19.5 -72.4 Sales and marketing expenses -74.0 -65.3 Comprehensive income for the financial year 109.2 -154.9 Other expenses 1.3.3 -219.3 -217.4 Operational EBITDAR 231.2 176.6 Attributable to Lease payments for aircraft 1.3.2 -99.3 -78.8 Owners of the parent company 108.9 -155.1 Depreciation and impairment 2.1, 2.3 -108.1 -134.3 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.2 Operational result 23.7 -36.5 Fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls 1.3.6 -12.3 -43.7 Non-recurring items 1.3.6 110.2 7.7 Change in operational result 2015 Operating result 121.7 -72.5 € million Financial income 3.1 1.3 3.5 25.4 1.5 0.5 0.3 -1.8 -2.5 -2.9 Financial expenses 3.1 -9.7 -26.9 200 -6.9 -8.6 26.2 -8.6 -20.6 Share of results in associates and joint ventures 4.5 0.1 -3.2 160 64.9 -27.6 Result before taxes 113.3 -99.1 120 -40.9 Income taxes 5.1 -23.6 16.5 Result for the financial year 89.7 -82.5 109.5 80 -47.6 Attributable to 40 23.7 Owners of the parent company 89.4 -82.7 0 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.2 -40 -36.5 Earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent company 01 ts sts ue nt e es l au ts s e ns e s ft s ue ue 01 4 os nu en se om nu se ra ge 5 lt 2 en lc me ve ns rh en tio en co ir c ar en en lt 2 ev a ir pe ve rr nc ra ve ch ev ev re xp xp aff Earnings per share, EUR (basic and diluted) 0.57 -0.71 Fu su rr ex he gi pe re ra rr or su re e mp es do re es ge St fo ffic re ge v ic in g an Ot he t in ro he rg al en di ra ou v ic t in ts Tr a Ot Ca al Result for the financial year per share, EUR 0.70 -0.65 on ss an er te r ls Ot pe rt er ke en on at i ys ca r ia ls ar ay at i Pa io n ate ro fo m er ia t la r nd he es Tr av dm ep er Op c il ga tm Ot ns e an Op ec An as pr li n af pe le s Le De nd rcr Ex Sa ha Ai Operational result turned to profit +23.7 (-36.5) nd ou Gr The encouraging result was positively affected by increased passenger ticket and ancillary revenue. Load factor also increased slightly. Decline in fuel price decreased operational expenses. Operating profit improved especially thanks to gains on aircraft sale and leaseback transactions. = Highlights STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 39 Consolidated balance sheet EUR mill. Note 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 EUR mill. Note 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets Equity attributable to owners of the parent Intangible assets 2.3 9.5 18.4 Share capital 3.9 75.4 75.4 Tangible assets 2.1 811.6 897.8 Other equity 3.9 652.0 438.3 Investments in associates and joint ventures 4.5 2.6 4.9 Total 727.5 513.7 Loan and other receivables 8.7 9.2 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.6 Deferred tax assets 5.1 9.1 33.8 Equity total 727.5 514.3 Non-current assets total 841.5 964.1 Non-current liabilities Current assets Interest-bearing liabilities 3.3 271.0 337.7 Inventories 2.1 11.8 14.7 Pension obligations 1.3.7.2 4.4 25.3 Trade and other receivables 1.2.3 208.5 194.0 Provisions 1.3.5 55.7 52.1 Derivative financial instruments 3.8 155.8 163.7 Other liabilities 3.3 15.8 22.1 Other financial assets 3.2.1 427.7 332.8 Non-current liabilities total 346.9 437.3 Cash and cash equivalents 3.2.2 280.5 93.4 Current assets total 1,084.3 798.6 Current liabilities Assets held for sale 4.4 124.5 122.4 Provisions 1.3.5 38.3 44.2 Interest-bearing liabilities 3.3 75.2 89.9 Assets total 2,050.3 1,885.1 Trade payables 67.5 56.2 Derivative financial instruments 3.8 180.5 198.5 Deferred income and advances received 1.2.4 374.8 327.9 Balance sheet Liabilities related to employee benefits 1.3.7.1 91.0 79.7 Other liabilities 1.3.4 148.7 137.1 € million Assets Equity and liabilities Current liabilities total 976.0 933.4 2,500 2,050.3 2,050.3 Liabilities total 1,322.9 1,370.7 2,000 1,885.1 124.5 1,885.1 494.4 122.4 220.3 492.3 208.8 Equity and liabilities total 2,050.3 1,885.1 1,500 426.1 708.2 301.7 252.3 180.5 1,000 163.7 198.5 155.8 127.1 102.0 427.6 346.3 Strong financial position, strong equity 836.9 739.4 727.5 Finnair’s equity and financial position strengthened mainly thanks to positive operational results, A350 operating sale and leaseback 500 514.3 transactions and issue of a new hybrid bond. Equity ratio increased to 35.5 per cent (27.3). 0 Fleet transition proceeded as Finnair became the first European airline to take delivery of three new A350 aircraft. Two of those 14 15 14 15 were sold and leased back under operating lease arrangements right after the acquisition and third one remained in Finnair ownership Aircraft including advances paid Cash and cash equivalents Equity Unflown air transport and was capitalised in the balance sheet. and currency hedging of aircraft and other financial assets Interest-bearing liabilities revenues acquisitions Other current assets Other liabilities Derivative financial Other non-current assets Assets held for sale instruments in current Derivative financial instruments liabilities = Highlights in current assets STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 40 Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to consolidated cash flow statement * Non-cash transactions EUR mill. 2015 2014 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities Employee benefits 15.6 11.4 Result for the financial year 89.7 -82.5 Fair value changes in derivatives 2.1 34.9 Depreciation and impairment 148.5 135.7 Other adjustments -155.2 -40.1 Other adjustments to result for the financial year Total -137.5 6.2 Financial income -1.3 -3.5 Other adjustments mainly include sales gains and losses on aircraft and changes in maintenance and other provisions. Financial expenses 9.7 26.9 Share of results in associates and joint ventures -0.1 3.2 ** Liquid funds Income taxes 23.6 -16.5 EBITDA 270.2 63.2 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Non-cash transactions* -137.5 6.2 Other financial assets 427.7 332.8 Changes in working capital 43.1 -33.2 Cash and cash equivalents 280.5 93.4 Interest expenses paid -5.3 -14.1 Short-term cash and cash equivalents in balance sheet 708.2 426.1 Other financial expenses paid -2.3 -4.5 Maturing after more than three months -250.5 -236.0 Interest income received 3.0 6.7 Total 457.7 190.1 Income taxes paid -0.2 -0.2 Net cash flow from operating activities 171.0 24.2 Strong financing position enables development of operations and financing of fleet transition Cash flow from operations improved due to increased profits and changes in working capital, such as increased prepayments related to Cash flow from investing activities unflown tickets and increased trade and other short-term payables in foreign currencies (USD). Investments in intangible assets -4.3 -4.3 Finnair invested in the new wide-body fleet and received three new A350s during 2015. Various operating sale and leaseback transacInvestments in tangible assets -352.5 -142.1 tions (2 x A350, 3 x E190 and 6 x ATR72) turned the net cash flow from investments positive. Divestments of fixed assets and group shares 448.1 267.6 Net increase in cash of 118.3 million euros resulted from the issue of a new hybrid bond and repayment of the old hybrid bond. Net change in financial interest bearing assets at fair value through profit or loss, maturing after more than three months -14.4 -109.5 Change in non-current receivables 1.7 2.6 Net cash flow from investing activities 78.6 14.4 Cash flow 2015, +267.7 € million € million Net cash flow from operating Net cash flow from Net cash flow from activities, +171.0 investing activities, +78.6 financing activities, +18.1 Cash flow from financing activities 500 270.2 200.0 Loan repayments and changes -82.5 -169.4 448.1 457.7 -17.7 Hybrid bond repayments -81.7 0.0 -12.7 400 43.1 Proceeds from hybrid bond 200.0 0.0 -4.8 -82.5 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -17.6 -10.7 -137.5 300 Dividends paid -0.2 -0.2 -81.7 Net cash flow from financing activities 18.1 -180.3 190.1 200 Change in cash flows 267.7 -141.8 100 Liquid funds, at beginning 190.1 331.8 -356.8 0 Change in cash flows 267.7 -141.8 in g IT D ns al em s s et ts es ts ts H br id in n A tio pit ss as se iti en en ex ybri pe d b bo EB ac ca l it tiv pa pa nd Liquid funds, at end** 457.7 190.1 eg eb ns in g c ia fa no of al ac ym ym ns o n es d a n in t tr a rk an tio ng re re hy d d er th Fin os s ti an e ivi s t at sh wo isi sp ve Lo nd m f ro de s a nd nd ca in qu Di bo sp sh nr in aid Ca No ge Ac id ds Ca sh an he br ee at Ot Hy oc th = Highlights Ch Pr ee nd STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 41 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Hedging reserve Equity attributable NonShare Other and other Unrestricted Retained Hybrid to owners of controlling Equity EUR mill. capital restricted funds OCI items equity funds earnings bond the parent interests total Equity 1 Jan 2015 75.4 168.1 -87.4 247.4 -8.8 118.9 513.7 0.6 514.3 Result for the financial year 89.4 89.4 0.3 89.7 Change in fair value of hedging instruments -11.3 -11.3 -11.3 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans 30.2 -0.1 30.1 30.1 Translation differences 0.6 0.6 0.6 Comprehensive income for the financial year 0.0 0.0 19.5 0.0 89.3 0.0 108.8 0.3 109.1 Proceeds from hybrid bond 198.2 198.2 198.2 Hybrid bond repayments -81.7 -81.7 -81.7 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -13.0 0.7 -12.2 -12.2 Dividend 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Share-based payments 0.6 0.6 0.6 Changes in non-controlling interests 0.0 -0.7 -0.7 Equity 31 Dec 2015 75.4 168.1 -67.9 248.1 67.6 236.2 727.5 0.0 727.5 Hedging reserve Equity attributable NonShare Other and other Unrestricted Retained Hybrid to owners of controlling Equity EUR mill. capital restricted funds OCI items equity funds earnings bond the parent interests total Equity 1 Jan 2014 75.4 168.1 -15.0 247.3 82.5 118.9 677.3 0.7 678.0 Result for the financial year -82.7 -82.7 0.2 -82.5 Change in fair value of hedging instruments -69.6 -69.6 -69.6 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans -3.3 -3.3 -3.3 Translation differences 0.4 0.4 0.4 Comprehensive income for the financial year 0.0 0.0 -72.4 0.0 -82.7 0.0 -155.1 0.2 -154.9 Dividend 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -8.6 -8.6 -8.6 Equity 31 Dec 2014 75.4 168.1 -87.4 247.4 -8.8 118.9 513.7 0.6 514.3 Finnair issued a new 200 million euros hybrid bond which increased its equity after expenses by 198.2 million euros. At the same time, Finnair amortised hybrid bond issued at 2012 by 81.7 million euros. Non-controlling interests’ share of equity was eliminated through sale of Finnair’s subsidiary Estravel AS. Improved results and hybrid bond issue resulted in increased equity (increase +213.1) enables flexible financing of growth Finnair’s equity strengthened from 514.3 million euros to 727.5 million euros (increase 213.1 million euros) mainly due to improved results (89.4), other comprehensive income (19.5) and hybrid bond issue. Strong equity enables flexible financing of growth. = Highlights STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Accounting principles Description of the company The Finnair Group engages in worldwide air transport operations and supporting services. The Group’s operations are divided into the Airline Business and Travel Services business areas. The Group’s parent company is Finnair Plc, which is How should the Finnair’s accounting principles be read? domiciled in Helsinki at the registered address Tietotie 9, Vantaa. The parent company is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Finnair describes the accounting principles in conjunction with each note in the aim of providing enhanced understanding of each acHelsinki Stock Exchange. The Board of Directors of Finnair Plc has approved these financial statements for publication at counting area. Basis of preparation is described as part of this note (accounting principles), while the ones more directly related to a speits meeting on 9 February 2016. Under Finland’s Limited Liability Companies Act, shareholders have the option to accept, cific note are attached to the corresponding note. The Group focuses on describing the accounting choices made within the framework of change or reject the financial statements in the Annual General meeting of the shareholders, which will be held after the the prevailing IFRS policy and avoids repeating the actual text of the standard, unless Finnair considers it particularly important to the publication of the financial statements. understanding of the note’s content. Refer to the table below to see which notes, accounting principles and IFRS standards are related. Basis of preparation Finnair Plc’s consolidated financial statements for 2015 have been prepared according to the International Financial ­Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations in effect on 31 December 2015 and as adopted by the European Union. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also comply with Finnish accounting and corporate law. New and amended Accounting principle Note Nr. IFRS standards applied in 2015 and future periods are described in the Note 4.7 Application of new and amended IFRS standSegment reporting Segment information 1.1 IFRS 8 ards and IFRIC interpretations. Revenue recognition, other income and trade Operating income 1.2 IAS 18, IAS 39, IFRS 7 The 2015 consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on original acquisition costs, except for financial receivables assets recognised through profit and loss at fair value, financial assets available-for-sale, and derivative contracts, which have Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions 1.3.5 IAS 37 been measured at fair value. Financial statement data is presented in millions of euros, rounded to the nearest one hundred Employee benefits and share-based payments Remuneration 1.3.7 IAS 19, IFRS 2 thousand euro. This means that the sum of the individual figures may differ from the total shown. Pensions Pensions 1.3.7.2 IAS 19 Presentation of Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet Tangible assets Tangible assets 2.1 IAS 16, IAS 36 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements standard does not define ‘operating result’. The Group has defined it as net Operating and finance lease arrangements Leasing arrangements 2.2 IAS 17 amount of operating income and expenses, including revenue and other operating income, less operating expenses, such Intangible assets Intangible assets 2.3 IAS 38 as maintenance expenses and materials used, lease payments for aircraft and other lease fees, employee benefits, depreciInterest and dividend income Financial income and expenses 3.1 IAS 18, IAS 32 ation and possible impairment losses arising as well as other operating expenses. Exchange rate differences and changes in Financial assets and impairment of financial Financial assets 3.2 IAS 39, IFRS 7 fair values of derivatives are included in operating profit if they arise from items related to business operations; otherwise assets they are recognised in financial items. Operating result excludes financial items, share of results from associates and joint Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets 3.2 IAS 39, IFRS 7 ventures and income taxes. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities 3.3 IAS 39, IFRS 7 Consolidated income statement includes, in addition to operating result, operational result and operational EBITDAR which are presented to better reflect the Group’s business performance when comparing results to previous periods. OpDerivative contracts and hedge accounting Derivatives 3.8 IAS 39, IFRS 7 erational result doesn’t include capital gains and losses, changes in the value of foreign currency denominated fleet mainteEquity, dividend and treasury shares Equity-related information 3.9 IAS 32, IAS 33 nance reserves, changes in the unrealised fair value of derivatives or non-recurring items. Operational EBITDAR is a comConsolidation principles of subsidiaries Subsidiaries 4.2 IFRS 10 mon measure in airline business which aims to reflect operational results excluding capital cost, independent of whether Non-controlling interests and transactions Subsidiaries 4.2 IFRS 10 aircraft are owned or leased. Therefore, operational EBITDAR is calculated by excluding depreciations and operating lease with non-controlling interests payments for aircraft from operational result. Assets held for sale Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale 4.4 IFRS 5 In the consolidated balance sheet, assets and liabilities are classified as current when they are expected to realise within Investments in associates and joint ventures Investments in associates and joint ventures 4.5 IFRS 11 12 months or when they are classified as liquid funds or financial assets or liabilities classified at fair value through profit or Income and deferred taxes Income taxes 5.1 IAS 12 loss. Other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets or liabilities. Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS standards requires Group management to make certain estimates and judgements in applying the accounting principles. Information about the judgement exercised by management in applying the Group’s accounting principles and the areas where estimates and judgements have biggest impact in the financial statements are presented in the following paragraph Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 43 Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty 1 Segments and operating result The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions relating to the future, and the actual outcome may differ from the estimates and assumptions made. In addition, discretion has to be exercised in applying the Segments and operating result include segment information and notes related to operating result both from income statement and balaccounting principles of the financial statements. Estimates are based on management’s best estimate at the balance sheet ance sheet perspective. date. Changes in estimates and assumptions effect the financial statements in the period the changes occur, and in all the subsequent financial periods. 1.1 Segment information The identified main critical estimates and sources of uncertainty are presented in connection to the items considered to be affected, Segment reporting attached to the corresponding note. The table below shows where to find more information about those presentations. Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors. Segments are defined based on Group’s business areas. Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty Note number Note Finnair Plus Customer Loyalty Program 1.2 Operating income Reportable segments follow the Group’s business area based internal organisational structure and financial reporting to manPension obligations 1.3.7.2 Pensions agement. The reportable segments in Finnair are Airline Business and Travel Services. The entities included in segments are specified in Note 4.2 Subsidiaries. Impairment testing 2.1 Tangible assets Airline Business is responsible for scheduled passenger and charter traffic as well as cargo sales, customer service and service Judgements of classifying lease arrangements 2.2 Leasing arrangements concepts, flight operations and management, maintenance and financing of the fleet. In addition, the segment is responsible for Deferred taxes 5.1 Income taxes managing real estate owned by Finnair. Finncatering Oy, that was sold to LSG Lufthansa Service Europa/Afrika GmbH, is included in the Airline segment figures until 28 February 2014 and airport shops of Travel Retail, that were sold to World Duty Free Helsinki, are included as well until 1 October 2014. Travel Services consists of the Group’s travel agency operations as well as tour operations and travel sector software business operations. Estravel AS and its subsidiary Estravel Vilnius UAB, which were sold at the end of 2015, are included in the segment figures until 29 December 2015. Transactions between segments are based on commercial terms. Items excluded from operating profit are not allocated to segments. Personnel working in group functions is presented separately, but costs from group functions are allocated to segments. Airline Business (not audited) Travel Services (not audited) € million € million 700 100 600 579 592 525 498 520 525 80 74 500 469 480 61 60 60 55 400 44 45 41 41 300 40 200 20 100 62 -6 5 3 7 26 -15 0 1 1 -4 2 -35 -21 -14 -24 0 0 –100 –20 014 20 20 20 01 5 20 2015 20 014 20 20 20 01 5 20 2015 20 14 14 14 15 15 14 14 14 15 15 Q1 2 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 2 Q2 Q3 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2 Q4 2 External revenue Operational result = Critical accounting estimates = Content of the section = Accounting principles Airline Business revenue has increased and operational result improved in every quarter during 2015, compared to the correspond= Highlights ing quarter in the previous period. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 44 Business segment data 2015 1.2 Operating income Airline Travel ElimiOther Group Operating income section includes both income statement and balance sheet notes that relate to revenue. The aim is to provide more coEUR mill. Business Services nations functions total herent picture of income related items effecting Finnair’s result and financial position. Trade receivables, advances received relating to flight External revenue 2,117.1 206.9 2,324.0 tickets and travel tour services as well as deferred income are presented in connection with this section, because those are an essential part Internal revenue 88.6 1.2 -89.8 0.0 in revenue recognition. Revenue 2,205.7 208.1 -89.8 2,324.0 Operational result 17.1 6.7 23.7 Revenue recognition Operating result 113.4 8.3 121.7 Revenue is recognised when goods or services are delivered. Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivShare of results in associates and joint ventures 0.1 able, net of discounts and indirect taxes. Financial income 1.3 Airline Business sales are recognised as revenue when the flight is flown in accordance with the flight traffic program. Unused tickets Financial expenses -9.7 are recognised as revenue when the ticket expires and Finnair has no obligation to return the consideration to customer. Finnair loyalty customers can earn Finnair Plus Points from tickets or services purchased, and use the earned points to buy services Income taxes -23.6 and products offered by Finnair or its partners in cooperation. The points earned are fair valued according to IFRIC 13, and recognised Non-controlling interests -0.3 as a decrease of revenue and debt at the time when the points-earning event (for example, flight is flown) is recognised as revenue. Fair Result for the financial year attributable to owners of value is measured by taking into account the fair value of those awards that can be purchased with the points and the customer selecthe parent company 89.4 tion between different awards based on historical customer behaviour. In addition, the fair valuation takes into account the expiring of the points. The debt is derecognised when the points are used to buy a service or a good (awards). Depreciation and impairment 106.9 1.2 108.1 Sale of goods in aircraft (Travel Retail) is recognised as revenue when the goods are delivered to the customer. Aircraft maintenance services are after restructuring sold only in small extent to external customers. The related revenue is recognised when the service has Average number of employees 4,002 567 337 4,906 been completely performed. Revenue related to Travel Services is recognised when the service has been performed, i.e. in case of tour operation services at the date Employees at the end of year 4,083 397 337 4,817 of departure and in commission sales at the time of sale. In commission based sales, only the part of commission is included in the revenue. Business segment data 2014 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at fair value. When the Group has objective evidence that it may not be able to collect all trade reAirline Travel ElimiOther Group ceivables that are due, a bad debt provision is recognised. Financial difficulties that indicate that a customer is going into bankruptcy, EUR mill. Business Services nations functions total financial restructuring or substantial delays in payments are examples of objective evidence that might cause trade receivables to be External revenue 2,070.7 213.8 2,284.5 impaired. Impairment of trade receivables is recognised in other operating expenses. Internal revenue 97.0 3.0 -100.0 0.0 Revenue 2,167.7 216.7 -100.0 2,284.5 Operational result -43.5 7.0 -36.5 Operating result -78.4 5.9 -72.5 Finnair Plus Customer Loyalty Program Share of results in associates and joint ventures -3.2 Valuation and revenue recognition related to Finnair Plus debt requires judgement of management especially related to fair valuation of points and timing of revenue recognition related to points expected to expire. The fair value of the point is defined by allocating the Financial income 3.5 point to award selection based on historical behaviour of customers, after which fair value of each award is defined. The liability is calFinancial expenses -26.9 culated by taking the total amount of points earned by customers, decreased with the expected expiring of the points. These points are Income taxes 16.5 then fair valued as described above, and the result is recognised as liability in the balance sheet. Non-controlling interests -0.2 Result for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company -82.7 Depreciation and impairment 132.9 1.4 134.3 Average number of employees 4,232 645 295 5,172 = Content of the section Employees at the end of year 4,050 600 331 4,981 = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 45 1.2.1 Revenue by product 1.2.3 Trade and other receivables EUR mill. 2015 2014 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Airline Business 2,117.1 2,070.7 Trade receivables 113.0 108.6 Passenger revenue 1,749.7 1,640.2 Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables total 95.5 85.4 Ancillary services revenue 104.6 79.1 Accrued income 51.6 33.0 Cargo revenue 183.7 231.3 VAT receivables 8.1 6.1 Other revenue 79.1 120.0 Employee benefit related receivables 7.6 2.8 Travel Services revenue 206.9 213.8 Prepaid operating leases 7.4 7.2 Total 2,324.0 2,284.5 Interest and other financial items 3.2 3.0 Other items 17.7 33.3 1.2.2 Revenue by currency Total 208.5 194.0 EUR mill. 2015 2014 The fair value of trade receivables does not materially differ from balance sheet value. EUR 1,372.8 1,313.2 JPY 191.4 211.6 Aging analysis of trade receivables 2015 2014 CNY 163.0 152.1 Not overdue 98.4 96.2 SEK 110.3 106.2 Overdue less than 60 days 1.9 3.5 KRW 70.4 63.3 Overdue more than 60 days 12.7 8.9 USD 57.6 64.1 Total 113.0 108.6 Other currencies 358.6 373.9 Total 2,324.0 2,284.5 The Group has recognised a total of 2.4 million euros (12.3) of credit losses from trade receivables during the financial year. At the end of 2014 Finnair wrote down 11.3 million euros of receivables related to restructuring need of Flybe Finland Oy Hedging policies of currency are described in the Note 3.5 Management of financial risks. (currently Nordic Regional Airlines Oy). More information related to the write down can be found in the Note 4.5 Investments in associates and joint ventures. Trade receivables do not contain significant credit risk because of diversity in cusRevenue by product Revenue by currency tomer basis. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of trade receivables. The Group does not hold any collateral as security related to trade receivables. € million % Trade receivables by currency 2,500 2,324.0 2,284.5 EUR mill. 2015 2014 2,000 EUR 69.9 72.1 USD 6.2 3.2 1,500 CNY 6.0 5.8 JPY 5.4 4.0 1,000 SEK 4.3 3.2 KRW 3.1 3.2 500 Other currencies 18.0 17.2 Total 113.0 108.6 0 14 15 EUR 59% KRW 3% Passenger revenue, change +7% Ancillary services JPY 8% USD 2% Cargo revenue, change -21% revenue, change +32% CNY 7% Other currencies 15% Travel services revenue, Other revenue, change -34% SEK 5% change -3% STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 46 1.2.4 Deferred income and advances received 1.3.1 Operational expenses by currency EUR mill. 2015 2014 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Unflown air transport revenues 301.7 252.3 EUR 1,211.3 1,219.2 Loyalty program Finnair Plus 31.9 29.6 USD 919.2 954.7 Advances received for tour operations 30.8 27.1 Other currencies 185.4 165.3 Other items 10.4 18.9 Total 2,316.0 2,339.2 Total 374.8 327.9 Currency hedging policies are described in the Note 3.5 Management of financial risks. Deferred income and advances received includes prepaid, yet unflown flight tickets and package tours, whose departure date is in the future. Unflown ticket revenue has increased mainly due to increased sales compared to 2014. 1.3.2 Leasing expenses Finnair Plus liability is related to Finnair’s customer loyalty program, and equals to the fair value of the earned unused Finnair Plus points. EUR mill. 2015 2014 Leasing payments for cargo capacity 11.1 25.2 1.3 Operating expenses Payments for purchase traffic and wet leases 116.3 96.7 The operating expenses section includes the income statement and balance sheet notes related to the operating expenses, aiming to proOffice and other rents 32.0 37.8 vide better overview of the business operations and related expenses. Maintenance provisions of leased aircraft that inherently relate to overOther rents total (included in operational EBITDAR) 159.4 159.7 haul expenses are included in this operating expenses section. Accrued expenses, like liabilities related to jet fuel and traffic charges, are also Lease payments for aircraft 99.3 78.8 presented in this section. All the income statement and balance sheet items related to employee benefits are also presented at the end of this Total 258.7 238.4 section as a separate note. Employee benefits include the different forms of benefits, like share-based payments and pensions as well as their effect to balance sheet, and information on management remuneration. Lease payments for aircraft have increased mainly because of the sale and leasebacks of Embraer E190, ATR 72 and ­Airbus A350 aircraft. Purchase traffic payments for Nordic Regional Airlines Oy are included in the payments for purchase trafOperational expenses Operational expenses by currency fic and wet leases. 1.3.3 Other expenses € million % 2,500 2,339.2 2,316.0 EUR mill. 2015 2014 IT expenses and booking fees 93.2 82.1 2,000 Other items 126.1 135.3 Total 219.3 217.4 1,500 1,000 Audit fees in other expenses EUR mill. 2015 2014 500 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Auditor's fees 0.2 0.2 0 14 15 Tax advising 0.1 0.1 EUR 52% Other fees 0.2 0.2 Staff costs, change +3% Expenses for tour operations, USD 40% Total 0.5 0.4 Fuel costs, change -10% change +4% Other currencies 8% Other rents, change 0% Sales and marketing expenses, change +13% Aircraft materials and overhaul, change 0% Other expenses, change +1% Traffic charges, change +12% Lease payments for aircraft, change +26% Ground handling and catering expenses, change -1% Depreciation and impairment, = Content of the section change -20% STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 47 1.3.4 Other liabilities 1.3.6 Items excluded from operational result EUR mill. 2015 2014 Operational result does not include non-recurring items and other items affecting comparability. Non-recurring items inJet fuels and traffic charges 67.2 79.1 clude sales gains and losses of fixed assets, businesses and subsidiaries and personnel related and other restructuring exExpenses for tour operations 9.8 6.6 penses. Fair value changes of derivatives are recognised through income statement and fair value changes of foreign currency denominated fleet maintenance reserves are considered as items affecting comparability in Finnair. Aircraft materials and overhaul 5.4 6.8 Interest and other financial items 5.0 5.6 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Other items 61.4 39.0 Fair value changes of derivatives -2.1 -34.9 Total 148.7 137.1 Fair value changes of foreign currency denominated fleet maintenance reserves -10.1 -8.8 Non-recurring items 110.2 7.7 Other items consists of several items related to expenses, none of which are individually significant. Total 98.0 -36.0 1.3.5 Provisions 1.3.7 Employee benefits 1.3.7.1 Employee benefit expenses and share-based payments Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as the result of a past event, the fulfilment of the payment obligation is probable, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. The amount to be recognised Share-based payments as provisions corresponds to the management’s best estimate of the expenses that will be necessary to meet the obligation at the end Finnair provides a number of share-based compensation plans for its employees, under which the Group receives services from emof the reporting period. ployees as consideration for share-based payments. Regarding share-based incentive plans for key personnel and pilots, the awards are Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has prepared a detailed restructuring plan and has begun to implement paid only if performance criteria set by the Board of Directors are met. Share-based savings plan for employees (FlyShare) requires the the plan or has announced it. A restructuring plan must include at least the following information: the operations affected, the main opemployees to remain in Finnair’s service for the defined period but payment does not depend on any performance criteria. erating points affected, the workplace locations, working tasks and estimated number of the people who will be paid compensation for The total expense for share-based payments is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specithe ending of their employment, the likely costs and the date of implementation of the plan. fied vesting conditions are to be satisfied. The portion of the earned reward that the participants receive in shares is accounted for as The Group is obliged to return leased aircraft at the required redelivery condition. To fulfil these maintenance obligations the Group an equity settled transaction, and the portion of the earned reward settled in cash or covering the tax and other charges, is accounted has recognised airframe heavy maintenance, engine performance maintenance and engine life limited part provisions. The basis for for as cash settled transaction. The equity-settled share awards are measured based on the market price of the Finnair share as of the the provision is flight hours flown during the maintenance period. grant date, and recognised as an employee benefit expense over the vesting period with corresponding entry in the equity. The liability resulting from the cash-settled transactions is measured based on the market price of the Finnair share at the balance sheet date and accrued as an employee benefit expense for service period with the corresponding entry in the liabilities until the settlement date. Aircraft Aircraft maintenance Other maintenance Other proviEUR mill. provision provisions 2015 provision sions 2014 Termination benefits Provision at the beginning of Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an emperiod 82.5 13.8 96.3 92.4 17.4 109.8 ployee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably Provision for the period 30.6 4.4 35.0 25.5 20.3 45.8 committed to a termination. The Group is demonstrably committed when it has a detailed formal plan to terminate the employment of Provision used -36.5 -11.1 -47.5 -44.2 -23.9 -68.1 current employees without possibility of withdrawal. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination Exhange rate differences 10.1 10.1 8.8 8.8 benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Total 86.8 7.1 94.0 82.5 13.8 96.3 For accounting principles related to Pensions, see Note 1.3.7.2 Pensions for more information. Of which non-current 52.0 3.7 55.7 52.1 52.1 Of which current 34.8 3.5 38.3 30.4 13.8 44.2 Total 86.8 7.1 94.0 82.5 13.8 96.3 Non-current aircraft maintenance provisions are expected to be used by 2027. Other provisions include items related to group’s restructurings. = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 48 Staff costs Management remuneration EUR mill. 2015 2014 The President and CEO and Executive Board remuneration Wages and salaries 277.1 275.3 President President Pension expenses 57.0 54.6 and CEO and CEO Defined contribution plans 42.6 44.3 Pekka Executive Total Pekka Executive Total Thousand euros Vauramo Board 2015 Vauramo Board 2014 Defined benefit plans 14.4 10.3 Fixed pay 649 1,196 1,845 639 1,614 2,253 Other social expenses 19.0 14.6 Short-term incentives* 235 352 588 194 260 454 Total 353.2 344.5 Fringe benefits 3 61 63 4 66 70 Staff costs included in non-recurring items 2.9 7.0 Termination benefits 369 369 392 392 Total staff costs in income statement 356.1 351.5 Share-based payments 115 182 297 46 120 166 Pensions (statutory)** 153 277 429 134 322 456 In Finnair, the total salary of personnel consists of fixed pay, allowances, short-and long-term incentives, fringe benefits Pensions (voluntary defined contribution) 69 69 122 122 and other personnel benefits. The total amount of short-term incentives recognised for 2015 were 6.3 million euros (4.6). Total 1,155 2,506 3,661 1,016 2,897 3,913 In addition to staff costs, non-recurring items include personnel related restructuring costs of 2.9 million euros (7.0) as agreed in the Group’s statutory employer-employee negotiations. Including non-recurring items, total staff costs amount* Short-term incentives for the financial year 2015 are estimates, as at the balance sheet date, the final incentives have not been. ed to 356.1 million euros (351.5). confirmed Short-term incentives for 2014 realised circa 4.000 euros lower than expected in 2014 financial statements. Transfer to Personnel Fund ** Statutory pensions include Finnair’s share of the payment to Finnish statutory “TyEL” pension plan. Finnair has a Personnel Fund that is owned and controlled by personnel. A share of Finnair’s profits is allocated to the fund. The share of profit allocated to the fund is determined based on the targets set by the Board of Directors. The participants Management remuneration is presented on an accrual basis. In 2015 share-based payments include accrued expenses relatof the performance share plan (LTI) are not members of the Personnel Fund. The Personnel Fund is obliged to invest part ed to 2013–2015, 2014–2016 and 2015–2017 share-based payment plans and FlyShare share savings plan. Share-based payof the bonus in Finnair Plc’s shares. In 2015 and 2014 profits were not allocated to the fund, because the set performance ments for the Executive Board in 2015 and 2014 include compensations related to Finnair Plc’s share-based bonus scheme criteria were not met. 2010–2012. The shares earned were delivered and cash-based share paid during 2013, but the income statement effect is accrued to vesting period for 2010–2015 up to ending of lock-up period, according to IFRS 2. Management has not been provided any other long-term incentives in addition to share-based payments. Liabilities related to employee benefits The pension plans of the members of the Executive Board have been arranged through Finnish pension insurance comEUR mill. 2015 2014 pany, and the retirement age is 63. All voluntary pension schemes provided for the Executive Board members are defined contribution plans, and executive service contracts concluded after 1 January 2013 do not include any voluntary pension Holiday payments 62.0 61.5 benefits. Defined benefit plans for previous members of the Executive Board ceased during 2014. Other employee related accrued expenses 29.0 18.2 More information on share-based payment schemes can be found later in this note and in a separate Remuneration stateEmployee benefit related accruals total 91.0 79.7 ment, which also includes information on remuneration policies and structures and compensation paid to senior management. Other employee related accrued expenses mainly include withholding tax and accrued expenses related to social security costs. In addition, provisions in the balance sheet include employee related restructuring provisions amounting to 5.5 million euros (8.7). STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 49 The Board of Directors remuneration Performance share plan for key personnel (LTI) from 2013 onwards Finnair’s share based incentive plan is a performance-based, annually commencing long-term incentive (LTI) arrangement. Compensation paid for board service, Total Fixed Meeting Fringe Total Each share based incentive arrangement is divided into four-six-year share plans, and the commencement of each new plan EUR 2015 remuneration compensation benefits 2014 is subject to a separate decision made by Finnair’s Board of Directors. The first plan commenced in 2013, and at the end Board of Directors total 383,015 247,200 118,200 17,615 358,227 of 2015 there are three plans ongoing (2013–2015, 2014–2016, 2015–2017). The purpose of the share plan is to encourFriman Maija-Liisa 49,980 31,800 10,800 7,380 age the management to work to increase long-term shareholder value. The share plan is in line with the statement by the Heinemann Klaus 77,400 61,200 16,200 0 ­Finnish Cabinet Committee on Economic Policy regarding the remuneration of executive management and key individuals. Itävuori Jussi 63,153 31,800 29,400 1,953 Each LTI plan contains a three-year performance period which is followed by a restriction period, during which the participant may not sell or transfer the shares received as a reward. The restriction period is three years for the members of Kerminen Harri 44,400 32,400 12,000 0 Finnair’s Executive Board and one year for other participants. In addition, the President and CEO, and members of Finnair’s Kronman Gunvor 42,926 30,000 8,400 4,526 Executive Board are required to accumulate and, once achieved, to maintain, a share ownership in Finnair corresponding to Tuominen Jaana 42,309 30,000 9,600 2,709 his or her annual base salary as long as he or she holds a position as a member of Finnair’s Executive Board. Turner Nigel 62,847 30,000 31,800 1,047 The potential reward will be delivered in Finnair shares. The share delivery is split into three share tranches (50%, 30% and 20%) that will be delivered to the Executive Board members during the three years following the performance period. For other participants the shares are delivered at 50 per cent tranches during the two following years after the performance The compensation paid to the members of the Board of Directors include annual remuneration and meeting compensation. period. As Finnair has adopted a program consisting of annually commencing individual plans, in which the shares are paid The members of the Board of Directors are entitled to a daily allowance and compensation for travel expenses in accordance in three tranches, the program also includes a bridge element to supplement payments in 2016 and 2017. This takes into conwith Finnair’s general travel rules. In addition, the members of the Board of Directors and their spouses have a limited right sideration the fact that the LTI plan will not be in full effect until 2018. The targets set to the bridge element were not met. to use staff tickets in accordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rules. Under the rules, the Directors and their spouses are entitled If the performance criteria set are met at the target level, the incentive paid in Finnair shares to the President and CEO to four return or eight one-way tickets on Finnair flights per calendar year in Economy or Business Class. The fare of these or other members of the Executive Board will be 30 per cent of his or her annual base salary and if criteria are met at the tickets is zero, exclusive of any airport taxes, fees and charges, which are payable by the Directors and their spouses. These maximum level, the incentive paid in Finnair shares will be 60 per cent of the participant’s annual base salary. The target tickets constitute taxable income in Finland and are reported as fringe benefits in the table above. level for incentives for other key personnel is 20–25 per cent and maximum level 40–50 per cent of the person’s average annual base salary according to the job grade. Share-based payments According to the rules of the LTI, the maximum value of shares delivered to an individual participant in any given year The note below provides description and information on effects of the Group’s share-based incentive plans. More informamay not exceed 60 per cent of the person’s annual base salary. The amounts of shares paid are stated before tax. The numtion on share-based personnel bonus schemes can be found in the Remuneration statement. ber of shares delivered will be deducted by the income tax and transfer tax payable for the incentive at the time of payment. The performance criteria applied to the plan for 2013–2015 are the Group’s relative operating EBIT margin growth and Finnair share-based payment plans decrease in unit costs in European traffic. These two criteria are assigned weights of 60% and 40%, respectively. The performance criterion for the share plan’s bridge element is the operating EBIT margin. The performance criteria applied in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2014–2016 and 2015–2017 plans are Finnair’s return on capital employed (ROCE, weight 50 per cent) and total shareholder return (TSR). The target levels and maximum levels set for the criteria are based on long-term strategic objectives set by LTI 2010–2012 the company’s Board of Directors. Performance against the criteria is monitored quarterly. LTI 2013–2015 The total expense for the share-based payments is recognised over the vesting period (4–6 years). The compensation is LTI 2014–2016 measured during performance period in cash, and only after performance period at grant date translated into shares. Therefore the whole cost effect is recognised as debt until the end of performance period (grant date), and the debt is divided into LTI 2015–2017 equity settled and cash settled part only at grant date. At the same time, the equity settled part is recognised in equity. At the end of 2015, at the grant date of the plan 2013–2015, a debt of 0.2 million euros was transferred to equity. The expense Pilots’ share plan recognised for 2015 amounted to 1.0 million euros (0.4). Fly Share 2013 Fly Share 2014 Fly Share 2015 Earnings / savings period Lock-up period for Cash reward Lock-up period Executive Board Share delivery STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 50 2013–2015 2014–2016 2015-2017 Share-based performance plan for pilots plan plan plan Total The Finnair Board of Directors approved in 2014 a long-term incentive plan for Finnair pilots as part of the savings agreeMaximum earning, million euros 3.4 2.5 2.8 8.6 ment between Finnair and the Finnish Air Line Pilots’ Association (SLL). The plan period is 2015–2018 and the prerequisite Maximum earning, million shares (with 31 Dec for rewarding pilots based on this plan is the materialisation of the agreed cost savings over this time period. In addition, 2015 share price) 0.6 0.5 0.5 1.6 the company share price must at least be four euros at the end of the incentive plan. If these conditions are met, the pilots Target earning, million euros 1.7 1.2 1.4 4.3 are entitled to a cash payment based on the Finnair share price. The total reward to pilots amounts to 12 million euros if the Target earning, million shares (with 31 Dec 2015 share price is four euros or a maximum of 24 million euros, if the share price reaches at least eight euros. Finnair has hedged share price) 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.8 against the additional cost effects above the four euro share price with a market-based call option. Expenses recognised for the financial year, LTI’s The plan is considered as a cash-settled share-based arrangement. The cost effects are accrued over the vesting period total (million euros) 0.1 0.6 0.3 1.0 from grant date onwards (2014–2018), and the corresponding liability is fair valued at each reporting date. The 2015 closing of which equity settled (recognised as debt until rate of Finnair’s share (5.42 euros) was above the minimum required level (four euros), and based on preliminary view of the grant date) 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.4 savings targets being met a liability of 4.5 million euros was recognised in 2015. Since Finnair has hedged against the cost of which cash settled 0.0 0.4 0.2 0.6 effects above four euro share price, the cost recognised in operational result in 2015 was limited to 3.2 million euros (0.0). Liability related to LTI’s at the closing date (million euros) 0.4 0.7 0.3 1.4 Finnair Plc’s share-based bonus scheme 2010–2012 Shares granted (million shares) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The Board of Directors of Finnair Plc approved a share-based bonus scheme for 2010–2012 on 4 February 2010. In the share bonus scheme, key individuals had the possibility of receiving company shares and cash for a three-year performance peFlyShare employee share savings plan from 2013 onwards riod according to how financial targets set for the performance period have been achieved. The Board of Directors decided annually the financial targets to be set for each performance period. Achieving the tarFinnair offers an annually commencing share savings plan for its employees. Commencing of each plan is subject to the degets set for the performance period determined how large proportion of the maximum bonus and of the incentive based cision of Finnair’s Board of Directors. First plan commenced in 2013, and for the time being there are three plans ongoing. on the acquisition of Finnair shares will be paid. In a three-year period, the total of the share bonuses, however, could not The objective of the plan is to encourage employees to become shareholders in the company, and to thereby strengthen the exceed three years’ gross earnings. employees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and reward them in the long-term. If key individuals belonging to the share bonus scheme purchased Finnair Plc shares during 2010–2012, they were paid a Each plan consists of one year savings period followed by two year lock-up period. Through the plan, each eligible F­ innair cash incentive bonus in the spring of the year following the acquisitions. The incentive bonus was paid on the correspondemployee is offered the opportunity to save part of his or her salary to be invested in Finnair shares. The maximum monthly ing relation to the value of the shares acquired by the key individual as he or she had fulfilled the set targets. This bonus savings are 8 per cent and the minimum 2 per cent of each participant’s gross base salary per month, with the annual maxwas supplemented by a cash sum, which in most cases corresponded to taxes and tax-related payments arising to key indiimum savings set at 8,000 euros per participant. Shares are purchased with the accumulated savings at the market price viduals from the receipt of their bonus. In any single year of the performance period the number of acquired shares, taken quarterly, after the release of Finnair’s interim reports. into account that it could be at most half of the key individual’s share bonus allocation, i.e. the number of shares that the Finnair awards 20 bonus shares to each employee that participates in the plan for the first time, and continues savings key individual could at most receive as a share bonus for the year in question. The size of the cash bonus was determined at least the first three months of the plan. The bonus shares are delivered in October each year, and the effect is recognised as follows: number of shares acquired by key individual x the company’s share price at the time of payment x the target reas expense for the period. The plan lasts for three years, and Finnair awards each participating employee with one share for alisation percentage x 2.5. each two shares purchased and held at the end of three-year period. The awarded bonus and additional shares are taxable Shares were earned annually in the period 2010–2012. The long-term incentive for the three-year period was achieved income for the recipient. The cost related to additional shares delivered is recognised as expense during vesting period. at an average level of 43%. This share-based incentive for the full three-year period was paid in spring 2013 and 708,679 shares were granted. At the same time, a cash bonus intended for payment of taxes was paid, amounting to 1.5 times the Effect of FlyShare share savings plan on Group’s results and financial position, value of the shares at the time of payment. After the payment of shares, there was an embargo on their sale and shares were million euros 2015 2014 held in lock-up until end of 2015. A total amount of 5.3 million euros was paid related to the plan, of which 1.8 million Total income statement effect of FlyShare 1.6 0.4 euros was delivered as shares, 2.7 million euros paid as cash to cover tax payments and 0.8 euros paid as incentive bonus Of which share-settled 0.5 0.2 based on the purchase of shares. Of which cash settled 1.2 0.2 The income statement effect related to the plan has been accrued to vesting period 2010–2015 based on the applied Liability related to share-based payments at the closing date 1.3 0.2 IFRS 2 standard. The effect on 2015 results totalled 0.2 million euros (0.2). STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 51 1.3.7.2 Pensions Defined benefit pension plans Defined benefit and defined contribution plans EUR mill. 2015 2014 Pension plans are classified as defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Payments made into defined contribution pension plans Items recognised in the income statement are recognised in the income statement in the period to which the payment applies. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount Current service costs 9.2 8.8 of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service Past service cost 5.3 1.7 and compensation. Current service cost is the present value of the post employment benefit, which is earned by the employees during Settlements and curtailments 1.7 -0.2 the year and it is recognised as employee benefit expense. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The deService cost total 16.2 10.3 fined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of Net interest expenses 0.5 0.3 the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high-quality corpoIncluded in personnel expenses total 16.7 10.7 rate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. Amounts recognised through other comprehensive income Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to eqExperience adjustment on plan obligation 2.8 -24.4 uity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Changes in financial actuarial assumptions -28.9 50.5 Changes in demographical actuarial assumptions 10.6 0.0 Net return on plan assets -22.2 -22.0 The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a Transfer of actuarial items related to terminated plan to retained earnings -0.1 number of assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations. The note below includes a description of exposure to most significant risks and a sensitivity analysis on impacts of changes in actuarial assumptions. Amounts recognised through other comprehensive income total -37.7 4.1 Number of persons involved, pension fund 4,797 4,502 Description of pension plans in Finnair Other defined benefit plans, persons involved 10 0 The statutory pension cover of the employees of the Group’s Finnish companies has been arranged in a Finnish pension insurance company. The statutory pension cover is a defined-contribution plan. The Group’s foreign sales offices and subsidiaries have various defined contribution plans that comply with local rules and practices. The voluntary pension schemes Items recognised in the balance sheet of three members of the Executive Board are arranged in a pension insurance company and the retirement age under these agreements is on average 63 years. These pension schemes are defined-contribution schemes. Other (voluntary) pension EUR mill. 2015 2014 cover of the Group’s domestic companies has been arranged mainly in Finnair Plc’s Pension Fund, in which the pension Present value of funded obligations 426.3 436.0 schemes are defined-benefit plans. These pension plans cover old age pensions, disability and survivors’ pensions. The penFair value of plan assets -422.0 -410.7 sion fund is fully funded in accordance with the provisions of Finnish law. 700 Finnair pilots have, in addition to voluntary Net defined benefit liability 4.4 25.3 pension arranged in Finnair Pension Fund, special defined-benefit pension scheme. This scheme applies only to pilots who work older than 58 years of age. Voluntary pensions of pilots recruited in 2015 or later are defined contribution schemes. The net defined benefit liability in 2015 includes 2.6 million euros (25.3) related to defined benefit plans insured through Exposure to most significant risks pension fund and 1.7 million euros (0.1) related to other defined benefit plans. The decrease in net liability is mainly relatVolatility of plan assets: Some of the plan assets are invested in equities which causes volatility but is in the long run exed to the change in inflation rate assumption. Finnair changed the basis used for inflation assumption to market based inpected to provide higher returns than corporate bonds. The discount rate of plan obligations is defined based on the inflation. Due to the change, the inflation rate decreased from 2.0% to 1.2% and future pension increase rate decreased from terest rates of corporate bonds. 2.1% to 1.4%. The discount rate (2.0%) remained in the same level as in 2014 (2.1%). These effects are included in the changChanges in bond yield: A decrease in corporate bond yields increases plan obligations due to the fact that the pension es in financial assumptions. The positive effect was partially mitigated by the change in mortality rate, included in changobligation is discounted to net present value with a rate that is based on corporate bond rates. This increase in plan obligaes in demographical assumptions. In the Finnish national pension system, the mortality rate used will be updated from 31 tions is partially mitigated by a corresponding increase in the value of corporate bonds in plan assets. December 2016 onwards. The redefined assumption is applied in accounting of IFRS pension liability already in the finanLife expectancy: The most significant part of the provided pension benefits relate to old age pensions. Therefore, an incial statements of 2015. crease in life expectancy rate results in an increase of plan obligations. Inflation risk: Pension obligations are linked to inflation which is why higher inflation leads to increased obligations. As only some of the plan assets increase with inflation, an increase in inflation will likely decrease the solvency of the pension plan. = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 52 The Finnish employee pension reform Plan assets are comprised as follows In November 2015, the Finnish Parliament passed an amendment to Finnish employee pension legislation, which inter alia increases the statutory retirement age of the employees. The Board of Directors of Finnair Pension Fund has made a decision % 2015 2014 in principle that the amendment of the pension legislation is incorporated in the rules of the fund so that the pension obligaListed shares 21.4 19.5 tions of the fund remain unchanged despite the change. Finnair pilots’ pension benefits, which are provided by the fund and Debt instruments 53.6 53.4 which exceed the existing statutory pension benefits in Finland, form part of their collective labour agreement. Finnair conProperty 17.5 18.8 siders that these benefits are not affected by the amendment of pension legislation. Finnair has obtained a legal opinion on Other 7.5 8.3 the matter. Finnair has not recognised a supplementary obligation due to the amendment of the employee pension legislation. Total 100.0 100.0 Changes in pension obligations Plan assets of the pension fund include Finnair Plc shares with a fair value of 0.6 million euros (0.3) and buildings used by EUR mill. 2015 2014 the Group with a fair value of 2.0 million euros (3.3). Net present value of pension obligations at 1 January 436.0 406.9 Current service cost 9.2 8.8 Defined benefit plans: principal actuarial assumptions 2015 2014 Past service cost 5.3 1.7 Discount rate 2.0% 2.1% Settlements and curtailments 1.7 0.3 Inflation 1.2% 2.0% Interest expense 9.0 12.9 Annual rate of future salary increases 2.1% 2.1% Expenses recognised in income statement 25.1 23.7 Future pension increases 1.4% 2.1% Changes in actuarial assumptions -18.3 50.5 Estimated remaining years of service 11 11 Experience adjustment on plan obligation 2.8 -24.4 Remeasurements recognised through OCI -15.5 26.1 Sensitivity analysis Benefits paid -19.3 -20.7 Sensitivity analysis describes the effect of change in actuarial assumptions to net defined benefit obligation. The analysis is Net present value of pension obligations 426.3 436.0 based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. The method used is the same as the one applied when measuring the defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet. Changes in plan assets Sensitivity analysis on principal actuarial assumptions EUR mill. 2015 2014 Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 410.7 396.3 Impact when increase Impact when decrease Interest income 8.4 12.6 Change in in assumption, in assumption, Actuarial assumption assumption EUR mill. % EUR mill. % Settlements and curtailments 0.0 0.5 Discount rate 0.3% -14.9 -3.5% 15.8 3.7% Items recognised through profit and loss 8.4 13.1 Annual rate of future salary increases 0.3% 4.6 1.1% -4.5 -1.1% Actuarial gain (loss) on plan assets 22.2 22.0 Future pension increases 0.3% 11.1 2.6% -10.8 -2.5% Items recognised through OCI 22.2 22.0 Life expectancy at birth 1 year 12.1 2.9% -11.8 -2.8% Contributions paid 0.0 0.0 Benefits paid -19.3 -20.7 According to Finnish legislation, the pension fund needs to be fully funded. Expected contribution payments for the next Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 422.0 410.7 five years are approximately 45 million euros. The amount of payments depends on future returns on plan assets. The duration of defined benefit obligation is 14.93 years. The duration is calculated with a discount rate of 2.0%. . STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 53 2 Aircraft and other intangible and tangible assets and leasing arrangements 2.1 Tangible assets Aircraft and other intangible and tangible assets, and leasing arrangements include particularly notes related to aircraft fleet. Notes related to the aircraft operated by the Group, both owned and leased aircraft under different kind of lease arrangements, are combined in this Tangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment loss if applicable. Tangible assets section so that the general view of the fleet would be easier to perceive. include mainly aircraft. The acquisition cost of aircraft is allocated to the aircraft frame, engines and maintenace components as separate assets. Maintenance components include heavy maintenance of aircraft frames and performance restoration and mainteThe assets owned and leased by Finnair consist mostly of aircrafts operated by Finnair and Norra. Approximately half of nance of life-limited parts of aircraft engines, and they are depreciatied during the maintenance cycle. Aircraft frames and engines the fleet operated is owned by Finnair. More detailed information regarding owned aircrafts is found in Note 2.1 and reare depreciated over the useful life of the aircraft. Significant modifications of own or leased aircraft are capitalised as separate items garding leased aircrafts in Note 2.2. and depreciated over the expected useful life, which in the case of leased aircraft cannot exceed the lease period. Replaced components are derecognised from the balance sheet. Rotable items are capitalised and depreciated during their expected useful life. Fleet Advance payments for aircraft are recorded as tangible assets. Interest costs related to advance payments are capitalised as acquisition cost for the period at which Finnair is financing the manufacturing of the aircraft. Fair value changes of derivatives used Owned, 36 Finance Operating lease, 33 in hedging of currency exchange rate risk related to firm commitments of aircraft purchases are recognised in advane payments. Narrow-body, 56 lease, 3 Advance payments, realized fx hedges and capitalised interests are recognised as a part of the aircraft acquisition cost once the aircraft is delivered and put to commercial use. Depreciation of tangible assets is based on the following expected economic lifetimes: • Aircraft and engines (aircraft) as well as flight simulators (other equipment) on a straight-line basis as follows: −− Airbus A350 fleet, over 20 years to a residual value of 10% −− Airbus A320 and Embraer fleet, over 20 years to a residual value of 10% −− Airbus A330 fleet, over 18 years to a residual value of 10% Wide-body, 16 −− Airbus A340 fleet, over 15 years to a residual value of 10% −− Turboprop aircraft (ATR fleet), over 12 years to a residual value of 10% • Heavy maintenance of aircraft frames and performance maintenance and life limited parts of the engines, on a straight-line basis during the maintenance period • Rotable items, over 15–20 years to a residual value of 10% • Buildings, over 50 years from time of acquisition to a residual value of 10% or 3–7% of the diminishing balances Finnair operated, 46 Norra operated, 26 • Other tangible assets, over 3–15 years or 23% of the diminishing balances The residual values and estimated useful lives of assets are assessed at each closing date and if they differ significantly from previInvestment commitments ous estimates, the depreciation periods and residual values are changed accordingly. Gains and losses on disposal of tangible assets is included in the non-recurring items. At the end of financial year investment commitments totalled 1,818 million euros (1,950) including firm aircraft orders and orders related to the building project of new cargo terminal. The total commitment fluctuates between the order and Impairment the delivery of the aircraft mainly due to exchange rate EUR/USD and the escalation clauses included in airline purchase On every closing date the Group reviews individual tangible asset items for any indication of impairment losses. An asset’s carrying agreements. The final amount of the commitment in relation to each aircraft is only known at the time of the delivery. amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if it is greater than the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is defined for cash generating unit, and need for impairment is evaluated on the cash generating unit level. Investment commitments The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell or its value in use. The value in use is based on the expected discounted future net cash flows obtainable from the asset or cash-generating unit. € million 800 700 651 600 Impairment testing The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined in calculations based either on the value in-use or on the sale 500 420 price less the expenses of the sale. The preparation of these calculations requires the use of estimates. Estimates are based on budgets 400 and forecasts, which inherently contain some degree of uncertainty. The main uncertainty factors in calculations are the USD/EUR and 400 325 300 JPY/EUR exchange rates, unit revenue, estimated sales volumes and jet fuel price. 200 161 127 134 100 = Content of the section 20 = Accounting principles 0 16 17 18 19 20 21-23 = Critical accounting estimates A350 Other STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 54 Tangible assets 2015 Capitalised borrowing costs Buildings Other equipEUR mill. Aircraft and land ment Advances Total Aircraft Advances Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2015 1,620.2 138.5 72.4 66.4 1,897.5 EUR mill. 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Additions 248.7 17.4 1.7 91.3 359.1 Book value 1 Jan 1.9 1.9 Disposals -264.3 -113.3 -35.5 -413.1 Additions 2.2 5.0 1.9 7.1 1.9 Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions -14.7 -14.7 Disposals -1.9 -1.9 Reclassifications 57.1 11.7 -62.4 6.4 Reclassifications 0.8 -0.8 0.0 Transfer to assets held for sale -311.3 -16.7 -328.0 Book value 31 Dec 1.0 6.1 1.9 7.1 1.9 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2015 1,350.3 25.9 50.4 80.6 1,507.1 In 2015, borrowing costs of 7.1 million euros (1.9) were capitalised in tangible assets related to the Airbus A350 investment program. The interest rate used was 5.0 per cent, which represents the costs of the loan used to finance the investment. Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2015 -842.6 -108.4 -48.8 -999.7 Capitalised borrowing costs on aircraft is not yet depreciated, because the A350 aircraft and spare engine were received at Disposals 110.1 102.7 32.0 244.8 the end of financial year. Disposals are related to the sale and leasebacks of two A350 aircraft. Depreciation for the financial year -94.2 -3.6 -2.5 -3.1 -103.5 Depreciation in non-recurring items -31.2 -9.2 -0.1 -40.4 Impairment test Reclassifications -2.3 -2.3 The impairment test of the aircraft based on the fair value has been done on the closing date. It did not cause any need for Transfer to assets held for sale 190.3 15.2 205.5 impairment. The test based on the fair value is sensitive to exchange rate EUR/USD and the weakening of the USD deAccumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec 2015 -667.5 -3.3 -21.7 -3.1 -695.6 creases the fair value of aircraft. The fair value of aircraft would still be higher than the carrying value, if the USD would weaken by 10 per cent. Book value 31 Dec 2015 682.8 22.6 28.7 77.5 811.6 2.2 Leasing arrangements The carrying value of rotable parts included in aircraft is 15.1 million euros (13.2). In addition, inventories include non-roThe Group as the lessee table aircraft parts of 10.1 million euros (13.1). Lease agreements of tangible assets, where a substantial part of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, are The value of aircraft that have been pledged as a security for external loans amount to 250.0 million euros (314.8). classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease term at the lower of the fair value of the Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions are described in Notes 3.5 Management of financial risks and 3.8 Derivatives. leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. A corresponding sum is recognised as a finance lease liability. The lease payments are allocated between finance expenses and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The corresponding rental Tangible assets 2014 obligations, net of finance charges, are included in the long-term or short-term interest-bearing liabilities. Asset items acquired under Buildings Other finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term. EUR mill. Aircraft and land equipment Advances Total Lease agreements, where the lessor retains a substantial part of the risks and rewards, are classified as operating leases. Payments Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2014 2,052.2 148.8 75.7 66.0 2,342.7 under operating leases are charged to the income statement over the lease term to lease payments for aircraft (not included in operaAdditions 56.2 1.0 86.3 143.4 tional EBITDAR) or to other rents for facilities, purchased traffic and temporary aircraft leases. Disposals -361.3 -5.5 -366.8 The Group as the lessor Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions -64.1 -64.1 The agreements, where the Group is the lessor, are accounted for as operating leases, when a substantial part of the risks and rewards Reclassifications 19.7 1.2 -21.8 -0.9 of ownership are not transferred to the lessee. The assets are included in the tangible assets and they are depreciated during their useTransfer to assets held for sale -146.6 -10.3 -156.9 ful life. Depreciation is calculated using the same principles as the tangible assets for own use. Under the provisions of certain aircraft Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2014 1,620.2 138.5 72.4 66.4 1,897.5 lease agreements, the lessee is required to pay a periodic maintenance reserve which accumulate funds for aircraft maintenance. Advaces received for maintenance are recognised as liability, which is charged, when maintenance is done. Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2014 -888.0 -112.3 -49.8 -1,050.1 The rents for premises are recognised in the income statement as other operating income over the lease term and the rents for airDisposals 132.9 5.4 138.3 craft as revenue. Depreciation for the financial year -123.2 -1.2 -4.1 -128.6 Sale and leaseback transactions Depreciation in non-recurring items -1.2 -0.2 -1.4 If the sale and leaseback transaction is resulting in a finance lease agreement, the difference between the selling price and the carrying Transfer to assets held for sale 37.0 5.2 42.1 amount of the asset sold is deferred and amortised over the lease period. If the sale and leaseback transaction is resulting in an operating Accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec 2014 -842.6 -108.4 -48.8 -999.7 lease agreement, the difference between the selling price and the carrying amount of the asset sold is recognised in the income statement when the selling price is based on fair value. Otherwise the sales gain or loss is deferred and amortised over the lease period. Book value 31 Dec 2014 777.6 30.1 23.6 66.4 897.8 = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 55 Other lease arrangements Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty The classification of lease arrangements in the Group’s Airline Business to financial and other leases requires management discretion in Minimum lease payments for irrevocable lease agreements, the Group as lessee interpretation and application of accounting standards. Where the management has made a judgement that risks and rewards of ownAircraft Premises and land Other equipment ership belong to the Group, the lease is treated as a financial lease, otherwise as other lease. EUR mill. 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 less than a year 128.6 89.5 24.5 20.2 5.5 6.3 Finance lease arrangements 1–5 years 426.5 253.6 80.3 75.4 11.1 2.6 more than 5 years 485.2 292.7 183.7 141.8 EUR mill. Buildings Aircraft Other equipment Total Total 1,040.3 635.8 288.6 237.5 16.6 8.9 Acquisition cost 4.2 197.2 8.4 209.8 Additions 0.7 0.7 The Group has leased premises as well as aircraft and other fixed assets with irrevocable lease agreements. These agreeDisposals -3.6 -0.6 -4.2 ments have different levels of renewal and other index-linked terms and conditions. The Group has leased 37 aircraft on Accumulated depreciation -0.5 -68.0 -4.7 -73.3 leases of different lengths. Rental payments of aircraft have increased mainly because of the sale and leaseback of Embraer Book value 31 Dec 2015 0.0 129.2 3.8 133.0 E190, ATR 72 and Airbus A350 aircraft. Acquisition cost 4.2 197.2 8.4 209.8 Minimum lease payments for irrevocable lease agreements, the Group as lessor Accumulated depreciation -0.4 -57.9 -4.1 -62.5 Aircraft Premises Book value 31 Dec 2014 3.7 139.3 4.3 147.3 EUR mill. 2015 2014 2015 2014 less than a year 38.9 52.5 5.2 5.2 Facilities in Kiinteistö Oyj Lentäjäntie 1 under finance lease arrangement were reclassified as operating lease arrange1–5 years 33.9 87.3 20.9 22.0 ment in 2015. more than 5 years 0.2 37.1 43.6 Total 72.8 140.0 63.2 70.8 Finance lease liabilities Present value of Minimum lease payments Future financial expenses minimum lease payments The Group has leased premises as well as aircraft with irrevocable lease agreements. These agreements have different levels of EUR mill. 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 renewal and other index-linked terms and conditions. The Group has leased 30 aircraft on leases of different lengths. Irrevoless than a year 17.5 17.5 1.3 2.1 16.2 15.4 cable aircraft lease agreements have decreased due to terminating lease agreements of E170 aircraft at the beginning of 2016. 1–5 years 68.8 70.3 3.1 6.0 65.7 64.3 more than 5 years 24.1 49.5 0.2 8.3 23.8 41.2 2.3 Intangible assets Total 110.3 137.4 4.6 16.4 105.7 121.0 Intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment loss if applicable. Finance lease liabilities mainly include three Airbus A330 aircraft, whose minimum lease payments are 106.2 million euros (119.5), future financial expenses 4.5 million euros (7.1) and present value of minimum lease payments 101.7 million euros (112.5). In addition, liability includes finance lease agreements of ground transportation equipment, and at the end Intangible assets in Finnair at the end of 2015 amounted to 9.5 million euros (18.4) and the depreciations and impairments of 2014 also in Kiinteistö Oyj Lentäjäntie 1. recognised in 2015 amounted to 4.6 million euros (5.7). Intangible assets mainly include computer software amounting to 6.2 million euros (8.9), and they are depreciated over useful life of 3–8 years. Other intangible assets mainly include connection fees which are not depreciated. The goodwill included in intangible assets amounts to 1.2 million euros (1.2) and based on impairment testing there was no indication of impairment at the end of 2015. = Critical accounting estimates = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 56 3 Capital structure and financing costs 3.2 Financial assets 3.1 Financial income and expenses Financial assets The notes related to financial assets , liabilities and equity have been gathered into the capital structure and financing costs-section in order In the Group, financial assets have been classified into the following categories according to the IAS 39 standard “Financial Instruments: to give a better overview of the Group’s financial position. Note ‘Earnings per share’ has been added to the equity section. Recognition and Measurement”: financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (assets held for trading), held-to-maturity investments, loans and other receivables, as well as available-for-sale financial assets. The classification is made on the basis of the purpose of the acquisition of the financial assets in connection with the original acquisition. All purchases and sales of financial assets are recInterest income and expenses ognised on the trade date. Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. Interest expense srelated to The financial asset category recognised at fair value through profit and loss includes assets held for trading purposes and assets financing of significant investments are capitalised as part of the asset acquisition cost and depreciated over the useful life of the asset. measured at fair value through profit and loss on initial recognition. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss have mainly More detailed information about financial assets can be found in Note 3.2 and about interest bearing liabilities in Note 3.3. been acquired to obtain a gain from short-term changes in market prices. All those derivatives that do not fulfil the conditions for the application of hedge accounting are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and are valued at fair value in each EUR mill. 2015 2014 financial statement. Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss as well as those maturing within 12 months Interest income from financial assets classified as held for trading 1.2 2.6 are included in current assets. Other financial income 0.0 0.9 In Finnair Group, unquoted shares are valued at their acquisition price in the absence of a reliable fair value. Financial income total 1.3 3.5 Loan receivables and other receivables are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Loans and other receivables include trade receivables, deferred charges, other long-term receivables and security deposits for aircraft operational lease agreements. Interest expenses for financial liabilities valued at amortised acquisition cost -1.3 -9.0 Derecognition of financial assets takes place when the Group has lost its contractual right to receive cash flows or when it has subInterest on finance leases -2.0 -2.5 stantially transferred the risks and rewards outside the Group. Exchange gains and losses -4.2 -0.6 Impairment of financial assets Other financial expenses -2.3 -14.8 At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial Interest rate swaps, fair value hedges 5.2 5.8 assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective Fair value adjustment to bond book value attributable to interest rate risk -5.2 -5.8 evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that Financial expenses total -9.7 -26.9 loss event (or events) has a reliably estimated impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets. When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest of the instrument. From there on, the reversal of the discount Financial expenses, net -8.4 -23.4 effect is booked as interest income. The loss is recognised in profit and loss. Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate. In the effectiveness testing of the Group’s hedge accounting, both cash flow and fair value hedging were found to be efficient. Thus, as in the comparison year 2014, no inefficiency is included in the financial items for 2015. Financial income includes an Cash and cash equivalents identical amount of profit and loss for fair value hedging instruments and for hedging items resulting from the hedged risk. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash reserves and short-term bank deposits with a maturity of less than three months. Foreign exIn 2015, the exchange gains and losses recognised in financial expenses consist of net realised exchange losses of 3.2 milchange-denominated items have been converted to euros using the closing date mid-market exchange rates lion euro and unrealised net exchange losses of 1.9 million euros. During the year 2015, 7.1 million euros of interest was capitalised regarding the A350 investment program (1.9). Other financial expenses in 2014 include a write down of 10.8 million euros subordinated loan (including interest) given to the Nordic Regional Airlines group. More information about Nordic Regional Airlines can be found in Notes 4.5 Investments in associates and joint ventures and 4.6 Related party transactions, and about capitalised interest in Note 2.1 Tangible assets. = Content of the section = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 57 3.2.1 Other current financial assets 3.3 Financial liabilities EUR mill. 2015 2014 Commercial papers, certificates and bonds 382.6 287.9 Financial liabilities Money market funds 35.7 35.5 Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value on the basis of the original consideration received. Transaction costs have been included in the original book value of the financial liabilities. Thereafter, all non-derivative financial liabilities are valued at amortised cost Deposits, maturing in more than 3 months 9.4 9.4 using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are included in longand short-term liabilities and they can be interest-bearing Total 427.7 332.8 or non-interest-bearing. Loans that are due for payment within 12 months are presented in the short-term liabilities. Foreign currency loans are valued at the mid-market exchange rate on the closing date and translation differences are recognised in Ratings of counterparties the financial items. Better than A 12.4 26.6 Accounts payable are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. A 170.9 134.0 Derecognition of financial liabilities takes place when the Group has fulfilled the contractual obligations. BBB 129.5 49.0 BB 5.0 10.0 Non-current liabilities Unrated 109.9 113.3 Total 427.7 332.8 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Bank loans 26.3 76.8 The Group’s financial asset investments and risk management policy are described in more detail in Note 3.5 ManageBonds 155.2 155.3 ment of financial risks. The IFRS classifications and fair values of financial assets are presented in Note 3.6 Classification of Finance lease liabilities 89.6 105.6 financial assets and liabilities. Interest-bearing liabilities total 271.0 337.7 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 15.8 22.1 3.2.2 Cash and cash equivalents Total 286.8 359.8 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Cash and bank deposits 270.5 63.1 Non-interest-bearing liabilities mainly include leases and maintenance reserves related to the aircraft leased to other airlines. Deposits, maturing in less than 3 months 10.1 30.2 Current interest-bearing liabilities Total 280.5 93.4 EUR mill. 2015 2014 The items include cash and bank deposits realised on demand. Foreign currency cash and bank deposits have been valued Bank loans 51.9 39.7 using the closing date mid-market exchange rates. The reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents is illustrated in the notes Commercial papers 0.0 28.0 of the consolidated cash flow statement. Finance lease liabilities 16.2 15.4 Other loans 7.1 6.8 Total 75.2 89.9 = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 58 Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 Dec 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Later Total liabilities 31 Dec 2014 EUR mill. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Later Total Bank loans, fixed interest 23.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 23.8 Bank loans, fixed interest 23.5 23.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 47.3 Bank loans, variable interest 28.2 17.2 1.2 8.3 0.0 0.0 54.9 Bank loans, variable interest 16.2 15.2 12.7 10.3 14.8 0.0 69.2 Bonds 0.0 0.0 150.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 150.0 Bonds 0.0 0.0 0.0 150.0 0.0 0.0 150.0 Commercial papers 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Commercial papers 28.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 28.0 Finance lease liabilities 16.2 16.1 16.1 16.6 17.0 23.8 105.7 Finance lease liabilities 15.4 15.3 15.9 16.4 16.7 41.2 121.0 Other loans 7.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.1 Other loans 6.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.8 Interest-bearing financial liabilities total 75.2 33.3 167.3 24.9 17.0 23.8 341.5 Interest-bearing financial liabilities total 89.9 54.3 28.6 176.7 31.5 41.2 422.2 Payments from currency derivatives 1,022.0 431.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,453.3 Payments from currency derivatives 914.9 291.5 214.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,420.8 Income from currency derivatives -1,098.5 -501.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1,600.0 Income from currency derivatives -1,010.4 -323.2 -247.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1,580.7 Commodity derivatives 147.6 23.4 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 171.1 Commodity derivatives 152.2 38.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 190.4 Interest rate derivatives 0.0 0.2 -5.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -5.0 Interest rate derivatives 2.5 0.0 0.6 -5.8 0.0 0.0 -2.7 Equity derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 -4.1 0.0 0.0 -4.1 Equity derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.6 0.0 -0.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 872.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 872.8 Trade payables and other liabilities 600.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 600.8 Interest payments 6.2 5.7 5.6 0.1 0.0 0.0 17.5 Interest payments 9.4 6.8 6.1 6.1 0.1 0.0 28.5 Total 1,025.2 -7.6 167.8 20.8 17.0 23.8 1,247.0 Total 759.4 67.5 2.7 176.9 31.0 41.2 1,078.7 Part of the loans are secured by bank guarantees. Bank loan repayments include 23.8 million euros secured debt payments in the year 2016. Bank loans include a long-term currency and interest rate swap that hedges one loan. The interest rate Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial liabilities re-fixing period for variable interest loans is three or six months. The fixed interest bond maturing in 2018 does not include the 5.2 million euros market value of the interest rate swap. Additionally, the bond does not include the amortised cost of € million 0.4 million euro which was paid in 2013. Therefore, the total amount of interest-bearing financial liabilities differs from the 200 book value by the amount equal to the market value of the interest rate swap and the amortised cost. The minimum lease 167.3 payments, discount values and present values of finance lease liabilities are presented in Note 2.2 Leasing arrangements. 150 The currency mix of interest-bearing liabilities (including cross currency interest rate swaps) is as follows: EUR mill. 2015 2014 100 75.2 EUR 328.2 407.3 USD 18.1 20.2 50 33.3 Total 346.3 427.6 24.9 23.8 17.0 0 The weighted average effective interest rate on interest-bearing long-term liabilities was 3.4 % (3.3). 16 17 18 19 20 Later Bank loans, fixed interest Bonds, fixed interest Other loans Interest rate re-fixing period of interest-bearing liabilities Bank loans, variable interest Finance lease liabilities 2015 2014 Up to 6 months 93.1% 87.7% 6–12 months 0.0% 0.0% 1–5 years 6.9% 11.3% More than 5 years 0.0% 1.0% Total 100.0% 100.0% STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 59 3.4 Contingent liabilities costs by an estimated 32 million euros. On the closing date – taking hedging into account – a 10 per cent rise in fuel lowers operating profit by around 14 million euros. The situation as of 31 December 2015 represents the mean of a calendar year. EUR mill. 2015 2014 Foreign exchange risk Other pledges given on own behalf 160.1 181.1 Foreign exchange risk means the uncertainty in cash flows and financial performance arising from exchange rate fluctuations. Guarantees on behalf of group companies 67.0 72.8 Finnair Group’s foreign exchange risk mainly arises from fuel and aircraft purchases, aircraft lease payments and foreign Guarantees on behalf of others 0.1 2.2 currency sales revenue. Somewhat less than 60 per cent of the Group’s revenue is denominated in euros. The most imporTotal 227.2 256.1 tant foreign sales currencies are Japanese yen (8 per cent, percentage of revenue), Chinese yuan (7 per cent, Swedish krona (5 per cent) and US dollar (3 per cent). Approximately half of the Group’s operating costs are denominated in foreign currencies. The most important purchasing currency is US dollar, which accounts for somewhat over 40 per cent of all oper3.5 Management of financial risks ating costs. Significant dollar-denominated expenses are fuel costs and aircraft lease payments. The largest investments – Principles of financial risk management aircraft and their spare parts – also mainly take place in US dollars. The nature of Finnair Group’s business operations exposes the company to a variety of financial risks: foreign exchange, The risk management policy divides the foreign exchange position into two parts, a profit and loss position and an ininterest rate, credit and liquidity, and commodity price risks. The Group’s policy is to limit the uncertainty caused by such vestment position. risks on cash flow, financial performance and equity. The profit and loss position mainly consists of dollar-denominated expenses and revenue in a number of different currenThe management of financial risks is based on the risk management policy approved by the Board of Directors. The cies. The purpose of currency risk hedging – for P&L exposure – is to cut the volatility of cash flows and operating income policy specifies the minimum and maximum levels permitted for each type of risk. Financial risk management is directed due to fluctuating currency prices. This is done using a layered hedging strategy for the two biggest currencies and utilisand supervised by the Financial Risk Steering Group. Practical implementation of risk management policy and risk maning diversification benefits of the portfolio of various currencies. The hedging limits are set only for the main contributors agement have been centralised to the parent company’s finance department. of currency risk: the US dollar and the Japanese yen. For these two currencies, the hedging horizon is two years, which is In the risk management of foreign exchange, interest rate, jet fuel positions, and electricity price risk, the company uses divided into four six-month periods. In order to achieve time diversification, the minimum hedge ratio for the closest sixdifferent derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options. At inception, derivatives are designated month period is 60 per cent with a decreasing slope ending at zero per cent for the fourth six-month period. Even though as hedges for future cash flows (cash flow hedges), hedges for firm orders (hedges of the fair value of firm commitments) the policy does not require hedging of smaller currency flows, it is allowed, in which case the layered hedging strategy is or as financial derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (economic hedges). In terms of the hedging of future cash partially applied although no minimum hedging ratio is required. flows (cash flow hedging), Finnair Group implements foreign exchange hedging of lease payments, interest rate hedging The investment position includes all foreign exchange-denominated aircraft investments for which a binding procureof the issued bond (fair value hedging), hedging of the jet fuel price and foreign exchange risks and hedging of the elecment contract has been signed. According to the risk management policy, at least half of the investments recognised in the tricity price risk and as hedges of the fair value of firm commitment aircraft purchases, in accordance with the hedge acbalance sheet must be hedged after the signing of a firm order. New hedges in the investment position will be made as an counting principles of IAS 39. IAS 39 fair value hedge of a firm commitment. At the end of the financial year, Finnair had a hedge ratio of 81 per cent in the USD-basket and 67 per cent in JPY for Fuel price risk in flight operations the coming 12 months. On the closing date – excluding hedges – a 10 per cent strengthening of the US dollar against the Fuel price risk means the cash flow and financial performance uncertainty arising from fuel price fluctuations. euro has a negative impact on the annual result of around 56 million euros and a 10 per cent weakening of the Japanese yen Finnair hedges against jet fuel price fluctuations using jet fuel forward contracts and options. As the underlying asset against the euro has a negative impact on the annual result of around 18 million euros. On the closing date – taking hedgof jet fuel derivatives, the Jet Fuel CIF Cargoes NWE index is used, as over 60 per cent of Finnair’s fuel purchase contracts ing into account – a 10 per cent strengthening of the US dollar weakens the result by around 10 million euros and a 10 per are based on the benchmark price index for North and West Europe jet fuel deliveries. cent weakening of the Japanese yen weakens the result by around 9 million euros. In the above numbers, the USD-basket Finnair applies the principle of time-diversification in its fuel hedging. According to the risk management policy, the risk also includes the Chinese yuan and the Hong Kong dollar, whose historical correlation with the dollar is high. The sithedging horizon is two years. The risk management policy states that hedging must be increased during each quarter of uation as of 31 December 2015 well represents the mean of a calendar year. the year so that the hedge ratio for Finnair’s Scheduled Passenger Traffic is more than 60 per cent for the first six months and thereafter, a lower hedge ratio applies for each period. By allocating the hedging, the fuel cost per period is not as low Interest rate risk as the spot-based price when prices fall, but when spot prices rise the fuel cost rises more slowly. Interest rate risk means the cash flow and financial performance uncertainty arising from interest rate fluctuations. In terms of accounting, Finnair recognises jet fuel hedges in two different ways. The hedges of the first approximately 40 In Finnair Group the interest rate risk is measured using the interest rate re-fixing period. If necessary, interest rate depercentage points of consumption per period are treated as cash-flow hedges in accounting, in accordance with the hedge rivatives are used to adjust the interest rate re-fixing period. According to the risk management policy, the mandate for the accounting principles of IAS 39. Changes in the fair value of derivatives defined as cash-flow hedges, in accordance with investment portfolio’s interest rate re-fixing period is 0–12 months and for interest-bearing liabilities 0–24 months. On IAS 39, are posted directly in the fair value reserve in equity. The change in fair value recognised in the hedging reserve the closing date the investment portfolio’s interest rate re-fixing period was approximately 4 months and approximately in equity is reversed into the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction is realised. Changes in the fair 3 months for interest-bearing liabilities. On the closing date, a one percentage point rise in interest rates increases the anvalue of hedges excluded from hedge accounting – which do not fulfil the hedge accounting criteria of IAS 39 – are recognual interest income of the investment portfolio by approximately 2.9 million euros and the interest expenses of the loan nised in the fair value changes in derivatives over the tenor time of the derivative. portfolio by approximately 2.6 million euros. The situation as of December 31 well represents the mean of a calendar year. At the end of the financial year, Finnair had hedged 67 per cent of its fuel purchases for the first six months of 2016 and Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the group to fair value interest rate risk. The group is applying hedge account53 per cent of the purchases for the second half of the year. In the financial year 2015, fuel used in flight operations accounting (fair value hedge) in order to hedge the fair value interest rate risk of its 150 million euro fixed rate unsecured bond ised for approximately one fourth compared to the Group’s revenue. At the end of the financial year, the forecast for 2016 is sued in August 2013. approximately one fifth compared to the Group’s revenue. On the closing date, a 10 per cent rise in the market price of jet Future lease agreements expose the group to interest rate risk, as the interest rate is one component of the lease price. The fuel – excluding hedging activity calculated using Scheduled Passenger Traffic’s forecasted flights – increases annual fuel interest rate is fixed when the lease payments start. If necessary, the group can hedge this exposure with cash flow hedges. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 60 Credit risk 3.6 Classification of financial assets and liabilities The Group is exposed to counterparty risk when investing its cash reserves and when using derivative instruments. The credit risk is managed by only making contracts with financially sound domestic and foreign banks, financial institutions Hedge Financial assets at Available for accounting fair value through sale financial Loans and Valued at Book and brokers, within the framework of risk management policy of counterparty risk limits. Liquid assets are also invested EUR mill. items profit and loss assets receivables amortised cost value in bonds and commercial papers issued by conservatively selected companies, according to company-specific limits. This 31 Dec 2015 way, the risks towards single counterparties are not significant. Change in the fair value of Group loans rise from changFinancial assets es in FX and interest rates, not from credit risk. The Groups’ maximum exposure to credit risk is other financial assets are Receivables 0.4 8.3 8.7 presented in Note 3.2.1 Other current financial assets, cash and cash equivalents presented in Note 3.2.2 and trade receivOther financial assets 418.3 9.4 427.7 ables presented in Note 1.2.3. Trade receivables and other receivables 208.5 208.5 Liquidity risk Derivatives 134.2 21.5 155.7 The goal of Finnair Group is to maintain good liquidity. Liquidity is ensured by cash reserves, bank account limits, liquid Cash and cash equivalents 280.5 280.5 money market investments and committed credit facilities. With respect to aircraft acquisitions, the company policy is to Book value total 134.2 439.8 0.4 506.7 1,081.1 secure financing, for example through committed loans, at a minimum of four months prior to delivery. Counterparties of Groups’ long term loans are solid financial institutions with good reputation. The Group’s liquid assets were 708.2 million euros at the end of financial year 2015. Finnair Plc has a domestic commerFair value total 134.2 439.8 0.4 506.7 1,081.1 cial paper program of 200 million euros, which was not in use on the closing date. In addition, Finnair has a 180 million euros committed credit facility unused. The credit facility includes a finance covenant based on adjusted gearing. The covFinancial liabilities enant level of adjusted gearing is 175 per cent, while at the closing date the figure was 45.8 per cent. The maximum level set Interest bearing liabilities 240.5 240.5 by the Board of Directors is 175 per cent. Finance lease liabilities 105.7 105.7 Capital management Derivatives 143.4 37.2 180.6 The aim of the Group’s capital management is, with the aid of an optimum capital structure, to support business operations Trade payables and other liabilities 15.8 682.0 697.8 by ensuring normal operating conditions and to increase shareholder value with the best possible return being the goal. Book value total 143.4 37.2 15.8 1,028.3 1,224.6 An optimal capital structure also ensures lower capital costs. The capital structure is influenced via, for example, dividend distribution, share issues, and other equity-like capital transactions. The Group can vary and adjust the level of dividends Fair value total 143.4 37.2 15.8 1,028.3 1,224.7 paid to shareholders, the amount of capital returned to them or the number of new shares issued. The Group can also decide on sales of asset items in order to reduce debt. Respectively, Finnair can decide on payments of interest and capital of the hybrid bond. The aim of Finnair´s dividend policy is to pay on average at least one third of the earnings per share as In this note interest rate derivatives (currency and interest-rate swaps) are included in derivatives. In other notes they are dividend during an economic cycle. included in bank loans. The item other financial assets mainly includes USD-denominated security deposits for leased airThe development of the Group’s capital structure is continuously monitored using the adjusted gearing. When calculatcraft. Trade payables and other liabilities include: trade payables, deferred expenses, pension obligations as well non-intering adjusted gearing, adjusted interest-bearing net debt is divided by the amount of shareholders’ equity. The Group’s adest-bearing liabilities. justed gearing at the end of 2015 was 45.8 per cent (107.5). Derivatives are valued at fair value, with further details in the fair value hierarchy. Financial assets valued at fair value are money market funds (fair value hierarchy level 1) and bonds, or commercial papers (fair value hierarchy level 2). Loans Sensitivity analysis of the fair value reserve and receivables are mainly current and the book value is equivalent to the fair value, because the discount effect is not sigIf the price of Jet fuel CIF NWE had been 10 per cent higher, the balance of the reserve would have been 21.2 million euros nificant. The current portions of loans valued at amortised cost is 75 million euro and the book value is equivalent to the (26.7) higher. Correspondingly, a 10 per cent weaker Jet fuel CIF NWE price would have reduced the reserve by 21.2 million fair value, because the discount effect is not significant. The issued bond makes the most significant part of the non-cureuros (26.7). In terms of the US dollar, a 10 per cent weaker level would have lowered the balance of the fair value reserve rent loans valued at amortised cost. The bond was quoted at 103.5 per cent as per 31 December 2015, which explains the by 50.3 million euros (53.2) and a 10 per cent stronger dollar would have had a positive impact of 50.3 million euros (53.2). difference between book value and fair value. The valuation principles of financial assets and liabilities are outlined in the Electricity price hedging was ineffective at the end of the year 2015, thus their valuation would have had no impact to the accounting principles. balance of the fair value reserve (0.0). The effect of change in interests to the fair value reserve in own equity is not essential. The enclosed sensitivity figures do not take into account any change in deferred tax liability (tax assets). STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 61 Hedge Financial assets at Available for Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value accounting fair value through sale financial Loans and Valued at Book EUR mill. items profit and loss assets receivables amortised cost value Fair values at the end of the reporting period 31 Dec 2014 EUR mill. 31 Dec 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets Assets Receivables 0.4 8.7 9.2 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Other financial assets 323.4 9.4 332.8 Securities held for trading 418.3 35.7 382.6 Trade receivables and other receivables 194.0 194.0 Derivatives 126.1 37.6 163.7 Derivatives held for trading Cash and cash equivalents 93.4 93.4 Interest rate swaps 5.2 5.2 Book value total 126.1 361.0 0.4 305.6 793.0 of which in fair value hedge accounting 5.2 5.2 Currency derivatives 144.2 144.2 Fair value total 126.1 361.0 0.4 305.6 793.0 of which in fair value hedge accounting 81.3 81.3 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 42.0 42.0 Financial liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 306.6 306.6 Commodity derivatives 0.6 0.6 Finance lease liabilities 121.0 121.0 Equity derivatives 5.6 5.6 Derivatives 147.2 51.9 199.1 of which in fair value hedge accounting 5.6 5.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 22.1 600.8 623.0 Total 574.0 35.7 538.3 Book value total 147.2 51.9 22.1 1,028.4 1,249.7 Fair value total 147.2 51.9 22.1 1,028.8 1,250.1 Liabilities Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives held for trading Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 of which in fair value hedge accounting 0.1 0.1 Currency derivatives 7.3 7.3 of which in fair value hedge accounting 0.4 0.4 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 0.8 0.8 Commodity derivatives 171.6 171.6 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 140.8 140.8 Equity derivatives 1.4 1.4 of which in fair value hedge accounting 1.4 1.4 Total 180.6 180.6 During the financial year, no significant transfers took place between fair value hierarchy Levels 1 and 2. The fair values of hierarchy Level 1 are fully based on quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets of the same assets and liabilities. The fair values of Level 2 instruments are, to a significant extent, based on input data other than the quoted prices included in Level 1, but still mainly based on directly observable data (price) or indirectly observable data (derived from price) for the particular asset or liability. The fair value hierarchy level, to which a certain item valued at fair value is classified in its entirety, is determined in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, based on the lowest level of input significant to the overall fair value of the particular item. The significance of the input data has been assessed in its entirety in relation to the particular item valued at fair value. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 62 3.7 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities 3.8 Derivatives EUR mill. 2015 2014 Derivative assets gross amounts 155.8 163.7 Derivative contracts and hedge accounting According to its risk management policy, Finnair Group uses foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives to reduce the Gross amounts of recognised financial liabilities set off in the balance sheet 0.0 0.0 exchange rate, interest rate and commodity risks which arise from the Group’s balance sheet items, currency denominated purchase Net amounts of financial assets presented in the balance sheet 155.8 163.7 agreements, anticipated currency denominated purchases and sales as well as future jet fuel purchases. Enforceable master netting agreement -61.6 -63.5 The derivatives are initially recognised at original acquisition cost (fair value) in the balance sheet and thereafter subsequently valued at fair Derivative assets net amount 94.2 100.2 value in each financial statement and interim report. The fair values of the derivatives are based on the value, at which the instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing and independent parties, with no compulsion to sell or buy in the sales situation. The fair values of derivatives are determined as follows: Derivative liabilities gross amounts 180.7 199.1 The fair values of all derivatives are calculated using the exchange rates, interest rates, volatilities and commodity price quotations on the closing Gross amounts of recognised financial assets set off in the balance sheet 0.0 0.0 date. The fair values of currency forward contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of currency options are Net amounts of financial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 180.7 199.1 calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. The fair values of interest rate swap contracts are calculated as the present value of Enforceable master netting agreement -61.6 -63.5 future cash flows. The fair values of interest rate and currency swap contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values Derivative liabilities net amount 119.1 135.6 of interest rate options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. The fair values of commodity forward contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of commodity options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the financial statements according to the original classification of the For the above financial assets and liabilities, subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements, derivative. Gains and losses on derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised in accordance with the underlying asset being hedged. each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities At inception, derivative contracts are designated as future cash flows hedges, hedges of binding purchase contracts (cash flow hedges or fair value when both parties choose to settle on a net basis. In the absence of such mutual decision, financial assets and liabilities will be hedges) or as derivatives not meeting the hedge accounting criteria or to which hedge accounting is not applied (economic hedges). Hedging of the settled on a gross basis. However, each party of the master netting agreement, or similar agreement, will have the option to fair value of net investments of foreign units or embedded derivatives have not been used. settle on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. Depending on the terms of each agreement, an event of default At the inception of hedge accounting, Finnair Group documents the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, as well includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement as the Group’s risk management objectives and the strategy for the inception of hedging. At the inception of hedging, and at least at the time of (other than payment), if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the each financial statement, the Group documents and assesses the effectiveness of hedge relationships by examining the capacity of the hedging party, or bankruptcy. instrument to offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item or changes in cash flows. The values of derivatives in a hedging relationship are presented in the balance sheet item short–term financial asset and liabilities. Finnair Group implements the IFRS hedge accounting principles in the hedging of future cash flows (cash flow hedging). The principles are applied to the price and foreign currency risk of jet fuel, the price risk of electricity, the foreign currency and interest rate risk of aircraft lease payments and aircraft purchases. The change in the fair value of the effective portion of derivative instruments that fulfil the terms of cash flow hedging are directly recognised in the fair value reserve of other comprehensive income, to the extent that the requirements for the application of hedge accounting have been fulfilled. The gains and losses, recognised in fair value reserve, are transferred to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. When an instrument acquired for the hedging of cash flow matures or is sold, or when the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer fulfilled, the gain or loss accrued from hedging instruments remains in equity until the forecast transaction takes place. The gain or loss regarding lease payment interest rate hedges will be accrued from fair value reserve to the income statement through the whole lease period. However, if the forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accrued in equity is immediately recognised in the income statement. = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 63 2015 2014 The effectiveness of hedging is tested on a quarterly basis. The effective portion of hedges is recognised in the fair value reserve of other Positive Negative Fair Positive Negative comprehensive income, from which it is transferred to the income statement when the hedged item is realised or, in terms of investments, Nominal fair fair net Nominal fair fair Fair net EUR mill. value values values value value values values value as an acquisition cost adjustment. Fair value hedging is implemented on firm orders of new aircraft, in order to hedge the fixed interest rate bond, and to hedge the incenCurrency derivatives tive plan negotiated with pilots. The binding purchase agreements for new aircraft are treated as firm commitments under IFRS, and thereJet fuel currency hedging 331.6 23.8 -0.7 23.1 385.4 35.9 0.0 35.9 fore, the fair value changes of the hedged part arising from foreign currency movements are recognised in the balance sheet as an asset Fair value hedging of aircraft acquisitions 782.4 81.3 -0.4 81.0 657.6 66.3 0.0 66.3 item and corresponding gains or losses recognised through profit and loss. Similarly the fair value of instruments hedging these purchases Hedging of lease payments 171.2 18.2 -0.1 18.1 146.6 15.0 0.0 15.0 is presented in the balance sheet as a liability or receivable and the change in fair value is recognised through profit and loss. Hedge accounting items total 1,285.3 123.4 -1.2 122.2 1,189.6 117.1 0.0 117.1 In relation to the incentive plan negotiated with the pilots in October 2014, Finnair entered into an agreement where the market price Operational cash-flow hedging (forward contracts) 307.5 16.8 -2.0 14.8 370.4 29.5 -0.1 29.5 of Finnair share has an effect at the end of the plan. Finnair group has hedged, the amount exceeding 12 million euros of the possible cost Operational cash-flow hedging (bought options) 180.4 3.7 0.0 3.7 110.2 7.1 0.0 7.1 effect of this plan, with stock options. Fair value hedging is applied on the hedges. The unrealised fair value changes of the options are recognised as liability or receivable in the balance sheet, and in the income statement, the realised and unrealised hedging results are recogOperational cash-flow hedging (sold options) 318.5 0.0 -4.1 -4.1 178.0 0.0 -3.0 -3.0 nised in the staff costs. Similarly, the incentive plan is treated as a firm commitment under IFRS. The unrealised and the realised fair value Balance sheet hedging (forward contracts) 11.5 0.4 0.0 0.4 13.7 0.9 0.0 0.9 change of the incentive plan is recognised in the staff costs in the income statement and the corresponding unrealised fair value as a liabilItems outside hedge accounting total 817.8 20.9 -6.1 14.7 672.2 37.5 -3.0 34.5 ity or receivable in the balance sheet. Currency derivatives total 2,103.1 144.2 -7.3 136.9 1,861.8 154.6 -3.0 151.6 The gain or loss related to the effective portion of the interest rate swap, which hedges the fixed interest rate bond, is recognised as financial income or expenses in the income statement. The gain or loss related to the ineffective portion is recognised within other operating Commodity derivatives income and expenses in the income statement. The changes in fair value , attributable to the interest rate risik, of the fixed-interest rate Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 559,000 0.0 -140.7 -140.7 534,700 0.0 -142.3 -142.3 loans, is recognised in the financial expenses in the income statement. Electricity derivatives, MWh 13,140 0.0 0.0 0.0 30,220 0.0 -0.1 0.0 If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item, for which the Hedge accounting items total 0.0 -140.8 -140.8 0.0 -142.3 -142.3 effective interest method is used, is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity. Finnair Group uses foreign exchange and interest rate swap contracts in the hedging of the interest rate and foreign exchange risks of Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 26,000 0.0 -4.2 -4.2 33,500 0.0 -8.6 -8.6 foreign currency denominated loans. The translation difference arising from foreign exchange and interest–rate swap contracts that fulfil Bought options, jet fuel, tonnes 178,000 0.6 0.0 0.6 162,500 0.1 0.0 0.1 the conditions of hedge accounting is recognised concurrently against the translation difference arising from the loan. Other changes in fair Sold options, jet fuel, tonnes 329,000 0.0 -26.2 -26.2 171,500 0.0 -39.3 -39.3 value are recognised in terms of the effective portion in the fair value reserve of other comprehensive income. Interest income and expensElectricity derivatives, MWh 26,352 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 46,904 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 es are recognised in financial income and expenses. Items outside hedge accounting total 0.6 -30.8 -30.2 0.1 -48.2 -48.1 Finnair Group uses jet fuel swaps (forward contracts) and options in the hedging of jet fuel price risk. Changes in the fair value of jet fuel Commodity derivatives total 0.6 -171.6 -170.9 0.2 -190.5 -190.4 hedging derivatives, which are defined as cash-flow hedges and fulfil the requirements of IFRS hedge accounting, are recognised directly in the fair value reserve of other comprehensive income. Accrued derivative gains and losses, recognised in shareholders’ equity, are recInterest rate derivatives ognised as income or expense in the income statement, in the same financial period as the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. If a forecasted cash flow is no longer expected to occur, and the IFRS hedge accounting criteria are not fulfilled, the fair value changes Interest rate swaps 150.0 5.2 -0.1 5.2 150.0 5.9 -0.1 5.8 and the accrued gains and losses, reported in shareholders’ equity, are presented in the non-recurring items for the financial period in the Bought options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 123.5 2.3 0.0 2.3 income statement, during the tenor time. Sold options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 123.5 0.0 -4.8 -4.8 Finnair Group uses electricity derivative contracts in the hedging of electricity price risk. The electricity price risk hedges are recognised Hedge accounting items total 150.0 5.2 -0.1 5.2 397.1 8.2 -4.8 3.4 as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of derivatives, defined as cash-flow hedges in accordance with IFRS, are recognised in the Cross currency interest rate swaps 7.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 11.6 0.0 -0.6 -0.6 fair value reserve of other comprehensive income. The recognised change in fair value is reversed into the income statement in the same Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 25.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 period as the hedged transaction. Changes in the fair value of hedges excluded from hedge accounting (which do not fulfil the IFRS hedge Items outside hedge accounting total 7.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 36.6 0.0 -0.7 -0.7 accounting criteria) are recognised in other operating expenses over the tenor time of the derivative. Interest rate derivatives total 157.1 5.2 -0.3 5.0 433.7 8.2 -5.5 2.7 The change in the fair value of derivatives, not qualifying for hedge accounting and which are hedges of operational cash flows, are recognised in fair value changes in derivatives in the income statement. Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives, not qualifying for hedge accounting, are recognised in the income statement’s financial income and expenses. Equity derivatives Bought options, millions 3.0 5.6 0.0 5.6 3.0 0.7 0.0 0.7 Sold options, millions 3.0 0.0 -1.4 -1.4 3.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Hedge accounting items total 6.0 5.6 -1.4 4.1 6.0 0.7 -0.1 0.6 Equity derivatives total 6.0 5.6 -1.4 4.1 6.0 0.7 -0.1 0.6 Derivatives total* 155.7 -180.6 -24.9 163.7 -199.1 -35.4 * The positive/negative fair value of derivatives 31 December 2015 are shown as balance sheet receivables and liabilities. = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 64 Ratings of derivative counterparties Number of shares 2015 2014 Number of outstanding shares in the beginning of the financial year 127,824,023 127,856,947 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Shares returned from the share-bonus scheme 2010­–2012 -14,893 -33,864 Better than A 31.9 34.4 Shares granted from FlyShare employee share savings plans 1,780 940 A -47.3 -53.1 Number of outstanding shares at the end of the financial year 127,810,910 127,824,023 BBB -9.5 -16.7 Own shares held by the parent company 325,205 312,092 BB Total number of shares at the end of the financial year 128,136,115 128,136,115 Unrated Total -24.9 -35.4 Finnair Plc’s share capital, paid in its entirety and registered in the trade register, was 75,442,904.30 euros at the end of 2014 and 2015. The shares have no nominal value. During the year 2015, Finnair recovered 14,893 shares from share-based bonus scheme (in the years 2010­–2012) participants having terminated their employment. Realised derivatives in operational expenses EUR mill. 2015 2014 The Group’s hedging reserve and other OCI items Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs 77.6 15.0 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Hedging of lease payments Lease payments for aircraft -15.7 -1.2 Jet fuel price hedging -140.7 -142.3 Expenses of hedge accounting items total 61.9 13.8 Jet fuel currency hedging 23.1 35.9 Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs 59.4 3.8 Hedging of lease payments 18.1 15.0 Operational cash flow hedging Other expenses -33.4 -15.4 Interest rate options -8.4 -2.5 Electricity derivatives Other expenses 0.7 0.4 The actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit plan 22.2 -15.5 Expenses of items outside hedge accounting total 26.7 -11.3 Translation differences 0.7 0.1 Total 88.5 2.6 Deferred tax asset (liability) 17.2 21.9 Total -67.9 -87.4 3.9 Equity-related information Maturity dates of fair values recognised in the hedging reserve Shareholders’ equity The nominal value of shares has been recognised in the share capital before an amendment to the Articles of Association registered EUR mill. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Later Total on 22 March 2007. Share issue profit and gains related to sale of own shares have been recognised in other restricted funds before the Jet fuel price hedging -119.3 -21.4 -0.1 -140.7 change in the Limited Liability Company Act in 2006. Jet fuel currency hedging 22.1 1.0 23.1 The subscription proceeds from the 2007 share issue less transaction costs after taxes as well as share-based payments according Hedging of lease payments 15.5 2.6 18.1 to IFRS 2 have been recognised in the unrestricted equity funds. Hedging reserve and other OCI items include changes in the fair value of derivative instruments used in cash-flow hedging, in addiHedging of interest related to future lease payments -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -4.9 -8.4 tion to actuarial gains and losses related to defined benefit pension plans, and translation differences. The actuarial gains and losses of The acquisition cost of repurchased owned shares less transaction costs after taxes is charged to equity until the shares are cancelled defined benefit plan 22.2 22.2 or reissued. The consideration received for sale or issue of own shares is included in equity. Translation differences 0.7 0.7 The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is not deducted from distributable equity until decided at the Annual General Meeting. The hybrid bond is recognised in equity. It is unsecured and subordinated to all senior debt. The hybrid bond does not confer shareTax effect 12.0 3.7 0.2 0.1 0.1 1.1 17.2 holders’ rights, nor does it dilute the holdings of shareholders. Interest expenses are debited from retained earnings on cash basis net of Total -48.1 -14.8 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -3.2 -67.9 tax. In the calculation of earnings per share, interest expenses of the hybrid bond are included in the earnings for the financial year. = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 65 Hybrid bond 4 Consolidation Shareholders’ equity (after equity belonging to owners) includes a 38.3 million euro hybrid bond issued in 2012. The hybrid bond coupon is fixed, 8.875 per cent per year for the first four years, and thereafter at least 11.875 per cent per year. ­Finnair Notes under the Consolidation section include a description of the general consolidation principles and methods of consolidation. The aim can postpone interest payment if it does not distribute dividends or any other equity to its shareholders. The bond has of the section is to provide an overall picture of the group’s structure and principles applied in preparing consolidated financial statements and no maturity date, but the company has the right to redeem it four years after the issue date. During the year 2015, ­Finnair classifying ownership interests. In addition, the notes include information about subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures held, redeemed 81.7 million euros of the 120 million euro hybrid bond issued in 2012, at the redemption price of 87.2 million acquired or sold by the group as well as information about assets held for sale. euros. The redemption price includes a premium of 5.5 million euros. In the year 2015, Finnair also issued a new hybrid bond of 200 million euro. The loan has no maturity date, but the company has the right to redeem it after five years. The 4.1 General consolidation principles hybrid bond coupon is fixed, 7.875 per cent per year for the first five years, and thereafter floating, at least 12.875 per cent Consolidation per year. The overall hybrid bond net position recognised in equity is 236.2 million euros, due to issuing expenses. The Consolidation, consolidation method and classification of ownership interests depends on whether the Group has power hybrid bonds are unsecured and in a weaker preference position than promissory notes. A holder of hybrid bond notes to control or jointly control the entity or have significant influence or other interests in the entity. When group has power has no shareholder rights. to control the entity, it is consolidated as subsidiary in the Group according to principles described in Note 4.2 Subsidiaries. When the Group has joint control or significant influence over an entity but does not have power to control, entity is Earnings per share accounted for by using equity method according to principles set in Note 4.5 Investments in associates and joint ventures. The basic earnings per share figure is calculated by dividing the result for the financial year attributable to the parent comIf the Group does not have power to control nor significant influence in the entity, its ownership interests are classified as pany’s shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the financial year. Result for the financial financial assets available for sale and accounted for according to principles described in Note 3.2 Financial assets. year is adjusted for the after-tax amounts of hybrid bond interests regardless of payment date, transaction costs of a new hybrid bond issued and premium paid, when a hybrid bond is redeemed. When calculating the earnings per share adjustTranslation of foreign currency items ed by dilution, the weighted average of the number of shares takes into account the diluting effect resulting from changing Items included in each subsidiary’s financial statements are measured in the currency that is the main currency of operatinto shares all potentially diluting shares. ing environment of each subsidiary (“functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements have been presented in euros, which is the parent company’s functional and presentation currency. Transactions denominated in foreign currenEUR mill. 2015 2014 cies in group companies are translated into functional currency by using the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Result for the financial year 89.4 -82.7 Receivables and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are outstanding on the closing date are translated using the exchange rate of the closing date. Exchange rate differences are recognised in the income statement. Hybrid bond interests -12.5 -10.7 Foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not euro are translated into euros by using average rate for the finanPremium paid related to redemption of the hybrid bond issued in 2012 -5.5 cial year. Balance sheets are translated by using the closing rate for the financial period. Translation differences arising from Transaction costs of the hybrid bond issued in 2015 -2.3 the elimination of acquisition costs of foreign subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income. When a foreign Tax effect 4.0 2.1 subsidiary is sold, the differences are recognised as part of the sales gain or loss. Adjusted result for the financial year 73.2 -91.2 4.2 Subsidiaries Weighted average number of shares, mill. pcs 127.8 127.8 Consolidation principles of subsidiaries Basic and diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.57 -0.71 Finnair Plc’s consolidated financial statements include the parent company Finnair Plc and all its subsidiaries. The subsidiaries are deEffect of own shares 0.00 0.00 fined as companies where the parent company directly or indirectly owns more than 50 per cent of the votes or where Finnair otherResult for the financial year per share, EUR* 0.70 -0.65 wise has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. The acquired subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial *excluding the effect of expenses of the hybrid bond after taxes statements from the day the Group has control, and disposed subsidiaries until the control ceases. Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the acquired company’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess between Dividend purchase price and fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets is recognised as goodwill. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that no dividend is paid for 2015. The Annual General All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised Meeting on 25 March 2015 decided that no dividend was paid for 2014. losses are also eliminated unless there is evidence of impairment related to the transferred asset. The accounting principles of subsidiaries have been changed to correspond with the Group’s accounting policies. Finnair Plc's distributable equity Non-controlling interest and transactions with non-controlling interest EUR mill. 31 Dec 2015 Non-controlling interests are presented within the equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separated from equity attributable to owners of the parent. For each acquisition the non-controlling interest can be recognised either at fair value or at the non-controlling interRetained earnings at the end of financial year -16.1 est’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. The carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of the interests at Unrestricted equity 250.4 initial recognition added with the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Hedging reserve -94.1 Result for the financial year 40.9 = Content of the section Distributable equity total 181.1 = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 66 Subsidiaries 4.4 Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale Group Group Name of the company ownership % Name of the company ownership % Non-current assets held for sale or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered Airline Business Travel Services principally through a sale transaction and sale is considered highly probable, during the following twelve months. Finnair Cargo Oy, Finland 100.0 Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Ab, Finland 100.0 Immediately before classification, assets held for sale or assets and liabilities of disposal groups are valued at the lower of the carryFinnair Aircraft Finance Oy, Finland 100.0 SMT Oy, Finland 100.0 ing amount or their fair value less cost to sell. Depreciation of these assets is discontinued at the moment of classification. Finnair ATR Finance Oy, Finland 100.0 Amadeus Finland Oy, Finland 95.0 Finnair Technical Services Oy, Finland 100.0 Aurinko Oü, Estonia 100.0 Non-current assets held for sale include mainly aircraft held for sale. Aircraft classified as held for sale for 2015 include three Finnair Engine Services Oy, Finland 100.0 Toivelomat Oy, Finland 100.0 A340 aircraft that are expected to be sold to Airbus during 2016. These wide-body aircraft are going to be replaced by new A350 Finnair Travel Retail Oy, Finland 100.0 Matkayhtymä Oy, Finland 100.0 aircraft. In addition, aircraft held for sale include two Embraer 170 and one ATR 72 scheduled for divestment in early 2016. Finnair Flight Academy Oy, Finland 100.0 OOO Aurinko, Russia 100.0 In 2014 assets held for sale included three Embraer 190 and six ATR 72, which were sold and leased back at the beginKiinteistö Oy Lentokonehuolto, Finland 100.0 OOO Aurinkomatkat, Russia 100.0 ning of 2015. Northport Oy, Finland 100.0 Norvista Travel Ltd, Canada 100.0 Kiinteistö Oy LEKO 8, Finland 100.0 Other functions The book value of the assets held for sale Kiinteistö Oy Air Cargo Center 1, Finland 100.0 FTS Financial Services Oy, Finland 100.0 EUR mill. 2015 2014 IC Finnair Ltd, Great Britain* 100.0 Back Office Services Estonia Oü, Estonia 100.0 Tangible assets 123.0 119.8 A/S Aero Airlines, Estonia 100.0 Inventories 1.6 2.6 Balticport Oü, Estonia 100.0 Total 124.5 122.4 LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, Finland ** 100.0 * IC Finnair Ltd is a fully owned captive insurance company in Guernsey which earnings are subject to normal taxation in Finland. 4.5 Investments in associates and joint ventures ** The Group has made an cooperation agreement which includes a call option due to which the Group does not have control over the company Associates are companies in which the Group generally holds 20–50 per cent of the voting right or in which the Group has significant influence but in which it does not exercise control. Companies where the Group has joint control with another entity and all the 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals significant decisions require unanimous consent are considered as joint ventures. The Group’s interests in associated companies and In the beginning of the financial year the joint venture of Finnair and Flybe Group plc (later as “Flybe UK”) was transferred jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method. The Group does not own jointly controlled entities that would be temporarily to Finnair’s ownership as Finnair acquired Flybe UK’s 60 per cent share of Flybe Nordic with one euro on an classified as joint operations, meaning such entities where Group would have rights to entity’s assets or obligations to entity’s liabilities, interim basis. Later on Flybe Nordic was renamed as Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra). Norra was classified as assets held which it should consolidate in its balance sheet. for sale until Finnair further sold the 60 per cent share to Staffpoint Holding Oy and Kilco Oy. Due to the sale Norra beThe investment in associates and joint ventures include goodwill recognised at the time of acquisition. The Group recognises its share came a joint venture of Finnair and the new owners. More information on Norra can be found in Note 4.5 Associated comof the post-acquisition results in associates and joint ventures in the income statement. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate panies and joint ventures. or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it At the end of 2015 Finnair sold its ownership in Estonian subsidiary Estravel AS, including Estravel’s Lithuanian subsidhas incurred obligations on behalf of the associate or joint venture. iary Estravel Vilnius UAB. The transaction did not have significant effect to Finnair’s financial statements. Results from the transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interDuring 2014 Group sold Finnair Travel Retail’s shops at Helsinki Airport to World Duty Free Group. The sale had a 12.7 ests in the associates. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the million euros positive effect to Finnair’s results in non-recurring items. In addition, Finnair sold its subsidiary Finncatering associates is impaired. In case of such indications, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recovOy to Lufthansa Service Europa/Afrika GmbH. The transaction did not have significant effect to Finnair’s financial stateerable amount of the associate and its carrying value. The impairment is recognised in share of results in associates and joint ventures. ments. During the financial year 2014 the Group did not acquire any new businesses or subsidiaries. Accounting policies of associates or joint ventures have been changed where necessary to correspond with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. If financial statements for the period are not available, the share of the profit of certain associated or joint venture companies is included in the consolidated accounts based on the preliminary financial statements or latest available information. = Accounting principles STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 67 The Group’s share of the result, assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures is presented below. Nordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra, formerly known as Flybe Nordic AB) Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra), formerly known as Flybe Nordic AB, is a regional airline company operating in the ­Nordic EUR mill. 2015 2014 countries and in Baltics. Norra has during 2015 operated both purchase traffic for Finnair and traffic at its own risk. At the At the beginning of the financial year 4.9 8.2 end of 2014, Flybe UK announced that it will exit the joint venture arrangement of Finnair and Flybe Group Plc (Flybe UK) Shares of results 0.1 -3.2 and sell the shares of Flybe Nordic AB to Finnair or to a new majority shareholder assigned by Finnair. In the beginning of Disposals -2.2 0.0 the financial year 2015 the joint venture was transferred temporarily to Finnair’s ownership as Finnair acquired Flybe UK’s 60 per cent share of Flybe Nordic with one euro, including Flybe UK’s loan and interest receivables from Flybe ­Nordic of At the end of the financial year 2.6 4.9 19.4 million euros. Later on Flybe Nordic was renamed as Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra). Norra was classified as asThe disposals include sale of Kiinteistö Oyj Lentäjäntie 1. In addition, Flybe Nordic AB (currently known as Nordic Regional sets held for sale until Finnair further sold the 60 per cent share to Staffpoint Holding Oy and Kilco Oy with one euro. Due Airlines AB) was transferred in the beginning of 2015 temporarily to Finnair’s full ownership but the 60 per cent share was to the sale Norra became a joint venture of Finnair and the new owners. The change of majority shareholder in the joint further sold later in 2015, and Norra continues as a joint venture of Finnair Group and its partners. venture did not have an effect in the nature of the arrangement, and the operations of Nordic Regional Airlines continIn addition, more information on transactions with joint ventures and associated companies can be found in Note 4.6. ue under joint control of Finnair and the new partners. The ownership transactions did not have any financial effects to Related Party Transactions. ­Finnair. Finnair aims to find solutions that would enable the development of regional flying in a financially sustainable way. Flybe Nordic’s (currently Norra) operations were loss making and the value of investment in Finnair was written down Information on the Group’s associates and joint ventures 2015 in 2014. In addition, in the end of 2014 Finnair wrote down 11.3 million euros of operational receivables (presented as non-­ Profit/ recurring item) and 10.8 million euros of subordinated loan receivables (included in financial items) from Flybe N ­ ordic EUR mill. Domicile Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Holding % Group. As part of the restructuring of Norra’s operations, at the end of 2015 Finnair transferred the operational receivaAmadeus Estonia Estonia 0.8 0.3 1.1 0.3 33.25 bles of 11.3 million euros, and loan and interest receivables transferred from Flybe UK of 19.4 million euros, to Norra, to Nordic Global Airlines Oy (NGA)* Finland 1.8 5.8 12.1 -4.2 40.00 strengthen the equity and financial position of Norra Group. Transactions did not have an effect in Finnair Group’s results nor financial position, but had a positive effect in Norra Group’s profits in 2015. Finnair has accounted for Norra Group’s Nordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra)** Sweden 40.5 39.7 100.7 35.8 40.00 net assets according to its accounting principles and no share of profits from Norra has been recognised for 2015. Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy Finland 18.7 1.3 1.4 0.8 49.50 Information on Norra can also be found in Notes 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals and 4.6 Related party transactions. Total 61.8 47.1 115.2 32.8 * Nordic Global Airlines Oy business operations are discontinued and the company will be liquidated during 2016. Nordic Global Airlines Oy (NGA) ** Based on financial statement of Nordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra) as of 31 Dec 2015. The Group was formerly known as Flybe Nordic Finnair’s associated companies include Nordic Global Airlines Oy (NGA), which is a freight airline co-owned by Finnair AB. Norra’s results include profit from nine months period since Norra changed the end date of the financial year from 31 of March to 31 of Cargo Oy, Ilmarinen and Neff Capital Management. Due to unprofitable business operations, the company is under liqDecember during 2015. uidation process. The liquidation is expected to be finalised during 2016. Finnair has written down its trade receivables from NGA during 2015. The write down did not cause any material effects to Finnair financial statements. The liquidation Information on the Group’s associates and joint ventures 2014 is not expected to cause such during 2016 either. Finnair does not expect the liquidation process to cause any material fiProfit/ nancial effects during 2016 either. EUR mill. Domicile Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Holding % Amadeus Estonia Estonia 0.8 0.3 0.9 0.3 33.25 Other associated companies Nordic Global Airlines Oy Finland 10.7 10.6 42.2 -2.9 40.00 Kiinteistö Oyj Lentäjäntie 1 is a property located in the airport area and co-owned by Finavia, Finnair Pension fund and Flybe Nordic AB (currently Norra)* Sweden 40.2 47.3 293.8 -1.0 40.00 Finnair Oyj. At the end of 2015, Finnair sold its share in the property to Finavia. The sales gain of 6.6 million euros have been reported under non-recurring items. Kiinteistö Oyj Lentäjäntie 1 Finland 25.6 19.3 1.5 0.0 28.33 Amadeus Finland’s associated company Amadeus Estonia provides IT solutions to travel agencies in Estonia. Suomen Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oyj Finland 17.4 0.8 8.1 0.0 49.50 Ilmailuopisto (the Finnish Aviation Academy) is a vocational special purpose aviation school owned by Finnair Oyj (49.5 Total 93.9 78.0 345.6 -3.8 per cent), Finnish Government (49.5 per cent) and the City of Pori (1 per cent). Finnair is not entitled to company’s results * According to official financial statement of Flybe Finland Oy as per 31 March 2014, which is holding-company Flybe Nordic AB's subsidiary nor net assets, but possible results need to be used for developing school’s activities. and responsible of the operations in the Flybe Nordic group. All the associated companies and joint ventures owned by Finnair are unlisted companies, and none of them are considered as material compared to Finnair’s operations. Finnair’s share of associated companies and joint ventures continuous results for 2015 was 0.1 million euros (-1.4). STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 68 4.6 Related party transactions Transactions with joint venture of Finnair, Nordic Regional Airlines AB -Group (Norra), have been included in the transactions with joint ventures for the full financial year of 2015. Norra became temporarily a fully owned subsidiary of Related party of Finnair group includes its subsidiaries, management, associated companies and joint ventures and Finnair Finnair on 31 March 2015, when former partner Flybe UK decided to withdraw from the arrangement. Finnair reached pension fund. Subsidiaries are listed in Note 4.2 and associates and joint ventures in Note 4.5. Related party transactions conclusion with new partners on 4 November 2015, when the 60 per cent share was sold to new owners and Norra once include such operations that are not eliminated in the group’s consolidated financial statement. again became joint venture of Finnair. Although Norra was fully owned subsidiary between 31 March till 4 November 2015, The Finnish Government owns 55.8 per cent (55.8) of Finnair’s shares. All the transactions with other government owned during that time it was classified as asset held for sale and the transactions related to purchase traffic arrangement between companies are with arms length basis. parties were not eliminated from Finnair’s results from continuing operations, as the arrangement was expected to continue after sale of 60 per cent share. Therefore those transactions have been included in the 2015 related party transactions. Associated company Kiinteistö Oyj Lentäjäntie 1 was sold in November 2015 and was considered as related party of The following transactions have taken place with associated companies and joint ventures: Finnair until the moment of sale. More information on Norra, Kiinteistö Oyj Lentäjäntie 1 and other associated companies and joint ventures can be EUR mill. 2015 2014 found in Note 4.5 Investments in associates and joint ventures. Sales of goods and services Finnair pension fund Associates 0.2 1.4 The Finnair pension fund in Finland is a stand-alone legal entity which mainly provides additional pension coverage to Joint ventures 49.3 59.9 ­Finnair’s personnel in the form of defined benefit plan, and manages related pension assets. The assets include Finnair’s Pension fund 0.0 0.1 shares representing 0.1 per cent (0.1) of the company’s outstanding shares. Real estate and premises owned by the pension Purchases of goods and services fund have been mainly leased to Finnair. In 2015 and 2014 Finnair didn’t pay any contributions to the fund. Pension obliAssociates 2.5 20.8 gation was 2.6 million euros (25.3) at the end of the financial year. Joint ventures 126.7 228.3 4.7 Application of new and amended IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations Pension fund 4.5 4.6 Financial expenses The changes in the IFRS standards effective from periods beginning 1 January 2015 included mainly improvements to curJoint ventures 0.0 10.8 rent standards and did not have an effect on Finnair financial statements. Receivables Regarding changes in the standards effecting future periods, Finnair is currently evaluating the effects of IFRS 15 RevShort-term receivables from associates 0.5 1.5 enue recognition and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to its financial statements. The standards will be, in case endorsed by Short-term receivables joint ventures 12.1 7.3 EU, effective from 2018 onwards. Effects of Revenue Recognition standard are still under evaluation. According to Finnair’s preliminary view, IFRS 9 will allow it to apply hedge accounting more widely when hedging future Liabilities cash flows. The change will decrease volatility in operating result. This is because unrealised fair value changes of derivatives Non-current liabilities to joint ventures 0.0 8.2 can be recognised in other comprehensive income instead of operating result, when hedge accounting is applied. Changes Non-current liabilities to pension fund 2.6 25.3 related to classification and impairment model of financial instruments are not expected to have significant effect to Finnair. Current liabilities to associates 0.9 4.7 IFRS published new Leasing standard IFRS 16 in January 2016. The standard will be effective from 2019 onwards, in Current liabilities to joint ventures 0.1 3.4 case endorsed by EU. According to preliminary evaluation, Finnair expects the new standard to have significant effect to Contingent liabilities its financial statements. Aircraft currently classified as operating leases will be recognised as right to use -assets and leasGuarantees on behalf of joint ventures 0.0 2.0 ing liabilities in the balance sheet. Currently future operating lease payments are presented as off-balance sheet items in the notes (Note 2.2 Leasing arrangements) as operating lease commitments. Other standards issued and effecting future financial periods are not expected to have any significant impact on F ­ innair’s Transactions with related parties are with arms length, and are with similar terms than transactions carried out with infinancial statement. dependent parties. Management remuneration is presented in Note 1.3.7.1. Management has not been granted any loans and there has not been any other transactions with management. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 69 5 Other notes Deferred tax assets and liabilities The Group has evaluated the nature and classification of deferred tax assets. Based on the evaluation, deferred tax assets Other notes include all such notes that do not specifically relate to any previous subject matters. and liabilities levied by the same taxing authority met the requirements for offset eligibility in accordance with IAS 12. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown net on the balance sheet. 5.1 Income taxes Changes in deferred taxes during 2015: Recognised Recognised in The tax expense for the period includes current and deferred tax and adjustments to previous years’ taxation. Tax is recognised in in the income shareholders’ the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or other equity items. EUR mill. 2014 statement equity 2015 Deferred taxes are calculated for temporary differences between accounting and taxation using the valid tax rates for future years at Deferred tax assets the closing date. Deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit through future profits is probConfirmed losses 62.3 -10.7 51.7 able. Temporary differences arise mainly from sales of tangible assets, depreciation and unused tax losses. Deferred tax is recognised Employee benefits 5.1 3.0 -7.5 0.5 for subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings only when related tax effects are probable. Other temporary differences 2.7 -2.5 0.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they are levied by same taxing authority and Finnair has a legally enforceable Valuation of derivatives at fair value 18.7 2.8 21.6 right to set off the balances. Total 88.8 -10.2 -4.7 73.9 Offset against deferred tax assets -55.0 -64.8 Net deferred tax assets 33.8 9.1 Utilising deferred tax assets related to tax losses requires management to make expectations of future performance of operations. Deferred tax assets that can be used after more than 12 months 0.6 0.5 Income taxes Confirmed tax losses expire earliest within four to ten years. According to the Group’s estimate, the future profits result in EUR mill. 2015 2014 taxable income off-setting the temporary difference realising from the confirmed tax losses. Taxes for the financial year Distributing retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries as dividends would cause a tax effect of 0.2 million euros (0.4). Current tax -0.2 -0.2 Adjustments recognised for current tax of prior periods -0.3 -0.5 Recognised Recognised in Deferred taxes -23.1 17.3 in the income shareholders’ EUR mill. 2014 statement equity 2015 Total -23.6 16.5 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 51.8 7.4 59.2 The table below explains the difference between the theoretical tax cost calculated with Finnish nominal tax rate 20.0 per cent (20.0) and tax Finance leasing 2.2 1.3 3.4 expense in the consolidated income statement: Other temporary differences 1.0 1.1 2.2 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Total 55.0 9.8 0.0 64.8 Result before taxes 113.2 -99.1 Offset against deferred tax assets -55.0 -64.8 Taxes calculated using the Finnish tax rate -22.6 19.8 Net deferred tax liabilities 0.0 0.0 Different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries 0.2 0.0 Share of result in associates and joint ventures 0.0 -0.6 Deferred tax liabilities that are expected to realise after 12 Tax-exempt income 0.6 0.5 months or more 52.8 60.2 Non-deductible expenses -1.4 -2.6 Adjustments recognised for taxes of prior periods -0.3 -0.5 Income taxes, total -23.6 16.5 Effective tax rate 20.8% -16.7% Effective tax rate was 20.8 per cent (-16.7). = Content of the section = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 70 Changes in deferred taxes during 2014: 5.4 Restatement of key ratios Recognised Recognised in in the income shareholders’ EUR mill. 2013 statement equity 2014 As of 1 January 2015, Finnair has adjusted calculation methods of unit revenue (RASK, unit revenue per available seat kiloDeferred tax assets metre) and unit cost (CASK, unit cost per available seat kilometre) to better reflect the changes in the Group structure. Traffic previously operated and marketed by Flybe (currently named as Norra) has become part of the purchase traffic Confirmed losses 58.6 1.6 2.1 62.3 agreement between Finnair and Norra and RASK and CASK for comparison year have been restated to reflect this change. Employee benefits 2.2 2.1 0.8 5.1 In addition, RASK has been restated to include all revenue and costs of inflight sales. Before restatement, these were partly Finance leasing 0.6 -0.6 0.0 included in CASK. In addition, restated CASK includes all costs related to group support functions, of which some were Capitalisation of overhead expenses 1.0 -1.0 0.0 previously excluded from the calculation. Unit revenue per revenue passenger kilometre (yield) for comparison year has Change in accounting principles in 2014 related to engine also been restated due to changes in the Group structure. maintenance 3.4 -3.4 0.0 Finnair also introduced new key figures RASK and CASK at constant currency to provide comparative, currency neutral Other temporary differences 2.1 0.5 2.7 measurement on unit revenues and costs. All the exchange rate changes and currency hedging effects have been excluded Valuation of derivatives at fair value 1.3 17.4 18.7 from RASK and CASK at constant currency. The equity ratio formula has been restated to better reflect generally used formula in the airline business. Previously eqTotal 69.2 -0.7 20.3 88.8 uity ratio was calculated by dividing equity with total assets, excluded with prepayments received. The restated calculation Offset against deferred tax assets (restated) -69.2 -55.0 only divides equity with total assets, without any adjustments related to prepayments. Net deferred tax assets 0.0 33.8 The restated quarterly 2014 key ratios are presented in the tables below. Changed formulas are described in Note 18. Calculation of key ratios. Deferred tax assets that can be used after more than 12 months 0.6 0.6 Cumulative key figures Restated Reported Recognised Recognised in in the income shareholders’ 2014 2014 EUR mill. 2013 statement equity 2014 Equity ratio, % 27.3 27.7 Deferred tax liabilities Unit revenue per available seat kilometre, (RASK), cents/ASK 6.23 6.10 Gains from sale of tangible fixed assets 68.4 -16.6 51.8 Unit revenue per revenue passenger kilometre (yield), cents/RPK 6.65 6.59 Hybrid bond, interest 2.8 -0.6 2.2 Unit cost per available seat kilometre (CASK), cents/ASK 6.53 6.37 Employee benefits 1.3 -0.3 1.0 CASK excluding fuel, cents/ASK 4.49 4.31 Total 72.6 -17.5 0.0 55.0 Offset against deferred tax assets (restated) -69.2 -55.0 Net deferred tax liabilities 3.4 0.0 Deferred tax liabilities that are expected to realise after 12 months or more 69.6 52.8 5.2 Disputes and litigation Finnair reports only cases of which the interest is 600 thousand euros or more and that are not insured. On 31 December 2015 there were no such disputes pending. 5.3 Events after the closing date Finnair has secured financing, arranged by BNP Paribas, for its third Airbus A350-900 XWB, which was delivered on 30 December 2015. The transaction amounts to approximately 135 million euros, implemented using a Japanese Operating Lease with Call Option (JOLCO) structure, where the transaction amount is treated in Finnair’s IFRS accounting as a loan and the aircraft as owned. There have not been other remarkable events after the closing date. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 71 6 Parent company financial statements Finnair Plc balance sheet Finnair Plc income statement EUR mill. Note 2015 2014 ASSETS EUR mill. Note 2015 2014 Revenue 6.2 2,066.4 1,972.7 Non-current assets Other operating income 6.3 62.6 44.5 Intangible assets 6.12 12.1 12.7 Operating income 2,129.1 2,017.1 Tangible assets 6.13 36.0 41.2 Investments 6.14 Materials and services 6.4 1,114.4 1,107.6 Shares in group companies 452.6 449.1 Staff costs 6.5 268.2 261.7 Shares in associated companies 2.5 4.7 Depreciation and reduction in value 6.6 11.4 5.3 Other investments 0.4 0.4 Other operating expenses 6.7 794.0 809.1 Loan and other receivables 6.15 34.1 12.0 Operating expenses total 2,188.0 2,183.7 Deferred tax assets 6.16 65.3 73.2 Total non-current assets 602.9 593.2 Operating profit/loss -58.9 -166.6 Current assets Financial income and expenses 6.8 -18.1 -32.1 Current receivables 6.17 678.7 741.7 Marketable securities 6.18 427.7 332.8 Profit/loss before extraordinary items -77.0 -198.7 Cash and bank equivalents 6.19 277.1 88.7 Total current assets 1,383.5 1,163.1 Extraordinary items 6.9 139.2 136.0 TOTAL ASSETS 1,986.4 1,756.3 Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes 62.1 -62.7 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Appropriations 6.10 -11.2 0.2 Income taxes 6.11 -10.1 8.7 Equity 6.20 Share capital 75.4 75.4 Profit/loss for the financial year 40.9 -53.8 Share premium account 24.7 24.7 Legal reserve 147.7 147.7 Hedging reserve -94.1 -85.2 Unrestricted equity funds 250.4 250.5 Retained earnings -16.1 37.7 Profit/loss for the financial year 40.9 -53.8 Total equity 428.9 397.1 Accumulated appropriations 6.21 20.0 8.9 Provisions 6.22 89.8 87.2 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 6.23 396.7 304.9 Current liabilities 6.24 1,051.0 958.3 Total liabilities 1,447.7 1,263.2 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES TOTAL 1,986.4 1,756.3 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 72 Finnair Plc cash flow statement Notes to Finnair Plc financial statements EUR mill. 2015 2014 6.1 Accounting principles Cash flow from operating activities The financial statements of Finnair Plc have been prepared in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). Result before extraordinary items -77.0 -198.7 Depreciation 11.4 5.3 Foreign currency items Other non-cash transactions -14.8 42.2 Business transactions in foreign currencies have been valued using the exchange rate on the date of transaction. Receivables and liabilities on the balance sheet date are valued using the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Advances paid Financial income and expenses 18.1 32.1 and received are valued in the balance sheet using the exchange rate on the date of payment. Exchange rate differences on Changes in working capital 76.7 -21.1 trade receivables and payables are treated as the adjustments to revenue and other operating expenses. Exchange rate difInterest and other financial expenses paid -30.1 -23.5 ferences on other receivables and liabilities are entered under financial income and expenses. Received interest and other financial income 7.8 16.6 Derivative contracts Cash flow from operating activities -8.0 -147.2 According to its risk management policy, Finnair uses foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives to reduce the risks which arise from the company’s currency denominated purchase contracts, forecasted purchases and sales as well Cash flow from investing activities as future jet fuel purchases. Derivative contracts are valued using the rates on the balance sheet date according to AccountInvestments in intangible and tangible assets -14.8 -7.5 ing Act Chapter 5 Article 2 a. The accounting principles related to derivative contracts and hedge accounting are described Proceeds from sales of tangible assets 28.4 0.0 more specifically in Finnair Group’s financial statement in the section 3.8 Derivatives. Change in long-term receivables 38.6 53.2 Financial assets and liabilities Investments in group companies -17.0 0.0 Financial assets have been classified into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (asProceeds from sales of associates and joint ventures 8.4 0.0 sets held for trading), held-to-maturity investments, loans and other receivables. The classification is made on the basis of Other investments 0.0 0.3 the purpose of the acquisition of the financial assets in connection with the original acquisition. All purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date. Liabilities are recognised at acquisition cost. Financial assets at fair valCash flow from investing activities 43.7 46.0 ue through profit and loss as well as assets and liabilities maturing within 12 months are are included in current liabilities. Finnair assesses on each closing date whether there is any objective evidence that the value of a financial asset item or Cash flow from financing activities group of items has been impaired. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen for loans and other reProceeds from loans 45.5 0.0 ceivables entered at amortised acquisition cost on the balance sheet or for held-to-maturity investments, the size of the loss Loan repayments and changes -52.1 -34.6 is determined as the difference of the book value of the asset item and the present value of expected future cash flows of Proceeds from hybrid bond 200.0 0.0 the said financial asset item discounted at the original effective interest rate. The loss is recognised through profit and loss. Other financial assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value. Other financial assets include trade receivables, accrued Hybrid bond repayments -81.7 0.0 income and prepaid expenses as well as other non-current receivables like loan receivables and other investments as well as Received and given group contributions 136.0 103.6 the securities for aircraft leases. Other financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals and deferred income. Derecognition of financial assets takes place when the company has lost its contractual right to receive the cash flows or Cash flow from financing activities 247.6 69.0 when it has substantially transferred the risks and rewards outside the company. Fixed assets and depreciation Change in cash flows 283.4 -32.2 The balance sheet values for fixed assets are based on original acquisition costs less planned depreciation. Land areas are not depreciated. Planned depreciation is based on the expected economic lifetimes: Change in liquid funds Liquid funds, at beginning 421.5 453.6 • IT software: 3–8 years • Other intangible assets: 3–10 years Change in cash flows 283.4 -32.2 • Buildings: over 50 years from time of acquisition to a residual value of 10 per cent or 3–7 per cent of the diminishing balances Liquid funds, at end 704.8 421.5 • Other tangible assets 23 per cent of the diminishing balances STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 73 Research and development costs 6.3 Other operating income Except for major software development costs, research and development costs are expensed as they occur. Research and development of aircraft, systems and operations is conducted primarily by the manufacturers. EUR mill. 2015 2014 Rental income 31.6 35.7 Leasing Lease payments for aircraft are significant. Annual lease payments are treated as rental expenses. Lease payments due in Capital gains on sales of tangible assets 13.3 0.0 future years under aircraft lease contracts are presented as off-balance sheet items. Other income 17.7 8.8 Total 62.6 44.5 Extraordinary items Extraordinary items consist of income and expenses which deviate from the ordinary activities of the company, such as group contributions. 6.4 Materials and services Appropriations EUR mill. 2015 2014 The difference between total and planned depreciation is shown as accumulated appropriations in the balance sheet and Materials and suppliers the change during the financial year in the income statement. Ground handling and catering expenses 194.7 182.7 The Finnish Business Income Tax Act enables deduction of reinvestment provision in connection with sale of premises. The accumulated amount of reinvestment provision is included in the balance sheet and the change during the financial Fuel costs 596.8 643.0 year in the income statement. Aircraft materials and overhaul 216.0 190.8 IT expenses 54.7 46.0 Income taxes Income taxes in the income statement include taxes calculated for the financial year based on Finnish tax provisions, adOther items 52.3 45.0 justments to taxes in previous financial years and the change in deferred taxes. Total 1,114.4 1,107.6 Pension schemes The mandatory pension cover of the company’s domestic employees has primarily been arranged through Ilmarinen M ­ utual 6.5 Staff costs Pension Insurance Company and other additional pension cover through the Finnair Pension Fund or Finnish pension inEUR mill. 2015 2014 surance companies. Since 1992, the pension fund has no longer accepted employees other than pilots for additional pension coverage. The Finnair pension fund’s pension obligation is fully covered with respect to additional coverage. Pension Wages and salaries 219.7 213.7 fund liabilities are presented in the notes to the financial statements. Pension expenses 34.5 35.6 Other social expenses 13.9 12.5 Provisions Provisions in the balance sheet and entered as expenses in the income statement comprise those items which the compaTotal 268.2 261.7 ny is committed to covering through agreements or otherwise in the foreseeable future and which have no corresponding revenue and whose monetary value can be reasonably assessed. Salary and bonus expenses of Chief Executive Officer and Members of The company is obliged to return leased aircraft at the required redelivery condition. To fulfil these maintenance obligathe Board of Directors tions the company has recognised provisions based on flight hours flown during the maintenance period. Chief Executive Officer 1.2 1.0 Board of Directors 0.4 0.4 6.2 Revenue by business area EUR mill. 2015 2014 Personnel on average Revenue by division Airline Business 3,297 3,396 Airline Business 2,066.4 1,972.7 Other functions 177 157 Passenger revenue 1,837.4 1,744.5 Total 3,475 3,554 Ancillary services 39.4 21.2 Aircraft lease income 142.8 153.8 6.6 Planned depreciation and amortisation Other 46.8 53.2 EUR mill. 2015 2014 On other long-term expenditure 4.7 3.5 Distribution of revenue by market areas based on flight routes, % of revenue On buildings 5.6 0.9 Finland 17 18 On other equipment 1.1 0.9 Europe 40 39 Total 11.4 5.3 Other countries 43 43 Total 100 100 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 74 6.7 Other operating expenses 6.11 Income taxes EUR mill. 2015 2014 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Lease payments for aircraft 217.3 240.0 Change in deferred taxes -10.1 8.7 Other rents for aircraft capacity 116.3 96.7 Total -10.1 8.7 Office and other rents 31.0 33.6 Traffic charges 258.8 225.3 6.12 Intangible assets Sales and marketing expenses 64.0 54.5 IT expenses 88.3 75.8 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Other expenses 18.3 83.2 Other long-term expenditure Total 794.0 809.1 Acquisition cost 1 January 46.5 42.6 Additions 4.2 4.1 6.8 Financial income and expenses Disposals -13.2 -0.3 Acquisition cost 31 December 37.5 46.5 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Interest income Accumulated depreciation 1 January -33.9 -30.6 From group companies 7.6 9.9 Disposals 12.5 0.2 From other companies 1.1 2.0 Depreciation and reduction in value -4.0 -3.5 Total 8.6 12.0 Accumulated depreciation 31 December -25.4 -33.9 Gains on disposal of shares 6.2 0.0 Book value 31 December 12.1 12.7 Interest expenses Intangible assets Total 31 December 12.1 12.7 To group companies -1.3 -1.3 To other companies -19.3 -19.4 Total -20.6 -20.7 6.13 Tangible assets Tangible assets 2015 Other financial expenses to other companies -9.9 -23.1 Other Advances EUR mill. Land Buildings equipment paid Total Exchange gains and losses -2.5 -0.2 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2015 0.7 51.0 8.3 6.5 66.5 Additions 0.0 0.0 1.0 19.1 20.1 Financial income and expenses total -18.1 -32.1 Disposals 0.0 -26.5 -2.1 -6.5 -35.1 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2015 0.7 24.5 7.2 19.1 51.5 6.9 Extraordinary items Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan2015 0.0 -20.2 -5.2 0.0 -25.3 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Disposals 0.0 11.2 1.9 0.0 13.1 Received group contribution 139.2 136.0 Depreciation for the financial year 0.0 -2.4 -0.9 0.0 -3.3 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2015 0.0 -11.4 -4.2 0.0 -15.5 6.10 Appropriations EUR mill. 2015 2014 Book value 31 Dec 2015 0.7 13.1 3.0 19.1 36.0 Change in depreciation difference 8.9 0.2 Change in reinvestment provision -20.0 0.0 The share of machines and equipment in the book value Total -11.2 0.2 of tangible assets 31 Dec 2015 0.8 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 75 Tangible assets 2014 Share of Associates and joint ventures parent company % Other Advances EUR mill. Land Buildings equipment paid Total Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy, Finland 49.50 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2014 0.7 51.0 8.3 4.1 64.1 40.00 Nordic Regional Airlines AB Additions 0.0 0.0 1.0 2.3 3.3 (previously Flybe Nordic), Sweden Disposals 0.0 0.0 -1.0 0.0 -1.0 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2014 0.7 51.0 8.3 6.5 66.5 Share of Share of Group companies parent company % parent company % Finnair Cargo Oy, Finland 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy LEKO 8, Finland 100.00 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan 2014 0.0 -19.3 -5.2 0.0 -24.5 Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, Finland 100.00 IC Finnair Ltd, Great Britain** 100.00 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.8 Northport Oy, Finland 100.00 A/S Aero Airlines, Estonia 100.00 Depreciation for the financial year 0.0 -0.9 -0.8 0.0 -1.7 Finnair Technical Services Oy, Finland 100.00 Amadeus Finland Oy, Finland 95.00 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2014 0.0 -20.2 -5.2 0.0 -25.3 Finnair Engine Services Oy, Finland 100.00 Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Ab, Finland 100.00 Finnair Flight Academy Oy, Finland 100.00 SMT Oy, Finland 100.00 Book value 31 Dec 2014 0.7 30.8 3.2 6.5 41.2 Finnair Travel Retail Oy, Finland 100.00 Norvista Travel Ltd, Canada 100.00 LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, Finland* 100.00 FTS Financial Services Oy, Finland 100.00 The share of machines and equipment in the book value of tangible assets 31 Dec 2014 0.7 Kiinteistö Oy Air Cargo Center 1, Finland 100.00 Backoffice Services Estonia Oü, Estonia 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Lentokonehuolto, Finland 100.00 6.14 Investments * The group has made an cooperation agreement which includes a call option and ceased control over the company. ** IC Finnair Ltd is a fully owned captive insurance company in Guernsey which earnings are subject to normal taxation in Finland. EUR mill. 2015 2014 Group companies Acquisition cost 1 January 449.1 449.1 6.15 Non-current loan and other receivables Additions 3.5 0.0 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Book value 31 December 452.6 449.1 From group companies 32.5 11.6 From other companies 1.5 0.4 Associates and joint ventures Total 34.1 12.0 Acquisition cost 1 January 4.7 15.4 Disposals -2.2 0.0 6.16 Deferred tax assets Revaluation of shares 0.0 -10.7 Book value 31 December 2.5 4.7 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets 1 January 73.2 44.2 Shares in other companies From result for the financial year -2.8 -10.3 Acquisition cost 1 January 0.4 0.4 From temporary differences -7.3 19.0 Book value 31 December 0.4 0.4 From valuation of derivates at fair value 2.2 20.2 Deferred tax assets 31 December 65.3 73.2 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 76 6.17 Current receivables 6.20 Equity UnreEUR mill. 2015 2014 Share stricted Short-term receivables from group companies Share premium Legal Hedging equity Retained Equity EUR mill. capital account reserve reserve funds earnings total Trade receivables 21.0 43.5 Equity 1 Jan 2015 75.4 24.7 147.7 -85.2 250.5 -16.1 397.1 Received Group contribution 139.2 136.0 Change in fair value of hedging Accrued income and prepaid expenses 3.2 4.1 instruments -9.0 -9.0 Other receivables 282.4 329.3 Share-based payments -0.0 -0.0 Total 445.8 512.8 Result for the financial year 40.9 40.9 Equity 31 Dec 2015 75.4 24.7 147.7 -94.1 250.4 24.8 428.9 Short-term receivables from associates and joint ventures Trade receivables 11.2 4.2 UnreTotal 11.2 4.2 Share stricted Share premium Legal Hedging equity Retained Equity EUR mill. capital account reserve reserve funds earnings total Short-term receivables from others Equity 1 Jan 2014 75.4 24.7 147.7 -4.2 250.5 37.7 531.9 Trade receivables 101.5 91.4 Change in fair value of hedging Prepaid expenses 31.3 26.4 instruments -80.9 -80.9 Derivative receivables 55.8 79.2 Share-based payments -0.1 -0.1 Other receivables 33.1 27.5 Result for the financial year -53.8 -53.8 Total 221.7 224.6 Equity 31 Dec 2014 75.4 24.7 147.7 -85.2 250.5 -16.1 397.1 Short-term receivables total 678.7 741.7 Distributable equity 6.18 Investments EUR mill. 2015 2014 Hedging reserve -94.1 -85.2 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Unrestricted equity funds 250.4 250.5 Short-term investments at fair value 427.7 332.8 Retained earnings -16.1 37.7 Profit/loss for the financial year 40.9 -53.8 6.19 Cash and bank equivalents Total 181.1 149.2 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Funds in group bank accounts and deposits maturing in three months 277.1 88.7 6.21 Accumulated appropriations EUR mill. 2015 2014 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 January 8.9 9.1 Change in depreciation difference -8.9 -0.2 Accumulated depreciation difference 31 December 0.0 8.9 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Accumulated reinvestment provision 1 January 0.0 0.0 Change in reinvestment provision 20.0 0.0 Accumulated reinvestment provision 31 December 20.0 0.0 Reinvestment provision is recorded relating to acquisition of new cargo terminal. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 77 6.22 Provisions 6.24 Current liabilities EUR mill. 2015 2014 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Provisions 1 January 87.2 94.0 Current liabilities to group companies Provision for the period 31.5 31.4 Trade payables 32.9 42.8 Provision used -39.1 -47.2 Accruals and deferred income 13.3 15.8 Exhange rate differences 10.1 8.8 Group bank account liabilities 178.6 133.1 Provisions 31 December 89.8 87.2 Total 224.8 191.7 Of which long-term 52.6 53.2 Of which short-term 37.2 33.9 Current liabilities to associates and joint ventures Total 89.8 87.2 Trade payables 0.0 0.3 Accruals and deferred income 0.0 3.1 Long-term aircraft maintenance provisions are expected to be used by 2027. Total 0.0 3.4 6.23 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities to others EUR mill. 2015 2014 Loans from financial institutions 23.8 24.5 Loans from group companies 1.0 1.0 Commercial papers 0.0 28.0 Loans from financial institutions 0.0 23.8 Prepayments 0.1 0.1 Bonds 155.2 155.8 Trade payables 70.4 49.1 Hybrid bond 238.3 120.0 Accruals and deferred income 714.7 648.2 Other liabilities 2.2 4.3 Other liabilities 17.3 13.2 Total 396.7 304.9 Total 826.3 763.1 Maturity of interest-bearing liabilies Current liabilities total 1,051.0 958.3 2016 23.8 2017 0.0 Accruals and deferred income 2018 150.0 Unflown air transport revenues 301.7 252.3 2019 0.0 Jet fuels and traffic charges 67.2 63.9 2020 0.0 Holiday payment liability 51.7 50.7 2021 and later 238.3 Loyalty program Finnair Plus 31.9 29.6 Total 412.1 Derivatives 180.0 193.7 Other items 95.5 76.8 Total 728.0 667.1 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 78 6.25 Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 6.26 Derivatives 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 EUR mill. 2015 2014 EUR mill. Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Fair value Guarantees and contingent liabilities Currency derivatives On behalf of group companies 227.1 253.9 Hedge accounting items (forward contracts): On behalf of associates 0.0 2.0 Jet fuel currency hedging 331.6 23.1 385.4 35.9 On others companies 0.1 0.2 Hedge accounting items total 331.6 23.1 385.4 35.9 Total 227.2 256.1 Items outside hedge accounting: Operational cash flow hedging (forward contracts) 307.5 14.8 370.4 29.5 Aircraft lease payments Call options 180.4 3.7 110.2 7.1 Within one year 252.2 227.7 Put options 318.5 -4.1 178.0 -3.0 After one year and not later than five years 1,301.9 1,047.6 Items outside hedge accounting total 806.3 14.3 658.5 33.6 Currency derivatives total 1,137.9 37.4 1,043.9 69.5 Later than five years 330.2 259.1 Total 1,884.4 1,534.4 Commodity derivatives Hedge accounting items: Parent company has leased the aircraft fleet from the fully owned subsidiary. Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 0.6 -140.7 0.5 -142.3 EUR mill. 2015 2014 Hedge accounting items total 0.6 -140.8 0.6 -142.3 Other lease payments Items outside hedge accounting: Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 0.0 -4.2 0.0 -8.6 Within one year 26.6 27.8 Options After one year and not later than five years 82.1 83.9 Call options, jet fuel, tonnes 0.2 0.6 0.2 0.1 Later than five years 184.0 141.8 Put options, jet fuel, tonnes -0.3 -26.2 0.2 -39.3 Total 292.7 253.5 Electricity derivatives, MWh 0.0 -0.3 0.0 -0.3 Items outside hedge accounting total -0.1 -30.2 0.4 -48.1 Pension obligations Commodity derivatives total 0.5 -170.9 1.0 -190.4 Total obligation of pension fund 331.7 328.8 Total obligation covered -331.7 -328.8 Interest rate derivatives Uncovered obligation of pension fund 0.0 0.0 Hedge accounting items: Total 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 150.0 5.2 150.0 5.8 Hedge accounting items total 150.0 5.2 150.0 5.8 Items outside hedge accounting: Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 25.0 -0.1 Items outside hedge accounting total 0.0 0.0 25.0 -0.1 Interest rate derivatives total 150.0 5.2 175.0 5.8 Equity derivatives Hedge accounting items: Stock options Call options 3.0 5.6 3.0 0.7 Put options 3.0 -1.4 3.0 -0.1 Hedge accounting items total 6.0 4.1 6.0 0.6 Equity derivatives total 6.0 4.1 6.0 0.6 Derivatives total -124.2 -114.5 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 79 Calculation of key ratios Board of Directors’ proposal on the dividend Operational result: Equity ratio, %: Finnair Plc’s distributable equity according to the financial statements on 31 December 2015 amounts to Operating result excluding fair value changes in derivatives, changes in the Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest exchange rates of fleet overhauls and non-recurring items ×100 181,101,862.30 euros. Balance sheet total Non-recurring items: Gearing, %: The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that no dividend shall be paid and the result Capital gains and losses as well as items related to the restructuring and other non-recurring items Interest-bearing net debt for the financial year be retained in the equity. ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Operational EBITDAR: Signing of the Report of the Board of Directors and the Financial Statements Operational result + depreciation + lease payments for aircraft Adjusted gearing, %: Interest-bearing net debt + 7 × lease payments for aircraft Shareholders’ equity: ×100 Helsinki, 9 February 2016 Equity attributable to owners of the parent Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Return on equity (ROE), %: The Board of Directors of Finnair Plc Gross capital expenditure: Investments in intangible and tangible assets excluding advance payments Result for the financial year ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest (average) Average capital employed: Balance sheet total non-interest-bearing liabilities (average) Return on capital employed (ROCE), %: Klaus Heinemann Harri Kerminen Result before taxes + financial expenses Interest-bearing net debt: ×100 Interest-bearing liabilities other current financial assets cash and cash Average capital employed equivalents Available seat kilometres (ASK): Earnings per share: Total number of seats available × kilometres flown Maija-Liisa Friman Jussi Itävuori Gunvor Kronman Result for the financial year hybrid bond expenses net of tax Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK): Average number of shares during the financial year, Number of revenue passengers × kilometres flown adjusted for share issues Passenger load factor, %: Result for the period/share: Jaana Tuominen Nigel Turner Share of revenue passenger kilometres of available seat kilometres Result for the financial year Average number of shares during the financial year, Available tonne kilometres (ATK): adjusted for share issues Number of tonnes of capacity for carriage of cargo and mail × kilometres flown Equity/share: Shareholders’ equity Revenue tonne kilometres (RTK): Total revenue load consisting of cargo and mail × kilometres flown Number of shares at the end of financial year, adjusted for share issues Overall load factor, %: Pekka Vauramo Dividend/earnings, %: Share of revenue tonne kilometres of available tonne kilometres President and CEO of Finnair Plc Dividend/share ×100 Revenue per available seat kilometre (RASK): Earnings/share Unit revenue (RASK) represents the Airline Business traffic revenue divided by available seat kilometres (ASK). Inflight sales and Cargo revenues are Dividend yield, %: included in RASK on a net basis, decreased by direct costs related to those Dividend/share ×100 operations. Share price at the end of the financial year Unit revenue (RASK) with constant currency aims to provide a comparative, currency neutral measurement for unit revenues. All the currency changes Cash flow from operating activities/share: and currency hedging results are excluded from the measurement. Cash flow from operating activities Average number of shares during the financial year, Cost per available seat kilometre (CASK): adjusted for share issues Unit cost (CASK) represents the Airline Business operational costs divided by available seat kilometres. Operational costs include a calculative capital Price/earnings ratio (P/E): cost for Finnair operated and owned aircraft. Direct operational costs related Share price at the end of the financial year to Cargo operations and inflight sales are excluded in the measurement as their results are included on a net basis in unit revenues. Non-traffic related Earnings/share revenue is netted off and deducted from operational costs. Unit cost (CASK) with constant currency aims to provide a comparative, currency neutral measurement for unit costs. All the currency changes and currency hedging results are excluded from the measurement. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 80 Auditor’s Report (Translation from the Finnish Original) To the Annual General Meeting of Finnair Oyj policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluWe have audited the accounting records, the financial statements, the report of the Board of ating the overall presentation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. ­Directors and the administration of Finnair Oyj for the year ended 31 December, 2015. The financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a statements comprise the consolidated statement of financial position, income statement, statement basis for our audit opinion. of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income stateOpinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements ment, cash flow statement and notes to the financial statements. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with International Financial Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements and Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial statethe Report of the Board of Directors ments and the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors give a true and fair laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the view of both the consolidated and the parent company’s financial performance and financial position Board of Directors in Finland. The Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements of the control of the company’s accounts and finances, and the Managing Director shall see to it that and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of the accounts of the company are in compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have been Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements. arranged in a reliable manner. Other Opinions Auditor’s Responsibility We support that the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements should be Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements, on the consolidated finanadopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the profit shown in the balance cial statements and on the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of requires that we comply with the requirements of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company should be discharged from accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that we plan and liability for the financial period audited by us. perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors are free from material misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of Directors of the parent company or the Managing Director are guilty of an act or negliHelsinki, 9 February 2016 gence which may result in liability in damages towards the company or whether they have violated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and discloAuthorised Public Accountants sures in the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements and report of the Board Mikko Nieminen of ­Directors that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Authorised Public Accountant in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 81 List of accounting books and voucher types Balance sheet book paper documents Journal and general ledger electronic archive Accounts receivable and payable electronic archive Bank receipts paper documents and electronic archive voucher types 42, 43, 68, 69, 70 and YI Sales invoices paper documents and electronic archive voucher types 30, 31, 40, 41, XV, XW, YJ and YW Flight coupon vouchers electronic archive voucher types SC, SE, SF, SH, SI, SJ, SM, SN, SO, SR, SS and ST Purchase invoices paper documents and electronic archive voucher types 63, 64, 66, 67, YA, YM, YN, YP, YT, YU and YX Payroll receipts paper documents and electronic archive voucher types XQ and YV Travel and expense invoices electronic archive voucher type YQ Treasury vouchers paper documents and electronic archive voucher types XK and XM Fixed assets vouchers paper documents and electronic archive voucher types AA and AF Finnair Plus vouchers electronic archive voucher type XY Memo vouchers paper documents and electronic archive voucher types 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, XX and YY Clearing vouchers electronic archive voucher types 22 and SU STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 82 Tax footprint Finnair’s principle is to pay the indirect and direct taxes it is subject to in each country according to local regulations. The Other Other aim of tax planning is to support business decisions and to ensure their appropriate implementation, also from the perDirect taxes payable, EUR mill. Finland* countries** Total Finland* countries Total spective of taxation. Finnair Group does not have any structures in place in order to transfer taxable income from Finland Employer contributions 5.9 3.0 8.9 5.7 1.0 6.8 to jurisdictions with lower tax rates. Property taxes 0.5 0.0 0.5 0.6 0.0 0.6 Finnair’s international business operations are mainly related to the sales of flight tickets and cargo through Finnair Plc’s Other taxes 1.6 0.0 1.6 1.7 0.0 1.7 foreign sales units, as well as local sales promotion activities. Sales units are not separate legal entities. The sales units’ inPublic subsidies received -1.6 0.0 -1.6 -1.7 0.0 -1.7 come is taxed pursuant to the regulations and double tax treaties pertaining to the international airline business as part Taxes included in direct operating of the parent company’s taxable income in Finland. The operations of Finnair’s foreign subsidiaries in 2015 and 2014 have expenses and subsidies in total 6.4 3.0 9.4 6.4 1.0 7.4 been primarily related to travel services, and they are very minor in scale relative to the Group’s business operations as a Income taxes payable* 10.1 0.2 10.3 0.0 0.2 0.2 whole. Finnair also has a subsidiary for reinsurance operations registered in the Guernsey islands for business reasons, the result of which is subject to taxation in Finland pursuant to the Finnish Act on the Taxation of Shareholders in Controlled Total direct taxes payable 16.5 3.2 19.7 6.4 1.3 7.6 Foreign Corporate Entities. * Income taxes payable are tax expenses recorded based on the taxable result, which has been utilised against confirmed tax losses. Finnair’s taxable operations in individual countries outside of Finland are minor in scale. Hence, the table below present ** Figures relating to other countries include also taxes paid by sold foreign subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. Finland separately and all other countries together. Country level information for subsidiaries is found in the second table on this page. Country level specification for taxes paid and collected outside Finland is found on the next page. Other taxes primarily include taxes on insurance payments and electricity taxes. Due to the nature of the international airline business, jet fuel is tax-free. Public subsidies consist of subsidies received for training and they are primarily related to 2015 2014 the aviation training services provided by Finnair. The reported public subsidies do not include subsidies paid to the airline Finnair’s operations in Finland Other Other business by the authorities in various countries, as they are considered business secrets. No such subsidies have been reand in other countries Finland* countries** Total Finland* countries Total ceived from Finnish authorities. Revenue EUR mill. 2,309.2 14.7 2,324.0 2,269.9 14.5 2,284.5 Finnair has confirmed losses in taxation from previous tax periods amounting to approximately 310 million euros. The Result before taxes, EUR mill. 111.8 1.6 113.3 -100.4 1.4 -99.1 estimated amount of confirmed tax losses after 2015 taxable result has been used is approximately 259 million euros. The Number of personnel 4,276 630 4,906 4,496 676 5,172 confirmed tax losses can be utilised against positive taxable income over the next four to ten years. Income tax (cash tax) becomes due for payment only when previous losses have been utilised in full. * The taxable income in Finland includes the result of the reinsurance company registered in Guernsey, totalling 0.0 euros (0.0). More detailed specification of employer contributions paid in other countries is found on the next page. ** Figures relating to other countries include also sold foreign subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. More information on direct taxes, such as the taxes pursuant to the consolidated income statement, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and the adjustment of the effective tax rate, is presented in Note 5.1 in Finnair’s consolidated financial statements. Significant portion of the Group’s revenue outside of Finland relates to sold subsidiaries (Estravel AS, Estravel Vinius UAB, Latvia Branch). Other Finnair Group’s operative subsidiaries are located in Estonia, where income tax is due in connection Indirect taxes collected for Other Other with distribution of dividends. The Group has also dormant subsidiaries in Russia. Specification for revenue, result before the financial year, EUR mill. Finland countries* Total Finland countries Total taxes, income tax payable and number of personnel is presented in the below table. Value added taxes, sales 83.4 1.9 85.3 83.0 0.0 83.1 Value added taxes, purchases 99.5 5.6 105.1 97.9 3.0 100.9 2015 2014 Value added taxes, net -16.1 -3.7 -19.8 -14.8 -2.9 -17.8 LithuaWithholding taxes on wages and salaries Finnair’s operations in other countries Estonia* nia* Latvia* Russia Estonia Lithuania Latvia Russia and other indirect taxes 84.4 3.1 87.5 88.0 2.0 90.1 Revenue, EUR mill. 13.2 1.1 0.5 0.0 13.1 0.8 0.5 0.0 Excise taxes 0.3 0.0 0.4 0.9 0.0 0.9 Result before taxes, EUR mill. 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 -0.1 0.0 0.8 Total 68.6 -0.5 68.1 74.1 -0.9 73.2 Income tax payable, EUR mill. 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 * Figures relating to other countries include also sold foreign subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. Number of personnel 303 29 15 0 295 30 15 0 * Figures relating to other countries include also sold foreign subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. The most significant indirect taxes collected during the financial year are withholding tax liabilities, value added tax and excise taxes. The Group also has a dormant subsidiary in Canada which is under liquidation process and does not have revenue or personIn Finnair’s view, the passenger tariffs collected from flight passengers are not considered tax-like payments remitted to the nel. Profits of sales units are taxed in accordance with regulations and double tax treaties pertaining to the international airauthorities that are subject to being reported as part of the tax footprint. Passenger tariffs are remitted to the private or public line business and hence, revenue, result before taxes, income tax payable and number of personnel in other countries are not party responsible for airport operations in each country, and as they are direct compensation for the maintenance of airport serseparately adopted in financial statements. Specification of taxes paid and collected in other countries is presented overleaf. vices, they do not meet the definition of a tax. More detailed specification of taxes collected in other countries is found overleaf. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 83 Country specific information for 2015 is presented below only regarding countries where the amount of taxes paid, colCountry specific information for 2014 is presented below only regarding countries where the amount of taxes paid, collected or deducted is at least 0.05 million euros. Countries where this threshold is not met are presented as two areas belected or deducted is at least 0.05 million euros. Countries where this threshold is not met are presented as two areas below. The figures below include taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries, sales units as well as sold subsidiaries when the low. The figures below include taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries, sales units as well as sold subsidiaries when the companies were part of the Group. companies were part of the Group. 2015 2014 Value added Withholding Value added Withholding Country specification, Employer Value added taxes, Value added taxes on wages Country specification, Employer Value added taxes, purValue added taxes on wages EUR mill. contributions taxes, sales purchases taxes, net and salaries Total EUR mill. contributions taxes, sales chases taxes, net and salaries Total Countries Countries Estonia 1.5 0.9 0.6 0.4 0.8 2.7 China 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.5 China 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.8 USA 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.3 Lithuania 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.5 Italy 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 The Netherlands 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Latvia 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 Estonia 0.1 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.1 Italy 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 Spain 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Greece 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Spain 0.1 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.1 Sweden 0.1 0.0 0.3 -0.3 0.2 0.0 Belgium 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Australia 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 France 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Sweden 0.1 0.1 0.4 -0.4 0.2 0.0 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.1 -0.1 France 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Japan 0.1 0.0 0.6 -0.6 0.4 -0.1 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.1 -0.1 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 USA 0.0 0.1 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 South Korea 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 South-Korea 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 Germany 0.0 0.0 0.6 -0.6 0.2 -0.3 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.2 -0.2 The UK 0.0 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.0 -0.4 Japan 0.3 0.0 1.0 -0.9 0.4 -0.2 Areas Germany 0.0 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.2 -0.3 Other EU-countries* 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.1 -0.3 Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 The UK 0.0 0.0 0.9 -0.8 0.0 -0.8 Total 1.0 0.0 3.0 -2.9 2.0 0.1 Areas * Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Portugal and Slovenia Other EU-countries* 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.1 ** Australia, Canada and India Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3.0 1.9 5.6 -3.7 3.1 2.5 * Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Hungary, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal and Slovenia ** Canada and India Employer contributions paid relate to mandatory employer payments regarding employees located outside of Finland. Withholding taxes on salary are collected based on local legislation. Value added tax on sales and purchases relate mainly to passenger sales and cargo services. Total amount of excise taxes outside Finland in 2015 and 2014 has been less than 0.1 million euros and hence this information is not presented on a country-by-country basis. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 85 Management principles General management principles Corporate Responsibility at Finnair concerns everyone and our aim is to incorporate the corporate Finnair’s management system is aimed at achieving strategic goals, creating added value for the responsibility aspects equally in all our processes and product design. The Corporate Responsibility company’s owners and other stakeholders, managing operational risks and improving the company’s function is headed by the Senior Vice President for Communications and Corporate Responsibility, performance. who is also a Member of the Finnair Executive Board. Reports and all key principles and policies will be discussed by the Finnair Board of Directors, with a designated member for corporate responsibility Operations are guided by principles, policies and guidelines defined by the company, including the issues. The development, coordination and reporting is managed by the corporate responsibility following: function with the support of the steering groups for other key functions. • Code of Conduct Responsible Finnair • Supplier Code of Conduct Finnair’s corporate responsibility is reflected in its strategy as well as its success factors of commit• Corporate responsibility ment to care, simplicity and courage. Responsibility is integral to all Finnair operations. The purpose • Environmental and energy policy of the responsibility strategy is to reduce the environmental impact and increase the financial and • Risk management policy and related, more detailed guidelines concerning different areas social return for society. The key areas of corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy fall • Security policy under three themes: people, the environment and society. For a more detailed description of these • Data security policy and guidelines themes, please refer to the GRI section. • Disclosure policy • Equality policy Finnair is committed to complying with international and national legislation in its operations, as • Remuneration policy well as the ethical operating principles laid out in the Code of Conduct approved in 2012. In 2014, • Procurement policy and guidelines on supplier relationship management the Group Executive Board approved additional group-wide guidelines to supplement the Code • Sponsorship guidelines of Conduct with regard to the prevention of bribery and topics including hospitality, conflicts of • Guidelines on anti-competition interest and compliance with anti-competition regulations. Compliance with the guidelines has • The Group’s anti-bribery guidelines been promoted by communicating their content and organising training events. Also in 2014, • The Group’s guidelines on conflicts of interest the company began the process of comprehensively revising its Code of Conduct. The revision is intended to clearly define the requirements that all Finnair employees must comply with. The work In financial reporting, Finnair applies the rules relating to listed companies as well as international is scheduled to be completed by the early part of 2016. As part of the revision, an internal whistlefinancial reporting standards. Most of Finnair’s operational activities are based on official regulations blowing channel was launched in 2015. and are subject to official supervision. Within the group, the legality and acceptability of operations is monitored as part of Finnair’s general control and audit processes. The responsibility for regulatory The aspects of corporate responsibility that have been defined material for Finnair in the description compliance in flight operations lies with the persons defined and approved by the authorities. Finnair are provided in the Materiality Assessment and the GRI content index. Finnair’s operations and is also subject to supervision relating to finances and information security. services involve a number of financial, social and environmental considerations. These have been described in more detail in the following sections. Internal control and audit roles and responsibilities are compliant with the Finnish Companies Act, the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies and the regulations governing the Public affairs and lobbying aviation industry. Finnair’s governance model, control environment and activities, internal audit and Aviation is a strictly regulated industry. Therefore it is important for Finnair to participate in discusthe roles and responsibilities related to these are described in detail in Finnair’s Corporate Governance sions and decision-making regarding its operating conditions. It is part of the company’s growth Statement on pages 90–99. strategy to aim towards securing adequate traffic rights. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 86 Finnair pursues its interests in an ethically sustainable manner by appropriately introducing its views, corporate social responsibility and risk management organisations, which work under the delegated perspectives and expertise. The company does not pressurise or support political decision-makers in authority of the CEO. any way in pursuing its interests. The legality and ethicality of lobbying activities is controlled as part of the company’s general supervision and audit processes. Finnair’s Board of Directors has set the company’s financial targets, which are provided in information material for investors. As a public limited company, Finnair is committed to earning a profit The aim of Finnair’s lobbying activities is to maintain relationships concerning relevant policy and for its shareholders. The company’s profit distribution principles are expressed in Finnair’s dividend to participate in relevant negotiations and the operations of advocacy organisations. When lobbying policy. Finnair’s financial reporting aims to transparently provide information about Finnair’s finanon various civil aviation and industry regulation issues, Finnair typically cooperates with various cial position and development. organisations and chambers of commerce. Finnair is an active member of various aviation industry organisations, such as AEA and IATA, but also in the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), and Purchasing practices its sub-associations and in several chambers of commerce. As provided in Finnair’s Code of Conduct, its procurement operations are entirely based on the objective and fair treatment of suppliers. The persons who make procurement decisions at Finnair Communications must always be fully independent of the business partners concerned. A Finnair employee must Finnair aims at open, honest and timely communications. In line with these principles, Finnair’s declare himself/herself disqualified due to bias whenever they are required to make a decision communications are also in compliance with regulations governing listed companies and limited pertaining to a contract or business relationship involving family relationships, ownership in the liability companies, as well as the obligations of the Finnish Act on Cooperation within Undertakings company concerned (with the exception of a reasonable share of ownership in a listed company) or and the communications guidelines of the State Ownership Steering Department. any other business or debt relationship external to Finnair. Finnair does not accept corruption in any form and requires that its personnel and partners comply with the principles of the UN’s Universal Finnair takes different perspectives into consideration and respects all stakeholders’ views of our Declaration of Human Rights in all activities related to Finnair. operations. Finnair’s internal communications are based on reciprocity. Every employee has the duty to communicate matters related to their area of responsibility to the relevant target groups. Those The procurement steering group operating under Finnair’s management is responsible for the in supervisory roles have a further duty to communicate goals, operations and results to their own steering, development and coordination of the Group’s procurement activity. The most significant work community and create a work environment that enables genuine constructive discussion. The product/service entities are the responsibility of cross-organisational or intra-business unit procurecompany systematically develops its communication channels to enable more efficient communicament groups, i.e. category teams, formed around each product or service entity. The management of tions and to facilitate constructive discussion. each business unit has the duty to ensure that the personnel carrying out purchasing has access to valid purchasing guidelines and that the guidelines are observed. Economic responsibility Finnair as a whole has substantial direct and indirect financial implications on Finland’s both national Audits are performed in certain product and service groups. Auditing focuses on quality and safety and local economies. factors. With respect to procurement covered by official regulations, only operators approved by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) can act as suppliers or subcontractors to Finnair. Aviation is a significant industry for Finnish society and the national economy. The accessibility created by airline traffic is a necessity for Finland’s global competitiveness and its economic impact is The sustainability of the supply chain is of major importance for the airline as we are using partners considerable; aviation is estimated to account for 3–5 per cent of GDP, employment and tax revenue. and service providers to an increasing degree. Conforming with the UN’s Universal Declaration of Finnair’s effective Asian strategy is a key element of the GDP contribution of aviation and its impact Human Rights and all applicable laws and statutes is a minimum requirement. Finnair requires that is estimated at 1–2 billion euros. its suppliers comply with similar ethical standards as we do in our own operations. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct provides clear principles to ensure ethical purchasing. Responsibility aspects are Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable economic added value by producing flight services profconsidered in cooperation with the corporate responsibility unit. itably, cost-competitively and in harmony with the needs of the environment and society. Responsible operations are the cornerstone of profitable business activity, and Finnair takes into account Finnair launched human rights assessments in autumn 2015 and the assessment process will in the the effects of its operations on society. These effects are identified and assessed by the company’s future also include the supply chain. Finnair, as part of the oneworld alliance, has also joined the agreement for SEDEX supply chain auditing instruments. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 87 Environmental responsibility them. For several years, Finnair has also actively supported in collaboration with the Finnish The biggest environmental impact of an airline is its engine emissions. As a rule, modern aircraft are Association for Nature Conservation the rain forest reforestation project in Madagascar. more efficient than previous-generation aircraft, and hence Finnair’s most significant environmental action is to invest in a modern fleet. Exposure to aircraft noise, on the other hand, has an impact on In June 2015, Finnair prohibited the transportation of hunting trophies or memorabilia originating the areas surrounding airports and under takeoff and approach flight paths. Advances in aerodyfrom endangered species or their parts in its cargo network. namics and engine technology help mitigate aircraft noise. The noise level of the Finnair fleet has been significantly reduced thanks to the modernised fleet and noise attenuation systems installed in Social responsibility older-generation aircraft. Other normal operations, including running business and office premises Finnair is a company in a complex, highly technical business. The company has operations and and the fuel of ground vehicles, also produce their share of emissions and environmental impact. supply chain partners in dozens of different countries, each with varying laws and practices. The These are all reported on under Finnair’s IEnvA environmental management system. most important social responsibility areas concern safety, personnel, the supply chain and customers. Finnair’s goal is to be a leading airline in the field of environmental responsibility. We are committed Responsibility for human rights to the common goal of the aviation industry to achieve carbon neutrality by 2020 and to cut the emisFinnair’s own operations involve no significant human rights risks or impacts. However, indirect sions of our flight operations by half by 2050 from the 2005 level. We comply with current environrisks and implications may exist in relation to the supply chains and outsourced operations. mental legislation, but our environmental work aims at exceeding statutory requirements and being a pioneer in evaluating, reporting and reducing environmental impacts. In order to improve the monitoring of its own operations and those of its entire supply chain, Finnair launched a project in 2015 to develop methods to assess the realisation of social responsibility and Finnair participates actively in civil aviation environmental committees as well as in industry workhuman rights and related risk assessment. The target is to complete the development project in the groups in Finland and the Nordic countries, promoting the reduction of the aviation sector’s envifirst half of 2016. Finnair has participated in 2015–2016 in the joint project of travel industry operaronmental load. An open dialogue with different stakeholders and continuous development of operators and UNICEF to examine the status of children’s rights within travel service production chains. tions according to the latest available information are prerequisites for environmental responsibility. The pilot phase of the project was carried out in Vietnam, and the findings of the project will be We report on our environmental impacts regularly in annual reports and as a part of the Carbon utilised in other destinations in the future. Disclosure Project (CDP). In addition, we communicate directly with various parties about our operations and gladly answer any questions from our stakeholders or private customers. Finnair’s human rights management is described in the Finnair Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and the company’s personnel management principles. Finnair respects the UN Universal Environmental responsibility is managed as part of Finnair’s environmental policy and environDeclaration on Human Rights and the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation mental management system. Finnair Environment and Energy Policy described the goals of the (ILO). Finnair signed in 2013 the United Nation’s Global Compact initiative and undertook to comply company’s environmental management. In 2014, Finnair became the first European airline to receive with the Global Compact’s ten principles of corporate responsibility. As required by the Global IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) Stage 2 certification for its environmental management Compact principles endorsed by Finnair, the company aims to prevent any violations of human rights systems. IEnvA is an environmental management system developed by IATA for airlines, which we and the use of forced labour both within its own operations and its supply chain. apply to make use of the best practices in the industry. Our environmental management system has been assessed by third-party auditors authorised by IATA who are qualified to perform audits of Personnel environmental management systems. To improve its performance, Finnair has identified the most A major aspect of social responsibility is to do with personnel and their working conditions at significant environmental factors relevant to its operations and defined targets for them. Finnair, a major employer. Personnel management policies cover all aspects of social responsibility that have been identified as material. The impacts affecting the personnel and the working conditions Finnair takes into account environmental considerations in all its flight and ground operations. are managed as based on the HR guidelines and Finnair HR policy. Besides energy solutions that reduce the environmental load, Finnair’s environmental strategy also includes the preservation and promotion of natural diversity, known as biodiversity thinking. In Management, development and training and employee wellbeing 2015, Finnair participated in the biodiversity Master Class organised by Corporate Responsibility Finnair does not discriminate based on gender, age, ethnic or national origin, nationality, language, Network FIBS and the Ministry of the Environment. One of the outcomes of the Master Class for religion, conviction, opinion, health, disability, sexual orientation or other personal attributes or Finnair was the identification of its essential ecosystem services and its most significant impacts on circumstances. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 88 Finnair does not condone harassment in the work community. Reporting infractions is every quality of Finnair Health Services is based on the European Foundation for Quality Management’s employee’s right and the company is determined to take steps to intervene in all cases brought to its EFQM Excellence Model. The quality system is used to ensure that Finnair Health Services meets knowledge. Reports can also be filed anonymously, for example using the whistleblowing channel the requirements for good occupational health care practice in both aviation health care and aviation in the company intranet. It is the duty of every group employee to act so that no one is accorded medicine services. The quality manual covering occupational health care and aviation medicine was unequal status. updated in 2014. Finnair offers equal opportunities to everyone with regard to recruitment, work performance, career Freedom of association and collective negotiation progression and development. Finnair implements the equal pay principle based on the Finnish Freedom of association and the collective right to negotiate on occupational issues are recognised Equality Act and gives both men and women equal opportunities for balancing work and family life. as fundamental rights in Finland. There is a long tradition of trade union activity in the company. In 2011, Finnair signed the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles, which give guidance Labour market culture in the company has been constructed in such a way that the organisation of on the empowerment of women in the workplace, marketplace and community. workers and collective negotiations between the company and employee groups are part of normal activity. All Finnair employees have the right and opportunity to agree on terms of employment Finnair complies with procedures jointly agreed by the employer and employees for the prevention of collectively. The terms of employment of management employees are agreed on locally. Personnel harassment and inappropriate conduct. The procedure is based on the Finnish Act on Occupational and management remuneration principles are described on pages 105–111. Safety and Health and complies with the model recommended by the Finnish Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Product responsibility and customer care The aviation industry consists of a strictly regulated value chain comprised of multiple suppliers Leadership and competences are developed on individual, team, unit and organisation level. of products and services. As an airline and service company at the top of this value chain, Finnair Learning and development solutions are typically either adopted by the entire personnel or tailored creates added value for its customers by providing them with a comprehensive and high-quality for specific development needs within a unit, or they are aimed at developing professional skills, service product in collaboration with its partners. We are responsible for transporting customers based on official requirements or in support of personal development. Leadership development is and their baggage to their destinations safely, smoothly and punctually. The most significant product one of Finnair’s key focus areas for 2015–2016. Development needs in teams and the organisation responsibility aspects in the Finnair Group’s operations are flight safety, food safety, responsibility for are identified and the wellbeing and commitment of the personnel are regularly monitored through individual customers, and responsibility for the cargo carried. a personnel survey. At Finnair, situations that deviate from the norm are prepared for in advance. The group has develOccupational health and wellbeing at work oped processes for various unexpected situations and these are continually updated and maintained. The target group for the wellbeing at work programme, which Finnair launched in 2011, is aimed at Customers must be able to trust in the fact that they will be cared for throughout the entire service the entire personnel. The aim of the programme is to promote the effectiveness and functionality chain. Finnair has responsibility towards its customers for the overall quality of their experience, of the work community through various annually launched projects and to ensure the wellbeing of regardless of the fact that some services are produced by Finnair’s partners rather than the company personnel through all career stages. The programme also contributes to employee productivity, the itself. Therefore, Finnair pays increased attention to the selection of its partners and the partners are company’s competitiveness and attractiveness as an employer as well as the implementation of the required to comply with Finnair’s quality assurance policies and ethical guidelines. social component of corporate responsibility. A strategic development project for wellbeing at work will be launched in 2016. The aim of the project is to improve the overall wellbeing of the personnel Safety and to reorganise the development of wellbeing at work in the company. Safety is at the core of all Finnair’s operations. Flight safety and giving priority to it are part of all decision-making at every stage. Finnair maintains and develops the principles of ongoing developAt Finnair, the Finnair Health Services unit is responsible for occupational health care services. ment by adhering to its Safety Management System (SMS). It covers all aspects of flight safety: safety Finnair Health Services focus on preventive care. The model of early caring and the occupational policy, flight safety risk management, safety training and communications for the entire personnel ability risk management system are examples of the guidelines governing preventing health care. and subcontractor chain, continual auditing of operations and the assessment of the potential impact of new factors in the operating environment. Official regulations and standards set the minimum Finnair Health Services, Finnair Aeromedical Centre FAeMC, coordinates and is responsible for the standards for Finnair’s safety management, which the company aims to exceed in all areas. implementation of occupational health care in the entire Finnair group. The operational and service STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 89 One of the central elements in Finnair’s safety system is the safety reporting concerning the entire Cargo and ground handling staff. The company encourages its personnel and subcontractors to actively report any processes or In cargo transport, Finnair and its subsidiary Finnair Cargo are responsible for transporting elements they come across that could potentially compromise safety. Each report is analysed and customers’ cargo in the condition in which it has been entrusted to us, and in compliance with assessed for risk, followed by necessary corrective actions based on this, and the person submitting Finnair Cargo’s General Conditions of Carriage (http://www.finnaircargo.com/en/cargo/generalthe report will be notified of the outcome of the investigation. Alongside subjective observations, transportation-terms.html) as well as international and national regulations. The aim is to offer Finnair extensively monitors and analyses objective indicators, such as flight data. Ongoing monicargo customers efficient logistics services. This means, among other things, that cargo entrusted to toring and analysis enable a transparent risk level in all areas, which in turn enables prompt action on Finnair Cargo for transport is delivered to its destination exactly as agreed with the customer. any indication of altered safety level. Finnair’s Ground Operations unit is responsible for the acquisition, quality criteria and quality Events that seriously jeopardise safety are extremely rare and almost without exception an impartial control of ground handling services required at airports. The unit’s task is to ensure that the ground safety investigation is launched on each event. Safety investigations are coordinated by public offiservices used by Finnair fulfil the requirements set for them, both in terms of quality and in respect cials (Safety Investigation Authority) or, if the authorities elect not to investigate the event, Finnair will of safety and official regulations. conduct its own internal safety investigation. The safety investigators always carry out the investigation independently and the company’s management has no opportunity to influence the investigation. To deliver on their service promises, both Finnair Cargo and the Ground Operations unit apply a systematic evaluation process when selecting subcontractors and partners. Partners are required, Objective monitoring of the company’s own operations, ongoing development and carrying out for example, to ensure and maintain the expertise of their personnel, and also to ensure that vehicorrective measures as well as open dialogue with the authorities governing Finnair’s operations cles, equipment and premises are appropriate. In addition to quality audits at airports, Finnair also guarantee safe and high-quality airline operations. regularly performs quality inspections that continually monitor both its own and subcontractors’ work. Finnair Cargo and Ground Operations are responsible for maintaining and updating their own Customer care quality systems and ensuring that operations comply with requirements. For exceptional situations, Finnair has its own separate unit. All flight traffic irregularities are handled centrally from Helsinki, thereby gathering the necessary information into one place. In this Ground Operations also has an area manager, responsible for airport operations, who has a signifway, a more detailed overall picture of the multiplier effects and costs of the irregularities is obtained, icant role in monitoring the compliance of operations with regulations. If some activity does not and efforts are made to minimise inconvenience to the customer. to some extent comply with the operations manual or prevailing legislation, the deviation is documented and corrective measures effected immediately. Monitoring and supervision of customer service activity is based on regular auditing, customer feedback and customer satisfaction surveys, as well as various mystery customer experiences and measMore information about IATA safety and quality audits: http://www.iata.org urements performed by external parties. Our partners’ operations are also continually evaluated. Monitoring is systematic and is used to set targets and check that they are being met. Staff expertise is ensured through training. Customer data Finnair respects the privacy of its customers and is committed to ensuring that personal details and other customer information are processed appropriately. We do our best to guarantee the confidentiality, security and accuracy of customer data under all circumstances. The company processes personal details at all stages of travel in compliance with the legislation on personal data and regulations issued by the authorities in the countries in which we operate. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 90 Corporate Governance Statement 2015 Governance Code is publicly available on the website of the Securities Market Association’s website Contents at www.cgfinland.fi. Regulatory framework 90 Governing bodies 90 This statement has been approved by Finnair’s Board of Directors and it has been prepared as a sepaGeneral Meetings 91 rate report from the Board of Directors’ Report. Finnair’s auditing firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, has Shareholders' Nomination Board 91 verified that the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management related Board of Directors 92 to the financial reporting process contained herein are consistent with the financial statements. The Committees of the Board 93 Company management 95 Governing bodies Main features of the internal control and risk management system The governing bodies of Finnair pursuant to the Companies Act and the Articles of Association are pertaining to the financial reporting process 97 the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) and the Chief Executive Description of the overall system 97 Officer (the “CEO”). The roles of the governing bodies are described below. Control environment 97 Risk Assessment 98 Governing bodies of Finnair Control activities 98 Information and communication 98 Monitoring and improvement 99 Shareholders Internal Audit 99 Compliance 99 Regulatory framework Shareholders’ Annual General This Corporate Governance Statement is issued pursuant to the Finnish Corporate Governance Nomination Auditors Meeting Code 2010 for listed companies. It sets out the governing bodies and the principles of governance of Committee Finnair Plc. Finnair complies with the recommendations of the Code without exceptions. The principal legislative authorities on corporate governance of Finnish listed companies are the Companies Act, the Securities Market Act, the regulation and guidelines issued by the Financial Compensation and Board of Audit Supervision, the rules and instructions for listed companies issued by Nasdaq Helsinki and the Nomination Committee Directors Committee Finnish Corporate Governance Code, all of which are complied with by Finnair. Company specific authorities on the governance of Finnair are the Articles of Association and the principles, policies and guidelines issued by Finnair’s Board of Directors. The Articles of Association, the published policies and other additional information on Finnair’s CEO corporate governance can be found at Finnair’s internet site at www.finnairgroup.com. The Corporate STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 91 General Meetings Shareholders' Nomination Board The ultimate authority in Finnair is vested in the General Meeting of Shareholders. An Annual The AGM 2013 decided to establish a permanent Shareholders' Nomination Board. The term of General Meeting (the “AGM”) must be held each year by the end of May. the Nomination Board continues until further notice. The previous practice since 2008 was that a Shareholders’ Nomination Committee was established annually by the AGMs. The competence of the General Meeting of Shareholders is set out in the Companies Act and in Finnair’s Articles of Association. The AGM shall annually decide on the following matters: The purpose and task of the Nomination Board is to prepare and present to the AGM, and, if necessary, to an Extraordinary General Meeting, proposals on the remuneration of the members • adoption of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements of the Board, on the number of members of the Board and on the members of the Board. In addition, • the use of the profit shown on the balance sheet the task of the Nomination Board is to seek potential future candidates for Board members. • the discharging of the Members of the Board and the CEO from liability The Nomination Board shall forward its proposals to the company's Board by 31 January each year. • the appointment of the Members of the Board and their remunerations • election of the Chairman of the Board from among the Members The Nomination Board shall consist of four members, who shall be nominated annually. The company's • the election and remuneration of the auditor. three largest shareholders shall appoint three of the members, and the Chairman of the Board shall serve as the fourth member. The company's largest shareholders entitled to appoint members to The Board convenes the General Meetings of Shareholders by publishing a notice not earlier than the Nomination Board shall be determined on the basis of the registered holdings in the company's three months and not later than three weeks before the date of the meeting and always at least nine shareholder register held by Euroclear Finland Ltd as of the first working day in September each year. days before the record date of the meeting. The notice shall be published as a stock exchange release In the event that a shareholder does not wish to exercise its right to appoint a representative, such and on Finnair’s website. right shall pass to the next largest shareholder. Each shareholder who is registered on the record date as a shareholder in the company’s public The members of the Nomination Board are not remunerated by Finnair for their membership in register of shareholders, maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy, has the right to participate in the the Nomination Board. The members’ expenses are reimbursable in accordance with the company’s General Meeting of Shareholders. If a holder of nominee-registered shares wishes to participate in expense policy. In addition, the Nomination Board’s costs of using external experts shall be borne by the meeting, he or she has to register temporarily in the register of shareholders. Furthermore, in the company. order to attend the meeting, a shareholder must register for the meeting in the manner defined in the notice convening the meeting. 2013 and 2014 Nomination Boards The Nomination Board established in 2013 consisted of the representatives of three largest shareA shareholder has the right to have a matter falling within the competence of the General Meeting of holders as at the first working day September 2013 and of the Chairman of the Board. The shareShareholders addressed by the meeting, if the shareholder so demands in writing from the Board by holders were the State of Finland, Keva and Skagen Global Verdipapirfond and the composition of the date announced on Finnair’s internet site. the Nomination Board was the following: The minutes of the General Meeting of Shareholders and the voting results, if any, shall be made • Mr. Eero Heliövaara, b. 1956, M. Sc. (Econ.), M. Sc. (Eng.), Director General in the Ownership available to shareholders on Finnair's internet site within two weeks of the meeting. Steering in the Prime Minister’s Office (Chairman); • Mr. Robin Backman, b. 1971, M. Sc. (Econ.), Portfolio Manager in Keva; 2015 Annual General Meeting • Mr. Per Wennberg, b. 1969, B. Sc. (Hon.) in Business Management, Skagen's Managing Director Finnair's AGM 2015 was held in Helsinki on 25 March. A total of 257 shareholders, representing 68 in Sweden; per cent of the shares and voting rights of the company, participated either in person or by proxy • Mr. Klaus Heinemann, see details on page 112. representatives. All Board members, all candidates for Board membership and the auditors of the company were present in the meeting. The Nomination Board convened three times and all members were present in the meetings. On 31 January, 2014, the Shareholders' Nomination Board submitted to the Board its proposal for the AGM held on 27 March 2014. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 92 The Nomination Board established in 2014 consisted of the representatives of three largest shareother members. The Board elects a Deputy Chairman from among its members. The term of office holders as at the first working day September 2014 i.e. the State of Finland, Keva and Skagen Global of the members of the Board ends at the close of the first AGM following their election. Verdipapirfond, and of the Chairman of the Board. Skagen funds sold their shares in Finnair Plc in November 2014 and consequently their representative in the Shareholders’ Nomination Board According to the Companies Act, the Board represents all shareholders of Finnair and has the resigned. The right to nominate a member to the Nomination Board was thus transferred to the general duty to act diligently in the interests of the company. Under law, the Board is accountable to fourth largest shareholder of Finnair Plc as at the first working day September, Ilmarinen. The the shareholders for the appropriate governance of the company and for ensuring that the operations composition of the 2014 Nomination Board was the following: of the company are run adequately. • Mr. Eero Heliövaara, see above, (Chairman); The accountability for the company’s governance pertains specifically to the assurance of the effec• Mr. Robin Backman, see above; tiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. The main features of the company’s system • Mr. Per Wennberg, see above; (until 15 Dec 2014) of internal controls and risk management are described later in this report. Finnair has a number of • Mr. Harri Sailas, b. 1951, M. Sc. (Econ.) President and CEO of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension policies issued by the Board, designed to enhance the internal controls. The policies are regularly Insurance Company (from 15 Dec 2014 until 30 April 2015) updated and communicated to the personnel. • Mr. Klaus Heinemann, see details on page 112. In addition to the Board’s statutory tasks, certain significant matters are reserved for the Board’s The Nomination Board convened two times and all members were present in the meetings. On 29 decision, as set out in the Board’s charter. The Board sets the company’s strategic aims and monitors January, 2015, the Shareholders' Nomination Board submitted to the Board its proposal for the AGM the implementation of the same by the management, approves other significant strategic matters, to be held on 25 March 2015. investments, divestments and capital commitments and approves the business and financial plans, significant partnerships and other major contracts. The Board reviews the performance of the 2015 Nomination Board management and it appoints and removes the CEO and other members of the executive management The Nomination Board established in 2015 consisted of the representatives of three largest shareand determines their levels of remuneration. The Board also attends to the succession planning of the holders as at the first working day September 2015 i.e. the State of Finland, Keva and Ilmarinen, and management. The Board establishes and regularly evaluates the group's personnel policies, including of the Chairman of the Board. The composition of the 2014 Nomination Board was the following: the compensation structures. The Board’s charter is available on Finnair’s website in its entirety. • Mr. Eero Heliövaara, see above, (Chairman); The Board evaluates its work annually. The Board’s gender distribution in the composition elected by • Mr. Robin Backman, see above; 2015 AGM is four men and three women. • Mr. Timo Ritakallio, b. 1962, Master of Laws, MBA, President and CEO of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company Members of the Board and their independence • Mr. Klaus Heinemann, see details on page 112. The 2015 AGM held on 25 March elected Mr. Klaus Heinemann as Chairman of the Board and Ms. Maija-Liisa Friman, Mr. Jussi Itävuori, Mr. Harri Kerminen, Ms. Gunvor Kronman, Ms. Jaana The Nomination Board convened 4 times and the participation rate was 87.5%. On 31 January, 2016, Tuominen and Mr. Nigel Turner as other members of the Board. The Board elected Mr. Harri the Shareholders' Nomination Board submitted to the Board its proposal for the AGM to be held on Kerminen as its Vice Chairman. 17 March 2016. The proposals are available at Finnair’s website. Board members represent a diverse range of business and other backgrounds, bringing a broad specBoard of Directors trum of views and experiences to Board deliberations. The Board assessed the independence of its The Chairman and the Members of the Board are elected by the AGM. According to the Articles of members and concluded that all members are non-executive members independent of the Company Association, the Board consists of the Chairman and a minimum of four and a maximum of seven and its major shareholders. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 93 Members of the Board in 2015 and their attendance in Board and Committee meetings The Board's work in 2015 In 2015, the Board met 10 times. In addition, the Board made per capsulam decisions 4 times In 2015 the Board met 10 times in person and had 4 additional online or telephone meetings. In addition to during the year. See the table below for information on the Board members' participation in the its regulatory duties, the Board’s actions included the following: meetings during 2014. • Evaluated the company’s strategy, followed the implementation of the existing strategic initiatives and set the company’s strategic direction, mission and objectives as well as focus areas for 2015–2017; Participation in Board Participation in Committee • Reviewed the midand long-term investment and funding plans Name Personal Information meetings in 2015 meetings in 2015 • Decided on the issue of an EUR 200 million hybrid bond and redemption of an existing EUR 120 million Audit Remuneration hybrid bond; Mr. Chairman of the Board since 27 March 10/10 • Approved the capacity expansion of the Airbus narrowbody fleet by increasing seat count and acquiring Klaus W. 2013 additional aircraft; Heinemann Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 • Approved the investment in the new Cargo logistics centre; B. 1951, B.Sc. (Econ.) Main occupation: Board professional • Approved the investments in on board Wi-Fi technology; Committee membership: Audit Committee • Approved a share saving plan targeted to the entire staff and the conditions and objectives for the next until 27 March 2014 period of the long-term share incentive plan targeted to the key employees, and set the personnel fund’s Mr. Harri Member of the Board since 24 March 2011 9/10 5/6 5/5 performance bonus criteria for 2015; Kerminen Vice Chairman of the Board since 28 March 2012 • Approved the divestment of the majority shareholding in Nordic Regional Airlines; B. 1951, M. Sc. Tech, MBA • Decided to launch a purchase programme of treasury shares; and Main occupation: Board professional Committee memberships: Audit and Com• Assessed and developed its working practices. pensation and Nomination Committee Ms. Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 10/10 6/6 Maija-Liisa B. 1952, M.Sc. (Eng.) Friman Main occupation: Board professional The Committees of the Board Committee memberships: Audit CommitThe Board delegates certain of its functions to the Audit Committee and to the Compensation and tee (Chairman) Nomination Committee. The Board appoints the Committee members and their Chairs from among Mr. Jussi Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 10/10 5/5 Itävuori B. 1955, M. Sc. (Econ.) the members of the Board. The minimum number of members is three in both Committees. Main occupation: Board professional Committee memberships: Compensation and Nomination Committee (Chairman) Each Committee meets regularly under their respective charters. The Committees’ tasks and the Ms. Gunvor Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 9/10 4/5 work carried out by them during the year are described in their respective sections below. The Kronman B. 1963, Master of Arts Committees report on their work regularly to the Board but they do not have decision-making Main occupation: CEO of Swedish-Finnish Cultural Centre powers independent from the Board, except where expressly authorised by the Board. Copies of the Committee membership: Compensation Committees’ charters are available on Finnair’s website. and Nomination Committee Ms. Jaana Member of the Board since 27 March 2014 10/10 4/5 Tuominen B. 1960, M. Sc. (Eng.) Main occupation: CEO of Paulig Group Committee membership: Compensation and Nomination Committee Mr. Nigel Member of the Board since 27 March 2014 10/10 6/6 Turner B. 1958, BA (Hon.) Main occupation: Committee membership: Audit Committee More information on the Members of the Board is available on page 112 and on Finnair’s website. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 94 Audit Committee The Audit Committee's activities in 2015 The Audit Committee assists the Board in its task to ensure the proper governance of the company, In addition to its customary tasks, in 2015 the Audit Committee attended selected focus areas, comprising in particular, by considering the accounting and financial reporting, the Company’s internal control supplementary pensions, Joint Business Agreements in Atlantic and Japanese traffic; investments, financing systems and the work of the external auditors. The Audit Committee addresses concerns pertaining and cash flows; accounting treatment of Airbus A350 and Embraer E190 aircraft investments; and risk to control matters as may be detected by the management or the internal audit or external auditors management. The Audit Committee also: of the company. These are reported to the Board by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee • In cooperation with the management, arranged competitive tendering for the group’s audit servi services ensures that appropriate action is taken by the management to rectify identified shortcomings. and prepared a proposal to the Annual General Meeting on the appointment of the auditor; • Reviewed and approved a risk-based internal audit plan for 2014 and assessed the sufficiency of the According to the Corporate Governance Code, the members of the Committee must be sufficiently resources in the internal control functions; qualified to perform the responsibilities of the Committee. • Discussed with the CEO, the CFO and the auditors the company’s accounting policies and the estimates and judgements that were applied in preparing the reports; The main duties of the Audit Committee • Performed an annual self-assessment and set the Committee’s annual plan for 2016. • Selected the following areas of specific attention for 2016: financial reporting segments; financial risk The Audit Committee shall: hedging; investment, financing and cash plans; changes in IFRSs and the implementation of new • monitor the financial status of the company standards; development project of financial management processes and controls; and an audit analysis • monitor the reporting process of financial statements and interim reports and assess the draft financial in the aviation sector. statements and interim reports • assess the efficiency of the company’s internal controls, internal auditing and risk management system • monitor the statutory audit and review all material reports from the auditor • assess the independence of the auditors, in particular with regard to their ancillary services Compensation and Nomination Committee • prepare for the Board proposals to the Annual General Meeting regarding the election of the auditor(s) The Compensation and Nomination Committee assists the Board in matters pertaining to the and their remunerations compensation and benefits of the CEO and other senior management, their performance evalua• review the auditors’ and internal auditors’ audit plans and reports tion, appointment and successor planning. The Committee assists the Board also in establishing and • review the company’s corporate governance statement evaluating the group's compensation structures and other personnel policies. By virtue of a Board • prepare for the Board the group’s risk management policies authorisation, the Committee ascertains the achievement of targets for short-term incentives and • prepare for the Board decisions on significant changes in the accounting principles or in the valuations approves the payment of incentives to the CEO and other top management. of the group’s assets; • assess the group’s compliance with laws and regulations; and • maintain contact with the auditors. The main duties of the Compensation and Nomination Committee The Committee prepares the following matters for the Board: • compensations, pensions, benefits and other material terms of the contract of the CEO After 2015 AGM, the Audit Committee members are Ms. Maija-Liisa Friman (Chairperson), • compensations, pensions and benefits of the top executives of the group, and other material terms Mr. Nigel Turner and Mr. Harri Kerminen. All Committee members are independent of the of their contracts to the extent that the same deviate from the customary practice Company and of its significant shareholders. • nominations of the CEO and other top executives • top executives' succession planning In accordance with its annual plan, the Audit Committee met 6 times in 2015 with an aggregate • composition of the Executive Board attendance rate of 94.5 per cent. Each meeting addressed, in addition to the regular agenda items, • equity-based incentive plans special themes under the annual plan. The CEO, the CFO, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk • the principal compensation policies and practices regarding the personnel Management as well as the external auditor also participated in the Committee’s meetings. Finnair's • management's participation in the boards' of directors of the group and of external companies • major organisational changes General Counsel acted as the secretary of the Audit Committee. The Committee held closed sessions • proposals of awarding the members of the management honorary decorations and titles. as well as sessions where the External or Internal Auditors participated without the presence of the members of the management. The Committee also performed its annual self-evaluation. A copy of the Committee’s charter is available on Finnair’s website. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 95 After the 2015 AGM, the members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee elected are Company Management Mr. Jussi Itävuori (Chairman), Ms Gunvor Kronman, Ms Jaana Tuominen and Mr. Harri Kerminen. All Committee members are independent of the Company and of its significant shareholders. The members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee met 5 times in 2015 with an aggreBoard of Directors Reports to Board’s gate attendance rate of 90 per cent. The CEO and the Head of HR were invited to the meetings to Audit Committee assist the Committee. Finnair's General Counsel acted as the Committee’s secretary. The Compensation and Nomination Committee's work in 2015 CEO Internal audit The Committee, among other things: • Prepared for the Board approval the conditions and targets of the employee share saving plan (FlyShare) for 2015; • Reviewed the senior management’s compensation levels compared to the market level, assessed the performance of the management relative to the long and short term incentive targets, and approved Executive Management the payment of short-term management incentives; Finance, HR, Corporate Communications and Corporate • Assisted the Board in determining the personnel fund’s bonus criteria for 2015 and the semi-annual Responsibility, Legal Affairs, Flight Operations, Commercial Division targets and conditions for top management; • Assisted the Board in determining the participants, targets and conditions for the next earnings period of the share bonus plan for key personnel; • Assessed the development needs of the share bonus program and personnel fund as well as other Executive Board Subsets rewarding principles and practices of the company; • Assessed the methodology and results of the company’s successor and talent mapping; • Monitored the company’s management development initiatives and progress in the company’s value Group Risk and cultural reform; Traffic Planning Procurement Brand and Management • Assessed the potential impact of the increase in the general retirement age on the company’s Board Steering Group Product Board Steering Group supplementary pension expenses and monitored the related negotiations between the company and its pilots; • Monitored a project in the company to develop its payroll administration; • Assessed its meeting practices and tasks. The CEO The CEO is appointed by the Board. The CEO manages the company’s day-to-day operations in Company management accordance with guidelines and instructions issued by the Board. The CEO’s instructions from the Board include, in particular, the implementation of Finnair’s strategy, driving of structural change Finnair's corporate structure and improving the company’s profitability. The CEO acts as the Chairman of the Executive Board. Finnair has two business areas: Airline Business and Travel Services (tour operators and travel agencies) and its financial reporting is based on this grouping. Shared functions in Finnair’s Group The Board determines the CEO’s compensation and sets his short and long term incentive targets. Administration are Finance and Control, Human Resources, Communications and Corporate The main contents of the CEO’s contract, including his compensation and benefits, are described in Responsibility, Corporate Development, Legal Affairs and Internal Audit. the Remuneration Statement and on Finnair's internet pages. The CEO of Finnair is Mr. Pekka Vauramo, b. 1957, M. Sc. (Mining). STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 96 Executive Board Brand and Product Board is responsible for strategic brand steering and management as well as The Executive Board of the Company is led by the CEO and it comprises the senior management product decisions. It decides, for example, on brand development activities, service identity and responsible for Finnair’s operations and commercial activities, finance and control, human resources, visual identity of Finnair. The Board is headed by the CEO and meets bi-monthly. communications and corporate responsibility and legal affairs. The members’ respective roles and their shareholdings in Finnair are more fully described on the company’s web pages. The senior In addition Executive Board acts as the Group Risk Management Steering Group. Risk Management management is appointed and removed by the Board, which also determines their remuneration and Steering Group is responsible for the Group's strategic risk assessment and setting risk management other terms of employment. priorities and risk management measures. It assesses the adequacy and timeliness of the Group's risk management policy. In addition, it approves changes in the risk reporting process, Finnair common The duties of the Executive Board include group-wide development projects, the definition of prinrisk language and risk model. The Steering Group is headed by the CEO and meets bi-monthly. ciples and procedures that guide the company’s activities, and the preparation of matters to be dealt with by the Board. The Executive Board also acts as Finnair’s risk management steering group. Management Board Finnair Management Board is principally a communication and co-operation forum designed for the In 2015, Finnair’s Executive Board met twice a month on average. A major proportion of the Executive personnel’s participation in the company’s governance processes, especially with regard to matters Board’s time was used in leading key projects relating to Finnair’s strategy and further development that affect the personnel. The focus of the Management Board work is on enhancing communication of the strategy. The Executive Board also launched a project to reform the values and culture to and understanding between the personnel groups and the management as to the implementation support the strategy, and an extensive project to develop leadership and expertise. The Executive of the company’s strategic objectives and on sharing information and discussing plans and projects Group also focused on the company’s financial position, financing, investments and securing the that affect Finnair's personnel. The Management Board also discusses the business plans and finanaircraft capacity required by growth of feeder traffic, as well as the improvement of operational cial performance of the Group, the operational quality and customer satisfaction as well as significant quality, customer experience and occupational wellbeing of the personnel. In addition, the Executive development projects. The Management Board comprises the Executive Board members, certain Board addressed ancillary sales, risk management as well as successor and talent mapping. During senior managers and the representatives of all personnel groups. the year, ownership arrangements of Nordic Regional Airlines were finalised. Year 2015 culminated with the ceremonious introduction of the next-generation Airbus A350 aircraft, symbolising at the In 2015, the Management Board met 7 times. same time the Finnair team spirit and its personnel’s professionalism and commitment to the Asian growth strategy. Corporate Governance in Finnair subsidiaries For major subsidiaries, the members of the boards of directors are selected from individuals Subsets of the Executive Board belonging to Finnair’s senior management and, in selected subsidiaries, also from representaThe Executive Board delegates certain of its functions to three subsets. These subsets’ decision tives proposed by personnel groups. The key tasks of the boards of directors of subsidiaries include making authority is derived from that of the Executive Board, set by the Board by way of the approval strategy preparation, approving operational plans and budgets, and deciding on investments and limits, policies and instructions. commitments within the scope of the approval limits issued by Finnair’s Board. Network Planning Group is responsible for fleet and network strategy and short and long-term The subsidiaries of Finnair are presented in the Financial Statements 2015 under Note 4.2. traffic planning of Finnair's scheduled, leisure and cargo traffic, among other things. The Group is headed by VP Resource Management and Corporate Development, and it meets monthly. Governance principles in key partnerships and outsourcings Finnair has equity partnership in Nordic Regional Airlines Oy through Nordic Regional Airlines AB Procurement Steering Group is responsible for Finnair's Procurement Policy, procurement cate(ownership 40 per cent). Nordic Regional Airlines Oy is a Finnish regional passenger airline opergory structure and related development projects. It also approves significant supplier contracts (with ating ATR turboprop and Embraer 170 and 190 aircraft. Its route network is designed to provide the exception of IT contracts) and their related governance models. The Group is headed by the CFO convenient feeder connections to Finnair’s European and long-haul routes. Finnair’s influence over and meets at least quarterly. the governance of the company is secured by shareholding and various contractual rights. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 97 Finnair has entrusted certain important operational services to world class service providers. LSG measures to ensure the reliability of financial reporting to the CEO. The Group CFO is responsible Sky Chefs Finland Oy runs the former catering businesses of Finnair at Helsinki Airport. It supplies for governing financial reporting control environment and acting as the risk owner of reporting risks. Finnair’s catering services pursuant to a multi-year agreement designed to ensure Finnair’s receipt of The line organisations of business units and Group-wide functions have the main responsibility for high quality services, cost savings and other benefits. Other similar long-term arrangements exist in executing day to day control activities pertaining to the financial reporting process. the ground handling services, with Swissport Finland Ltd, and in the engine and component services with SR Technics, Lufthansa Technik and Rolls Royce. The cost and quality targets of these agreeThe role in the implementation of the internal control and risk management system ments have been determined so as to correspond at least to a good general market level. Finnair participates in joint ventures consisting of certain airlines belonging to the oneworld alliance. Three lines of defence These joint ventures seek to improve competitiveness and efficiency in a manner benefitting the passengers. Finnair's influence in the joint ventures is based on contractual arrangements. Decisions Business segments and common functions by the joint venture are sought to be made unanimously. First line of Day to day control and risk management activities pertaining to the defence financial reporting process All Finnair's service providers are expected to comply with Finnair's Code of Conduct and Finnair's Supplier Code of Conduct, and Finnair is entitled to audit the Supplier’s governance and security practices to ensure this. Corporate functions Second line of Oversight and continuous improvement of the internal control and risk defence External auditors Finnair's Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct are available on Finnair's website. management environment Main features of the internal control and risk management system Operational level pertaining to the financial reporting process Internal Audit Third line of Assessment of control environment, day to day control and risk Description of the overall system defence management activities, and overall maturity of the internal control and risk The objective of internal control and risk management system pertaining to the financial reporting management system process is to provide the Board, the Executive Management and other key stakeholders with a The Board of Directors reasonable assurance of the reliability and correctness of financial and operational reporting, as well Ultimate Reasonable assurance of the achievement of company’s strategic and as compliance with associated laws, regulations and internal policies. It is built on the principles of operational objectives, reliability of financial and operational reporting, responsibility Finnair’s overall system of risk management which is aligned with commonly accepted COSO ERM as well as compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies framework and ISO 31000:2009 standard for risk management. Control environment Finnair's Code of Conduct and management system form the foundation for its control environment and background for awareness and implementation of control activities across the organisation. Internal Audit assesses the control environment as well as the status and effectiveness of planned Guiding principles of internal control and risk management in Finnair are documented in the Group control and risk management activities. To ensure the independence of the Internal Audit activity, Risk Management Policy. Other key steering instruments supporting control over reporting include, Internal Audit has a direct functional reporting line to the Audit Committee of Finnair Board and it is but are not limited to, Annual Accounts drafting principles, Code of Conduct, Treasury Policy, positioned to operate administratively under the CEO. The Audit Committee appointed by the Board Procurement Policy, Credit Policy and Disclosure Policy. of Directors oversees the financial reporting process and overall maturity of the internal control and risk management system. The described roles and responsibilities are in accordance with the Finnish Finnair's Board of Directors holds the overall responsibility for the company's internal control and Companies Act, and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. The picture below summarises the roles risk management. The Board has delegated the implementation of efficient control environment and of the listed stakeholders in the implementation of the internal control and risk management system. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 98 Risk Assessment The main components and roles associated with control planning, implementation and monitoring The objective of Finnair's financial reporting risk assessment is to identify, evaluate and prioritise are summarized below: the most significant threats to the reliability of internal and external reporting at the Group, reporting area, unit, function and process levels. Processes related to financial reporting are subject Report Audit Set Guidelines to on-going risk assessment by the business unit controllers, financial controllers and other shared Findings Board of and Approve Group Policies service centre staff as part of their daily and weekly activities. Directors Policies As a part of internal controls development project, the processes with material impact on financial reporting have been defined and risks threatening the reliability and accuracy of financial reporting assessed in a coordinated manner. Possible changes in internal and external environment are always Implement assessed and processes updated accordingly. Policies and Executive Board Guidelines, Requirements, Principles Guidelines Control activities Financial reporting instructions have been prepared to be followed across the organization. The instructions outlining the content and schedule for the reporting aim to increase the overall controllability of the financial reporting process and ensure that financial statement fulfils the requirements Control set in the IFRS standards and other applicable principles. Environment Owner Identify Risks Risks related to financial reporting are managed through controls aiming to provide reasonable Internal and Define assurance that the information of interim reports and year-end reports are correct and that they Control Catalogs Audit Controls have been prepared in accordance with legislation, applicable accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. These control activities are: Control Catalog • preventive, detective and corrective in nature; Owner • integrated into reporting processes in business units, group-wide functions and subsidiaries; • operationalized through the implementation of Policies, Guidelines and Principles, • captured in Control Catalogues; • supported by Manuals and Standards, Process Descriptions and Work Instructions; • monitored and continuously improved through a dedicated governance model. Control Apply Manuals Process Work Performer/ and Controls Descriptions Instructions Reviewer Standards Responsibilities over reporting controls are illustrated in the matrix below: Role Description Control Environment Owner Responsible for governing financial reporting – Group CFO control environment and acting as the risk owner Information and communication of reporting risks Information and communication system provides means for Finnair's personnel to capture and Control Catalogue Owner Owner of the process controls defined in the communicate information related to risk assessments and control activities across company's oper– Process Owners control catalogue ations. The system aims at providing required personnel access to adequate and timely information Control Performer / Reviewer Responsible for executing / monitoring key on accounting and reporting as well as on related controls. Information regarding control requirecontrol(s) defined in the control catalogue ments is communicated through common policies, dedicated guidelines and process level procedure Internal Audit Responsible for audit of reporting processes and descriptions. related controls according to the annual audit plan STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 99 The CFO, supported by Investor Relations function, is responsible for the disclosure of financial Internal Audit focus areas in 2015 and 2016 information and fulfilment of the communication obligations of a listed company. Investor Relations holds the responsibility over planning and implementation of investor communications and daily 2015 Key Activities contact with investors and analysts. In 2015, Internal Audit set an objective to its audit activities to support management in their efforts to enhance revenues and profitability. This theme was an overarching objective throughout the Audit Plan 2015 Monitoring and improvement in all audit engagements. Among main audits were joint businesses, ancillary revenue, flight ticket sales and Finnair's internal control and risk management system is subject to both on-going and periodical Cargo revenue management and pricing process audits. Special attention during the year was also paid to monitoring activities to gain reasonable assurance over its appropriateness and effectiveness. areas such as strategic partnerships and programs, and data integrity. On-going monitoring is built into the normal, recurring operating activities of operations and is 2016 Planned Key Activities the responsibility of corporate management, business units and group-wide functions. Internal Audit focus areas and annual plan for 2016 have been approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors in December 2015. Key focus areas of Internal Audit for the year 2016 are based on and aligned Focus areas of internal control over financial reporting in 2015 and 2016 with corporate strategy, results of risk assessments and recent changes in internal processes. Sourcing, third party risk management and vendor management processes as well as airline operations will be the main 2015 Key Activities audit areas for 2016. Regular self-assessment of risks and controls was performed as set in the annual calendar of internal control activities. Additionally, the Internal Audit and public auditors performed audits on key controls as defined in the annual audit plan. Compliance Finnair is committed to complying with international and local laws and ethical policies in accordFurthermore, control catalogue documentation in additional key process areas identified after the first phase ance with the Code of Conduct approved in 2012. The Company's General Counsel is responsible for implementation was carried out to further extend the coverage of the consistently defined framework and Finnair’s compliance function, which supports business operations and corporate administration control process. Special attention was focused on areas where changes in roles and responsibilities had developing practices related to identifying and complying with the law. The key tasks of Finnair’s taken place. Compliance function are to ensure compliance with the regulation in all operations, maintenance of Finnair's compliance program and the continuous development of ethical business culture. 2016 Planned Key Activities Further development of the controls will be conducted independently and also using any findings and suggestions received from Internal Audit and public auditors. By the end of 2016, audits will have been performed for each control catalogue. Internal Audit The Internal Audit is established by the Board of Directors, and its responsibilities are defined by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors as part of their oversight function. The mission of Internal Audit in Finnair is to provide independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve the organisation's operations. Internal Audit helps the organisation to mitigate factors that might undermine its business objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 100 Risk management and major risks Risk Management Business units, Group-wide functions and subsidiaries of Finnair Group are responsible for impleFinnair operates in a global and highly competitive environment that is sensitive to economic fluctumenting Group Risk Management Policy into their management systems and aligning with it their ations. In executing its strategy, Finnair and its operations are exposed to a broad range of risks and Risk Management guidelines, procedures and strategies. opportunities. To exploit opportunities to create value, Finnair is prepared to take and manage risks within the limits of its risk-bearing capacity (rewarded risks). In relation to reliability of reporting, Process compliance with laws and regulations, and flight safety matters, Finnair's objective is to minimise risks (unrewarded risks). The purpose of risk management is to provide a systematic approach to the Establish context and set objectives management of rewarded and unrewarded risks in all sections of Finnair's operations. Finnair Group’s Risk Management System ensures that management has a process in place to assess and manage uncertainties associated with set objectives, and those uncertainties are analysed and Policy and framework managed within the boundaries of Finnair’s risk bearing capacity. In Finnair, risk is considered as the potential for loss caused by an internal or external event or series of events that can adversely affect the implementation of strategy, achievement of business objectives Risk Assessment or shareholder value. Both negative events and unrealised positive events are considered as risk. Risk assessments are executed according to the Annual Cycle defined in the Group Risk Management Policy. Finnair's risk assessment process takes place as an integral part of strategy process and operaThe Group Risk Management Policy defines the overall framework for risk management in the whole tional objective-setting across the organisation to enable a holistic view on risks and opportunities. of Finnair Group. This framework, while taking into account industry specific requirements, is aligned with the commonly accepted COSO ERM framework and the ISO 31000:2009 standard for Risk assessment in Finnair Group includes the following phases: risk management. • identification of external and internal events affecting the achievement of objectives; Dedicated Risk Management Principles have been established to support the implementation of the • distinction between risks and opportunities; Group Risk Management Policy in the following contexts: Treasury, New Ventures, Programs and • analysis of identified risks; Projects, Supply Chain, Flight Safety, Corporate Security and Information Security. Principles associ• integration (aggregation) of risks; ated with risk management in the context of financial reporting are discussed in Note 3.5 on page 59. • evaluation and prioritisation of risks based on their significance and likelihood. Policy implementation To ensure the coverage of risk identification and systematise the risk assessment activities, Finnair The Board of Directors holds the ultimate responsibility for the Enterprise Risk Management system has established a common risk model, a common risk assessment criteria and a common risk reposiin Finnair. It is responsible for approving the Group Risk Management Policy, setting Finnair Group's tory. As part of strategic risk assessments, also strategic assumptions associated with company objecRisk Appetite and overseeing the effectiveness of Risk Management. tives are identified and their implications analysed. Finnair Group’s CEO holds the responsibility over the appropriateness of the Group’s Risk ManageA dedicated Risk Coordinator Forum has been established to support coordination of risk assessment and oversight of Group Risk Management Policy implementation. The CEO, supported by the ment activities in business units, group-wide functions and subsidiaries and to ensure these activities Risk Management Steering Group consisting of the members of Executive Board, is also responsible conform to the requirements set in Group Risk Management Policy. for reviewing Group Risk Management Policy and risk management priorities. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 101 Risk response and control activities The CEO, supported by the Risk Management Steering Group, is responsible for defining risk Risk Management strategies shall be applied to prioritised risks in order to reach reasonable assurmanagement strategies and procedures, and setting risk management priorities. Risk owners for ance that their outcomes fall within an acceptable level. These Risk Management strategy options business segments, group-wide functions and at the process level hold the responsibility for planning include: and implementing control measures to ensure an acceptable level of residual risk, and that the relevant risk interdependencies have been appropriately acknowledged. • Acceptance of risk • Avoidance of risk Information and communication • Transfer of risk Risk management information system aims at providing means for Finnair's personnel to capture • Mitigation of risk and communicate information related to execution of risk assessments and control activities across company's operations. Identified risks and their control measures are documented in risk logs for follow-up purposes. Dedicated information systems are in place to identify and analyse operational Control Environment risk events and support associated operational audit activities. Risk management information system will be subject to further development during the year of 2016. Risk reporting to the Board of Directors and to the Risk Management Steering Group takes place on quarterly basis under the coordination of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management function. Status of Risk Management development activities and implementation of strategic controls are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors six times per year. In addition to the periodical business risk reporting, there are several Establish context and set objectives reporting lines associated with financial and operational risk reporting to both internal and external stakeholders. Monitoring and continuous improvement Identify risks and opportunities Finnair's risk management system is subject to both ongoing and periodical monitoring activities to gain reasonable assurance over its appropriateness and effectiveness. The implemented risk management system is subject to continuous improvement activities based on PDCA (Plan-DoCheck-Act) cycle consistent with ISO 31000:2009. On-going monitoring is built into the normal, Analyse risks recurring operating activities of operations and is the responsibility of corporate management, busiMonitor and ness segments and common functions. The effectiveness of all flight safety related control activities Inform and continuously and the general compliance with official regulations are monitored through a quality system. Within communicate improve the scope of the quality system, the safety-critical elements of the company are audited annually. The Integrate risks Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for regularly reviewing and monitoring the implementation of Group Risk Management Policy and the Risk Management process. Group Internal Audit and Risk Management in cooperation with Risk Management specialists is responsible for assessment and development of the maturity of the risk management system. In order to ensure Evaluate risks well-coordinated risk management development activities across the organisation and exchange of best practices, a dedicated Risk Manager Forum consisting of risk management specialists has been Assess risks established. The forum has meetings on quarterly basis. Control risks STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 102 Governance model and reporting lines Risk Management focus areas in 2015 and 2016 In 2015 development activities, we focused on facilitation of risk-based approach to planning and Audit Board of Directors implementation of strategic projects as well as requirement analysis for an integrated Group-wide risk Committee information management system. The following activities have been planned for the year 2016: Further integration of risk management into strategic decision making as part of strategy process, implementation of formal risk appetite setting in Risk CEO Management Steering Group as part of continuous risk management and development of risk assessment practices in selected target areas. Major risks Risk Management Steering Group Globally, the airline industry is one of the sectors most sensitive to external shocks, seasonalities and cyclical changes in economic conditions. Finnair carries out a comprehensive risk management process, to ensure that risks are identified and mitigated where possible, although many remain Risk outside our full control. The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to potentially Manager have significant effect on Finnair’s business, financial results and future prospects. This list is not Forum intended to be exhaustive. Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Risk Business Group-wide Coordinator Subsidiaries units functions Forum Risk Management specialists Risk Management information system STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 103 Major risks Risk Definition Our risk responses include, but are not limited to: BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Competitors The risk of competitors or new entrants to the market taking • Continuous monitoring of competitor activities • Product development program(s) actions to establish sustainable competitive advantage over • Scenario analysis • Cost-competitiveness program(s) Finnair. • Contingency planning • Active joint business and alliance cooperation Capital availability The risk that insufficient access to capital threatens Finnair’s • Funding plan • Roadshows and one-on-one meetings with investors capacity to grow, execute its business model and generate • Treasury Policy and analysts future financial returns. • Capital Markets Day(s) Economic volatility The risk that major economic volatility or other large scale • On-going analysis of market trend development • Risk diversification through active vendor portfolio economic disturbances slow down travelling. • Periodical risk assessments management • Contingency planning • Structural changes • Fleet ownership strategy Traffic charges and The price and availability of overflight rights as well as the • Continuous monitoring of political environment • Active cooperation with key stakeholders flight permissions price of traffic charges, such as arrival, departure and • Lobbying • Enterprise-wide dependency analysis navigation charges result in a negative impact Finnair’s business operations and profit margin. Country risk The risk that sudden changes in demand, political upheaval, • Continuous monitoring and market intelligence • Contingency planning cultural factors, natural disasters, pandemic or other • Group level risk assessments • Crisis communication planning disturbances in destination countries slow down travelling • Foreign unit risk assessments • Network diversification and/or hinder Finnair's ability to conduct business. Laws and regulations The risk that changes in laws, regulations or their • Compliance management programme to identify changes in external • Awareness through tailored training programs interpretations significantly affect Finnair’s ability to requirements and align internal activities to support compliance them • Ensuring ability and resources to execute controls efficiently conduct business. • Dedicated internal policies FINANCIAL Market risk The risk of incurring additional costs due to adverse • Treasury policy approved by the Board of Directors • Continuous monitoring of hedging ratio(s) movements of the interest rates, unsuccessful currency • Internal controls over Treasury policy implementation • Scenario and sensitivity analysis position and/or rise of jet fuel price. Liquidity risk The risk of incurring additional or unnecessary costs due to • Maintain robust cash balance • Precommitted aircraft financing inability to generate cash flow. • Diversify funding sources • Maintain an unutilised credit facility and commercial paper programme BUSINESS OPERATIONS Human capital The risk that Finnair is not able to execute its strategy due to • Strategic competency management • Internal communication management inadequate quality, commitment or resourcing of human • Continuous improvement of HR processes • Union relations management capital. • Change management program • Contingency planning • Employee wellbeing strategy • Active and open communication with key stakeholders Capacity planning The risk that insufficient capacity threatens Finnair’s ability to • Network strategy • Deviation analysis meet customer demands, or excess capacity threatens • Demand forecasting • Continuous process improvement Finnair’s ability to generate competitive profit margins. • Route performance monitoring STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 104 Risk Definition Our risk responses include, but are not limited to: BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Marketing mix The risk that segmentation and marketing mix decisions on • Finnair brand re-positioning • Customer satisfaction and consumer trend surveys product, price, promotion and distribution do not support • Continuous benchmarking and strategic positioning of Finnair product • New E-commerce organization to safeguard and develop creation of sustainable competitive advantage. online presence Revenue management The risk that Finnair is not capable to perform competitive • Global sales strategy and revenue optimisation process • Executive level monitoring and performance evaluation revenue management to optimise its revenues per seat • Daily monitoring of booking trends, issued sales, advance booking reports • Control measures to ensure timeliness and integrity of kilometre. • Monitoring of key variables such as market shares, pricing structure and revenue management information yields of other relevant airlines as well as route profitability PARTNERSHIPS Alliances and Joint The risk that other alliances and/or joint businesses gain • Active alliance cooperation • Project and process management methodology Businesses competitive advantage over oneworld, Finnair’s joint • Joint business governance model implementation businesses and/or lack of performance and missing of targets. • Dedicated alliance and joint business teams • Joint continuous process improvement activities • Internal controls over joint business processes Partners and suppliers The risk that quality and availability issues and/or unexpected • Supplier diversification • Dedicated procurement specialists per supplier category costs associated with partnerships and suppliers have an • Supplier relationship management program • Dedicated partner managers adverse effect on Finnair's product and profit margin or • Supplier risk assessments • Scenario analysis suppliers gain bargaining power over Finnair. • Contract risk management • Contingency planning SAFETY & SECURITY Flight safety The risk of endangered flight safety due to poor process • SMS (safety management system) • Reporting design, poor process execution or a human error. • SQM Governance (Safety board, safety action groups, post holder • Monitoring responsibilities) • Safety audit program • Continuous analysis • FRMS (fatigue risk management system) • Risk assessment Data and cyber security The risk of a cyber-attack on aviation systems having an • Risk assessments • Risk management actions impact on operations and therefore damaging the Finnair • Security audits and evaluations • Contingency planning brand. The risk that inappropriate parties can access Finnair’s sensitive or classified information jeopardising its confidentiality and/or integrity. The risk that a large-scale attack or disruption in information systems affects Finnair's ability to conduct its business as planned. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 105 Remuneration statement 2015 Salaries, addendums and other compensation components of personnel groups other than those Content mentioned above are, for the most part, defined in their respective Finnish collective agreements. Introduction 105 Outside Finland, Finnair follows the pay practices and collective agreements of each country of Total Compensation at Finnair 105 operation. Compensation is based on job grading 106 Variable pay 106 Employment benefits for all personnel include a staff ticket benefit in line with company policy, as Short-term incentives 106 well as a Sickness Fund for employees based in Finland. Certain personnel groups also have a car Long-term incentives 106 benefit and mobile phone benefit in line with company policy. Management remuneration decision-making procedure 108 Remuneration of the Board of Directors in 2015 109 Finnair aims to make work rewarding and interesting through not only monetary incentives, but Management remuneration in 2015 109 also by offering opportunities for development and job rotation within the company. Employees are Supplementary pensions 109 satisfied at Finnair, as evidenced by a high average duration of employment and a very low employee Termination of the service contract and severance pay 110 revenue. The average of service years of all employees was 17.2 at year-end 2015. Other benefits 110 Computational monthly earnings of Finnair’s Finnish personnel groups in 2015¹) Introduction Median2) Personnel group This remuneration statement describes Finnair’s remuneration policies and the remuneration of the 2015 2014 2013 senior management, i.e. the Board of Directors, the CEO and the members of the Executive Board in Executive Board 20,412 18,486 18,998 2015. Further information is available on the company website at www.finnairgroup.com. The remuPilots 10,719 10,216 10,469 neration statement has been prepared based on Recommendation 47 of the 2010 Finnish Corporate Management Positions 9,848 8,517 9,004 Governance Code for Listed Companies published by the Finnish Securities Market Association, and White Collar Employees 5,424 5,241 it also covers other key components of remuneration that we believe the readers are interested in. Technical Employees 5,110 5,116 4,877 Technical Service Workers 4,810 4,777 4,577 Total Compensation at Finnair Cabin Crew 4,015 4,207 4,152 Remuneration and incentive structures take into consideration the effectiveness and costs of different Ground Service Workers 3,821 3,911 3,825 forms of remuneration. Finnair’s remuneration policies are compliant with local legislation, regulations and practices. The overall remuneration of Finnair’s different personnel groups are compared Aviation Employees 3,593 3,551 3,486 annually to the local pay levels in similar tasks in every country in which the company operates. ¹) Computational monthly earnings: Taxable gross earnings divided by 12 months. ²) The median pay describes the average salary of each group, or the point where half of the employees in the group earn more than the The salary and other incentive structures applicable to the CEO, the members of the Executive amount, and half earn less. The calculations only include employees who earned pay for the full year. Temporary layoffs have been eliminated from the calculations. The calculations do not include tax exempt benefits or other untaxed forms of compensation, such as daily allowances. Board, senior salaried employees, engineers and personnel based in units abroad are as follows: The data does not include pilots in supervisor roles. Long-term incentives are not included. I. Fixed pay: base salary Median earnings describe the average pay level of each personnel group, and are not indicative of II. Variable pay: short and long-term incentives linked to company and individual performance the total personnel costs of that group. The median pay of pilots decreased from the year 2013 and III. Employee benefits: perquisites and other personnel benefits increased in 2015. This is partly explained by vacation bonus days-off in 2014. The median earnings STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 106 of white collar employees and management increased in 2015 due to higher short-term incentives Short-term incentives based on company result. In addition, there were changes in management affecting the median pay. Short-term incentive scheme Average years of service in Finnair’s different personnel groups on 31 Dec 2015 Finnair utilises performance-driven short-term incentives throughout its management. The incentive scheme comprises a process of target setting, performance evaluation and performance review. Personnel group Average years of At the target level, the short-term variable pay ranges from 2.5–30 per cent of base salary, depending service on the job grade. If an individual exceeds his or her targets substantially, the variable pay may, at a Executive Board 6.8 maximum, reach 5–60 per cent of the annual base salary. The short-term incentive scheme is based Pilots 15.2 on the company’s six-month budgeting period and the variable pay is paid semi-annually. The variManagement Positions 13.2 able pay is calculated based on the individual’s base salary for the period in question. White Collar Employees 16.6 Technical Employees 26.4 The short-term incentives for the CEO and other members of the Executive Board are determined on Technical Services 20.9 the basis of the half-yearly targets set by the Board of Directors. The targets are based on the company’s business targets set by the Board of Directors for the period in question and on the targets set for Cabin Crew 20.1 the business area for which the individual in question is responsible. The targets are mainly based on Ground Services 19.0 financial measures but also on operative and quality KPIs, such as customer satisfaction. Aviation Employees 21.7 Travel Agency Employees 16.1 The short-term incentive for the CEO and the members of the Executive Board corresponds to 30 Travel Guides 7.1 per cent of the base salary at the target level and 60 per cent of the base salary at the maximum level Travel Agency Professionals 11.9 Employees Abroad 7.1 According to the government guidelines issued by the Finnish Cabinet Committee on Economic Average of personnel groups 17.2 Policy on 13 August 2012, the short-term incentive for an individual may not exceed 60 per cent of the annual base salary in any given year. Compensation is based on job grading Personnel fund Finnair uses job grading as the basis for determining the compensation of the CEO, members of Finnair has a Personnel Fund owned and controlled by the personnel. A share of Finnair’s profits is the Executive Board, white collar employees and personnel based in units abroad. Job grading is allocated to the fund. The share of profit allocated to the fund is determined on the basis of targets based on the significance of the job and responsibility within the organisation, rather than hierarset by the Board of Directors. The CEO, other members of the Executive Board and the participants chical reporting relationships. Job grading is tied to the job, and if a person changes from one job to of the performance share plan are not members of the Personnel Fund. In 2015, the targets of the another, his or her job grade may change. Job grading enables uniformity in compensation-related personnel fund were not reached. decisions both internally and compared to the market. Long-term incentives Variable pay The aim of variable pay is to achieve a flexible and incentivising pay structure that is linked to the Personnel share savings plan FlyShare company’s success and the individual’s own performance. In addition, long-term incentives are On 27 March 2013, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided to launch FlyShare, an employee share aimed at committing the personnel and management to the company and to bringing their interests savings plan. The plan encourages employees to become shareholders in the company, and thereby in line with the interests of shareholders. Performance targets are set by Finnair’s Board of Directors. strengthens the employees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and rewards them in the long-term. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 107 The plan consists of annually starting savings periods which are followed by a two-year shareholding The potential reward will be delivered in Finnair shares. The share delivery is split into two or three period. Every new savings period is decided separately by the Finnair Board. The third savings period share tranches that will be delivered to participants during the three years following the performance of the plan started on 1 July 2015. period. Participation in the plan is voluntary. Through the plan, each eligible Finnair employee is offered the As a consequence of the transfer from the previous fixed three-year structure to a rolling structure, opportunity to save a part of his or her salary to be invested in Finnair shares. The amount of monthly the new plan will not be in full effect until 2018. Because of this, a one-off bridge element was added savings can be 2–8 per cent of each participant’s gross base salary per month, with the annual to the plan to supplement payments in 2016 and 2017. The targets of the bridge plan were not maximum savings set at 8,000 euros per participant. Shares are purchased with the accumulated achieved. No shares were delivered under the long-term incentive plan in 2014 and 2015. savings at the market price quarterly, after the publication dates of Finnair’s interim results. Any dividends paid on purchased shares during the savings period will be automatically reinvested in Finnair If the performance criteria set for the plan are met at the target level, the incentive paid in shares on the next share purchase date following the payment of dividend. Finnair shares to the CEO or other member of the Executive Board participating in the plan will be 30 per cent of his or her annual base salary. If the performance criteria set for the plan are met at the After the two-year shareholding period, Finnair will award each participating employee one maximum level, the incentive paid in Finnair shares will be 60 per cent of the participant’s annual matching share for each two shares purchased. The awarded additional shares are taxable income for base salary. For other key personnel, the target level for incentives is 20–25 per cent and maximum the recipient. In addition, employees participating in the plan for the first time are rewarded with 20 40–50 per cent of the person’s average annual base salary according to the job grade. bonus shares after the first three months. Also the bonus shares are taxable income. According to the rules of the share program, the maximum value of shares delivered to an individual Performance-based long-term incentive plan for key personnel participant based on the share program in any given year may not exceed 60 per cent of the person’s Finnair’s Board of Directors approved on 7 February 2013 a new performance share plan for the annual base salary. Shares are taxable income for the recipient. key personnel of Finnair Group. The share plan replaced the previous program which expired at the end of 2012. The share plan encourages the management to work to increase long-term shareholder A person is not entitled to the incentive if he or she resigns or is dismissed before the date of value. It has been designed in accordance with the principles of the statement by the Ministerial payment. In addition, during the restriction period the Board of Directors is entitled, at its discretion, Committee on Economic Policy. to reclaim already delivered shares from a person included in the share plan who resigns or whose service in the company is terminated. The share plan consists of annually commencing individual plans within which the participants have the opportunity to earn Finnair shares as a long-term incentive reward, if the performance targets set The Board of Directors is also entitled, subject to a particularly weighty reason, to change or cancel by the Board of Directors are achieved. The commencement of each new plan is subject to a separate the incentive or to postpone its payment. The Board of Directors is entitled to remove a participant approval of Finnair Board of Directors. from the share plan if the person has committed a significant offence or acted in a manner detrimental to the company or contrary to the company’s interests. Each plan contains a three-year performance period which is followed by a restriction period, during which the participant may not sell or transfer the shares received as a reward. The restriction period Performance criteria of the plans is three years for the members of Finnair’s Executive Board and one year for other participants. In The performance criteria applied to the plan 2013–2015 are the Group’s relative operating EBIT addition, the CEO and members of Finnair’s Executive Board are required to accumulate and once margin growth and decrease in unit costs in European traffic. These two criteria are assigned weights achieved, to maintain a share ownership in Finnair corresponding to his or her annual base salary as of 60 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively. The performance criterion for the share plan’s bridge long as he or she holds a position as a member of Finnair’s Executive Board. element is the operating EBIT margin. The share savings plan strengthens employees' interest in shareholder value and rewards them in the long term. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 108 The performance criteria applied to the plans 2014–2016 and 2015–2017 are Return on Capital Remuneration decision-making procedure Employed (ROCE) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR). These criteria are weighted equally (50 per cent and 50 per cent). The Shareholder’s Nomination Board The target levels and maximum levels set for the criteria are based on long-term strategic objectives set by the company’s Board of Directors. Performance against the criteria is monitored quarterly. Prepares proposal on Board’s remuneration. Long-term incentive plan for pilots Annual General Meeting Finnair’s Board of Directors approved on 13 October 2014 a new long-term incentive plan for Finnair pilots. The plan is a part of the savings agreement between Finnair and the Finnish Airline Pilots’ Association (SLL) that brings Finnair 17 million euros in permanent annual savings. The savings Decides on the Board’s remuneration. agreement was contingent on the realisation of the incentive plan. Compensation Board of Directors and Nomination The plan period is 2015–2018 and the prerequisite for rewarding pilots based on this plan is the Committee achievement of the agreed cost savings over this time period. In addition, the company share price • Decides on the CEO’s and Executive Board members’ must be at least 4 euros at the end of the incentive plan. If these conditions are met, the pilots are remuneration. Prepares entitled to a cash payment. The amount of the payment is based on the Finnair share price. The total • Decides on the incentives, performance-related remuneration payment is 12 million euros with a share price of 4 euros and 24 million euros with a share price of 8 variable pays and share-based incentive schemes related matters euros, which is also the maximum earning of the plan. Divided over the four-year period, the annual pertaining to the company as a whole. and proposals • Sets company level targets of the short-term for the Board. earnings potential for one participant is equivalent to 5–10 per cent of the annual base salary. incentive scheme. There are approximately 700 pilots eligible to participate in the plan. The cash payment will be delivCEO ered in spring 2019, provided that the conditions stated above are met. Management remuneration decision-making procedure The Board of Directors’ remuneration: The Shareholders’ Nomination Board prepares annually Executive Board its proposal for the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders makes the final decision on the Board’s remuneration. The remuneration of the CEO and the Executive Board: The Board decides on the salary, incentive schemes and associated targets of the CEO and other members of the Executive Board based on preparatory work carried out by the Board’s Compensation and Nomination Committee. Decisions on remuneration have been made with consideration of the government guidelines. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 109 Remuneration of the Board of Directors in 2015 Remuneration paid to Finnair Board of Directors in 2015 The Annual General Meeting (AGM) decides annually on the remuneration and other financial Meeting benefits of the members of the Board of Directors and its committees. The election and remuneraAnnual Committee compensations Taxable tion of the members of the Board are prepared by the Nomination Board formed by the representremuneration1) Board meetings meetings in total benefits2) Total atives of the company’s largest shareholders. The remuneration of the Board of Directors and its Members 1 Jan –31 Dec 2015 committees is paid in cash. Klaus 61,200 10/10 0/0 16,200 0 77,400 Heinemann (chairman) The members of the Board of Directors are not covered by the company’s share incentive scheme or other incentive schemes. Harri 32,400 9/10 10/11 12,000 0 44,400 Kerminen (deputy The annual remuneration and meeting compensation decided by the 2015 AGM for the members chairman) of the Board of Directors are: Maija-Liisa 31,800 10/10 6/6 10,800 7,380 49,980 Friman • Chairman’s annual remuneration, 61,200 euros Gunvor 30,000 9/10 4/5 8,400 4,526 42,926 Kronman • Deputy Chairman’s annual remuneration, 32,400 euros • Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Compensation and Nomination Committee, Jussi Itävuori 31,800 10/10 5/5 29,400 1,953 63,153 32,400 euros, where these individuals are neither the Chairman nor the Deputy Chairman Jaana 30,000 10/10 4/5 9,600 2,709 42,309 Tuominen of the Board • Other Board members’ annual remuneration, 30,000 euros Nigel Turner 30,000 10/10 6/6 31,800 1,047 62,847 • Meeting compensation paid per Board or committee meeting is 600 euros when the meeting Remuneration paid to the Board in 2015. takes place in the member’s country of residence and 2,400 euros for other meetings. For tele¹) The remuneration is expressed at the annual level but paid in monthly instalments. phone meetings, the fee is 600 euros. ²) Taxable benefits comprise Finnair staff tickets, which can be used by the members of the Board. The members of the Board of Directors are entitled to a daily allowance and compensation for travel Management remuneration in 2015 expenses in accordance with Finnair’s general travel rules. In addition, the members of the Board In 2015, Finnair’s CEO was Pekka Vauramo. The Executive Board comprised six members in addiof Directors have a limited right to use staff tickets in accordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rules. tion to the CEO. CFO Erno Hildén resigned from the Executive Board during 2015. New CFO Pekka Under the current rules, the Directors and their spouses are entitled to 4 return or 8 one-way tickets Vähähyyppä started on 1 September 2015. The Executive Board members are presented on page 113. on Finnair flights per calendar year in Economy or Business Class. The fare of these tickets is zero, exclusive of any airport taxes, fees and charges, which are payable by the Directors and their spouses. In 2015, no long-term incentives were paid to management. These tickets constitute taxable income in Finland. Supplementary pensions Annual remuneration for members of the Board of Directors has remained unchanged since 2008. The CEO The CEO, Pekka Vauramo, accumulates pension and his retirement age is defined in accordance with the Finnish Employees’ Pensions Act. The CEO does not have a supplementary pension benefit. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 110 Executive Board Executive Board The members of the Executive Board accumulate pension in accordance with the Finnish Employees’ According to the service agreements of the Executive Board, both parties have the right to terminate Pensions Act. In addition, the company has a supplementary pension scheme that includes some of the service contract without a specific cause. The maximum notice period is six months for both the members of the Executive Board. parties. In the event that the company terminates the agreement, the member of the Executive Board is entitled to a severance pay corresponding to the base salary of maximum of twelve months in addiAll pension arrangements for members of the Executive Board are collective within the meaning tion to the salary for the notice period. This severance pay does not apply if the contract of employof Finnish tax laws. All supplementary pensions taken for the executives are defined contribution ment is cancelled, if the executive terminates the contract or retires. schemes. The supplementary defined contribution pension arrangement applies to three members of the Executive Board. The annual contribution equals 10 per cent of the income for the year. The Other benefits supplementary pension includes vested rights. The retirement age is 63 years. There are no Executive Board members with defined benefit supplementary agreements. The CEO CEO Pekka Vauramo’s benefits include life insurance, free-time accident insurance, travel insurance, New CEO and Executive Board member service contracts concluded after 1 January 2013 will not management liability insurance and medical insurance. The life insurance coverage starts at 20 per cent include supplementary pension benefits. of annual pay and increases each year. The total sum may not, however, exceed 500,000 euros. The CEO also has a mobile phone benefit in line with company policy. Termination of the service contract and severance pay Executive Board The CEO The benefits of the members of the Executive Board include free-time accident insurance, travel According to Pekka Vauramo’s service contract, both the CEO and the company have the right to insurance, management liability insurance and the right to medical insurance. They also have a car terminate the service contract without a specific cause. The notice period is six months for both the benefit and mobile phone benefit in line with company policy. company and the CEO. In the event that the company terminates the service contract, the CEO is entitled to a severance pay corresponding to total salary for twelve months (base salary + taxable Management remuneration, the company’s long-term incentive plan and pension contributions are value of benefits) in addition to the salary for the notice period. The severance pay does not apply if also described in Finnair Financial Statements 2015 in note 1.3.7 Employee benefits. the CEO resigns or retires. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 111 Salary and other remuneration paid, euros per year CEO 2015 CEO 2014 Executive Board 20151) Executive Board 20141) Pekka Vauramo Pekka Vauramo Base Salary2) The monthly salaries of the CEO and members of the Executive In total, euros 648,948 638,600 1,196,213 1,614,461 Board are decided by the Board of Directors. Employee benefits Employee benefits are desrcribed on page 110. Car benefit, taxable value 0 0 47,025 60,999 Phone benefit, taxable value 240 240 1,370 1,720 Other taxable benefits4) 2,304 3,695 12,281 2,916 In total, euros 2,544 3,935 60,676 65,635 Short-term incentives3) Principles are described on page 106. In total, euros 215,252 117,508 201,263 163,104 Long-term incentives5) In total, euros 0 0 0 0 Salary and other remuneration paid in total 866,744 760,042 1,458,152 1,843,200 ¹) Salary and remuneration included for Executive Board membership period only. ²) Base salary includes holiday bonus. ³) Earning period for incentives paid in 2014 was 1 Jul 2013 – 30 Jun 2014 and for incentives paid in 2015 1 Jul 2014 – 30 Jun 2015. 4 ) Other taxable benefits include health insurances and staff tickets. 5 ) No long-term incentives were paid in 2014 and 2015. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 112 Board of Directors 2015 Klaus Heinemann Jussi Itävuori Jaana Tuominen b. 1951, Diplom Kaufmann, German citizen. b. 1955, M. Sc. (Econ.), Finnish Citizen. b. 1960, M. Sc. (Eng.), Finnish citizen. Chairman of the Finnair Board of Directors Member of the Finnair Board of D­ irectors Member of the Finnair Board of ­Directors since 27 March 2013. Member of the Board since 2012. since 2014. since 2012. Committee memberships: CompensaCommittee memberships: CompensaCommittee memberships: tion and Nomination Committee (Chairtion and Nomination Committee. Main occupation: Board professional. man). Main occupation: CEO of Paulig Group Key positions of trust: Member of the Main occupation: Senior Partner, RJI since 2008. Advisory Board of Skyworks Holdings Partners Limited. Key positions of trust: Member of LLC, non-executive Board Director Key positions of trust: Member of the the Board of Directors of Suominen Klaus Heinemann Harri Kerminen Maija-Liisa Friman of Scope Ratings AG, Advisory Board Board of Barona Group Oy and RJI PartOyj, ­Suomen Messut Osuuskunta, and Director of Avinomics GmbH. ners Oy, and Chairman of the Board of Elintarviketeollisuusliitto ry. RJI Holding Oy and Cloudator Payroll Oy. Harri Kerminen Nigel Turner b . 1951, M.Sc. (Eng.), MBA, Finnish citizen. Gunvor Kronman b. 1958, BA (Hon.), British Citizen ­Member Vice Chairman of the Finnair Board of b. 1963, MA, Finnish citizen. of the Finnair Board of Directors since Directors since 2012, member since 2011. Member of the Finnair Board of D­ irectors 2014. Committee memberships: Audit Comsince 2012. Committee memberships: Audit Committee and Compensation and NominaCommittee memberships: Compensamittee. tion Committee. tion and Nomination Committee. Main occupation: Main occupation: Board professional. Main occupation: CEO of Hanasaari Key positions of trust: Mr Turner is the Key positions of trust: Chairman of the – the Swedish-Finnish Cultural Centre. Deputy Chairman of the Board of DirecJussi Itävuori Gunvor Kronman Board of Metgen Oy, HST Partners Oy Key positions of trust: Chairman tors and the Chairman of the Audit Comand Magsort Oy, Member of the Board of the Board of Kalevala Jewelry. Vice mittee of aircraft leasing company Jetscape of ­Tikkurila Oyj, Normet Oy, SK Spice Chairman of the Board of C ­ risis ManInc, member of the Board of Directors and Holdings Sarl and ­Harjavalta Oy. agement Initiative and Plan Internaof the Audit and Treasury Committees tional, Member of the Boards of The of NATS plc. Finnish Red Cross Blood Service, HelMaija-Liisa Friman sinki University, Konstsamfundet, b. 1952, M.Sc. (Chem. Eng.), Finnish The ­Swedish Royal National Theater­ The Board of Directors was elected in the citizen. Member of the Finnair Board of Dramaten (­ Sweden), Rand Corporations Annual General Meeting held on 25 March Directors since 2012. (US/UK) and Augusta Victoria Hospital 2015. More detailed information about the (Palestine). board members and their ownership of Committee memberships: Audit ComFinnair shares can be found at mittee (Chairman). www.finnairgroup.com. Main occupation: Board professional. Jaana Tuominen Nigel Turner Key positions of trust: Vice Chairman of the Board of Neste Oil Oyj, member of the Boards of Talvivaara Plc (until 25 June 2015), LKAB, the Finnish Securities Market Association and Boardman Oy. Chairman of the Board of E­ kokem Oy (until 24 April 2015) and Helsinki Deaconess Institute. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 113 Executive Board 31 December 2015 Pekka Vauramo Juha Järvinen Pekka Vähähyyppä b. 1957, M. Sc. (Technology). President and b. 1976, MBA, Chief Commercial Officer b. 1960, M.Sc. Econ., eMBA, CFO as of 17 CEO as of 1 June 2013. He joined Finnair as of 1 November 2014. In Finnair service August 2015. Vähähyyppä joined ­Finnair from Cargotec, a Finnish cargo and load since 2012. He has extensive experience from Stockmann where he held different handling company, where he held differin managing different services within the management positions in 2000–2015, ent management positions between 2007 airline industry. He served as Managing most recently as CFO. Prior to that, he and 2013. Before his transfer to Finnair, Director of Finnair Cargo since March held financial management positions in he was based in Hong Kong from 2010 as 2012, and prior to that he was the Vice for example, Nestlé's Nordic subsidiaries, COO of the MacGregor Business Area. President, Ground Handling International OKO-Venture Capital and A-lehdet Oy. Between 1985 and 2007 he worked at in SAS Scandinavian Airlines. Pekka Vauramo Eija Hakakari Ville Iho Sandvik, a Swedish mining and construc@pekkavau @eijahakakari tion company. More detailed information about the Sami Sarelius members of the Executive Board and their b. 1971, LLM, SVP and General Counsel, ownership of Finnair shares can be found at www.finnairgroup.com. Eija Hakakari in Finnair’s service since 1998. b. 1961, M. Sc. (Education), SVP Human Resources as of 1 of October 2014. Before joining Finnair, she was SVP Human ReArja Suominen sources at Stora Enso’s Printing and Living b. 1958, MA, e-MBA, SVP Corpodivision. Her previous positions include rate Communications and Corporate SVP Human Resources at Rautaruukki ­Responsibility, in Finnair’s service March and various HR director positions in both 2011. She previously worked for Nokia, China and Finland. mainly in communications positions, ulJuha Järvinen Sami Sarelius timately as Nokia’s Senior Vice President, @juhahelsinki Communications. Ville Iho b. 1969, M.Sc. (Technology), COO, in ­­Finnair’s service since 1998. He previously held various posts in Finnair’s Scheduled Traffic. Prior to his present position, he was Finnair's SVP Resources Management. Arja Suominen Pekka Vähähyyppä @arjasuominen @PekkaVahahyyppa STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 114 Information for the shareholders Annual General Meeting ment organization of the custodian bank will register a holder of nominee registered shares, who The Annual General Meeting of Finnair Plc. will be held on Thursday 17 March 2016, at 15:00 at wants to participate in the general meeting, to be temporarily entered into the shareholders’ register the Messukeskus Helsinki at the address Messuaukio 1, Conference Centre, Helsinki, Finland. The of the company at the latest on Monday 14 March 2016 at 10 a.m. reception of persons who have registered for the meeting and the distribution of voting tickets will commence at 14:00. Coffee is served before the commencement of the AGM. The shareholder may participate in the meeting either in person or through authorised or proxy representative. Possible proxy documents shall be delivered by the end of registration period to: The notice to convene the AGM Finnair Plc/AGM, HEL ACC/502, 010153 Finnair, Finland. The notice to convene the AGM and the proposals of the Board of Directors to the AGM will be published as a stock exchange release and on Finnair’s corporate website. The notice will contain AGM 2015 – Important dates the agenda for the AGM. Shareholders are entitled to having an issue put on the Annual General 7 March 2016 Record date Meeting’s agenda, provided that such an issue requires a decision by the Annual General Meeting 14 March 2016 At 10:00 deadline for giving notice of attendance according to the Finnish Companies Act, and provided that they request it in writing in due time to 17 March 2016 At 16:00 the reception of persons registered to the AGM will commence and be included in the notice. At 15:00 the AGM will commence The right to participate in the AGM Board of Directors’ proposal on dividend Each shareholder who is registered on Monday 7 March 2016 in the Company’s register of shareFinnair Plc.’s distributable funds were 181,101,862.30 euros on 31 December 2015. The Board of holders maintained by the Euroclear Finland Oy has the right to participate in the AGM. Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that no dividend be distributed for 2015. Registration for the AGM Financial information in 2016 The shareholder who wants to participate in the general meeting and exercise their voting right can In 2016, interim reports will be published as follows: register to the meeting at the latest on Monday 14 March 2016 at 10:00. Registration can be done: • Interim Report for January–March 2016 on Thursday 12 May 2016 • In the internet at http://www.finnairgroup.com, • Interim Report for January–June 2016 on Wednesday 17 August 2016 • By e-mail to: agm@finnair.fi, • Interim Report for January–September 2016 on Wednesday 26 October 2016 • By phone from Monday to Friday at 9:00–16:00 in the number: +358 20 770 6866, • By fax: +358 9 694 0205 or The financial statements bulletin and interim reports in 2016 will be published at approximately 9:00. • By mail to: Finnair Plc., Register of shareholders, HEL-AAC/ 502 01053 FINNAIR. Financial report, financial statements and interim reports are published in Finnish and English. The A holder of nominee registered shares is advised to request without delay necessary instructions material is available on the company website. Shareholders can subscribe or unsubscribe for the regarding the registration in the shareholder’s register of the company, the issuing of proxy docureleases at www.finnairgroup.com. ments and registration for the general meeting from his/her custodian bank. The account manageSTRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 115 Silent period Finnair’s silent period starts three weeks prior to publishing of its interim financials and four weeks prior to publishing of annual financial results. Finnair will not comment on its business or meet with capital market representatives during that period. Changes in contact information Euroclear Finland Ltd maintains a list of Company shares and shareholders. Shareholders who wish to make changes to their personal and contact information are kindly asked to contact their own account operator directly. Finnair cannot make these changes. Assessments regarding Finnair as an investment object According to information held by Finnair, at least the following analysts publish investor analyses of the company: • Carnegie, Robin Nyberg, Finland, Tel. +358 9 618 71 234 • Evli Bank, Jaakko Tyrväinen, Finland, Tel. +358 9 4766 9314 • HSBC, Andrew Lobbenberg, UK, Tel. +44 207 991 6816 • Nordea, Pasi Väisänen, Finland, Tel. +358 9 1655 9943 • Pohjola, Jari Räisänen, Finland, Tel. +358 10 252 4504 • Inderes, Antti Viljakainen, Finland, Tel. +358 44 5912216 Finnair does not accept any responsibility for the views or opinions expressed by the analysts. STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 116 Glossary AEA The Association of European Airlines Carbon Disclosure Project An international, not-for-profit organisation providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. IATA International Air Transport Association, a trade association representing and serving the airline industry worldwide IEnvA The IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) program is an environmental management system designed to independently assess and improve the environmental management of an airline ICAO International Civil Aviation Organization, an agency of the United Nations promoting safe and orderly development of international civil aviation IOSA The IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) program is an internationally recognised and accepted evaluation system designed to assess the operational management and control systems of an airline Just Culture Organisational culture aiming at assigning the consequences for an unsafe act in a fair way based on an understanding of an individual’s accountability and responsibilities within the context of the systems and circumstances that the individual was operating LEED Certificate Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a set of rating systems for the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of green buildings, homes and neighborhoods Open Skies Open skies is an international policy concept that calls for the liberalisation of the rules and regulations of the international aviation industry—especially commercial aviation—in order to create a free-market environment for the airline industry Skytrax Research company that evaluates commercial airlines and their services UNWTO UN World Tourism Organization STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION FINANCE GOVERNANCE FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 117 Contact information House of Travel and Transportation Finnair Oyj Tietotie 9 A (Helsinki Vantaa Airport) 01053 FINNAIR Tel. +358 600 0 81881 (1,25 euro/answered call + normal call charges) www.finnair.com www.finnairgroup.com www.facebook.com/finnair www.facebook.com/finnairsuomi www.twitter.com/Finnair www.twitter.com/FinnairSuomi ” blogs.finnair.com blogit.finnair.fi instagram.com/feelfinnair
