2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Cover The COP21 Climate Change Conference in Paris was lauded a landmark success: It brought a legally binding agreement to cap global warming at 2°C over pre-industrial levels or less. We supported the negotiation process both before and during the conference. You can read about our contribution to COP21 on page 41 and about our various climate change activities throughout More information online: the report. reports.swissre.com/corporateresponsibility-report/2015/ Contents The 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out our commitment as a responsible company and describes the actions we have taken to put this commitment into practice. Executive statement  2 Who we are and what we do  4 Our approach to corporate responsibility  8 Creating solutions for sustainability 16 Extending our risk intelligence  26 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 38 Reducing our environmental footprint 47 Empowering our people 58 Ensuring good governance and compliance  68 The Swiss Re Foundation 72 Other Swiss Re publications 74 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich 76 Memberships, commitments, awards and index listings 78 The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): Our Public Disclosure of Progress 80 GRI Content Index, with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) references 81 Executive statement Dear stakeholders It is a pleasure to introduce Swiss Re’s Below, we would like to draw assessment tool into the “Sensitive 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report. your attention to some of our main Business Risks” process, we have With this yearly publication we want achievements in 2015. enabled our underwriters to quickly to give you a comprehensive overview spot potential environmental and social of the measures we take to act as a In our core re/insurance business, we risks of transactions themselves, responsible company. “Playing our part continued to create effective solutions further strengthening our due diligence in enabling sustainable progress” is that help our private and public sector capabilities. In the emerging risks one of our key objectives – as we clients manage the risks they face. In section, we again spotlight a topic that express it in our value framework. This particular, our solutions offer protection may create significant challenges for commitment continues to guide our for natural catastrophes, volatile re/insurance in the future; this time the actions as a responsible company and weather, construction risks of offshore “Internet of Things”. In the regulatory helps us to pursue our vision of making wind farms and potential funding gaps sphere, we describe the active role the world more resilient. of pension funds. Highlights of our work we play in a major initiative recently included setting up reinsurance support launched to develop financial disclosure The 2015 Corporate Responsibility for the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe requirements on climate risks. Report describes in detail our Fund, a cat bond insuring Istanbul commitment to sustainable progress against earthquake damage, completion Ongoing dialogue with you, our and reviews our main actions and of two new Economics of Climate stakeholders, has remained essential achievements over the past year. Our Adaptation studies in Bangladesh and for our efforts to enable sustainable strategic priorities remained largely El Salvador, and insuring the first-ever progress and to make the world more unchanged in 2015 and are mirrored by offshore wind farm project in the US. resilient. In our role as ultimate risk the main chapters you can see in the We also report on our progress towards taker, we need to have a very sound report. As in recent years, our Corporate meeting two quantitative commitments understanding of key risks. Our partners Responsibility Report also serves as our we have made – to the United Nations expect us to share this knowledge with official disclosure document for two and to the Grow Africa Partnership. them and help set the agenda. In turn, important commitments we have made we also benefit from this exchange to to the United Nations: the UN Global In risk management, our goal as a sharpen our expertise, making us Compact and the UNEP Principles for responsible company is to identify and “smarter together”. In 2015, our dialogue Sustainable Insurance (PSI). We remain avoid certain risks we do not want to focused on topics such as climate committed to both of them and will underwrite, be it for ethical reasons or change, building resilient energy infra­ continue to take an active role in the PSI. because they might lead to losses, or structure, financial repression, both. In 2015, we made an important autonomous cars and 3D printing. change to our Sustainability Risk Framework: By integrating an online 2 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès As Swiss Re is not an industrial In recognition of our efforts in all these company, our own environmental areas over many years, we were again The Swiss Re Foundation footprint is relatively small. Yet, our ranked the sector leader in the in 2015 – Seeds of resilience commitment to finding further prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability This separate report describes possibilities to reduce this is as strong Indices (DJSI). This is the ninth time we how the Swiss Re Foundation as ever. In 2015, we introduced an achieved this over the last ten years – helps communities to build integrated, ISO 14001-certified a track record that fills us with pride resilience to risk. environmental management system, and satisfaction, because it shows that spanning all our operations and many of the actions we have taken are employees around the world. Previously, seen as relevant. our policy had been to certify individual locations. Both our pioneering climateTo summarise, we believe the past related initiatives – the Greenhouse year was a highly successful one for Neutral Programme and COyou2 Swiss Re in terms of our contribution Programme – are now well into their to sustainable progress and in meeting second cycles and continue to produce your expectations, dear stakeholders. results. We also report on the steady Of course, this would not have been progress we are making with Swiss Re possible without the dedication of Next, our new headquarter building in the people who work for Swiss Re, Zurich, which will set a benchmark for day in, day out. We would like to thank sustainable construction. them sincerely for their passion to perform. In the present report, we describe in detail what we, in turn, do to help our people unleash their full potential towards making the world WE SUPPORT more resilient. Zurich, May 2016 Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès Chairman of the Board of Directors Group Chief Executive Officer Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Our vision: We make the world more resilient. Swiss Re at a glance Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s holding Swiss Re has operations across the company, is a joint stock company, listed Swiss Re is a leader in wholesale globe. At the end of 2015, we had in accordance with the International reinsurance, insurance and risk transfer 75 offices in more than 30 countries. Reporting Standard on the SIX Swiss solutions. Our success is built on our Based on “net premiums earned and Exchange, domiciled in Zurich, and solid client relationships, capital strength fee income from policyholders”, our organised under the laws of Switzerland. and knowledge company approach. ten biggest markets in 2015 were: the No other Group companies have shares We make the world more resilient. United States, the United Kingdom, listed. China, Australia, Germany, Canada, Together we apply fresh perspectives, Japan, Ireland, France and Switzerland. knowledge and capital to anticipate and They accounted for 78.4% of the manage risk. That’s how we create Group’s total business over the year. smarter solutions for our clients, helping the world rebuild, renew and move forward. Our global presence Europe (including Middle East and Africa) Net premiums earned and fee income in 2015 (USD billions) 10.3 (USD 11.3 billion in 2014) Number of offices as of 31 December 2015 24* (24 in 2014) Number of employees (regular staff) as of 31 December 2015 7 689 For more information see (7 457 in 2014) swissre.com/about_us/ * Counting all Zurich premises as one office 4 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Our strategy for 2016 and beyond Late in 2015, we presented an updated You can get detailed information on our strategic framework. Building from our strategy in the 2015 Business Report at: current strategy, this will drive our 2016 reports.swissre.com/2015/businesspriorities and create long-term value for report/our-strategy/strategy-in-action. our shareholders. html Systematically Broaden and Optimise resources Emphasise allocate capital to diversify client and platforms differentiation risk pools/revenue base to increase to support capital streams access to risk allocation Americas Asia-Pacific Total 13.2 6.7 30.2 (USD 12.2 billion in 2014) (USD 7.8 billion in 2014) (USD 31.3 billion in 2014) 36 15 75 (36 in 2014) (12 in 2014) (72 in 2014) 3 367 1711 12 767 (3 300 in 2014) (1 467 in 2014) (12 224 in 2014) Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do The Swiss Re Group Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Reinsurance is Swiss Re’s largest Corporate Solutions serves mid-sized Admin Re® provides risk and capital business in terms of income and the and large corporations, with product management solutions by which foundation of our strength, providing offerings ranging from traditional Swiss Re acquires closed books of inabout 85% of gross premiums and property and casualty insurance force life and health insurance business, fee income through two segments – to highly customised solutions. entire lines of business, or the entire Property & Casualty and Life & Health. Corporate Solutions serves capital stock of life insurance The unit aims to extend Swiss Re’s customers from over 50 offices companies. As of 1 January 2016, the industry-leading position with worldwide. open and closed life insurance books disciplined underwriting, prudent of the Group, including Admin Re®, portfolio management and diligent are managed under a new business client service. unit called Life Capital. Operational Group structure Group CEO Group CFO Group Finance Group CRO Group Risk Management Americas Group CUO Group Underwriting Regional Group Presidents EMEA Functions Group CIO Group Asset Management Asia Group COO Group Operations Group CSO Group Strategy Business Corporate Reinsurance Life Capital* Units Solutions * Since 1 January 2016 Admin Re® is part of the Business Unit Life Capital. 6 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report How we operate Swiss Re is a knowledge company. We apply that knowledge to help clients, shareholders and society. In simplified terms, our business models works as follows: We provide tailor-made solutions through traditional reinsurance or insurance-based capital market instruments. At the core of our expertise is the costing, pricing and diversification of non-life and life risks. Against up-front premium payments, our solutions enable our clients to reduce peak risks, reduce earnings volatility, free up capital and finance growth, and achieve capital management targets for solvency and ratings. We invest assets long-term until money is needed, applying asset-liability matching techniques to align the duration and currency of invested assets to the duration and currency of our insurance liabilities, ensuring that we deliver on our promises to our clients. We compensate for our clients’ losses, using effective claims management procedures that are based on industry best practice, providing speed of payment when clients need us most. Key financial data The table below provides an overview of some of the Swiss Re Group’s key Net premiums earned and financial data. fee income by Business Unit USD millions unless otherwise stated 2014 2015 (Total USD 30.2 billion) Total assets 204 461 196 135 50% P&C Reinsurance Total investments 143 987 137 810 36% L&H Reinsurance Total liabilities 168 420 162 529 11% Corporate Solutions Total debt 1 14 316 12 812 3% Admin Re® Common shareholders’ equity 35 930 33 517 Retained earnings 34 257 37 526 Total revenues 37 347 35 714 Premiums earned and fee income 31 262 30 214 Net investment income – non-participating 4 103 3 436 Net investment result – unit-linked and with-profit 1 381 814 Total expenses 33 120 30 395 Claims and claim adjustment expenses 10 577 9 848 Life and health benefits 10 611 9 080 Income tax expense 658 651 Current taxes 1 072 582 Deferred taxes –414 69 Net income 2 3 500 4 597 Earnings per share in CHF (basic) 9.33 12.93 Dividends paid to shareholders 3 129 2 608 Return on equity in % 10.5 13.7 1 T otal debt expressed as total carrying value 2 Net income attributable to common shareholders Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Contributing to sustainable, long-term value creation serves as a guiding principle for our actions. Our commitment to corporate responsibility Swiss Re has a long-standing We first began to address a specific Based on our commitment to long-term commitment to being a responsible sustainability issue almost 30 years ago value creation, we have signed up company. A key element in our when we drew attention to the potential to a number of external charters and understanding of what this means is risks created by climate change. Building initiatives: the desire to contribute to sustainable on this, we gradually began to form a value creation, for the benefit of our commitment to sustainable, long-term ̤̤ Principles for Responsible clients and society at large. This longvalue creation and identified the areas Investment (PRI): see page 35 term view helps us to pursue our vision of our business we considered relevant ̤̤ RE100: see page 49 of making the world more resilient and to supporting this goal. We first gave is embedded in our value framework, this formal expression through our ̤̤ UNEP FI Principles for which means “doing business the Sustainability Mission Statement and, Sustainable Insurance (PSI): for Swiss Re way”. in parallel, began to provide specific our Public Disclosure of Progress, information in dedicated reports, starting see page 80 It is also in our own best interest, with a “Corporate Environmental Report” ̤̤ UN Global Compact: for our though: it strengthens our capabilities covering the business year of 1998. Communication on Progress, to identify, and address, both risks and see pages 81–85 opportunities manifesting themselves In the following years, we broadened in the longer run and, as a consequence, our commitment to “corporate ̤̤ Carbon Disclosure Project to retain our licence to operate. responsibility”: still based on the key (www.cdp.net) notions of long-term value creation ̤̤ ClimateWise and sustainable progress, this began (www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/) to place more emphasis on social and governance aspects. Our current, overarching commitment is shown on page 9. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/our_values/ For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ 8 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Our values mean doing business the Swiss Re way:  eing open, honest and transparent in everything B we do; T reating everyone with respect – both inside and outside the company; T aking the long-term view and playing our part in enabling sustainable progress – for stakeholders and society in general; C  reating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion. Our general commitment to corporate responsibility: “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, honest and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, shareholders, clients, government agencies and the general public – with respect and integrity. In particular, we aim to take a long-term view and to play our part in enabling sustainable progress. Sustainability as a guiding principle: Sustainable progress – or sustainability – can be described as development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. To be sustainable, progress must improve economic efficiency, protect and restore ecological systems, and enhance social wellbeing. In all our main activities aimed at implementing corporate responsibility, the principle of sustainability is a key criterion. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility How we determine materiality We also have a formal process to Complementing the insights we gain identify emerging risks, called SONAR directly through dialogue with our A key question for any company that (“Systematic observation of notions stakeholders, we also utilise data seeks to take a long-term view and associated with risk”). This enables us to provided by third-party organisations enable sustainable progress is what spot, at an early stage, newly developing such as RepRisk, Sigwatch, MSCI and this means in the context of its own or changing risks that may have an Sustainalytics, and the results of business and industry: which topics impact on our business, including risks acacemic research. are “material” to achieving this goal? related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. Our process to identify material In order to identify the most material issues sustainability issues, we use both Insights from dialogue with our When identifying material ESG issues, our internal risk expertise and ongoing stakeholders we both use our internal, embedded risk dialogue with our stakeholders. Being an ultimate risk-taker in society, expertise and the insights we gain from we have an intrinsic interest in our stakeholder dialogue. In addition, Insights from our internal risk maintaining active and ongoing dialogue we also take into account the views of expertise with our key stakeholders. Generally various standard setters on materiality, As a leading re/insurer, we act as speaking, this dialogue works in both eg: reporting requirements, materiality ultimate risk taker in society. This directions: our partners expect us to definitions by sustainability rating requires us to have a very sound share our risk expertise, thus helping agencies, multilateral discussions such understanding of the risk landscape. them – and society at large – to form as the UN Sustainable Development This deep understanding of re/insurance effective responses. In turn, we benefit Goals, relevant academic research and markets and the risk expertise from this exchange to sharpen our regulatory developments. embedded in our company also provide understanding of key risk, including us with a solid foundation to identify ESG issues, and to set priorities. To process the resulting information material sustainability issues. In many from these three key sources we use a areas of our business, we have special With regard to sustainability issues, our process with the following steps: teams, functions and processes to principal stakeholders are: ̤̤ Expert analysis by our Group identify and address issues relevant ̤̤ Financial community: sustainability Sustainability Risk unit; to sustainable development. investors/shareholders, rating ̤̤ Interviews with key internal decision agencies, shareholder associations makers, our sustainability risk In our core re/insurance business, we and stock exchanges in addressing stakeholders (eg investor meetings, have special units, such as our Global sustainability concerns; events at the Centre for Global Partnerships function in the Group or ̤̤ Clients: Cedents, brokers and Dialogue, project and business related the Environmental & Commodity Markets corporate clients; interactions) and external experts department in our Corporate Solutions ̤̤ Employees; (academia, NGOs, consulting firms); Business Unit, that identify underinsured ̤̤ Political and legal entities: Multilateral ̤̤ Validation of final topics by the Group markets and risks, and seek to expand organisations (UN), governments, Sustainability Risk unit; re/insurance protection through regulators, standard-setting boards; ̤̤ Approval and endorsement by the commercially viable solutions. ̤̤ Civil society: general public, NGOs, Risk Management ET, Group media, academia. Executive Committee, Board of In our risk management, meanwhile, Directors; we have a process and the capabilities The Centre for Global Dialogue near ̤̤ List of material topics finalised by to identify risks we feel we should not Zurich is our own in-house conference Group Sustainability Risk unit; re/insure, be it for ethical reasons, centre. Providing us with a tailor-made ̤̤ Development/adjustment of because they might lead to losses, or dialogue platform, it allows us to actively sustainability strategy based on final both. We conduct this analysis through manage and encourage collaboration materiality map. our Sustainability Risk Framework and with our stakeholders. In 2015, other tailor-made risk management we held or hosted approximately tools. 120 stakeholder events at the Centre. Our publications form a second important element of our stakeholder dialogue: in 2015, we published more than 20 new expertise publications and around 30 new fact sheets. For more information see cgd.swissre.com For more information see swissre.com/library/ 10 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Key material issues Based on the insights gained through this process, we currently consider the following sustainability or ESG topics as the most material in the context of our own business: ̤̤ Climate change: – Managing climate and natural disaster risk – Advancing sustainable energy solutions ̤̤ Funding longer lives ̤̤ Partnering for food security ̤̤ Supporting financial resilience ̤̤ Managing sustainability risks ̤̤ Empowering our people ̤̤ Ensuring good governance and A hurricane wreaking havoc in the Caribbean. Natural catastrophes and compliance the impact of climate change remain key topics for us and our partners. Climate change Climate change has been our most important material issue for many years: For a reinsurer, it constitutes a key material topic because it will lead to an increase in the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as floods, storms, excessive rainfall and drought. In combination with growing asset concentrations in exposed areas and more widespread insurance protection, this will cause a steady rise in losses. Of our key material topics listed above, two are directly connected to climate change (managing climate and natural disaster risk, advancing sustainable energy solutions). Since detecting the long-term threat posed by climate change almost 30 years ago, we have been an acknowledged thought leader on the topic. To tackle the issue, we pursue a comprehensive strategy with four pillars. These are described below: The four pillars of our climate change strategy ̤̤ Advancing our knowledge and understanding of climate change risks, quantifying and integrating them into our risk management and underwriting frameworks where relevant; ̤̤ Developing products and services to mitigate or adapt to climate risk; ̤̤ Raising awareness about climate change risks through dialogue with clients, employees and the public, and advocating a worldwide policy framework for climate change; ̤̤ Tackling our own carbon footprint and ensuring transparent, annual emissions reporting. For more information see swissre.com/eca/our_climate_change_ strategy.html Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility Implementation areas Goals for our material issues We seek to address the issues we For all material issues we have set qualitative objectives and, have determined as material across all for some of them, quantitative ones, as well: the areas of our business where our activities can make a contribution to Managing climate and natural disaster risk sustainable value creation. These areas ̤̤ For general goals, see special section on our climate are listed below: change strategy on page 11; ̤̤ Based on our commitment made to the UN, offer USD 10 billion Business solutions protection against climate risks to sovereign and sub-sovereigns Within our core business of re/insurance by 2020; and asset management, we strive to ̤̤ Keep per-capital CO2 emissions from our own operations at develop innovative solutions that help 2013 levels, which we had reduced by 49.3% since 2003; to tackle key environmental and social ̤̤ Reduce our energy intensity by an average 2% per year. challenges. To achieve this, we work together with our clients and partners, Advancing sustainable energy solutions both in the private and public sectors. ̤̤ Use our capacity and technical expertise to provide effective risk covers for complex offshore wind farm projects; Risk intelligence ̤̤ Obtain 100% of power used for our own operations from We develop and apply tailor-made tools renewable sources by 2020. to extend the scope of our risk management. This enables us to identify Funding longer lives and appropriately address sustainability̤̤ Use our capacity, technical expertise and natural offset of our related and emerging risks in our core mortality business to offer our clients risk transfer solutions for business. their longevity risk. Stakeholder dialogue Partnering for food security Through regular dialogue with our ̤̤ In cooperation with key stakeholders, create solutions to improve clients and other stakeholders, we food security by giving farmers protection against natural perils; help to develop effective responses to ̤̤ Through commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership, offer up sustainability and other key issues, by to 1.4 million smallholder farmers in Africa protection against raising awareness of both the risks and weather risks (target met in 2014). the opportunities arising from them. Supporting financial resilience Our footprint ̤̤ Actively participate in the financial reform dialogue to promote We apply best-practice standards of policies supporting financial resilience and sustainable economic resource management to our properties growth. and logistic operations as well as guidelines to our sourcing activities. Managing sustainability risks In doing so, we continually reduce ̤̤ Consistently identify potential sustainability risks in our business Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. transactions and abstain from them if warranted, and engage with clients and industry partners on how to address such risks. Our people Drawing on the know-how and Empowering our people experience of a diverse, multi̤̤ Continue to build an organisation of diverse people that have a generational group of people, we want passion to make the world more resilient; to ensure our employees can contribute ̤̤ Achieve a top-quartile employee engagement score (EES >72%). to an organisation that is constantly looking for new ways to improve the Ensuring good governance and compliance wellbeing of society – where how we ̤̤ Continuously assess our corporate governance against best achieve results is as important as what practices and new stakeholder demands; we achieve. ̤̤ Regularly update our compliance policies as appropriate, oversee effective implementation thereof and deliver meaningful training and communication to our employees. 12 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Active in society Governance and compliance The overview below shows in which of Playing an active role in society beyond By adhering to the highest standards these areas we address which material our core business is important to us. of governance and compliance, we topics and where you can find Globally, we empower vulnerable seek to maintain effective checks and corresponding information in the present communities to become more resilient balances between the top corporate report or in “The Swiss Re Foundation to risk and, where we have offices, bodies and to ensure the application in 2015”. we encourage volunteering activities of laws and ethical standards in our and support local institutions. business. Swiss Re’s commitment to sustainability is fully integrated into the Code of Conduct. Overview: where and how we address material issues Implementation Business Risk Stakeholder Our Active in Governance & areas solutions intelligence dialogue operations society compliance – Footprint Material topics – Our people Managing climate and pages 16–22 pages 26–31 pages 40–41 pages 47–57 SRF natural disaster risk Advancing sustainable pages 23–24 page 39 pages 49–50 SRF energy solutions Funding longer lives pages 24–25 page 40 SRF Partnering for food security pages 19–22 page 42 SRF Supporting financial pages 42–43 resilience Managing sustainability risks pages 26–30, 34–37 Empowering our people pages 58–67 SRF Ensuring good governance pages 68–71 and compliance SRF = “The Swiss Re Foundation in 2015” report Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Our approach to corporate responsibility Board and senior management Content definition As in past years, the scope of the report responsibility The structure of the present report is limited to Swiss Re’s own operations. primarily reflects the main areas of our Although we provide information on our At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, business where we address material sourcing and procurement policies, we the task of overseeing implementation issues: each of them is covered by an do not report on the performance of our of our commitment to corporate individual chapter – with one exception: suppliers because the re/insurance responsibility has been assigned to a Our role as an active citizen in society business does not involve an extensive committee of the Board of Directors: is described in a separate report supply chain. However, since 2013, we It is one of the responsibilities of published by the Swiss Re Foundation have been disclosing some of the the Chairman’s and Governance (see page 73). Thus, the report includes emissions caused along our supply chain Committee to monitor the Group’s the following six main chapters: (Scope 3 emissions). sustainability principles. ̤̤ Creating solutions for sustainability ̤̤ Extending our risk intelligence The present report follows the 2014 Regarding the development and ̤̤ Exploring and shaping the risk edition and covers the calendar year of adoption of relevant policies and landscape 2015. We plan to maintain our annual strategies, the role of the Board of ̤̤ Reducing our environmental footprint publishing cycle and to present our next Directors is to endorse them, while the ̤̤ Empowering our people Corporate Responsibility Report by the Group Executive Committee approves ̤̤ Ensuring good governance and second quarter of 2017, covering the them. Risk Management is responsible compliance year of 2016. for maintaining a suitable risk policy framework, and the Business Units drive The content presented in these chapters To get a complete overview of our strategic implementation within their primarily reflects the material issues actions as a responsible company, this respective areas. we address in these areas, as illustrated report should be read in conjunction in the overview matrix on page 13. with the annual report published by the On an operational level, various Swiss Re Foundation (see page 73). divisions, departments and units are Scope and publishing rhythm involved in implementing Swiss Re’s Our Corporate Responsibility Report Independent assurance commitment to corporate responsibility covers the whole Swiss Re Group as it This is the third year that the main in daily business. The Group was organised by 31 December 2015, chapters of the report have received Sustainability Risk unit drives the ie the publicly listed holding company independent assurance from development of Group risk policies Swiss Re Ltd., its three Business Units PricewaterhouseCoopers. Their and related strategic projects and Reinsurance, Corporate Solutions and assurance statement is included on coordinates communication, dialogue Admin Re®, and all directly or indirectly pages 76–77. and engagement efforts across the held subsidiaries. There were no Group. In addition, it is responsible changes to the Group’s organisational Reporting frameworks for producing Swiss Re’s Corporate structure in 2015. Our new Life Capital The present report incorporates our Responsibility Report. Business Unit was established on 2015 Communication on Progress 1 January 2016. Likewise, we have not for the UN Global Compact (www. made any data restatements in the unglobalcompact.org). References to Disclosure and accountability report. the Compact’s ten principles are We have voluntarily reported on our incorporated into the GRI Content Index performance as a responsible company (see pages 81–85). For the third since 1998. Over the years, the range consecutive year, we also report against of topics covered in these yearly reports the Principles for Sustainable Insurance, has gradually widened. While early PSI (www.unepfi.org/psi). You can find editions had a strong focus on our Public Disclosure of Progress on environmental concerns, later editions page 80. gradually extended their focus to social and governance issues. Since 2007, we have published a comprehensive Corporate Responsibility Report, guided by best practice in corporate responsibility reporting. 14 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Note on our implementation of the Note on Indicators G4-21 and G4-22 on GRI G4 Guidelines internal and external “aspect In this edition of our Corporate boundaries”: Of the “material aspects” Responsibility Report, we include to which we refer in the present report, Standard Disclosures of the G4 we regard almost all as material “inside Guidelines of the Global Reporting the organisation”. The two exceptions Initiative (GRI), as far as is practical for are “Water” and “Effluents and Waste”: a business-to-business company in as Swiss Re is not an industrial company, financial services. The way we identify the environmental impacts we cause material issues has important through water consumption and waste implications for how we do this: generation are very small in comparison. ̤̤ Our understanding of materiality is We still include information and data on based on the risk expertise embedded them because many rating organisations in our business, our broad, interactive expect this even from companies in the stakeholder dialogue and the view financial services sector. Hence we of various standard setters. We have consider these aspects as being merely selected the GRI’s “material aspects” “material outside the organisation”. accordingly and refer to the associated indicators as far as we see As a rule, all the material aspects we fit for a re/insurer and can provide the cover in the report are “material for all data. entities within the organisation”, that is, ̤̤ Although we engage strongly in for the Swiss Re holding company and dialogue with our stakeholders, we all three of its Business Units. This do not currently have a formalised statement only needs to be qualified for process for them to comment on our two indicators of the Financial Services selection of the GRI’s “material Sector Supplement: FS7 and FS8 on aspects” and hence neither on the products with a specific social or content of our Corporate environmental benefit are not relevant Responsibility Report. for our Admin Re® Business Unit. ̤̤ We do, however, carefully analyse what kind of information key sustainability raters request of us and include this in our reporting if we perceive a widespread demand (see below). Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Creating solutions for sustainability Our re/insurance By managing risks and covering losses, One of our overarching goals is to create re/insurance creates stability and solutions that suit the special needs of solutions help to address enables economic growth. However, emerging and developing countries. If key environmental some environmental and social governments and communities have challenges can undermine sustainable financial protection against risks such as and social challenges. progress if left unaddressed. Helping windstorms, earthquakes, drought and We focus on natural our clients and society at large to tackle flooding, they can better cope with the such risks is a key component of our immediate consequences of a disaster. catastrophes and climate commitment as a responsible company change, food security, and our overarching vision of making But, just as importantly, re/insurance the world more resilient. protection safeguards investments, renewable energy, allows governments to stabilise budgets funding longer lives, Currently, we focus on the following and gives people the financial stability themes: climate and natural disaster required to get loans. In this way, our and insurance cover risks, agricultural risks, sustainable solutions help to create the conditions in emerging and energy, and funding longer lives. We for sustained social and economic develop our solutions as part of our development. developing countries. established risk modelling and underwriting activities or by creating innovative new products, in close Natural catastrophes and cooperation with our clients and climate change partners. Natural catastrophes are a key risk in Thus, our solutions frequently include: our Property & Casualty (P&C) business. ̤̤ Public-sector partners: Besides direct The damage caused by floods, storms, insurers and corporate clients, we earthquakes and other natural disasters develop risk transfer solutions for, and can affect millions of lives and the in cooperation with, governments and economies of entire countries. In 2015, various public-sector organisations; the total worldwide economic losses ̤̤ Index-based insurance products: We from natural and man-made are a pioneer in creating innovative catastrophes were estimated at insurance solutions that use an index USD 92 billion – of these, USD 37 billion to determine payments; were insured. Having access to ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or cat effective re/insurance protection against bonds: We are a leading developer of natural catastrophes creates significant these products, which enable large benefits for our clients – as well as risks to be transferred to the capital society at large. In 2015, we received markets. USD 2.6 billion of P&C Reinsurance premiums for natural catastrophe covers (for losses larger than USD 20 million), For more information see which was equivalent to 17% of total swissre.com/global_partnerships/ premiums in this business segment. 16 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report On average, both economic and insured In our Financial Report we detail the losses caused by natural catastrophes insurance risk currently posed to our have increased steadily over the past business by severe instances of four 20 years. The key reasons have been types of natural catastrophes. economic development, population growth, urbanisation and a higher In addition to providing re/insurance concentration of assets in exposed covers, we offer our clients strategic areas. expertise and integral risk assessments of natural disasters and climate This general trend will continue. But adaptation. These include our Insurance stress tests crucially, losses will be further Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) In our Financial Report we aggravated by climate change. The studies, free access for our clients to describe the insurance risk scientific consensus is that a continued Swiss Re’s CatNet® tool and our associated with natural rise in average global temperatures expertise publications. (You can see a catastrophes and disclose will have a significant effect on weathersample of our recent publications on the expected impact on our related natural catastrophes. According pages 46 and 74–75.) economic capital of four types to the Special Report on Extremes of single event losses with (SREX, 2012) and the Fifth Assessment a 200-year return period Report (AR5, 2014) published by the Two new Economics of Climate (ie with a 0.5% probability): Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Adaptation (ECA) studies Atlantic hurricane, Californian Change (IPCC), a changing climate earthquake, European gradually leads to shifts in the frequency, Through the ECA methodology, we also windstorm and Japanese intensity, spatial extent, duration and analyse the effects of climate change earthquake. timing of extreme weather events. on a longer timescale, enabling us to See 2015 Financial Report, provide our clients with strategic advice pages 66–67. If climate change remains unchecked, and integral risk assessments about the makeup of the main drivers will natural disasters and climate adaptation. thus gradually shift, with climate change ECA studies quantify today’s climate accounting for an increasingly large risks, the potential increase of share of natural catastrophe losses. populations and assets at risk due to economic development, plus the To assess our Property & Casualty additional risk posed by climate change, USD business accurately and to structure with a time horizon of up to 30 years. sound risk transfer solutions, we need to In a second step, our studies identify clearly understand the economic impact cost-effective measures to minimise and 2.6 bn of natural catastrophes and the effect adapt to these risks. In this way, they of climate change. This is why we invest give decision makers important in proprietary, state-of-the-art natural information needed to integrate climate catastrophe models and regularly adaptation with economic development, Natural catastrophe collaborate with universities and paving the way for sustainable growth. scientific institutions. premiums in our P&C In 2015, we completed two new ECA Reinsurance business While the impact of climate change studies, both at the request and with will increase gradually over the coming the support of the German Development (USD 2.9 billion in 2014) decades, most of our business is Bank (KfW): one for Barisal in renewed annually and our risk models Bangladesh and one for San Salvador in are refined every few years. Risks are El Salvador (see page 18). They are normally covered for 12 months (up the first two ECA studies for which KfW to five years for cat bonds). Thus, has provided the funding in order to reinsurance premiums do not reflect systematically identify adaptation expected loss trends over the coming measures with a high potential. The decades. Rather, for underwriting and bank then helps to finance their risk management purposes, our models implementation, together with the local provide an estimate of the current city government. risk. But as natural catastrophe losses continue to rise as a result of the For more information see different factors described above, our swissre.com/climate_action/ models will gradually factor in this trend, since they are updated and For more information see refined at regular intervals. swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ natural_disaster_risk/ Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating solutions for sustainability Our ECA study for San Salvador found that further improving river bank reinforcements such as these can significantly reduce damage from flooding and protect vulnerable houses. Our ECA study for Barisal Our ECA study for San Salvador Barisal is the administrative capital of Barisal Division San Salvador is the capital of El Salvador and by far the in south-central Bangladesh and has a population of country’s largest city; the municipality itself has a approximately 330 000. Lying on the banks of the population of slightly more than half a million, while the Kirtankhola River, it is one of the country’s most important whole metropolitan area counts almost two and a half river ports. The biggest climate risks the city faces are million inhabitants. The three major climate-related risks cyclones and floods. At present, they pose a particular are floods, tropical cyclones and landslides. threat to citizens, residential and commercial buildings and cause most damage in the poorer Western parts of Our ECA study revealed that the annual expected damage the city. from flooding around Acelhuate River is likely to increase almost four-fold by 2040. However, urban planning Our ECA study found that Barisal’s total climate risk due (such as river bank reinforcements), ecological restoration to economic development and climate change (under and the construction of absorption wells could protect a moderate scenario) must be expected to roughly triple many people against flooding and reduce the risk by by 2030, but that 60% of the expected damage can approximately USD 150 million. Ecological restoration be avoided by taking appropriate adaptation measures. would have particular benefits for people living in the The most effective of these include reinforcing river city’s poorer neighbourhoods: Strengthening the buffer embankments, planting flood-resilient crops and capacity of the ecosystem in the Acelhuate catchment improving solid waste management. area through reforestation could reduce the risk of flood damage there by up to USD 50 million over three decades. Damage from landslides must also be expected to increase substantially in vulnerable areas with steep slopes and a high potential for water accumulation. Here, effective adaptation measures are reforestation and the For more information see construction of terraces, as well as finding more suitable swissre.com/eca/ places for San Salvador’s most vulnerable people to live. 18 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report CatNet®: free natural hazard Strengthening risk resilience: Originally set up in response to the information for our clients highlights of 2015 strong Kocaeli and Duzce earthquakes The CatNet® tool offers our clients of 1999, TCIP has done much over the natural hazard information combined Hereafter, we describe some key years to improve insurance protection with Google mapsTM and satellite transactions and initiatives in the country. In addition to the support imagery. Its functions and data facilitate strengthening risk resilience in which we we provide through traditional a professional overview and assessment were involved during 2015. Covering reinsurance, in 2015 Swiss Re Capital of natural hazard exposure for any natural disaster, weather and pandemic Markets co-structured a USD 100 million location worldwide. This makes CatNet® risks, they help communities become catastrophe bond sponsored by the a valuable tool in preparing local, more resilient to such shocks by TCIP. Covering Istanbul’s large regional and cross-regional risk profiles. ensuring that adequate funding is in metropolitan area, the three-year bond Its three main features are a natural place for quick and effective responses. has a parametric trigger that will pay out hazard atlas, country-specific insurance if the specified earthquake conditions data and a link to disaster statistics. Strengthening earthquake resilience are met. It was well received by investors More information is available at in Turkey and ensures that TCIP will have access swissre.com/catnet. In Turkey we supported the Turkish to additional reconstruction funds in the Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP ) to event of a major earthquake. further improve insurance protection against earthquakes in Istanbul. Supporting the African Risk Capacity With a population of 14 million, the As a provider of reinsurance capacity metropolis generates a significant share and expertise, in 2014 we helped to of Turkey’s GDP, while living under the launch the African Risk Capacity (ARC), constant threat of severe earthquakes. the continent’s first parametric natural disaster insurance pool. It offers governments insurance protection against drought, which poses a recurring threat in large parts of Africa and puts For more information see the livelihoods of millions of citizens swissre.com/clients/client_tools/about_ at risk. catnet.html Insurance-linked securities We are a leading player in the ILS are particularly well-suited to In 2015, our registered broker-dealer insurance-linked securities (ILS) sector. provide protection against peak risks – subsidiaries arranged non-life ILS ILS are capital market instruments, events that happen infrequently but worth USD 825 million, all of them typically in bond or derivative format, tend to lead to high losses, for example for clients. In addition, they arranged designed to meet the risk or capital earthquakes or windstorms. ILS are USD 410 million of extreme mortality management needs of a transaction used for both risk and capital ILS, both for clients and Swiss Re. sponsor. In exchange for a coupon management purposes in the P&C and or premium payment, the sponsor the L&H business. For reinsurers they receives single or multi-year are attractive because they free up collateralised protection for specified scarce capital; for insurers and risk events. If such an event occurs, corporate clients they provide multithe sponsor receives all or part of the year collateralised protection; and principal; otherwise this is paid back for investors they offer attractive to the investors in full at maturity. diversification possibilities, as they are relatively uncorrelated with other For more information see asset classes. swissre.com/investors/ils/ Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Creating solutions for sustainability Through ARC’s in-house risk modelling more than USD 26 million, following Although ten years have passed since platform, Africa RiskView, the a severe drought in the Sahel. In the a major hurricane last made landfall in participating governments can assess 2015/16 season, further countries Florida, the FHCF recognises that it is the drought risk they face and decide joined the risk pool, thereby increasing only a matter of time until one strikes how much of it they want to insure at total coverage. again. As the 2005 hurricane season what loss threshold. Based on satellite showed, the financial consequences rainfall data, payouts are then made Protecting the Florida Hurricane for local insurers, and ultimately automatically to the governments when Catastrophe Fund homeowners, can be severe. It is the the agreed drought thresholds are The state of Florida has over task of the FHCF to ensure that insurers exceeded. To take part in the scheme, USD 3 trillion of coastal assets, one of can pay claims from such extreme countries need to have contingency the highest concentrations anywhere in events and to reduce the impact on plans in place that show how payouts the world. But as the state lies within the taxpayers. will be used to support the affected infamous “hurricane alley”, its population population. faces a latent natural disaster risk. In This is why the FHCF has purchased response, the state-run Florida Hurricane reinsurance protection for the first time In its initial 2014/2015 season, ARC Catastrophe Fund (FHCF) established in its 22-year history. By adding offered drought insurance for a total of its first-ever reinsurance programme in USD 1 billion of private capital, it can USD 129 million to four governments: 2015 and chose Swiss Re as one of its further build the financial stability it Kenya, Mauritania, Niger and Senegal. leaders. needs to ensure Florida’s economic Less than a year into the programme, the resilience in the face of disasters. latter three received payouts totalling Florida has one of the highest coastal value concentrations anywhere in the world but, at the same time, faces a significant hurricane risk. By providing reinsurance protection to the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, we help strengthen the area’s economic resilience in the face of such disasters. 20 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Helping to develop insurance To develop a sustainable product that markets in China meets actual needs, the scheme has Climate change adaptation Throughout 2015, we continued to take pursued a holistic approach from the Our solutions offering an active role in the expanding insurance beginning, involving all key stakeholders re/insurance protection markets of China. For example, we in a public-private partnership. against extreme weather helped to develop China’s first weather Stakeholders include various events and weather volatility index insurance programme to protect government ministries, the Vietnam help communities to adapt cotton production against low National Reinsurance Corporation (in the to climate change, by making temperatures. It was launched as a pilot role of aggregator and bridge between them more resilient against in the Xinjiang region, which grows 60% the government and local insurers), such risks. of the country’s cotton. While perils such local insurers and their branch offices, as drought, hail and wind are covered as well as local people’s committees and by a government-subsidised agricultural authorities. The scheme has got off to insurance programme, this has not a promising start and the intention is to been the case for yield losses due to expand it rapidly to other provinces. low temperatures. If the pilot providing protection of RMB 7.6 million Helping to develop a Pandemic (USD 1.2 million) proves to be effective, Emergency Facility it will be expanded to the whole region. Just like an earthquake, hurricane or other natural disaster, the outbreak of We also signed a Memorandum of a pandemic is an actual catastrophe Cooperation with the provincial that requires a quick, effective response. government of Heilongjiang on the However, when the Ebola crisis broke future rollout of an index-based out in West Africa in 2014, it took the insurance pilot covering natural disaster affected countries and the international risks to its agricultural sector. This builds community several months to mobilise on previous efforts we have undertaken the resources necessary for an adequate to improve insurance protection in response. The World Bank has made it a Heilongjiang, which, as China’s biggest priority to address this situation and has crop producer, is key to its food security. mandated Swiss Re and Munich Re as the partners to support the development Protecting Vietnamese farmers of a Pandemic Emergency Facility (PEF). against livestock loss We also helped to relaunch an important The goal of the PEF is to set up a agricultural insurance pilot in Vietnam. response system mechanism to ensure It will protect the livelihoods of poor that sufficient resources will be available smallholder farmers in the provinces of early enough to prevent an epidemic Vinh Phuc and Ha Giang by insuring developing into a fully-fledged pandemic. them against the effects a major natural The facility will use pre-determined and catastrophe or disease may have on transparent criteria to indicate an their livestock. In total, the scheme outbreak. When these triggers are met, covers more than 150 000 cattle and funds will be made available within buffalo. days, either through capital markets or re/insurance. This will allow emergency workers, equipment and medicines to be rapidly deployed to an affected area, to prevent further spread of the disease. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Creating solutions for sustainability Our commitments ... to the United Nations Many of our recent efforts to expand insurance protection cover losses from natural catastrophes and weather volatility (eg drought or excessive rainfall). As climate change is predicted to increase these losses, such transactions also help communities to strengthen their climate resilience. Furthermore, we have found that partnering with public sector clients, especially national and regional governments, is an effective way to develop solutions. Building on these experiences, we made a significant commitment to USD the United Nations at its Climate Summit in September 2014. Personally addressing the government leaders present at the summit, our Group CEO Michel M. Liès made the following pledge: “By the year 2020, 2.1 billion Swiss Re commits to having advised 50 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience and to have offered them USD 10 billion against this risk.” We have agreed with the United Nations to report publicly on the Total amount of progress we make on this commitment. By the end of 2015, we had climate protection advised 13 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience and offered them a total of USD 2.1 billion in re/insurance protection. offered to sovereigns and sub-sovereigns ... to the Grow Africa Partnership In our work to bring risk protection to underinsured communities, in since 2014 recent years we have put a focus on the African continent, in particular Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2012, we made an important commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership (www.growafrica.org). This initiative was launched by a number of organisations to promote public-private collaboration and investment in African agriculture. As most smallholder 1.6 million farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa have had no access to insurance protection to date, addressing this problem is crucial to protect families’ livelihoods, facilitate economic development and reduce poverty. Smallholder farmers Our commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership thus centres on the benefiting from following three goals: ̤̤ Give farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa access to tools such as weather the Grow Africa and yield index insurance products; Partnership ̤̤ Invest in resources equivalent to about USD 2 million per year to support the development of sustainable agricultural risk management (2 million* in 2014) markets; *See explanation on the right ̤̤ Provide agricultural insurance for up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers. Working together with different partners, we helped to bring weather insurance to 1.6 million smallholder farmers in 11 Sub-Saharan countries by the end of 2015. The fact that this is less than the 2 million recorded in the previous year is mainly due to changes in how one country participating in the African Risk Capacity has structured its coverage under the programme. It has substantially revised its assumptions on the drought exposure of its farmers and reduced the percentage of farmers covered by the scheme. 22 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report understanding of these risks and share Climate change mitigation Sustainable energy solutions our insights with our clients as well as By facilitating the construction Sustainable energy sources play a other insurers. As a result, we are now of offshore wind farms, these crucial role in reducing CO2 emissions considered a “lead market” for offshore solutions support efforts and securing future energy supplies. wind risks. to reduce CO2 emissions and Given our strategic focus on climate hence mitigate climate change, we are keen to support energy In the last five years, Swiss Re Corporate change. generation from renewable sources. Solutions has participated in more than But as sustainable energy projects 30 offshore wind projects, including increase in scale and complexity, so wind farms, standalone offshore do the risks associated with them. substations and standalone export However, innovative risk transfer cables. In the 2015, we were involved in solutions can help reduce these risks 18 offshore wind farm projects and drive investment in the sector. worldwide and were the lead re/insurer in eight of them. Offshore wind is considered one of the most promising renewable energy Block Island: first offshore wind sources. But like renewable energy in farm in the US general, it presents very complex risks. In 2015, we insured a number of Unlike traditional lines, there is no long offshore wind projects in different loss history to refer to. Underwriting countries, including the Block Island such risks is therefore challenging from Wind Farm in the US (dwwind.com/ an insurance perspective. project/block-island-wind-farm). Developed by Deepwater Wind, this is Swiss Re Corporate Solutions takes a the country’s first-ever offshore wind special interest in offshore wind as it has facility. The project is situated in the For more information see both the large capacity and the technical Atlantic Ocean, approximately three swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_­ expertise to help manage the associated miles from Block Island, off the coast of energy/ risks. We are continually enhancing our Rhode Island, where there are strong The foundations for the turbines of Block Island Wind Farm are being put in place. We insure construction and start-up delay risks of this project, the first-ever offshore wind farm in the US. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Creating solutions for sustainability and steady winds. Thanks to its The two wind farms will consist of a total expertise and proximity to the client, of 97 highly efficient, quiet Siemens Swiss Re Corporate Solutions was turbines generating 6 megawatts each – appointed as the project’s lead insurer 55 at Gode Wind 1 and 42 at Gode and provides both a construction all risk Wind 2. With a combined capacity of (CAR) and a delay in start-up (DSU) 582 megawatts, they will supply CO2cover. free power equivalent to the annual electricity consumption of approximately Construction of the wind farm is 600 000 German households. The two underway and is scheduled to be wind farms are expected to become fully completed by the end of 2016. Our operational in the second half of 2016. client, GE Wind (formerly Alstom), is building five powerful, highly efficient turbines that will generate a total Life & Health insurance and capacity of 30 megawatts. The wind funding longer lives 18 farm will give approximately 17 000 Life and health (L&H) insurance products households on Block Island access to play a crucial role in creating stability for reliable as well as renewable electricity individuals and society. They provide for the first time. To date, they have financial security in the event of death Offshore wind farm had to use diesel generators, which are or illness, give access to medical inefficient and cause substantial air projects we were pollution. The power not used on Block treatment and offer dependable income in retirement. We help primary L&H involved in during 2015 Island will be transmitted to the insurers and other clients from the mainland through a 21-mile long cable private and public sector to manage under the ocean floor. such risks efficiently, thanks to our specialist knowledge of mortality, Gode Wind 1 and 2: large wind farms morbidity and longevity trends. in the North Sea Swiss Re Corporate Solutions also Longevity and health insurance continued to be involved in large, remained two of our strategic priorities mainstream projects, eg the Gode Wind in the L&H business. The demand for 1 and 2 offshore wind farms. Both are longevity solutions is expected to grow located in the German sector of the further as demographics shift. We have North Sea, approximately 45 km off invested in research and development the German coast and 33 km from the to improve our ability to predict mortality islands of Juist and Norderney. and longevity trends. In the last few Construction of the two wind farms, years, we have completed several which are being developed by Danishlongevity insurance contracts with based DONG Energy (www.dongenergy. pension funds in the UK. com), started in 2015. We provide a CAR cover, ie an all-risk policy for Demand for commercial health material damage during the construction insurance solutions has also been phase. growing, driven by several major demographic and socio-economic trends. These include: the greater healthcare needs of ageing societies; rising healthcare expectations of the 24 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report new middle class, especially in growth By completing a longevity swap markets; and healthcare finance reform, transaction with Friends Life (now part Previous longevity deals particularly in mature markets. We offer of the Aviva Group), Heineken received in the UK a variety of health reinsurance solutions longevity insurance for defined benefit The longevity solution we have to meet these needs, from short-term liabilities of GBP 2.4 billion, covering developed for the Scottish & protection against the risk of volatility in around 19 000 pensioners. As the Newcastle Pension Plan is the medical expenses for insurers or deal’s reinsurance partner, we assumed latest in a host of such employers, to very long-term protection part of this risk from Aviva. Swiss Re is transactions in the UK. Other against the financial impact of disability in a position to write such large deals clients in recent years include or critical illness. because we have a natural offset the Aviva Staff Pension through our mortality business, the Scheme (19 000 members Longevity transaction with capacity to write the business to our plus partners), one of Heineken UK own balance sheet and the expertise AkzoNobel’s pension funds With life expectancy rising, pension to create tailor-made solutions. (17 000 members), the LV= schemes face the risk that they will not pension fund (more than be able to meet all their commitments. 5 000 members) and the Longevity transactions cover this risk by Royal County of Berkshire insuring the schemes’ liabilities in case Pension Fund (11 000 their members live longer than members). We have outlined expected. In 2015, we participated in these transactions in more four major longevity transactions. One of detail in earlier Corporate them concerned the pension plan of Responsibility Reports. brewing firm Scottish & Newcastle, part of Heineken since 2008 and now called Heineken UK. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Extending our risk intelligence We address Risk management is an integral part of This extended risk awareness is also Swiss Re’s business model and key to key to managing our assets responsibly. sustainability, political, the controlled risk-taking that underpins The risk assessments we make through regulatory and our financial strength. It is embedded our Sustainability Risk Framework, throughout our business and ensures in particular, flow directly into our emerging risks in our that the Group and the three Business investment decisions. core business trans­ Units have the necessary expertise, frameworks and infrastructure to actions. To do so, support good risk-taking. Our Sustainability Risk we have developed (See 2015 Financial Report, pages Framework 50–51 and 59–73.) specific tools and In a market environment, profitable business activities create economic know-how. Sound risk management is essential for value. Occasionally, however, they may a re/insurer: Tight control of our also adversely affect the environment exposures guarantees that we can fulfil and certain vulnerable groups. If such our role in society as ultimate risk-taker impacts are ignored, they may pose a and be a reliable partner to our clients threat to societies’ long-term sustainable when they need us. The core categories development. of our risk landscape comprise insurance risk (property and casualty, life and For companies this situation can bring health) as well as financial market and dilemmas: A specific business credit risk. In addition, we consider it transaction may be economically essential for a responsible company beneficial and perfectly fine from a legal to pay attention to further significant and regulatory perspective, yet may risks we may be exposed to, especially have significant environmental or social in the longer term. downsides. Swiss Re recognises that such dilemmas exist and develops Sustainability, political, regulatory and effective responses through a wellSustainability risks emerging risks are particularly relevant defined approach and by taking We define sustainability risks in this respect. We have developed decisions based on ethical principles. as ethical concerns related instruments and know-how that help us to potential environmental to identify and assess all of them. This Our Sustainability Risk Framework is an and socio-economic impacts allows us to determine those risks we advanced risk management instrument, of our business transactions, think should be avoided – because of specifically designed to identify and and the reputational risks their loss potential, for ethical reasons, address the potentially negative effects they may entail. or both. of our transactions on local 26 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Mines can potentially have significant impacts on the environment and local communities. Our Sustainability Risk Framework includes a policy that clearly specifies the risks we examine before underwriting mining projects. communities, workforces and the Policies environment. This framework applies Our Sustainability Risk Framework is to all of our business transactions in based on the overarching principles of re/insurance as well as investments, to respecting human rights and protecting the extent that we can influence their the environment. Through detailed various aspects. policies, the framework applies these principles to seven sectors or issues in The Sustainability Risk Framework which we perceive major sustainability consists of: risks: the defence industry; oil and gas ̤̤ An overarching human rights and (including oil sands and hydraulic environmental protection policy fracturing); mining; dams; animal testing; plus seven policies on sensitive forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm; and sectors or issues; nuclear weapons proliferation. ̤̤ The Sensitive Business Risk (SBR) process comprising an online We regularly review these policies to assessment tool and a referral tool – ensure they reflect new developments. due diligence mechanisms to assess The key concerns currently addressed by our business transactions; the eight policies of our Sustainability ̤̤ Company exclusions; and Risk Framework are listed on page 28. For more information see ̤̤ Country exclusions beyond mere swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ compliance with international trade managing_env_risks.html controls. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending our risk intelligence The Sensitive Business Risks process Each of the eight policies of our Main concerns in key sectors Sustainability Risk Framework contains Human rights and environmental protection criteria and qualitative standards which ̤̤ Human rights violations and abuses such as murder, torture, deprivation define precisely when a transaction may of liberty, forced labour or harmful child labour; present a “sustainability risk”. In 2015, ̤̤ Countries that lack an operational, effective and internationally recognised we introduced a new online Sensitive government; Business Risk (SBR) assessment tool, ̤̤ Companies that are causing ongoing, severe and unmitigated damage which enables our underwriters to to the environment, flora and fauna of a particular place and biodiversity screen potentially sensitive transactions in general, especially in industries and activities that have had a problematic for their impacts on the local track record in this area in the past. environment and on the human rights of the affected people and workforces. Defence industry ̤̤ Particularly cruel weapons that inflict indiscriminate harm to humans The online tool is easy to access, and the environment, often after a conflict has ended; provides clear guidance to our ̤̤ The provision of certain services by private security companies. underwriters about what to assess in further detail and ensures consistent Oil and gas documentation in our standard ̤̤ Human rights abuses; underwriting tools. At the same time, it ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where enables our central sustainability critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages management unit to adjust key policy are impacted. parameters and make them effective “at the push of a button”. We believe the Mining tool has thus further strengthened due ̤̤ Human rights abuses; diligence of potential sustainability ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly risks in our core business. In the first where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical six months since its launch, our cultural heritages are impacted; underwriters used it to carry out checks ̤̤ Poor occupational health & safety record and risk of increasing HIV on 3 550 transactions. penetration. If this initial screening reveals any Dams potential issues, our underwriters carry ̤̤ Human rights abuses; out further due diligence measures. ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly Finally, they transfer the most critical where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical transactions through the Sensitive cultural heritages are impacted; Business Risks (SBR) referral tool to our ̤̤ Non-involvement of relevant stakeholders; team of sustainability experts, who ̤̤ Non-involvement of affected neighbouring states. conduct targeted research to decide whether the transaction at hand is Animal testing acceptable on ethical grounds. ̤̤ Unethical and inhumane treatment of animals. This decision takes the form of a binding Forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm recommendation either to go ahead with ̤̤ Illegal logging; the transaction, to go ahead with certain ̤̤ Uncertified logging and timber/oil palm processing in sensitive regulatory conditions attached, or to abstain. If environments; there is disagreement about the ̤̤ Greenhouse gas emissions from peatland conversion, timber processing recommendation, the case can be activities and/or forest clearance using bushfires; escalated to the next management level ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where and, ultimately, to the Group Chief Risk critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages Officer and the Group Executive are impacted. Committee. Nuclear weapons proliferation The accessibility and clarity of our new ̤̤ Activities associated with nuclear energy or similar in countries that online assessment tool led to a decrease are outside the established framework and international regime of global in the number of transactions referred non-proliferation efforts. to our sustainability experts for an assessment – from 454 in the previous year to 309 in 2015. Of these, we issued negative recommendations in 32 cases and positive recommendations with conditions in 24 cases. 28 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Sensitive Business Risk referrals 2013 Sensitive Business Risks referred Sensitive to Business Risk referrals  19% Defence Number of Sensitive Business our expert team in2013 2015  17% Oil and gas Risk referrals Number Number ofofSensitive SensitiveBusiness BusinessRisk Riskreferrals referrals Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals  22% 19% Defence Mining 11% Excluded/critical country 500 500 500   Excluded 18% Oil 17% 11% gas/critical country and Mining  17% Excluded/critical 11% 9% Dams country Oil and gas 400 400 400   Dams 12% Mining 11% 9% Environmental degradation   10% Other industry/issue 9% Dams 8% Other industry/issue 300 300 300  9%  Defence 9% Environmental 6% Human rights degradation 200  4% Human 8% Other rights industry/issue 200 200  3%  Forestry, 4% Forestry and logging 6% Human pulp & paper and oil palm rights  Animal 100 100 100  2% 3% Nuclear 4% Forestry testing weapons proliferation and logging  1% 3% Nuclear 2% Animal Environmental weapons testing degradation proliferation 0 00  1% 2% Animal 1% Multi-issue Multi-issue testing 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015  1% Nuclear weapons proliferation 1% Multi-issue  Proceed Proceed Proceed Proceed with conditions Abstain Proceedwith Proceed withconditions conditions Not Abstain Abstain materialised Not Notmaterialised materialised When making these decisions, we refer Thus, our decisions are neither 309 to internationally recognised ethical subjective nor entirely objective. In principles. Swiss Re is a signatory to the essence, they reflect our recognition of UN Global Compact, which derives its global fundamental rights, of human human rights principles from the suffering and our commitment to limiting Sensitive business Universal Declaration of Human Rights, unwanted negative impacts of our its labour principles from the ILO business transactions, either by transactions referred to Declaration on Fundamental Principles withdrawing or by influencing our our team of sustainability and Rights at Work, its environment clients’ behaviour. principles from the Rio Declaration on experts Environment and Development and its Company exclusions anti-corruption principles from the Our Sustainability Risk Framework (454 in 2014) United Nations Convention against policies specify certain criteria that may Corruption. lead us to exclude a company from both our re/insurance transactions and our This web of ethical principles helps us investments, to the extent that such an exclusion is permissible (eg by virtue of 3 550 to make decisions that are aligned with universal fundamental rights. However, mandatory law or internal policies) and this is not sufficient for decisions in possible (eg if existing documentation a business context. We also need to relating to such re/ insurance consider the social and economic transactions and investments provide for Due diligence checks implications of our decisions in their it). These criteria include: involvement in carried out by our respective cultural contexts and, last prohibited war material; verifiable but not least, the implications for our complicity in systemic, repeated and underwriters to detect business. Balancing these different severe human rights violations; causing potential sustainability aspects requires us to carefully and repeated, severe and unmitigated consistently assess transactions and damage to the environment; unregulated risks their local effects, often in collaboration proliferation of nuclear weapons; and and dialogue with external experts and unethical/cruel animal testing practices. local stakeholders. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Extending our risk intelligence Country exclusions Sustainability Risk unit, which can then In 2015, our sustainability risk Swiss Re also excludes certain countries respond appropriately, eg by providing management unit decided in 24 SBR from its business that have particularly additional training or reviewing assessments to proceed with conditions. poor human rights records. This underwriting practices. In most cases, these conditions required step goes further than compliance the particular underwriter to engage with international trade controls (ITCs). Training with the client on specific questions Our goal is to refrain from directly Since we introduced our Sustainability about environmental protection or underwriting risks or making Risk Framework in 2009, we have made human rights issues. In line with the investments in entities that are based considerable efforts to raise awareness Ruggie Framework on corporate respect in these countries. of sustainability issues among our for human rights, we strive to address underwriters and client managers. such issues when we spot them and During 2015, we revised the Through training we ensure that they raise them with our clients. methodology we use to identify the know how to properly apply the countries to be excluded from our framework with its underlying principles On an industry-wide basis, we have business transactions. Specifically, we of respecting human rights and played a major role in establishing and started to apply two independently protecting the environment. In recent advancing the Principles for Sustainable compiled human rights indexes for our years, we have focused on high growth Insurance (PSI) introduced in 2012 by assessments. As a result, the list of markets where we want to expand our the UN Environment Programme excluded countries has widened and business. Finance Initiative, UN EPFI (www.unepfi. now comprises the Central African org/psi). We were one of the initiative’s Republic, South Sudan, DR Congo and In 2015, 403 employees completed our original signatories and currently act Chad, in addition to North Korea, eLearning course on the Sustainability as one of its board members. The PSI Somalia, Sudan (North) and Syria. We Risk Framework. For 325 employees address environmental, social and implemented the revised list at the who started to work in underwriting and governance (ESG) issues in the beginning of 2016 and will update with our clients, this training was re/insurance industry, spanning risk it annually. mandatory. management, underwriting, product and service development, claims As the Sustainability Risk Framework is In addition, we provided training management, sales and marketing, and based on the principles of respecting personally or via web-based conference investment management. Our Public human rights and protecting the to 328 experienced underwriters and Disclosure of Progress for 2015 is environment, the SBR process with graduates, and held five Lunch & Learn included in this report on page 80. its two due diligence tools and the sessions, which were attended by company and country exclusions are our 104 people. Through all our personally In 2015, we partnered with the UN principal means to ensure compliance delivered training and outreach Environment Programme (UNEP) to cowith the UN Global Compact in our core activities, we reached a total of 484 host a roundtable on “Insurance 2030: business. employees in 2015. Policies and partnerships for sustainable development” at our Centre for Global Independent internal reviews Client and industry interaction Dialogue near Zurich. Around 60 leaders In 2014, we started to formally involve Efforts to address environmental and and executives from re/insurance our internal Insurance Risk Review (IRR) social risks are obviously more effective companies and regulatory bodies, the unit. An IRR is an independent when many companies join forces. This UN, governments, think tanks and civil assessment of underwriting and costing is why we are keen to further promote society reflected on the policies and activities to review the quality of sustainability risk management within partnerships needed to realise the full the technical work carried out and the re/insurance industry. potential of re/insurance in promoting the decisions made, which includes sustainable development. The checking whether mandatory roundtable underscored the importance underwriting standards have been of systemic responses, integrated adhered to. approaches and collaborative efforts. Key insights were later presented in the During an IRR, our underwriting teams landmark report “Insurance 2030: are now automatically asked a number Harnessing insurance for sustainable of specific questions about their development”. potential exposure to sustainability risks. The results and recommendations for improvement are reported to the Group 30 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Political risks Regulatory risks Climate change In today’s increasingly integrated world Regulatory risks represent the potential In view of the strategic importance we need to be aware of any political impact of changes in the regulatory and climate change has for our core developments, actions and decisions supervisory regimes of the countries in business, we closely monitor related that may affect our business. Within our which we operate. In 2015, the global regulatory developments. Governments’ risk management organisation, we have regulatory agenda continued to and regulators’ interest in climate a team of specialists who look at a wide accelerate. Governments and regulators change and natural catastrophes has range of both commerceand securityrolled out new policies and conducted continued to build, leading to an related political risks at global, country numerous consultations and field tests increase in climate-related reporting and business transaction levels. on regulations with a direct impact on requirements. For example, in a number the re/insurance sector. Furthermore, of US states insurance companies that These specialists identify, assess and regulators are increasing their work on are domiciled or licensed there and write monitor political risks on an ongoing compliance and market conduct issues. USD 100 million or more in direct basis, so the Group understands their premiums are required to complete a implications and can initiate appropriate Swiss Re remained fully engaged in the survey on climate change risks; and in mitigation measures if required. regulatory debate throughout 2015, the UK listed companies need to Particular attention is paid to supporting regulatory convergence as disclose their greenhouse gas emissions developments in high growth markets well as increased application of in their annual reports. Governments’ and to cross-border issues such as economic and risk-based principles. growing awareness of the risks posed terrorism, energy, multi-national At the same time, we strive to mitigate by climate change has helped to prepare institutions or international trade. developments that may adversely affect the ground for a new global climate the re/insurance industry’s ability to deal on which they agreed at the 2015 Our understanding of political risks is foster financial and economic stability. United Nations Climate Change also highly relevant to ensuring Conference in Paris (COP21). Its central sustainable business operations in line For example, we share the broad objective is to cap global warming at with ESG principles: Several of the concerns of the re/insurance industry 2°C over pre-industrial levels. sectors and issues covered by the eight regarding the cumulative and cross(See special section on page 41.) policies of our Sustainability Risk sectoral impacts of some of the Framework (see pages 27–28) have proposed reforms. Regulatory During the COP21 negotiations, it was a significant political dimension. fragmentation is a key issue, particularly also announced that the Financial Implementing these policies, both in Europe, with the lack of harmonisation Stability Board (FSB) would establish a through SBR assessments and exclusion in introducing Solvency II, but also in Task Force on Climate-Related Financial policies, thus requires a solid grasp of the context of cross-border business Disclosures, TCFD (www.fsb-tcfd.org). political risks. This is particularly true and protectionist measures introduced The FSB is an international body that with regard to human rights violations, in several growth and mature markets. monitors and makes recommendations the proliferation of armaments into about the global financial system, conflict areas and the identification of After more than ten years of coordinating national financial areas prone to civil unrest. development, Solvency II was authorities and international standardimplemented across the European setting bodies. Starting from the premise Furthermore, we seek to raise Economic Area in January 2016. that climate change creates physical, awareness of political risk within the Swiss Re has been actively engaged in liability and transition risks, the TCFD re/insurance industry and among the the implementation process, particularly aims to develop consistent and effective broader public, and engage in dialogue in supporting the equivalence for the financial disclosures that will allow with our clients and other stakeholders. Swiss insurance supervisory system. stakeholders to properly assess the We also distil our ongoing assessments The European Union has recognised the climate risks faced by companies and of political risks into several political Swiss system, including the Swiss to take appropriate actions. Swiss Re and sustainability risk ratings at country Solvency Test (SST), as fully equivalent. supports the task force and provides level, which support our underwriting one of its members. and investment decisions. Many countries impose restrictions on the transaction of reinsurance business. The Global Reinsurance Forum, which Swiss Re is currently chairing, actively promotes the advantages of open and competitive markets, in particular the greater choice of reinsurers, products and prices, as well as benefits from diversification through the spreading of risk and increased financial stability. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Extending our risk intelligence Emerging risks Our SONAR framework SONAR (“systematic observation of Swiss Re SONAR: Re/insurers operate in a risk landscape notions associated with risk”) is our New emerging risk insights that is changing faster today than ever Group-wide framework specifically The Swiss Re SONAR before. New economic, technological, designed to manage and communicate report features emerging socio-political, regulatory and emerging risks. Firmly embedded in the risk themes that have the environmental developments are all Group’s risk management organisation, potential to impact the capable of changing risks or creating SONAR allows us to identify, assess insurance industry in the new ones. Moreover, growing and report these risks in a timely manner future. These topics were interdependencies between these and to factor them into our decisions. mainly derived from our developments can lead to accumulations SONAR process and were of risk and create significant knock-on The SONAR process involves two steps. assessed by our emerging effects. The general business Firstly, we have an interactive intranet risk management experts. environment is undergoing significant platform, which enables our employees media.swissre.com/ changes, as well. Liability and regulatory to share and discuss risk notions on all documents/SONAR_2015_ regimes continue to evolve, stakeholder main areas of the emerging risk WEB.pdf expectations are growing and people’s landscape quickly and easily and to stay risk perceptions are shifting. up-to-date on new developments. While many of these early signals will never This complex landscape gives rise to actually turn into emerging risks, others “emerging risks” – newly developing or may well do so. As it is impossible to changing risks that are difficult to anticipate which signals will fall into quantify and whose potential impact on which category, all of them warrant Swiss Re SONAR New emerging risk insights our business is not yet sufficiently taken equal attention. The SONAR platform into account. allows for peer reviews and bottom-up May 2015 discussions of early signals. Detecting and investigating such risks early on forms an important part of Secondly, our emerging risk specialists our comprehensive approach to risk periodically cluster and further assess management. Our aim is to reduce these risk notions for their potential uncertainty and prevent unforeseen impact on our business. Based on this, losses, while raising awareness within they subsequently carry out more inthe Group and across the industry. depth investigations of selected topics. Therefore, we try to understand how In 2015, they focused on the challenges risks are changing, assess their impact of the Internet of Things, for example and seek to recognise potential links (see page 33). To share some of our key between them. insights on this and other emerging risks with external audiences, we published the third edition of our comprehensive Swiss Re SONAR report. Emerging risks We define emerging risks as newly developing or changing risks that are difficult to quantify and whose potential impact on our business is not yet sufficiently taken into account. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/managing_risks/ emerging_risks.html 32 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report The Internet of Things (IoT) makes it possible to operate home appliances remotely via mobile devices. While the benefits of this are obvious, ever-growing interconnectivity also creates risks concerning network and data security. This is why we treat the IoT as an “emerging risk”. Challenges of the Internet of Things As individuals and households, we are and self-regulating digital systems connected individual devices and becoming ever more equipped and allow for increased resource efficiency, protocols are, the more vulnerable connected with electronic devices healthier lives and better comfort. they become to malfunction, loss and, ultimately, with semi-autonomous of data or hacking. Growing networks of communicating objects – The multitude of available (micro-) interconnectivity also leads to the Internet of Things (IoT). Imagine, sensors, data collectors and software accumulating loss potential, meaning for example, your refrigerator to manage these large data flows that a small local incident can have automatically reordering milk and is already huge. Our connectivity is significant cascading effects. other items according to your user growing exponentially regarding preferences via the internet and variety, speed and relevance. The IoT also raises important questions organising home delivery. Or your about the use and distribution of refrigerator might advise you on your While the benefits of IoT are obvious personal data, the protection of diet, taking into account the sports in terms of individual consumer privacy and, ultimately, how these activity data retrieved from your smart experiences and managing matters should be regulated. As phone or health wearable device. organisations and societies, the risks knowledge gathering, communication Other examples are individualised should not be ignored. The top and decision-making activities shift temperature, lighting and air challenges concern network and data from humans to machines, traditional ventilation systems that optimise room security. Generally speaking, security regimes of accountability and climate via sensors, shades, heaters is not the number one priority of responsibility will be challenged. and air conditioning. Such integrated device developers and, the more Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Extending our risk intelligence Further activities on emerging risks Strategic risk initiatives Responsible investment identified in the past Identifying and addressing emerging The emerging risks we have previously risks can be challenging. Their novelty Asset-liability management (ALM) examined in more detail and featured in and interconnectedness makes it is the cornerstone of our investment our Corporate Responsibility Reports difficult to determine when a particular philosophy. Premiums generated by since 2007 are: risk notion must be considered an our underwriting activities are invested emerging risk. Timing is thus of crucial in assets whose cash flows match 2007: Electromagnetic fields importance: If measures to exclude a the durations and currencies of our particular risk are taken too early, we re/insurance liabilities, to meet future 2008: Critical infrastructure can offer our clients less insurance claims and benefits. As a result, we 2009: Carbon nanotubes protection; if measures are taken too invest more in higher-quality fixed late, we may end up with increased income securities with stable long-term 2010: Smart grids loss potential. returns. At the end of 2015, such 2011: Cyber attacks investments accounted for 73% of our Given these challenges, we believe it is total assets under management1. 2012: 3D printing essential to foster risk dialogue with 2013: New forms of mobility various partners. By sharing perceptions Swiss Re is committed to investing its and assessments, all parties can gain assets responsibly via a controlled and 2014: Electronic cigarettes a better understanding of potential structured investment process, emerging risks. In 2015, we contributed integrating environmental, social and By the end of 2015, four of these risks to the following strategic initiatives: governance (ESG) criteria. We believe had become sufficiently relevant for our that considering these factors can have business that we continued to address CRO Forum Emerging Risk Initiative a positive impact on the long-term them together with our stakeholders. (CRO ERI) financial performance of our investment We describe the activities we organised The CRO ERI was launched in 2005 to portfolio. Thus, we apply sustainabilityin 2015 in the present edition of our raise awareness of major emerging risks related risk information consistently Corporate Responsibility Report, in relevant to society and the re/insurance across our entire investment portfolio. addition to information provided in the industry. 2014 edition. www.thecroforum.org/emerging-riskResponsible investment framework initiative-2/ Our asset management has a welldefined framework, which considers References to further activities In 2015, we contributed to the CRO ESG criteria consistent with the Group’s Critical infrastructure Forum’s position paper “The Smart Code of Conduct, and is a commitment Infrastructure private debt mandates, Factory – Risk Management to sustainability. This pledge is further page 36 Perspectives” outlined in the Group Asset Financial repression: the unintended www.thecroforum.org/wp-content/ Management Responsible Investment consequences, pages 42–43 uploads/2015/12/CROF-ERI-2015Policy, which describes our approach The-Smart-Factory1.pdf and principles in relation to sustainability Cyber attacks in the management of Swiss Re’s Cyber Security Risk Governance International Risk Governance investments, as well as the roles and Workshop, page 44 Council (IRGC) responsibilities to ensure the integration The IRGC is an independent organisation of ESG considerations. This is 3D printing whose purpose is to help understand complemented by the Swiss Re Asset Expert Forum on 3D printing: and manage global risks that impact Management Voting Policy, which changing the world one print at human health and safety, the provides guiding principles that apply a time, page 44 environment, the economy and society to all our voting activities. With this at large. Since its foundation in 2003, approach, we ensure a comprehensive New forms of mobility Swiss Re has been a partner of the IRGC, commitment to responsible investment The autonomous car 2015: and has participated in its initiatives and in our day-to-day asset management Risks and opportunities for the publications. activities. re/insurance industry, page 43 www.irgc.org In 2015, we contributed to the “IRGC Guidelines for Emerging Risk Governance”: www.irgc.org/risk-governance/ emerging-risk/a-protocol-for-dealingwith-emerging-risks/ 1 Asset classes considered consist of government bonds (including agency), corporate bonds, securitised products, and mortgages and other loans. 34 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report The overall responsibility for sustainable The framework consists of an Overall investment portfolio investing lies with the Group Chief overarching human rights and USD 116.8 bn, as of Investment Officer, who is advised by environmental protection policy and 31 December 2015 the Asset Management Executive Team seven policies on sensitive sectors or and the Asset Management Investment issues: the defence industry; oil and Committee. Furthermore, an ESG gas (including oil sands); mining; dams; Advisory Group, formed by animal testing; forestry, pulp & paper representatives of all investment units, and oil palm; and nuclear weapons legal, compliance and risk management, proliferation. Each policy contains a oversees and monitors the progress of number of predefined criteria and our responsible investment activities. qualitative standards that may lead to the exclusion of a company or a In 2007 we signed the UN Principles country from our investment scope. for Responsible Investment (PRI) and 39% Government bonds in 2012 the Principles for Sustainable Swiss Re’s Asset Management unit 27% Corporate bonds Insurance (PSI), thereby formally applies these criteria to the vast majority endorsing our commitment to corporate of our investment assets, excluding 4% Securitised products responsibility. The PRI and PSI are companies and countries if they do not 7% Equities* considered in Swiss Re’s comprehensive meet the pre-defined criteria and 3% Mortgages and other loans responsible investment framework. qualitative standards. 8% Other investments All PRI signatories are required to Specific approaches per asset class incl. policy loans provide in-depth reporting on their In addition to the overarching approach 6% Cash and cash equivalents responsible investment activities. The described above, we have identified 6% Short-term investments reports are available on the PRI website some key investment areas in which we at www.unpri.org/explore/?q=&hd=on& apply further, specific ESG criteria to * Includes equity securities, private hg=on&he=on&ptv=&tv=76&sp=pub&s cater for the different risk characteristics equity and Principal Investments c=line&se=start of responsible investing. These key investment areas include rates products, Overarching approach credit products, equities and real estate: Swiss Re is a long-term investor. Therefore, it follows that we take a Rates products long-term view on the risk factors that Rates products2 constitute the largest may have an adverse impact on our asset class in our investment portfolio, investment portfolio. We continue to with a share of 51% at the end of 2015. be actively engaged in the dialogue on At 39% of total assets under key requirements for long-term investors management, government bonds (incl. and periodically publish related agency) are the largest holding within research, including a report in 2015 rates products. entitled “Financial repression: The unintended consequences” (see pages At country level, we have implemented 42 and 46). political risk and sustainability assessments to guide our responsible At the core of our approach to tackling investment decisions and to guarantee ESG-related risks in investments is the the quality of our government bond Sustainability Risk Framework (see portfolio in this respect. Our rates pages 26–30). This framework enables products portfolio is screened against us to identify and analyse potential ESG such political country risk and risks within an investment, and to ensure sustainability rating considerations on we are aligned with our governance a semi-annual basis. Furthermore, the structure. rating measures are used to define investment mandates for our portfolio managers. 2 Rates products consist of cash, short-term investments and government bonds (including agency). Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Extending our risk intelligence Sustainability and climate change are We work closely with the external essential topics for us. We actively managers to ensure they consider ESG contribute to financing a more low aspects in their investment processes. carbon economy by investing in the Before external managers are appointed, growing SSA3 green bond market, Swiss Re performs thorough due primarily relying on the “Green Bond diligence to confirm their compliance Principles”. with our responsible investment principles. This includes ESG considerations in investment decisions Political Country Risk Rating and monitoring, as well as a review The Political Country Risk Rating of their commitment to responsible comprehensively measures the investing. After being mandated, the political risk in a country, which is managers’ individual performances are defined as events of a political, monitored in line with our Responsible economic or social nature that harm Investment Policy, and they are required business operations or adversely to report regularly on their responsible affect the business climate. The investment activities. overall country score is derived from multiple external and internal data For more systematic and regular sets and Swiss Re’s expert monitoring of the actual integration of assessment. ESG factors into our externally managed portfolio, we have engaged the services Sustainability Rating of a leading ESG research company. The Sustainability Rating, a derivative We apply their ratings to our investment of the Political Country Risk Rating, portfolio to assess the quality of the measures the overall social, portfolio and gain further insight into environmental and human rights ESG risk exposures. situation in a country, and supports Swiss Re’s alignment with relevant As part of our commitment to United Nations principles. sustainability, we also invest in related assets like green bonds in our credit mandates, and renewables and social infrastructure in our infrastructure Credit products, equities and hedge private debt mandates. funds At the end of 2015, more than 40% of Real estate our investment portfolio was managed Our investment portfolio consists of externally. This portfolio comprises direct investments in property, mainly credit products, equities and principally in Switzerland and in hedge funds. PRI signatories manage Germany, as well as in the US. approximately 95% of these assets. Comprising buildings for residential, Additionally, all of Swiss Re’s external industrial and commercial use, the asset managers have contractual market value of the portfolio was provisions with Swiss Re that are USD 3.2 billion at the end of 2015. specifically related to responsible investing. We apply ambitious sustainability standards for these real estate investments. For projects in Switzerland, the applicable criteria are defined in the Energy Mission Statement of Swiss Re. This stipulates that all new buildings need to conform to the MINERGIE® standard (www.minergie.ch), a Swiss quality label specifying high levels of energy efficiency and superior user 3 Sovereign, Supranationals and Agencies 36 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report comfort. When an existing building in In 2015, we exercised 97% of our voting the portfolio is due for renovation, this rights of our listed equity portfolio4. standard is applied whenever it is We voted on 6 878 ballots through our feasible from an architectural, technical external managers. We voted in favour and financial point of view. of the respective management resolution in 5 977 cases (87%) and By the end of 2015, the combined value against it in 693 cases (10%). In 208 of our MINERGIE®-certified buildings cases (3%), we abstained or withheld reached USD 0.4 billion, or 21.4% of from voting. our Swiss portfolio of direct real estate investments. The total energy In addition to shares in listed companies, consumption surface in accordance investments in our equity portfolio with the MINERGIE® standard was include equity exchange-traded-funds 82 497 m2 at the end of 2015. In (ETFs). The fund managers cast votes addition, more than 56 000 m2 was sold on these ETFs for all investors in on to third parties in previous years. accordance with the fund managers’ own voting policies and processes. A new building with 16 apartments, Our voting activities in 2015 which will meet the MINERGIE® Due to our largeand mid-cap company standard, is currently under focus and the moderate size of our construction. Completion is expected equity exposure, we generally hold a in 2016. very small portion of total issued share capital. This means Swiss Re rarely Voting controls the outcome of a vote. As an asset owner, and in particular as a shareholder, we recognise our rights and responsibilities as an integral part of our commitment to responsible investment.  97% Votes cast We believe that ESG considerations, and  3% No votes cast especially good corporate governance and transparency towards shareholders, are key drivers for sustainable value Our voting behaviour in 2015 creation. Last year, in addition to our periodic review, we conducted a thorough analysis of our voting principles to keep them in line with best practice. In the case of internally managed assets, we use our influence as a responsible shareholder by directly exercising our voting rights, and with externally managed portfolios, by facilitating the  87% Voted with management relevant portfolio managers to execute  10% Voted against management our proxy votes and related engagement  1% Withheld activities.  2% Abstained In line with our voting framework, we review the voting policies of external managers during due diligence processes to confirm compliance with our own policy. In addition, external managers are required to report on voting activities conducted on Swiss Re’s behalf. 4 We vote in the vast majority of countries, with the exception of a few where voting process and regulatory obligations require a high level of administrative coordination. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We engage in regular With our re/insurance solutions we help The GIM process involves our risk our clients and partners to cope with the specialists, product experts and other dialogue with our risks they face. This helps to create professionals from across the Group. We stakeholders. By sharing stability and enables economic growth. share their risk expertise and solutions But many of today’s risks are complex with key stakeholders, ie clients, expertise and knowand may threaten sustainable progress. investors, regulators, policy makers, how, we help society to To find effective, long-term responses to academics and civil society groups. such risks, partners from the public and Through our Top Topics dialogue, we develop effective the private sector need to work together. also aim to help shape public policy in responses to key risks. a way that facilitates the development This is why we attach great importance of effective responses to the issues to ongoing dialogue with our identified. stakeholders. Using the expertise from our core business, we identify key risk We periodically review our Top Topics topics and take an active role in portfolio to reflect new business discussions on them. We share and developments and shifting global exchange knowledge through many agendas. Since an extensive review in channels, eg our renowned publications 2012, we have been focusing on the including the sigma series, international following five Top Topics in our dialogue platforms, events at our Centre stakeholder dialogue: for Global Dialogue, and cooperation ̤̤ Advancing sustainable energy with governments and academic solutions institutions. Through this ongoing ̤̤ Funding longer lives dialogue, our stakeholders give us ̤̤ Managing climate and natural disaster valuable feedback and new insights for risk our risk management and product ̤̤ Partnering for food security development. ̤̤ Supporting financial resilience In 2015, we again worked on these Top Group Issue Management Topics with many partners from the With Group Issue Management (GIM), public and private sectors. In the we have a formal process to identify following sections we provide a brief topics that are strategically important to introduction to each topic, explain why us, our clients and society at large. These we consider it to be important and give Top Topics denote the global challenges examples of our dialogue activities: we want to help address and set an important focus for our stakeholder dialogue. 38 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Decentralised power generation through renewable energy sources can help to make energy infrastructure more resilient. A report we produced together with the World Energy Council discusses what can be done to better protect our energy supplies against extreme weather events. Advancing sustainable energy Innovative risk transfer solutions help ̤̤ As a founding member of the RE100 solutions to drive investment in the sector by initiative (www.theRE100.org), we The 2015 Paris agreement on climate reducing risk for investors. Building started to work towards our goal of change (see page 41) underscored that on our long-standing commitment to obtaining 100% of our energy from sustainable energy sources are essential sustainability, we have recently renewable sources. By increasing to combat global warming. Reducing intensified our renewable energy demand for clean power in a joint greenhouse gas emissions while, at the research to help our clients and the effort with our partners, we expect same time, satisfying the energy needs global community to develop and RE100 to make it more viable for of a growing population will be one of establish secure energy supplies for energy companies in challenging the great challenges we face in the the future. markets to build renewable energy coming decades. Sustainable energy plants (for more details, see page 49); projects continue to increase in scale Our notable achievements in 2015: ̤̤ We extended Swiss Re Corporate and complexity, as do the risks ̤̤ Together with the World Energy Solutions’ partnership with Solar associated with them. Council (www.worldenergy.org), we Impulse (www.solarimpulse.com) on published our first report on energy the world’s first round-the world flight infrastructure and extreme weather, with a solar-powered airplane, outlining the steps that need to be underscoring our commitment to taken to make our energy supplies supporting cutting-edge innovations resilient for the future; in the field of sustainability. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_ energy/ Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Funding longer lives Managing climate and natural Our notable achievements in 2015: People are living longer today than ever disaster risk ̤̤ We provided our research and before, but the share of the working Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes expertise for the COP21 Climate population is shrinking. As a result of this and other natural catastrophes can have Change Conference (www.cop21. demographic megatrend, the costs of a dramatic impact on the citizens and gouv.fr) in Paris in December 2015 funding retirement income, healthcare economies of entire countries. Insurance and were personally represented and long-term care in old age are helps people, businesses and societies by our Group CEO (see page 41); increasing dramatically. This could have to get back on their feet after disaster ̤̤ We continued to share our data on significant financial consequences for strikes. the potential impact of major natural individuals, insurers, employer pension catastrophe events on cities. funds and society in general. PublicAlthough insured losses from natural Following on from last year’s private partnerships are needed to catastrophes were lower in 2015 than in publication “Mind the risk: a global overcome this challenge. recent years, the number of events was ranking of cities under threat from among the highest ever recorded. The natural disasters”, we extended our Life and health reinsurance is part of our expectation is that, as a result of climate “Risky Cities” series in 2015, core business, and we are the world’s change, extreme weather events like providing more detailed data for largest reinsurer of mortality risk. hurricanes and floods will increase. Istanbul and Bangkok; Consequently, we are a natural home for Moreover, the economic losses from ̤̤ We launched a “Flood Focus” series the longevity and health risks associated such events are also expected to rise of publications starting with Vietnam, with ageing societies, and have the given a higher concentration of assets released “Four earthquakes in financial strength to take on risks across in exposed areas. If no action is taken, 54 days” and an updated version of a person’s whole lifespan. Swiss Re climate change could cost the world “Closing the protection gap”. has a broad base of expertise to help economy an estimated 20% of global insurers understand the medical and GDP by the end of this century. social factors that affect longevity, The impact of climate change on mortality and morbidity, and we can By financing measures to mitigate sovereign ratings bring new insights from experience in disaster risks and adapt to climate In 2015, we partnered with markets around the world. We want to change, we can strengthen the Standard & Poor’s in a special project help clients create solutions that better resilience of businesses, local and to quantify the impact of natural support people as they age. national economies and societies. catastrophes and climate change on As insurance puts a price tag on risk, sovereign ratings. Based on a sample Our notable achievements in 2015: it helps to create an incentive to invest of 38 countries, our simulations ̤̤ We continued to host the Asia Health in prevention measures. indicate that natural disasters Symposia series, which is an (earthquakes, tropical storms, floods information-sharing platform to Understanding natural catastrophe risks and winter storms) of a severity gather a cross-section of key and the impact of climate change is that is likely to occur once every stakeholders and create a forum for critical to cost our business accurately 250 years can indeed weaken the sharing information and encouraging and to structure sound risk transfer affected sovereign’s rating. discussion, collaboration and solutions. By sharing this knowledge, exchange; we help our partners to identify costMoreover, we found that climate ̤̤ We published the 2015 European effective measures to protect change can be expected to increase Insurance Report – a study of more themselves. In addition, we provide this impact by 20% on average. than 13 000 people in 13 European solutions to cover the residual risk that The expected effect is strongest in countries which, for the first time, cannot be avoided. emerging countries and especially in measured a EUR 750 billion disability the event of earthquakes and tropical income gap. This gap is considered to storms. The most severe of these be the amount of protection missing disasters could lead to a downgrade between the annual income required of around 1.5 notches. However, our by people in the event they are injured joint study also found that this or have poor health and the amount potential effect can be significantly available through private, employer reduced by catastrophe insurance. and/or state provisions; ̤̤ We contributed several industry presentations and participated in panel discussions on various topics related to healthy ageing and the For more information see urgent need for innovative solutions swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ in this space. natural_disaster_risk/ For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ 40 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Group CEO Michel M. Liès addresses the participants of Action Day at the COP21 Climate Change Conference in Paris. Swiss Re’s contribution to the COP21 Climate Change Conference In December 2015, ministers and “In support of this, we welcome the On our website you can watch a video negotiators from 195 countries adoption of a new, universal climate in which Michel Liès offers his analysis gathered over two weeks in Paris for agreement at COP21 in Paris, which of the COP21 conference: the COP21 UN Climate Change is a critical step on the path to solving Conference (www.cop21.gouv.fr). climate change. We pledge our For more information see swissre.com/climate_action/Climate_ Finally, after 20 years of repeated support to ensuring that the level of Conference_a_landmark_success_but_ disappointments, a legally binding ambition set by the agreement is where_do_we_go_from_here.html agreement to fight climate change met or exceeded.” was adopted, and by consensus. The agreement not only aims to cap global An earlier version of this pledge was You can learn more about how we warming at 2°C over pre-industrial published as an open letter in the help to tackle climate change in these levels – but if possible to go further, Financial Times on the eve of the 2015 sections: with a new target of 1.5°C. The World Bank Spring Meeting, under ̤̤ Our climate change strategy → agreement was lauded a landmark the heading “Let’s partner on climate page 11 success. action. Now”. ̤̤ The impact of climate change on natural catastrophe re/insurance Having played a major role in the Michel Liès also took part in the and selected solutions climate change debate for over two COP21 Action Day in Paris. Speaking pages 16–22 decades, we actively supported the at the Protect the Planet session and ̤̤ Our insurance covers for offshore COP21 negotiation process, both later at the launch of the new G7 wind farms before and during the conference. InsuResilience initiative, he explained pages 23–24 the important role re/insurance plays ̤̤ Our UN commitment to provide In the run-up to COP21, Group CEO in tackling climate change and sovereigns and sub-sovereigns Michel M. Liès signed the Paris Pledge strengthening climate resilience: with climate risk protection for Action (www.parispledgeforaction. Firstly, by putting a price tag on the of USD 10 billion → org), together with 77 other CEOs of risk, which creates an incentive to page 22 Fortune 500 companies. This pledge invest in prevention measures; ̤̤ Our active involvement in a states that: secondly, by offering solutions that regulatory initiative to establish make socioeconomic systems more a set of climate-related financial “… we, the undersigned, affirm our resilient to climate change. He disclosures → strong commitment to a safe and emphasised, however, that in order page 31 stable climate in which temperature to maintain the insurability of severe ̤̤ Our research partnership with rise is limited to under 2 degrees weather events at reasonable cost, Standard & Poor’s on the impact of Celsius. it would be essential to limit global climate change on sovereign ratings warming to 2°C. This requires a →page 40 framework to channel financial flows ̤̤ Our long-standing efforts to into low-carbon economic minimise our own carbon footprint → development. pages 47–57 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Partnering for food security Our notable achievements in 2015: As long-term investors, re/insurers could 805 million people – or one in 11 – are ̤̤ We looked at the whole food value play a pivotal role in bridging the chronically hungry and malnourished on chain from “farm to fork” by providing emerging infrastructure financing gap, the planet today. By 2050, the world’s for the first time our research insights which in turn would contribute to a population is expected to grow to an on food security in the publication healthier economic environment. But for estimated 9 billion people, which will “Food safety in a globalised world”, that to happen, the right framework further aggravate the situation. Meeting which we launched at the EXPO in needs to be put in place. Standardisation this demand for food will be particularly Milan (www.expo2015.org); of infrastructure investments would be challenging, as supply is constrained by ̤̤ We published seven more fact sheets an important step forward, while factors such as climate change, depleted providing key data on insurance in infrastructure debt as a tradable asset agricultural soils and the distribution of African countries and also explored class would certainly make infrastructure land, water and energy. new types of coverage in our more attractive for long-term investors. publications on livestock and Most farming in the world is still carried aquaculture; At Swiss Re, we are striving to influence out by small-scale subsistence farmers, ̤̤ We strengthened the spread of index these developments by actively who feed their families and sell a small insurance products in countries participating in and contributing to the surplus on local markets. This needs across the globe by sharing our knowglobal and local financial reform to change as more and more people are how at the Global Index Insurance dialogue. Ultimately, we want to ensure living in cities. Recently, the urban Conference (www. long-term investors can act – not only population exceeded the rural one for indexinsuranceforum.org) in Paris, think – on a long-term horizon to achieve the first time ever, which means that where governments, banks, greater financial resilience. cities are becoming increasingly multilateral donors, food companies, dependent on the remaining farmers development experts and Our notable achievements in 2015: for their food. international organisations gathered. ̤̤ We published the report “Financial repression: The unintended The surplus subsistence farmers Supporting financial resilience consequences”, highlighting the costs currently produce will not be enough to Re/insurance supports financial of unconventional monetary policies feed the growing population in our cities. resilience by acting as a shock absorber for savers and long-term investors as Smallholder farmers must make the and promoting growth through its core well as the broader implications for transition to commercial agriculture to businesses. This is particularly important financial resilience; feed the world. For this, they need in a challenging and volatile macro̤̤ We remained at the forefront of the access to credit so they can buy tools, economic environment. policy call to make infrastructure debt seeds and fertilizer. But lending will a tradable asset class – as we believe remain restricted if banks fear that However, unconventional monetary that bridging the large infrastructure farmers will be unable to pay back their policies implemented by central banks financing gap is key to sustainable loans in the event of a lost harvest due to following the financial crisis of 2008economic growth; drought, flood or other disasters. Here, 2009 present a challenge for our ̤̤ We continued to keep a close eye on insurance can play the same role in the industry and have contributed to an the regulatory reform agenda, sharing developing world as it already does in environment that is not conducive to our knowledge at important forums developed countries: protecting farmers sustainable economic growth. such as an IIF panel discussion hosted against the perils of nature to keep them during the World Bank and in business, even if disaster strikes. International Monetary Fund Annual Meeting (www.imf.org/external/ am/2015/index.htm). For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/financial_stability/ 42 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Centre for Global Dialogue Participants of the roundtable expressed The autonomous car 2015: Risks and concern about public sector policies that opportunities for the re/insurance The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue are keeping interest rates at historically industry (the “Centre”) is an important platform low levels. This financial repression not Autonomous cars – or new forms of for interaction with our external only results in an invisible tax on savers mobility – are regarded as a highly stakeholders. Located near Zurich, this since it prevents them from earning disruptive technology, with significant state-of-the-art conference centre hosts interest on their deposits; it also means implications for the re/insurance client and expert events. It allows us to that future generations will have to industry. As such, the topic appeared on present our thinking on some of the key shoulder the long-term costs – including the radar of our emerging risk specialists issues confronting our industry and the underfunding of pension provisions. a few years ago, and we first drew society at large, while exploring topics Furthermore, people have had to attention to it with a special feature in that are critical to a better understanding compensate by increasing their savings, our 2013 Corporate Responsibility of the risk landscape we are facing. which, in turn, has weakened Report. In 2014, our Centre for Global consumption growth and slowed down Dialogue held a two-day conference in Besides organising dialogue events, the economic recovery. Switzerland and, in 2015, followed this the Centre is responsible for executive up with a one-day event at our Armonk client training and engages in research A second worry is that institutional office in the US, bringing together projects with third parties, principally investors have been driven by experts from car manufacturing and from academia. These projects provide requirements and incentives into holding technology, safety and legal specialists. us with fresh perspectives on topics of government debt instruments, meaning pressing concern to the re/insurance that they have less money available The momentum around self-driving industry. The Centre also manages some for productive investment, such as vehicles is astonishing. Whether we of Swiss Re’s key external networks. infrastructure projects. As one are fully prepared for them or not, participant said, there is a global search autonomous cars have arrived. Almost Our Centre for Global Dialogue reflects for yield, which possibly leads to a all major carmakers are currently testing our commitment to being a knowledge misallocation of resources. Further first-generation prototypes, while company. We believe that by openly distortions have been caused by the Google already has semiand fully exchanging and sharing this knowledge unprecedented active participation of autonomous cars on the roads in we, our clients and stakeholders can be public institutions in financial markets: California. When they start to appear in “smarter together”. Below you can read Crowding out private investors may larger numbers on our roads, this will summaries of three events organised result in less diversification of funding present many new challenges to the way by the Centre in 2015: sources and weaken a key element of we do business and how we view and financial stability. manage risk, retail insurance and Financial repression: the unintended liability. consequences In view of these implications, the It is widely recognised that the extent of participants at the roundtable agreed to The conference in Armonk offered the the global financial crisis has warranted continue working together to build the following key takeaways: 1. Autonomous swift implementation of a number foundation for stronger and sustainable cars will improve safety; 2. The sharing of extraordinary measures to mitigate economic growth, benefiting individual economy will drive autonomous car a deep recession. While these policies savers, long-term investors and society adoption; 3. They are more climatehave been necessary to support the at large. friendly and can reduce energy reliance; global economy, the time has come to 4. Consumers will begin to embrace the take note of their possible implications technology; 5. Regulation and the law for the financial system. To discuss and will adapt, slowly; 6. Cyber risk will further analyse these implications, we increase; and 7. Autonomous cars will held an executive roundtable with senior affect liability and tort cases. Although private and public sector representatives it is uncertain how legal and regulatory at the Centre. Ahead of the event, we issues will play out, it is clear that our had published the report “Financial role as re/insurers will change repression: The unintended considerably. Many of these changes consequences” (see pages 42 and 46). will also create new opportunities for businesses who quickly adapt and diversify their products and services so as to target new market segments. For more information see cgd.swissre.com Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Expert Forum on 3D printing: 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report. across different industries and whether changing the world one print The Expert Forum held at the Centre for it would be possible to clearly identify at a time Global Dialogue in 2015 brought the source of any losses. The conclusion 3D printing is the name given to additive together participants from re/insurance, was that 3D printing will require new manufacturing, a process of making industry, academia, regulatory bodies underwriting approaches but that it three-dimensional solid objects from a and the general public to discuss the will also create significant opportunities digital file. It is widely seen as a risks and opportunities posed by this to provide additional cover to small, technology that will change the course new technology. medium and large enterprises. of global manufacturing and the supply chain. Today, a number of industries After five breakout sessions, Eric Schuh, already apply 3D printing for various Head of the Casualty Centre at Swiss Re, purposes, from rapid prototyping to endgave a keynote speech on some of the Cyber Security Risk Governance product manufacturing. lines of business that could be affected Workshop: as 3D printing becomes more This event was organised by the As this, too, is seen as a disruptive widespread. 3D printing experts and International Risk Governance technology, we have a strong interest in legal scholars then joined Jayne Council and hosted by us at the understanding the potential implications Plunkett, our Head Casualty Centre for Global Dialogue. “Cyber for the re/insurance industry. Our Underwriting Reinsurance, in an attacks” are yet another emerging emerging risk specialists already took interactive panel discussion. Points risk we identified and showcased a a closer look at the topic some years ago made during the discussion concerned few years ago, namely in the 2011 and we included a case study in our the difficulty to regulate 3D printing Corporate Responsibility Report. Impressions from the Expert Forum on 3D Printing we held at our Centre for Global Dialogue. Together with our partners, we seek to understand both the risks and opportunities this “disruptive” technology will create for re/insurers. 44 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Collaboration with (inter-) Our work with (inter-)governmental Working with academic institutions governmental and academic agencies to share risk management ̤̤ We have been supporting the expertise Integrative Risk Management and institutions ̤̤ With Global Partnerships, we have Economics project at the Swiss In recent years, we have collaborated a team that works strategically with Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) with various (inter-)governmental and public-sector bodies to improve risk Zurich, which aims to advance a academic institutions both to promote resilience: holistic approach to managing risks effective approaches to sustainability – d irectly with sovereigns or suband educate a new generation of challenges and to share our expertise on sovereigns and their agencies, researchers; managing specific risks. recently eg with the Florida ̤̤ As a member of the steering Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to committee of Swiss-based Our work with (inter-)governmental strengthen risk resilience, the ProClim – Forum for Climate and agencies to promote effective Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool Global Change – we support sustainability responses to improve re/insurance protection integrated research activities and get ̤̤ In Europe, we have continued to raise against earhquakes, the access to the latest scientific findings; awareness of the important role government of Uruguay to create a ̤̤ We support the “20th Century insurers play in mitigating climate risk solution providing cover for drought Reanalysis” project of the NOAA Earth through different interactions with conditions that affect hydropower System Research Laboratory and the policy makers. This includes speaking generation or through the Pacific University of Colorado, Boulder. It at industry conferences (Insurance Catastrophe Risk Insurance Pilot; contains objectively-analysed fourEurope and the ABI), presenting at the – w ith the United Nation’s dimensional weather maps and their European Commission’s DG Climate International Strategy for Disaster uncertainty from the late 19th to the Action’s working group on Climate Reduction (UNISDR) in a consulting 21st century. Adaptation and bilateral engagement role; with the European Commission and – w ith development agencies such national governments. We also as the United States Agency for remain engaged in the debate via our International Development trade association memberships (eg (USAID), the UK’s Department for the Reinsurance Advisory Board); International Development (DFID), ̤̤ In the US, we have maintained regular the Swiss Agency for Development dialogue with the National and Cooperation (SDC), the World Association of Insurance Bank, the Asian Development Bank Commissioners (NAIC), principally on (ADB), the Inter-American climate change and natural Development Bank (IADB) or the catastrophes; German Development Bank (KfW). ̤̤ In Switzerland, we have provided a committee member of the OcCC ̤̤ We have regularly contributed to (Organe consultatif sur les platforms such as the World changements climatiques), an Economic Forum, B20, G20 and G8 advisory body on climate change set to share our insights on key risks, and up by the Swiss Federal support the United Nations Administration. Framework Convention on Climate ̤̤ For our participation in the FSB Task Change (UNFCCC) process. Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, see page 31. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Selected communication products of 2015 The publications and other media we produce in-house or in cooperation with our partners play an important role in our efforts to help clients and society form effective responses to key risks. Listed below are publications mentioned in this chapter. Further Swiss Re publications are displayed on pages 74–75. Swiss Re publications Our experts Agro insurance hotspot: Flood Focus: Uganda Unconventional monetary policies help to finance the public sector’s debt burden. While a number of these policies were crucial and Vietnam beneficial to managing the financial crisis, they also come with significant Vietnam is one of the important high growth economies in Asia. Because As one of the most fertile countries in Africa, Uganda has a strong costs. The unintended consequences include potential asset price of its consistent GDP growth, it is regarded as one of the best performing agricultural sector. It is one of the few net exporters of food in Africa. bubbles, an impaired credit intermediation channel and increasing economies in the world. Over the last decade, the country‘s real GDP growth Tea, coffee, cotton and sugar are the most important exports, while economic inequality. has exceeded 5%, reaching as high as 7.8% in 2004. Vietnam‘s business plantain and bananas are grown as the main staples for the local hubs are concentrated in and around Hanoi, Hai Phong and Ho Chi Minh City. population. This great wealth is exposed to many perils of which Financial repression: In the event of flooding, the proximity of these cities to the coast or floodplains drought is number one by impact. of major rivers means they could suffer major economic and insurance losses, Closing the protection gap The unintended consequences in addition to the consequent social impact. Food safety in Disaster risk financing: a globalised world Smart solutions for the Keeping our food safe in public sector the 21st century Agro insurance Closing the protection Financial repression: Flood Focus: Vietnam Food safety in a hotspot (on Uganda, gap – Disaster risk The unintended globalised world: Nigeria, Cameroon, financing: Smart consequences Keeping our food safe Zambia, Angola, Senegal solutions for the public in the 21st century and Zimbabwe) sector Publication with partner organisation Risky Cities: World Energy Perspective Four earthquakes in 54 days Istanbul The road to resilience − managing and Istanbul is Turkey‘s powerhouse, generating more than 40% of the country‘s financing extreme weather risks GDP. The 14 million people in its metropolitan area live under the constant threat of severe earthquakes. And the next one could very well be just around Project Partners Marsh & McLennan Companies and the corner. The government is acutely aware of this threat and has already Swiss Re Corporate Solutions done a lot to strengthen its resilience to destructive seismic activity. That said, should a Magnitude 7 (M7) or stronger quake strike the city, the loss of life would be immense, not to mention economic losses as high as USD 120 bn. Using Swiss Re‘s models and detailed hazard data available in CatNet®, we Introducing the European have analysed the potential impact of this risk and other natural perils for the WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL Insurance Report 2015 greater Istanbul area. This analysis is part of Swiss Re’s report: “Mind the Risk CONSEIL MONDIAL DE L’ÉNERGIE Next Generation Insurance – a global ranking of cities under threat from natural disasters” which compares the human and economic exposure of 616 cities around the world. ● Cities Epicenters Seismic Hazard ■ Capitals Magnitude Pseudo Spectral Acceleration 475y ● 5.5–5.9 ■ Extreme Historical Tsunami Run-up ● 6.0–6.4 ■ Very High to Extreme ■ 0-1m or Unknown ● 6.5–6.9 ■ Very High ■ 1–2m ● 7.0–7.4 ■ High to Very High ■ 2–5m ● 7.5–7.9 ■ High ■ 5–10m ● >8.0 ■ Significant ■ 10+ m ■ Moderate ■ Low to Moderate ©GfK GeoMarketing Map Edition World Copyright © 2013 ESRI, i-cubed, GeoEye s7qppo, GeoServices ■ Low 26th February 2015 ■ Very Low Map based on SHARE project (Seismic Hazard Harmonization in Europe) 0 75 150 Miles Four earthquakes in Introducing the Risky Cities With the World Energy 54 days European Insurance (on Istanbul and Council: Report 2015 – Next Bangkok) World Energy Generation insurance Perspective: The road to resilience – managing and financing extreme weather risks 46 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint We want to lead by As a knowledge company in the Management system and financial services sector, we do not example and work to cause large environmental impacts certification minimise the through our own operations. We operate an integrated global Nonetheless, we firmly believe it is management system (GMS) at our environmental impact important for a responsible company Corporate Real Estate & Logistics of our operations. to minimise its environmental footprint, division, which interlinks quality and thus leading by example. environmental management and Tackling our CO2 ensures that similar processes are emissions and reducing For our core re/insurance business, seamlessly managed. Through a climate change represents a key material systematic, Group-wide reporting energy consumption issue. Reflecting this, we have been process, we monitor our environmental are key targets across focusing on our own CO2 emissions and performance and implement energy consumption for many years. appropriate improvement measures. the Group. Our pioneering initiatives include the Greenhouse Neutral Programme and the Environmental objectives and targets COyou2 Programme. Both are now into are defined centrally at our their second cycles, running from 2013 headquarters, but responsibility for to 2020. implementing improvement measures also lies with the Corporate Real Estate & Furthermore, we apply sustainability Logistics departments in our regions guidelines to our sourcing and and individual locations. Some of them construction activities. Extending define additional environmental targets our efforts beyond our company, that reflect specific local conditions and we continue to take a leading role in challenges. the Swiss Climate Foundation. Until 2013, our policy was to have our largest locations certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard (www.iso.org). We since decided to move to a centralised approach and have the whole Corporate Real Estate & Logistics division certified globally according to ISO 14001. This certification process was successfully completed in 2015. All our operations and employees are now covered by an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system. For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ reducing_footprint.html Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Reducing our environmental footprint Our Greenhouse Neutral Goals and scope of the programme’s Programme second phase Seamlessly continuing from the Climate change has been a strategic Greenhouse Neutral Programme’s first priority for Swiss Re for more than ten years, we launched a second 20 years. It is a key material topic for a commitment phase, which runs until re/insurer, because it is likely to cause 2020. However, after almost halving more extreme and more frequent our CO2 emissions per employee in the weather events, resulting in rising previous ten years, the potential for damages and insurance losses. Our further reductions is now much smaller. strategy to tackle climate change rests Our new target is to keep our CO2 on four pillars, one of which is our emissions per employee stable at the pledge to reduce our own CO2 emissions level of 2013. In view of our expansive (see page 11). business strategy, especially in high growth markets, we consider this to 3.2% Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme has be an ambitious goal. been the principal initiative to achieve this goal. Originally launched in 2003 For the programme’s second cycle, we for a ten-year period, it combined two also extended the scope of our Total reduction in commitments: firstly, to reduce our emissions reporting and of our offsetting CO2 emissions per employee (full-time commitment. In addition to our Scope 1 CO2 emissions per equivalent or FTE) by a specified and Scope 2 emissions (heating and employee since 2013 amount; secondly, to fully offset all the power consumption) and a major source remaining emissions by purchasing of Scope 3 emissions (business travel), high-quality emission reduction credits, our reporting now covers further thus making the company greenhouse activities along our supply chain (Scope neutral for the whole period between 3): employee commuting, copy paper 2003 and 2013. use, waste generation, water use and technical gases. Goals of Phase 2 of the Over the course of the ten years, we Greenhouse Neutral Programme: gradually raised our reduction target Based on this, we extended our ̤̤ Maintain the emissions reductions from 15% to 45% per employee. By the commitment to offset the CO2 emissions we achieved between 2003 and end of the programme’s first cycle in we cannot avoid to paper, waste, water 2013 regarding power 2013, we had achieved a total reduction and technical gases. consumption, heating and in CO₂ emissions per employee of 49.3% business travel; compared to the base year 2003. After a slight increase in 2014, total CO2 ̤̤ Fully offset the remaining emissions per employee (FTE) emissions; decreased by 4.3% during 2015, mainly ̤̤ Continuously reduce energy driven by a further reduction in the intensity (power consumption energy intensity of our offices and and heating) by 2% per year decreases in the emissions from (kWh/FTE); commuting and business travel (see ̤̤ Obtain 100% of power from page 49). The latter was due to the fact renewable sources by 2020. that our employees made fewer business trips in carbon-intense flight classes, even though the total distance they travelled increased slightly on average. Compared with 2013, our CO2 emissions per employee were 3.2% lower in 2015. For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ greenhouse_neutral.html 48 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Using renewable power CO2 emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group Purchasing power from renewable rather 2013 2014 2015 Change in % Change in % than conventional sources has been a kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE since 2014 since 2013 key measure of our Greenhouse Neutral Power1 811 871 839 –3.7 3.5 Programme. After starting to use Heating 379 308 293 –4.9 –22.7 renewable power at four European Business travel 3 825 3 923 3 842 –2.1 0.4 locations in 2005, we set ourselves the Copy paper 40 31 27 –12.9 –32.5 goal of using 100% renewable power Waste 51 51 45 –11.8 –11.8 at all locations where it is available in Water 11 12 12 0 9.1 reliable and trustworthy quality by the Technical gases 28 27 25 –7.4 –10.7 end of 2013. Based on our quality Commuting2 1 500 1 500 1 350 –10.0 –10.0 assessments of available energy sources, Total 6 645 6 723 6 433 –4.3 –3.2 we believe we reached this goal and 1 C alculation based on a market-based approach taking into account the purchase of renewable energy used 100% renewable power at 25 instruments, with the exception of the UK where the government requires companies to report an average locations in Asia, Europe, North America grid factor (see table below for our reporting of emissions from electricity). 2 C ommuting data are gathered bi-annually by means of a survey. The figures are rounded and fraught with and Oceania as per the end of 2013. considerable uncertainty. In making these quality assessments and selecting suitable sources, we have relied Underlying environmental data, Swiss Re Group on a “minimum standard” that clearly Change in % Change in % states how we define renewable power 2013 2014 2015 since 2014 since 2013 and what requirements it needs to meet. Power kWh/FTE 4 575 4 435 3 994 –9.9 –12.7 At our Zurich headquarters, for example, Heating kWh/FTE 1 940 1 584 1 448 –8.6 –25.4 we only buy “naturemade star” electricity Energy intensity kWh/FTE 6 515 6 019 5 442 –9.6 –16.5 (www.naturemade.ch), which meets high ecological quality standards in its Business travel km/FTE 13 862 13 931 14 205 2.0 2.5 production, beyond those required by environmental legislation. In Munich, we Copy paper kg/FTE 34 26 23 –11.5 –32.4 purchase our electricity from NaturEnergie Recycling paper % 70 70 68 –2.9 –2.9 (www.naturenergie.de), one of German’s FSC label % 96 94 97 3.2 1.0 premier suppliers of renewable energy. Waste kg/FTE 182 192 161 –16.1 –11.5 Water m3/FTE 16 17 17 0 6.3 RE100 In a number of countries where we Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, Swiss Re Group want to grow our business, there is a In line with the new Scope 2 Guidance of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, we report lack of renewable energy supplies in the emissions associated with our electricity consumption according to both a locationreliable quality. At the end of 2015, based approach representing the CO2 intensity of the grids where we operate and approximately 87% of the power we a market-based method taking into account emission reductions from instruments such purchased across the Group thus as Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and Guarantees of Origin (GOs). came from renewable energy Location-based Market-based Instrument Percentage sources. We are committed to raising total total types kWh this figure to 100%, which is why t CO2e t CO2e we helped to establish the Climate Switzerland1 993 363 GOs 34.4% Group’s RE100 initiative in 2014 US2 9 660 279 RECs 26.4% as a founding member. GOs, residual UK3 6 902 6 902 mix 21.1% The goal of this initiative is to unite RECs, 100 of the world’s largest companies GOs, residual in a shared commitment to use Rest of the world4 6 366 4 112 mix 18.1% 100% renewable power by 2020. To Total 23 921 11 656 100.0% achieve this, the group approaches 1 A ll Swiss electricity producers are required by law to declare the quality and quantity of the electricity policymakers and regulators at produced. Swiss Re buys 100% green labelled electricity (naturemade star). 2 In the US, we cover our total energy consumption by buying green-e labelled Renewable Energy Certificates national and sub-national level to (RECs). make renewable energy more 3 The UK government claims all green credentials of renewable electricity produced in the country. available. RE100 grew substantially Even though 90% of the electricity we consume in the UK comes with Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs), we report the same emission figures for location-and market-based approaches. in 2015 and now includes some 4 The country with our next biggest share of electricity consumption is Slovakia, accounting for 2% of of the world’s largest companies. the Group’s total consumption. theRE100.org Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Reducing our environmental footprint A solar power plant we installed on the roof of our Folkestone office can cover approximately 17% of its power consumption over the year. Solar power plant at our Folkestone office in the UK The UK is one of our most important Taking things into our own hands, we 87% markets and we have several offices installed a solar power plant on the there. Currently, renewable energy roof of our Folkestone office in the supplies available in the country South of England. The idea was initially cannot be taken into account for conceived during the ISO 14001 emission reductions as the UK certification process completed in Share of total power government asks companies to 2015 (see page 47). With a peak consumption from calculate emissions from renewable power of 40 kWp, the plant can cover electricity supplied via the grid by approximately 17% of the building’s renewable sources using an average grid emission factor. power consumption over the whole in 2015 year. It also makes good bottom-line sense, as the initial capital investment of GBP 56 000 is expected to have a payback time of merely seven years. 50 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing energy consumption Minimising business travel In parallel with our switch to using As a result of the substantial cuts we renewable power, we have made have achieved in CO2 emissions from continuous efforts to lower the actual power consumption and heating since amount of energy consumed per 2003, business travel easily constitutes employee, ie to reduce our energy Swiss Re’s largest emissions source intensity. In the first phase of our today. Since the business trips our Greenhouse Neutral Programme, we employees take are ultimately driven set ourselves a 20% reduction target by client needs, they are difficult to compared with 2003 levels, measured influence. However, we have taken in kWh per employee. Through many several measures to reduce the need for small measures to improve energy business travel and to curb unnecessary efficiency and by concentrating backbusiness trips: office tasks in fewer and more energyefficient buildings, we actually achieved For a start, we have built up a dense a reduction of 46.5% by 2013. network of video conferencing equipment across the Group. Recently, For the second phase of our Greenhouse we partly replaced these facilities with 16.5% Neutral Programme (base year 2013), our commitment is to continuously reduce energy intensity by 2% per year. As a matter of fact, our energy intensity state-of-the-art telepresence technology, which creates a real-time, life-size virtual meeting experience in specially designed rooms. By the end of 2015, we Total reduction was 16.5% lower at the end of 2015 had 63 video conferencing rooms and than in 2013. Partly, we achieved this 64 telepresence facilities worldwide. of energy intensity by decommissioning existing office per employee buildings and moving into more energyWe continuously monitor all travel efficient ones. budgets and collect travel data centrally. since 2013 Furthermore, we introduced an internal For instance, our new “Arabeska” office carbon levy on air travel in 2014, which building in Munich has been built with uses the “polluter pays” principle. It environmentally friendly materials and allocates the costs of the Voluntary meets very high standards in terms of Emissions Reductions (VERs) we need to energy efficiency. By using renewables buy to offset our CO2 emissions to the such as geothermal energy for heating Group’s Global Functions in proportion and cooling, it consumes at least 50% to their respective share of air travel; less energy than the limit set by current previously they had been borne centrally building laws. by Group Finance. This internal price on carbon heightens awareness of Recently, we have also stepped up travel costs among our managers and efforts to create more flexible and employees and creates a further modern office environments that offer incentive to reduce air travel, in addition our employees optimal working to flight costs. conditions while, at the same time, use space and resources more effectively. Despite these measures, the amount of The spread of digital communication kilometres travelled per employee and and devices makes it possible to work the associated emissions have been seamlessly across different locations rising in recent years. A key driver has and devices, creating the foundation for been our continued expansion into higha more flexible and informal workplace growth markets. In 2015, too, the total set-up that encourages team work. distances our employees travelled on Although further reducing our average increased slightly. But because environmental footprint is not the they made fewer business trips in primary driver of these efforts, their carbon intense flight classes, per-capita potential to lower the energy intensity of emissions still fell by 2.1%. our locations is nevertheless substantial. In 2015, we partly refurbished our offices in Bratislava, Hong Kong, London and Munich (see page 61). Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Reducing our environmental footprint Paper, water and waste Concerning the ecological quality of the External verification of our CO₂ In the second phase of our Greenhouse paper we use, our Group Sourcing Policy reporting Neutral Programme, we expanded and our “minimum standard for copy Right from the start of our Greenhouse the scope of our emissions accounting paper” make clear demands: All our Neutral Programme in 2003, we have to include copy paper use, water locations are required to give priority to disclosed our CO₂ emissions, their consumption and waste disposal, and recycled and/or FSC-labelled paper and principal sources and relative are committed to offsetting these to avoid paper made from virgin fibres performance over time. The method we emissions. (see page 54). In 2015, the share of use to calculate our emissions is based recycled paper fell slightly from 70% to on the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas The overview of all our emissions 68%, while that of FSC-labelled paper Protocol, the most widely-used sources (see table on page 49) shows increased from 94% to 97%. emissions accounting standard (www. that paper, water and waste are of much ghgprotocol.org). less significance in our business than Waste generation decreased by 16.1% other environmental impacts. per employee in 2015, while water Before our emission figures are Furthermore, it is difficult for us to consumption remained stable. It needs published, PricewaterhouseCoopers influence water use and waste to be stressed, though, that data quality checks them to verify our calculations. generation at locations where we rent is moderate at best for both categories. Their complete assurance report is office space. However, in the office included on pages 76–77. buildings we own we ensure appliances Offsetting our remaining CO₂ meet high standards of water efficiency. emissions The second commitment of our Paper use, on the other hand, is much Greenhouse Neutral Programme is to more responsive to managerial action. compensate all CO₂ emissions we Although we have not set any cannot avoid. For the seven emissions quantitative targets, we have taken a sources covered in the second phase of number of measures to reduce the our Greenhouse Neutral Programme, average amount of paper used by our we bought and retired VERs for a total employees in recent years. Through our of 70 600 tonnes of CO2e in 2015. Group Document Induction Process, employees can use a coordinated We are keen to ensure that the VERs we scanning service wherever they need it, buy are of a high environmental and double-sided printing is set as the standard. Therefore, we have developed default option on our computers. a set of criteria to select projects that Furthermore, by using a “gamification” generate certificates. In particular, we approach in 2014, we encouraged our give priority to those which create strong employees to compete as teams against social side-effects and benefit the each other to see who could achieve the poorest regions. In 2015, we involved biggest cut in paper consumption. In 14 representatives from our top total, we managed to reduce our paper management (“Growth Market use by 11.5% per employee since 2014, Ambassadors”), chaired by one of our and by 32.4% since 2013. key executives, in the decision on how to offset our remaining CO2 emissions. You can read more about the project they selected on page 53. 52 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report A farmer in Vietnam uses a cooker supplied with fuel from a newly installed biogas digester. We supported this award-winning carbon offsetting programme by buying our Voluntary Emissions Reductions from it. Biogas digesters for Vietnam In 2015, we supported one major animal waste. Biogas digesters prevention of methane release from offsetting programme through our generate a reliable supply of clean and animal waste and reduction of Voluntary Emissions Reductions, a affordable energy, and reduce the deforestation. On top of this, biogas “Gold Standard” project providing health problems associated with digesters produce a by-product called biogas digesters in Vietnam. Biogas animal waste and using wood as fuel. bio-slurry, which the farmers can use digesters decompose animal manure The economic savings a family can to improve soil fertility. and toilet waste to produce biogas, make on cooking fuel are estimated at which can replace petrol, coal, wood USD 120 per year, meaning that a The award-winning project is active or agricultural residues as a fuel for digester pays for itself in four or five in 52 of Vietnam’s 63 provinces and cooking, heating and lighting. years. municipalities. Until 2011, it had supported the construction of By making these biogas digesters Coupled with these significant social, 110 000 plants; in its current Phase 2 available to low-income livestock environmental and economic benefits it aims to support another 140 000 farmers in Vietnam, the project helps for the farming families, the project plants, benefiting a total of 840 000 them to tackle two common problems: generates massive greenhouse gas people. The emissions reductions it costly and unhealthy cooking and reductions. These come from three achieved in 2015 were approximately heating practices, and untreated sources: less use of fossil fuels, 167 000 tonnes of CO2e. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Reducing our environmental footprint Sustainability in our In 2015, we started to participate in a Sustainable construction and supply chain collaborative platform for sustainable Swiss Re Next supply chain management, which As a re/insurance company, Swiss Re covers a wide range of screening criteria Swiss Re has over 70 offices in more does not have an extensive supply chain. across the topics of environmental than 30 countries. For new building or Our core business does not require us impacts, human rights, labour practices renovation work, we apply a number of to buy intermediate inputs like a and impacts on society. Once it is principles. One of them is sustainability, manufacturing company. However, to incorporated into our sourcing which translates into criteria such as run our operations, we need a range processes, this collaborative platform stringent construction standards, highof goods and services. will allow us to assess the sustainability quality fittings and finishes, a performance of our suppliers more comfortable ambient climate, When procuring these goods and systematically and to engage them in environmentally sound, durable services, we apply general and improvements. The collaboration will materials, low energy consumption and individual criteria. In line with our thus help to improve the goods and low maintenance and running costs. overarching Group Sourcing Policy, we services we buy and reduce the risks Constructing or renovating an office select suppliers that offer the best value associated with our supply chain. building in line with such sustainability for money, meet high quality standards Implementation of the project will be criteria is the most effective way to and adhere to the UN Global Compact. completed in 2016. minimise its environmental footprint. As a signatory to the Compact, we are committed to honouring all its ten For construction projects in Switzerland, principles; amongst other things, these the applicable criteria are defined in prohibit any sort of discrimination or the detail in the Energy Mission Statement use of child or forced labour, and require of Swiss Re, Zurich. They stipulate that that the freedom of association and the new buildings need to conform to the right to collective bargaining be upheld. MINERGIE® standard (www.minergie. ch), a Swiss quality label specifying high We consider environmental criteria levels of energy efficiency and superior relating to materials and ingredients, user comfort. When we renovate old production methods, recycling and buildings, this standard is to be applied if waste. For some sourcing categories, we feasible from an architectural, technical have developed “minimum standards” and financial perspective. Our pension that further specify our requirements. fund in Switzerland applies the same Besides power (see page 49) and paper criteria for all its direct investments into (see page 52), these cover cleaning real estate projects. services and agents, refrigerant agents and building materials. Each standard In practice, we usually go beyond these lists objectives, ecological aspects, requirements and use further standards ecological minimum standards, such as MINERGIE-ECO® – which also exceptions, controlling and labels. includes health criteria and demands on building materials – and MINERGIE-PWhen selecting new products and ECO®, which specifies the suppliers, we examine whether they characteristics of a “passive house” comply with these requirements as part that consumes even less energy than of the overall evaluation process. We a MINERGIE®-certified building. take a fresh look at existing strategic suppliers in our periodical contract Swiss Re Next reviews, and we visit individual suppliers Under the title of Swiss Re Next, we are to inspect them onsite. Internally, we currently constructing a replacement hold regular awareness trainings with building for the former Neubau (“new all our sourcing staff. building”) at the Group’s Zurich headquarters. From the start, sustainability was defined as one of the key features of the project. Our goal is to be awarded the MINERGIE-P-ECO® certificate as well as the highest 54 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report New and old: Our Swiss Re Next project in Zurich is taking shape, watched over by our original headquarter building from 1913. certification level of the US LEED system switching to a new cooling agent, the Swiss Re Next online (usgbc.org/leed) – LEED Platinum. We Swiss Re Next planning team had to Extensive background have already received the preliminary adjust the security and safety concepts information on the Swiss Re MINERGIE-P-ECO® certificate and together with the local authorities. As Next project and its progress successfully passed the LEED design this new cooling agent will be used for is available on a special review. the first time in Zurich, finding website at next.swissre.com. appropriate solutions was a considerable Upgrading to a climate-friendly challenge. cooling agent Originally, the heating and cooling Spruced up communication system of Swiss Re Next was planned As Swiss Re Next is slowly but surely with equipment that uses a specific type taking shape, we also introduced a new of natural cooling agent (NH3), in line element to its project website. A number with the requirements of the MINERGIEof green tiles with short aphorisms now P-ECO® und LEED Platinum labels. draw attention to some of the building’s During 2015, we decided in talks with key sustainability features. They engage the planning engineers to switch to a the reader with the invitation to “let’s different type of cooling unit that uses a talk about this together” and highlight newly developed cooling agent (HFO). environmental, social and ethical aspects of the project. Here are some The key benefit of this new cooling agent examples “People who work in glass is that it has a very low global warming houses …”, “It’s a hat trick – chapeau!”, potential and thus a negligible climate “Better than new?”, “What’s in a symbol”, change effect. Furthermore, it is less “Blessings from above”. dangerous for humans in the event of an To find out more, we invite you to go accident such as a leakage. As a result of directly to www.next.swissre.com Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Reducing our environmental footprint The COyou2 Programme consumption, and connection of homes to district heating. Over the past two Tackling our carbon footprint is one of years, electric-powered mobility has four pillars of our climate change become more prominent with subsidies strategy (see page 11). In 2007, we including e-bikes, e-cars and plug-in launched the COyou2 Programme hybrid electric cars. In line with this because we wanted to make our trend, we introduced e-car charging commitment more tangible for our stations at several locations. employees and help them to become more aware of climate change. The Amongst the largest Swiss Re locations, programme offers subsidies for a range uptakes per employee were highest in of investments through which our Slovakia, China, Germany and employees can reduce their private Switzerland. Our office in Slovakia has carbon footprints. To our knowledge, witnessed particularly strong growth it was the first global corporate recently and many new employees initiative of its kind at the time. made use of the opportunity to claim subsidies in 2015. In Europe, in general, The investment options we offer for mobility is a popular category, with 2 361 subsidies are clearly specified in the electric-powered vehicles and bicycles programme. Some of them are the most common subsidy types. supported at all our locations, while others vary to account for regional China is another location that has seen COyou2 subsidies differences in climate, living conditions strong growth and, consequently, a high etc. Our subsidies cover 50% of the rate of subsidies. Energy efficient home granted to our investment amount up to a locally appliances were particularly popular employees determined maximum allowance. All there, as elsewhere in Asia. regular employees are entitled to (2 268 in 2014) apply and new employees can submit subsidy requests after three months following their hire start date. In 2015, we granted a total of 2 361 subsidies spread across three product categories: home appliances, home infrastructure and mobility. For home For more information see infrastructure we introduced two new swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ products in 2015: solar window films coyou2_programme.html which can lower household energy COyou2 payouts in 2015, by category Number of COyou2 payouts in 2015, per 1000 employees 600 500 400 300 42% Home appliances 200 19% Home infrastructure 39% Mobility 100 0 Slovakia China Germany Switzerland Singapore India US UK 56 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Partner initiative: The Swiss Since becoming operational in 2009, Climate Foundation the Swiss Climate Foundation has supported more than 1 200 SMEs in In 2008, we set up the Swiss Climate Switzerland and Liechtenstein with Foundation with a number of partner CHF 14 million in total. In 2015, companies. It was a response to the 263 SMEs were supported with a total introduction of the Swiss CO2 law, which of CHF 1.2 million. These projects provides the basis for the CO₂ levy on are expected to help avoid about heating fuels in Switzerland. This levy is 40 000 tonnes of CO₂ emissions over not a proper tax but an environmental the next ten years. market mechanism: It imposes a charge on the use of heating fuels and then In addition to paying our net levy reimburses the money thus raised – to reimbursement, Swiss Re has been private companies proportionate to their sponsoring the Foundation’s managing total salary expenses. For financial director position since it was established service providers, who use relatively in 2008. small amounts of heating fuel but employ large workforces, this means they receive a total “net reimbursement”. The purpose of the Swiss Climate Foundation is to collect these funds and to use them to support various climatefriendly projects undertaken by small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) in Switzerland. In 2012, the Foundation broadened its scope and started to collaborate with the LIFE Climate Foundation Liechtenstein, generating more partner companies and enabling SMEs in Liechtenstein to benefit from the funds, too. By the end of 2015, 28 renowned financial service providers from Switzerland and Liechtenstein were partner companies of the Swiss Climate Foundation. For more information see swiss-climate-foundation.html Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Empowering our people Our vision is to build an In 2015, Swiss Re communicated a new cooperation and responsibility. Where compelling vision: “We make the world how we achieve results is as important attractive organisation more resilient”. To fulfil this ambition, as what we achieve. with a clear purpose, we are committed to building a diverse organisation in which our leaders inspire For this reason, we have developed a staffed by a flexible, and engage their teams to unleash their new People Strategy. This sets out our global workforce of full potential. ambition to adapt to a changing and more diverse workforce and its needs, diverse talents, which Our goal is to make Swiss Re a place develop a more commercial edge as embraces an inclusive where the spirit of collaboration is “Let’s regards people management, improve be smarter together”, since together the skills of our leaders so they can culture that enables we can achieve more than we could inspire and engage our employees, and individuals to progress on our own. Where we build the create a culture of collaboration where foundation for the changing needs of employees feel empowered to act. and develop. We want to the future, drawing on the know-how attract the best people and experience of a diverse, multiSwiss Re is a global company with a generational group of people. Where presence in all major markets. As of and to develop the a flexible and inclusive culture is the 31 December 2015, we employed best leaders who are norm and everyone can contribute to an 12 767 people (regular staff) from organisation that is constantly looking 89 nationalities: 60.2% of them were passionate about for new ways to improve the wellbeing working in Europe (including the Middle “making the world more of society. Where there is trust, respect, East and Africa), 26.4% in the Americas and 13.4% in the Asia-Pacific region. resilient”. Employee data, Swiss Re Group 2013 2014 2015 Total headcount regular employees 11 574 12 224 12 767 Full-time 10 611 11 159 11 652 Part-time 963 947 973 Temporary employees 244 271 376 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 8.0% 9.8% 10.6% Voluntary 5.5% 6.6% 6.8% Involuntary 2.5% 3.2% 3.8% Average tenure regular staff (in years) 9.1 9.3 9.0 For more information see swissre.com/careers/ 58 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Our People Strategy We regard our new People Strategy as our “North Star”: It provides us with clarity and direction, is embedded in everything we do and defines our ambition for the future of Swiss Re. We have already implemented a number of changes that are aligned with this strategy and make it more concrete for our workforce: ̤̤ Listen to our people and act upon what they say: This is crucial and is why we introduced a new Employee Engagement Survey in 2015. By listening to the feedback and measuring the level of engagement of our people, we can identify the changes we need to implement in Your support of our People Strategy. ambition ̤̤ Develop our leaders: We expect our leaders to have the skills to inspire and engage our people. Therefore, we Leadership have continued to develop our Our in world challenges openings to a leadership development architecture, smarter future introducing new solutions to develop leadership skills and doubling the hours of leadership training we deliver. ̤̤ State clearly the behaviours we Where will the money come from to fund the health, care and financial needs of our world’s growing expect of all employees: Both our ageing population? What can be done to promote sustainable economic growth? How can we make societies more resilient to natural disaster? These are just some of the global issues that make life Leadership Imperatives and Personal so challenging and a job at a Swiss Re so rewarding. Developing innovative solutions demands smart Imperatives clearly define the people. No wonder we’re always on the lookout for talent to join our team and positively impact critical behaviours we wish to see as a business and societal challenges. Graduates who aren’t just skilled in their own discipline, but who will thrive in an environment that encourages people to share their expertise, insights and passions responsible company and which are and enables them to unleash their potential. Could this be you? Let’s be smarter together. needed to drive our success. Since swissre.com/careers their introduction in 2014, we have run more than 200 leader-led In 2015, we launched our new employer brand “Let’s be dialogue sessions to make sure our smarter together”. We first addressed graduates, highlighting people understand why these the culture and opportunities that come with our vision of imperatives are important and what is “making the world more resilient”. expected of them. We have also factored the imperatives into how we measure performance and reward our employees. ̤̤ New employer brand to attract the In the following sections, we provide Employee Engagement best talent: Our brand promise “Let’s more insights on how our new People Surveys be smarter together” reflects the Strategy is embedded in everything we renewed energy and aspirations that do, from our culture of diversity and We recently introduced a newly Swiss Re has. It signals our ambition inclusion, to the way we develop and designed Employee Engagement Survey as a best-in-class employer to create mentor our people. to hear from our employees what we can an even better workplace by building collectively improve to live the spirit of on our strengths, while seeking our new People Strategy. In May 2015 opportunities to evolve and we carried out the new survey for the differentiating ourselves from our first time and the reaction was competitors. overwhelming, with a response rate of 85% (9 889 employees responded) and more than 20 000 written comments. The results indicated that 64% of Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Empowering our people Swiss Re employees are engaged, We are committed to this vision because which is within the Financial/Insurance it supports an environment in which our benchmark of 61% and the Global High employees value each others’ Performance benchmark of 72%. differences and where they can all bring their authentic selves to the workplace – Good progress was made since we last an environment in which high ran our former survey in 2013, with performance is then a natural positive trends on most questions, consequence. A diverse workforce, including reduced bureaucracy, ability driven by a culture of inclusivity and to openly debate issues and employees collaboration, will thus enable us to feeling that their job has an impact on truly live our “smarter together” brand business outcomes. promise within and outside the company. In terms of key strengths, the survey revealed that our people feel they can Our 2015 Employee Engagement accomplish something at work, are Survey tells us that our employees are encouraged to take the initiative, able positive about Swiss Re’s open and to express their views openly, and are inclusive culture, and see the value we empowered to complete their work place on diversity (favourable score of autonomously. 76%, nine points above the industry average). But we have set our sights on The survey also highlighted a number reaching a top-quartile performance of changes employees want us to level and, to achieve this, we need to implement to better support our People do more. Strategy: more clarity on our business strategy, easier access to senior Advancing gender equality leadership and more career Over the last four years, Swiss Re has development opportunities within made progress in increasing gender the company. balance at senior management level. To accelerate this trend, we stepped up our commitment in 2015 by joining forces Diversity and inclusion with EDGE, Economic Dividends for One of the key aspirations of our People Gender Equality (www.edge-cert.org), Strategy is to attract and engage to pursue a rigorous gender equality talented employees from different assessment. Based on our commitment generational and cultural backgrounds to assess ourselves and act on the by living a flexible, inclusive and open findings, in 2015 we received the firstculture where dialogue and different level EDGE certification for our perspectives are valued. This aspiration Switzerland-based operations. We are is reflected in our diversity and inclusion using the insights we gained from EDGE (D&I) vision: “See, feel and live diversity – to develop a global gender equality diversity of gender, race, ethnicity, strategy, with a special focus on women generation, sexual orientation (LGBT), in leadership. physical abilities, personalities and experiences – at all levels, functions and Bridging generations regions of Swiss Re”. Generational diversity is strong at Swiss Re. With a share of 45%, Generation X (born 1966–1980) makes up the largest share Women in management positions, Swiss Re Group (in %) 2013 2014 2015 Total workforce 46.8 46.3 46.4 Executive/senior management positions* 21.5 21.4 22.1 All management positions* 31.1 31.5 32.2 * “ Executive/senior management positions” comprises the management levels of Director/Senior Vice President upwards. For more information see “All management positions” refers to Vice President and above. swissre.com/about_us/diversity/ 60 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report of our workforce, followed by Generation Y (born 1981–2000) at 32% and Baby Boomers (born before 1966) at 23%. To effectively manage the multigenerational dynamics in Swiss Re’s work environment, we have fostered a culture of open dialogue about and among different generations. Our Employee Engagement Survey results showed very little difference in employee perceptions across generations, and this has helped to challenge stereotypes. Reverse, or cross-generation, mentoring programmes have also become popular across Swiss Re. Agile working Our future success depends on our ability to create a flexible, global workforce that is responsive and highly resilient in responding to the needs of our business. Swiss Re is following an integrated, future-focused strategy that brings together our physical workplace, technology and people management practices to take us to the next level. We have made considerable efforts in ensuring our employees own the way they work and can effectively collaborate in an agile and flexible working environment. This is reflected in a variety of formal and informal flexible working arrangements that focus on performance outcomes versus face time. Our trademarked programme, Own the Way You WorkTM, is a cultural change initiative, which gives managers and employees autonomy to decide how, when and where work is carried out, in compliance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations of their New functional zones for concentration and communication in our Munich particular region. This has become a office support our employees’ individual working modes and styles. differentiating part of Swiss Re’s employee value proposition. Inclusive culture To make these principles tangible for all We design and organise events as well Given the important role each of our our employees, we have also included as face-to-face and web-based training managers plays in fostering an inclusive them in our Personal Imperatives. so that employees can participate in culture and benefiting from its strengths, dialogues to increase their selfinclusive leadership behaviours are Unconscious bias awareness of unconscious biases such essential at Swiss Re. We have A key aspect of our People Strategy is to as those related to generations, sexual developed clear standards that describe prevent stereotyping of individuals orientation and gender. Our leadership exactly what behaviours we expect of based on any and all dimensions of development and management training our leaders and managers to foster an diversity. It centres on raising awareness also highlights the importance of inclusive work environment for all of the “unconscious bias” that every one overcoming unconscious bias in all kinds employees. These are firmly embedded of us has and which can unintentionally of decision-making situations in people in our Leadership Imperatives and our influence our decision-making and our processes such as recruiting, talent leadership development curriculum. behaviour towards others. nominations and performance evaluation. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Empowering our people Code of Conduct In addition, we invested significant time Employee development and growth In line with Swiss Re’s policy of fostering in embedding the Leadership and In line with our 70/20/10 approach, diversity, we have strong provisions in Personal Imperatives we need from our we revamped and improved our Talent place to penalise any infringing people to ensure the future success of Broker platform to provide employees behaviour. Our Group Code of Conduct Swiss Re. with more visibility and simpler access clearly states that discrimination in the to job rotation opportunities. On average workplace against any employee or job Senior management development around 750 employees per month applicant based on the person’s age, and growth use the platform and the number of job (dis)ability, origin, gender, religion or Our ambition is to accelerate the rotations greatly increased in 2015 sexual orientation (or any other development of leadership and (+300% over the previous year). characteristic protected by local law) is managerial skills in order to inspire a not tolerated under any circumstances. multi-generational workforce. This is Similar to Talent Broker, our Virtual We encourage our employees to report vital to ensure our leaders can inspire Career Centre (VCC) provides employees violations of the Group Code of Conduct, and engage through honest discussions with a clear oversight of career laws, rules or regulations, and make it across all levels in the organisation. opportunities at Swiss Re. It includes clear to them that reporting in good They need to be able to give and be extensive information on different roles faith is treated with discretion and that open to receiving timely and in the organisation and brings together retaliation will not be tolerated (see constructive feedback to improve useful tools that our employees can use pages 70–71). individual, team and Group results. to raise their self-awareness, to reflect on and to plan their career. The number Last year, the number of leadership of employees who used the VCC Development and training training hours doubled in comparison to averaged 1 530 per month in 2015, Implementing effective programmes to the previous year. We also designed with a peak of 1 893 in July. further develop and train our employee and piloted a number of “masterclasses” and leaders lies at the heart of our for leaders on topics such as “Driving Mentoring People Strategy. This is also something performance through effective We also offer our employees a that employees really want, as reflected leadership communication and mentoring programme. This is a in the Employee Engagement Survey feedback” and “Managing performance confidential relationship outside the results, where respondents asked for and reward decisions”. Given our focus reporting line that helps individuals more development opportunities at on this area, we are pleased to see that develop their skills, knowledge and Swiss Re. our Employee Engagement Survey behaviours as well as to move indicates that a more open feedback successfully through times of change Therefore, we made a number of culture is emerging. and transition. Our VCC includes a changes to more effectively embed the special search tool that helps our 70/20/10 approach to development We also developed a growth survey tool employees identify potential mentors. and growth. This approach advocates a involving a 360° process. This survey Currently, around 500 people have shift from formal training (only 10%) to is designed to provide feedback on the registered their interest in being more actions that reflect “on-the-job effectiveness of leaders and experts as mentored or acting as a mentor. experiences” (70%) and “learning from well as to identify areas for further others” (20%). development. In 2015, 144 leaders In 2015, we piloted “reverse mentoring”, participated in the survey as part of their enabling senior leaders to learn new These changes include introducing new enrolment process for our in-house skills and hear fresh perspectives from skill development solutions for leaders leadership programmes. younger employees. The pilot is currently called “masterclasses”, revamping and running with 16 mentors and mentees improving our Talent Broker platform (including our Group CEO). If the pilot which facilitates internal rotations, is adopted, this will help us bridge piloting “reverse mentoring” and generation gaps and support our efforts continuing with our “speed mentoring” to develop a truly diverse and inclusive offers. culture throughout the company. For more information see swissre.com/careers/professionals/ development_opportunities/ 62 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report We also continued with our “speed To support the professional development Embedding the behaviours we need mentoring”, involving 27 mentors and of our employees, Swiss Re Academy for the future mentees. This offers a more informal provides a portfolio of “blended” Our Leadership and Personal way of mentoring where an equal learning paths, combining face-to-face Imperatives set out the behaviours we number of mentees and mentors meet in learning, eLearning, peer-to-peer need and expect from our leaders and pairs and chat for a few minutes before coaching and virtual classrooms. By employees. Embedding them into our they move on to the next person. “Speed combining and linking some of our culture and processes is key in our view. mentoring” gives mentees a chance to training courses, they offer a flexible However, we are aware that this cannot meet all prospective mentors in the room approach to learning. Topics addressed be achieved by simply communicating and to make their best-suited selection in blended learning paths include them to employees. For this reason, afterwards. It continues to be communication skills, conflict handling, we have set out to embed them a greatly appreciated initiative. influencing skills, presentation skills, gradually over time through a change and remote management and working. management approach and to Formal training systemically integrate them into other Formal training at Swiss Re combines In 2015, all our employees took part human capital processes. As a result, technical, professional and leadership in our development and training over the last two years, our Human skills training. We design our training programmes. They completed 204 225 Resources department has partnered internally or in collaboration with leading hours of training overall, averaging 15.5 with line managers to deliver more external partners and deliver it through hours and learning costs of USD 1 024 than 200 leader-led dialogue sessions our long-established Swiss Re Academy. per employee. This drop in per-capita to our employees. Our courses are well received by our training expenses is directly related to employees; for instance, in leadership the increase in on-line learning and In addition, we have integrated the skills training we scored 4.35 out of 5 the decrease in classroom trainings. Leadership and Personal Imperatives in 2015 (highest score ever recorded). In addition, each of our Business Units into both our performance management organises a considerable amount of process and leadership development Swiss Re Academy has developed specialist training. programmes. extensive professional and personal development curricula to respond to In line with our flexible development changing business needs. Currently, we and training philosophy, the Swiss Re offer more than 960 different training Academy intranet site gives our courses. Our employees attend training employees easy access to our global in areas as diverse as underwriting, learning catalogue, links to regional finance, sales and negotiation, learning offerings and a multimedia leadership, diversity and inclusion, library. Close to 74% of our training is interpersonal skills, project delivered through eLearning formats. management, office tools and language This reduces the need for our employees skills. Certain courses, such as legal & to travel and spend time away from the compliance training, are mandatory. office, while supporting our commitment We recommend that employees who to reducing our carbon footprint (see work directly with our clients invest at pages 48–52). least two days per year in formal sales training. Learning data, Swiss Re Group 2013 2014 2015 Total learning hours recorded 163 305 159 551 204 225 Learning hours per employee 14.1 13.1 15.5 Learning costs per employee (in USD) 1 800 1 500 1 024 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Empowering our people Two members of our Human Resources team were present at TheJobCrowd awards ceremony in London to collect our award for “Top Accountancy & Insurance Award from TheJobCrowd Company for Graduates to Work For”. In 2015, Swiss Re was recognised with things about your company, what the award for “Top Accountancy & attracted you to the company, how do Insurance Company for Graduates to you rate the work/life balance, training Work For” in 2015/2016. We received and ethical/environmental balance. this award from TheJobCrowd (www. The results from our graduates were thejobcrowd.com), a popular graduate overwhelmingly positive. job review website in the UK. Not only did we come top in the Our graduates were asked to complete accountancy & insurance sector, we a survey on their work experience at also ranked number three across all Swiss Re. The survey covered industries. questions such as: what are the best For more information see swissre.com/careers/interns/ For more information see swissre.com/careers/graduates/ For more information see swissre.com/careers/apprenticeships/ 64 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Early Joiners programmes In three locations we offer a Junior Health and wellbeing Each year, the graduates@swissre Power programme. Originally launched We aim to provide a healthy workplace programme provides entry positions for in Zurich in 1981, the programme that helps our employees take a around 50 university graduates who was extended to Munich in 2008 and, constructive approach to their own have little or no work experience. It in 2014, to London. In total, we have wellbeing, while improving and retaining offers an excellent opportunity for young trained over 550 apprentices and their ability to perform. talents to discover the exciting world of trainees through the programme. a leading global re/insurer. Currently, 95 apprentices and trainees, A healthy mind is as important as a aged between 15 and 25, participate in healthy body. We offer a free, globally Over a period of 18 months, the it and are being trained in a broad range available Employee Assistance graduates receive on-the-job training in of occupations. We provide them with Programme, through which our their respective functions. They also an innovative and high-quality learning employees can get confidential, attend a number of classroom-based environment that enables them to build impartial and professional assistance training sessions which are specifically up the competencies and skills they on issues of a personal or work-related designed for the programme and focus need for the labour market. In this way, nature. In this way, our employees on Swiss Re’s core business areas. At we also make a positive contribution can benefit from personalised support the end of 2015, around 350 graduates to youth employment. on emotional, family, financial and had either completed the programme legal issues. since its launch in 2007 or were In turn, our apprentices and trainees participating in it. They are employed contribute to the success of their We also organise various local events on across many different functions and respective teams, add new perspectives topics such as work stress, mental health regions. to Swiss Re and challenge established and awareness trainings. For example, practices. We offer training for business in China we held a tea tasting event, In 2015, we employed 55 interns. This roles, computer specialists, chefs, hotel dedicated to the topic of managing work includes three internship positions for housekeepers and media specialists. stress and becoming more engaged students from the African Leadership About 25% of all our former apprentices with each other. In Australia we regularly Academy (ALA) in support of our high and trainees are still working at Swiss Re. organise a Caring Week, where growth market talent strategy in Africa. employees can participate in mental The interns@swissre programme is Participants of our Early Joiner health awareness trainings, mindfulness mainly aimed at university students who programmes have said that they sessions and physical checks. In the UK are pursuing a Bachelor’s or Master’s particularly appreciate the multicultural we organise wellbeing talks with degree, and at graduates with less than and open environment we offer, as well external speakers and offer free flu jabs. one year of full-time work experience. as the daily exchange with specialists Other health checks and services are Interns join teams in core business areas, from various disciplines. also available to employees depending where they take on specific tasks and on what benefits package they select various projects. In India, the US and every year. We also offer employees the UK we offer traditional summer Our employees’ wellbeing access to free mortgage advice. internships that typically last between We set high standards in terms of caring eight and 12 weeks, while in Germany for the physical and mental wellbeing To help our people stay fit, we provide and Switzerland the internships usually of our employees and offer a broad onsite fitness centres or classes and span a period of three to six months. range of solutions on topics like crisis encourage employees to join the local intervention, counselling, health gym. For instance, in Switzerland we Our Actuarial Development Programme prevention and diverse engagement provide fitness rooms where employees (ADP) is designed to provide students activities. can work out or join lessons such as with work assignments and projects yoga or spinning. We also have a sport that are challenging, educational and We know that the nature of these complex with a swimming pool, tennis promote personal and professional activities is sensitive to local specifics – courts and soccer court where our development. We view superior such as culture or local regulations. employees, their partners and children actuarial expertise as a vital factor for Therefore, we have decided to have unrestricted, free access. Our our success. That’s why we place great implement a consistent model across employees regularly enjoy spending emphasis on recruiting top talents for all regions where these services will quality time there, especially over our programme. We help develop be provided out of the local Human the summer period when a number actuaries in many ways – from study Resources units, supported by external of social events take place. allowances to mentoring and career partners when required. development. Every year, we hire We also provide relaxation rooms in our approximately 12 college students to offices, where employees can take time join the programme running from May out and recharge their batteries. to August, followed by possible full-time employment. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Empowering our people Parents@Swiss Re Employee relations In the UK, Swiss Re has an Employee It is important to us that our employees Liaison Group (ELG), made up of can always put their families first. We are a signatory to the UN Global representatives from across all functions, Therefore, we offer a range of Compact and support its ten principles who are elected by employees for a twoprogrammes, services and support in in the areas of human rights, labour, the year term. The ELG provides a forum for a number of locations. environment and anti-corruption. Many employee representatives and managers of our locations have active employee to discuss company policy and practices The Parents@Swiss Re brochure groups. These employee representatives which affect all employees. It is legally provides our parents with important play an important part in the company’s recognised as the collective consultation information on pregnancy and success by contributing valuable body for redundancy purposes. When parenthood. From how to inform their perspectives and by helping to identify a business unit is likely to be affected line manager, to balancing family and employment-related challenges. by proposed collective redundancies, work, the brochure contains helpful the respective employee representatives background information on labour law These bodies are elected by local are consulted. and the solutions Swiss Re offers. employees and have clearly defined information and consultation rights. At our Munich office we have a Works In general, our employees can count on Although there are significant local Council, with clearly defined diverse options such as additional family differences in the applicable legislation, codetermination rights in several areas. allowance, one-off childbirth allowance, their rights typically concern: It has the legal obligation to support additional paid maternity and paternity ̤̤ Working conditions topics such as diversity, development leave, or the option to take unpaid leave. ̤̤ Benefits and training, career opportunities and These benefits are tailored to the local ̤̤ Reorganisation and restructuring work-life balance. The eleven members needs of our workforce and therefore ̤̤ Redundancies of the Works Council are elected by differ from region to region. In Bratislava ̤̤ Disciplinary actions and conflict cases the employees for a four-year term. – one of our high-growth locations – we introduced the concept of maternity At our Zurich headquarters, where Our smaller branches in Europe (eg buddies in 2015: Every mother on almost a third of our total workforce is France, Italy, Luxembourg, and maternity leave has a “maternity buddy”, employed, we work closely with the Denmark) also have Works Councils or who informs her about current activities Personnel Committee (PECO). Staff Delegates, depending on the size in the team while she is on maternity Representing the interests of all Zurich of the branch and local regulations. leave. employees, PECO aims to create and maintain a positive working Alumni networks To accommodate the needs of working environment. It is involved in changes or Our former employees have helped to parents, we have a number of initiatives adaptions to the General Working make Swiss Re what it is today and form in place. Last year, approximately 130 Conditions or other important policies an essential part of our extended children in Switzerland attended our such as the Social Plan. The Committee employee community. They remain one-week vacation programmes during also seeks to ensure the de facto important stakeholders for Swiss Re. the spring and summer school holidays, equality of men and women, and places Furthermore, as many of our alumni enabling their parents to continue special emphasis on the challenges work for our clients, they also help to working. We also offer a number of faced by employees with family deepen our client relationships. reserved places at day care centres in obligations. and around Zurich. Furthermore, our external childcare provider helps parents find emergency nannies and gives guidance in all questions related to childcare. Employee health data: Sick leave days, Switzerland regular staff 2013 2014 2015 Number of employees 3 259 3 321 3 326 Number of employees who have recorded absence due to illness 1 893 1 900 1 979 Average number of sick days 7.0 7.4 7.2 66 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Through the Swiss Re Alumni Network, We also encourage our employees to Simplifying performance we offer our former employees the own Swiss Re shares by providing the management opportunity to continue sharing their Global Share Participation Plan and We have undertaken significant work knowledge and experience, and to keep the Incentive Share Plan. Our employees recently to simplify our performance in contact with colleagues. Currently, we can get a comprehensive overview of management process, with the aim of have more than 3 500 active members. all their incentive plans online. focusing on what people achieve and how they achieve their goals. The network also includes our retirees. The balanced compensation package is This important group of stakeholders generally complemented by competitive We are leveraging our Leadership continues to take great interest in the pension plans and other employee and Personal Imperatives to create company. Through extended access benefits. Such benefits include, for more focus on the outcome of rights, we enable them to utilise example, the Continuous Contribution performance management through resources that are normally available Award, which recognises the loyalty, improved employee discussions, to employees only. commitment and continuous better performance differentiation and contribution of our employees by more transparent pay-for-performance. offering them opportunities at defined Compensation and benefits milestones to enjoy additional, paid Our new approach was rolled out Swiss Re is committed to a time off. gradually, allowing us to clarify the compensation framework that is behavioural expectations, strengthen balanced and performance-oriented, Health benefits and financial protection the change management effort and and which aligns the interests of both in case of ill-health are also an important simplify processes and tools. As shareholders and employees. Our part of our overall packages. We provide planned, the new approach was rolled compensation framework is designed to medical, life and disability insurance in out to all employees by mid 2015, attract, motivate and retain the qualified excess of state provisions in many of supported by a series of change talent the Group needs to succeed, our locations. Furthermore, we support management activities. We assessed all while creating a tangible link between employees in accumulating retirement eligible employees based on the twoperformance and pay. The aim is to benefits to supplement any state dimensional approach during the 2015 provide compensation that is provisions. year-end process, and this significantly competitive in local labour markets, helped us to differentiate performance. while ensuring that employees focus In addition, the COYou2 Programme on delivering outstanding results in line continues to offer our employees the with our business strategy, targets, opportunity to claim subsidies from risk awareness and corporate values. the company for a range of emissions cutting investments they want to make For most employees, total compensation in their private lives (see page 56). comprises the base salary and the Annual Performance Incentive (API), Further information on Swiss Re’s which is linked to both individual and approach to compensation and benefits business/company performance. can be found in our 2015 Financial Report (pages 130–152). Swiss Re uses additional incentive programmes which reflect the longerterm nature of our business: Both the Value Alignment Incentive Plan (VAI), which is the deferred part of the API, and the Leadership Performance Plan (LPP) aim to reward sustained performance and long-term company success, rather than short-term results. This helps to align shareholder and employee interests more closely. The VAI applies to employees who have a total API in excess of a defined threshold, and the LPP is awarded to our senior executives and select key employees. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/alumni/ Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Ensuring good governance and compliance Swiss Re’s corporate Corporate governance Binding AGM votes on Board of Directors and Group Executive governance and Swiss Re considers good corporate Committee compensation compliance regimes governance indispensable to The Annual General Meeting 2014 had maintaining long-lasting, valuable approved the amendments to the aim at safeguarding relationships with its stakeholders. Articles of Association required to the sustainable interests We recognise that transparent comply with the “Ordinance Against disclosure of our governance structure Excessive Compensation at Public of the company and fosters assessment of the quality of Corporations” (Ordinance) which ensuring legal and our organisation and business conduct. became effective on 1 January 2014. Based on the new provisions, the Annual ethical behaviour. Swiss Re’s corporate governance General Meeting 2015 was asked to adheres to the SIX Swiss Exchange’s vote with a binding effect on the Directive on Information Relating to compensation for the Board of Directors Corporate Governance, including its and the Group EC. It approved all annex. It is also in line with the principles compensation-related motions with of the Swiss Code of Best Practice for overwhelming majorities. For the Corporate Governance (Swiss Code) detailed voting results of the Annual of September 2014, issued by General Meeting 2015, please refer to: economiesuisse, the Swiss business www.swissre.com/investors/ federation. Swiss Re, moreover, events/151st_Annual_General_ conforms to the Swiss Financial Market Meeting.html Supervisory Authority (FINMA) provisions on corporate governance, Swiss Re’s corporate governance risk management and internal control framework systems, which came into effect on Swiss Re has a dual board structure: 1 January 2009. Swiss Re’s corporate the Board of Directors is responsible for governance also complies with oversight, while the Group Executive applicable local rules and regulations Committee (Group EC) is responsible for in all jurisdictions where it conducts managing operations. This structure business. maintains effective mutual checks and balances between the top corporate In our Corporate Responsibility Report, bodies. we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s corporate governance concerning Independence of the Board the structure and independence of of Directors the Board of Directors and shareholder Swiss Re’s Group Bylaws stipulate that rights. Comprehensive information at least three-quarters of the members following the structure of the SIX of the Board of Directors must be For more information see Directive is available in the 2015 independent. Independence is defined swissre.com/about_us/corporate_ Financial Report, pages 74–113. governance/ 68 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report in line with best practice corporate All members of the Audit Committee are governance standards. To be considered non-executive and independent. In independent, a Group Board member addition to the independence criteria may not be, and may not have been in applicable to Board members in general, the past three years, employed as a additional independence criteria apply member of the Group EC, or by any for members of the Audit Committee. Subsidiary of the Swiss Re Group or may not have a material relationship with They are required to possess such any part of the Swiss Re Group (either additional attributes as the Board of directly or as a partner, director or Directors may, from time to time, specify. shareholder of an organisation that has Each member of the Audit Committee a material relationship with the Swiss Re has to be financially literate. At least one Group) other than serving as an member must possess the attributes to independent board member in any qualify as an Audit Committee financial Subsidiary. All the members of the Board expert, as determined appropriate by the of Directors meet our independence Board of Directors. criteria with the exception of our Chairman. As a full-time Chairman he is Shareholders’ participation rights not considered independent. Shares All shares issued by Swiss Re Ltd are The members of the Board of Directors fully paid-in registered shares, each with are also subject to procedures to avoid a par value of CHF 0.10. Each share any action, position or interest that carries one vote. There are no categories conflicts with an interest of Swiss Re Ltd of shares with a higher or limited voting or the Swiss Re Group or gives the power, privileged dividend entitlement appearance of a conflict. or any other preferential rights, nor are there any other securities representing The organisation of the Board of a part of the company’s share capital. Directors is set forth in the Group The company cannot exercise the voting Bylaws, which define the organisational rights of treasury shares. structure and function of Swiss Re Ltd and the responsibilities and authorities Voting right restrictions, statutory of the Board of Directors, its committees group clauses and exception rules and the Group EC and their members. There are no voting right restrictions and no statutory group clauses. Therefore, The Board has established Board there are no procedures or conditions for committees to assist it in fulfilling its cancelling restrictions and no rules on duties and has delegated certain making exceptions to them. Accordingly, responsibilities, including the no such exceptions were made in 2015. preparation and execution of its resolutions, to the following five Statutory rules on participating in the committees: the Chairman’s and General Meeting of shareholders Governance Committee, the Audit The share whose owner, usufructuary or Committee, the Compensation nominee is entered in the share register Committee, the Finance and Risk as having voting rights on a specific Committee and the Investment qualifying day determined by the Board Committee. of Directors entitles its holder to one vote at the General Meeting of shareholders. Audit Committee The central task of the Audit Committee Swiss Re’s Articles of Association allow is to assist the Board of Directors in any shareholder with voting rights to fulfilling its oversight responsibilities as have his or her shares represented at any they relate to the integrity of Swiss Re’s General Meeting of shareholders by and the Group’s financial statements, another person authorised in writing the Swiss Re Group’s compliance with or by the Independent Proxy. Such legal and regulatory requirements, the representatives need not be external auditor’s qualifications and shareholders. independence, and the performance of GIA and the Group’s external auditor. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Ensuring good governance and compliance Business firms, partnerships and Key topics and policies corporate bodies may be represented by Our current version of the Code (valid legal or authorised representatives or as of 31 December 2015) addresses other proxies, married persons by their the following key compliance topics, spouses, minors and wards by their amongst others: guardians, even though such ̤̤ Antitrust (compliance with representatives are not shareholders. competition laws) ̤̤ Bribery and corruption Defence measures ̤̤ Data protection and privacy Swiss Re has not put in place any ̤̤ Fraud (including tax avoidance) specific measures to defend against ̤̤ Inside information and insider trading potential unfriendly takeover attempts. ̤̤ International trade controls and The Board of Directors believes that economic sanctions the company’s best protection is a fair ̤̤ Licensing and permanent valuation of its shares, and that the establishment (including tax efficiency of a free market is preferable compliance) to artificial obstacles, which can have ̤̤ Money laundering a negative impact on the share price ̤̤ Whistleblowing in the long term. The Code is supported by detailed policies and guidelines that document Compliance: Code of Conduct Swiss Re’s requirements in line with Our Code of Conduct (the “Code”) is applicable laws and regulations. one in a series of documents governing the organisation and management of The current Code is available to our our company. It sets the framework employees in six languages: English, and defines the basic legal and ethical German, French, Italian, Spanish and compliance principles we adhere to Portuguese. The revised version will be globally. The Code is built on the five published in two additional languages, Swiss Re values, which guide us in bringing the total to eight. making responsible decisions and achieving results using the highest Bribery and corruption ethical standards: client centricity, The Code addresses our position on agility, team spirit, passion to perform bribery and corruption. This clearly and integrity. states that “Swiss Re pursues a ‘zero tolerance’ policy with respect to bribery The Code also offers practical guidance and corruption” and that “bribing and examples for deciding the governmental agents, regulators or other appropriate course of action and solving officials is a crime”. ethical dilemmas. It further sets out how all employees should react when they In support, we implemented our Group observe a possible breach of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy in principles in the Code. All employees are 2012. This clearly states that bribery, obligated to uphold both the letter and facilitation payments and hospitality spirit of the Code and the Group’s where the giver is not present are corporate governance principles in their always prohibited. For gifts, hospitality, daily business activities, and to respect sponsorships and charitable and obey applicable laws and contributions, the policy and guidelines regulations in all jurisdictions where we specify the correct procedures to be do business. followed. We regularly review and update the Code to reflect changes in regulations and principles. A comprehensively overhauled version will be published in the second half of 2016. 70 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Money laundering All permanent and temporary employees The Code draws attention to the risk of need to complete a Code of Conduct becoming unintentionally involved in Acknowledgement every two years. money laundering and emphasises the The latest acknowledgement round was importance of due diligence. completed in 2015; it used a similar approach to the eLearning module, Our Anti-money Laundering Guidelines putting the focus on ethical behaviour set out in detail key principles and and requiring our employees to apply guidance in relation to our anti-money the Code to a specific scenario. laundering and counter terrorism financing efforts, including obligations In addition, we conducted trainings for concerning “know your counterparty” all our employees on the following topics and the reporting of any suspicious between 2013 and 2015: activities. ̤̤ Anti-money laundering and terrorist financing Swiss Re’s commitment to ̤̤ Fraud sustainability ̤̤ Inside information and insider training The Code includes our formal ̤̤ Data protection commitment to sustainability, providing ̤̤ Information security a guiding principle for our efforts to act as a responsible company. Validity for third parties Third parties representing Swiss Re – Whistleblowing such as consultants, intermediaries, There are several ways in which alleged distributors and independent violations of the Code can be reported, contractors – should be carefully both by internal and external sources. selected and need to comply with the For our employees, these include a Code and relevant policies. When we whistleblowing hotline, which they can work with such third parties we provide use anonymously or with identification. them with information about the The hotline is operated independently relevant requirements and, in the event by an external vendor and includes of any infringements, take appropriate translation services into numerous action, up to and including terminating languages. The specific policies a contract. regarding whistleblowing differ between our offices, based on the applicable national laws of the respective country. Training All new permanent and temporary employees joining Swiss Re must undergo mandatory eLearning training on the Code. Completion of the training is tracked and instances of noncompletion are escalated until resolution. The Code eLearning course was updated in 2015, putting the focus on ethical behaviour in accordance with the principles of the Code and its relationship to Swiss Re’s values. It has an interactive character and requires employees to assess behaviour and actions in various scenarios. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 The Swiss Re Foundation Empowering Who we are communities to build The Swiss Re Foundation reflects the Research and innovation social and humanitarian values of We fund efforts to develop new risk resilience. Swiss Re. We empower vulnerable management approaches that can work communities to become more resilient in areas often thought uninsurable. to risk and to adapt to changing circumstances. Our programmes Social entrepreneurship address the underlying causes and We support entrepreneurs whose challenging effects of changes in ideas and connections can provide the natural and social environment. innovative solutions to critical social Swiss Re’s core competencies are and environmental problems. thus directly relevant to our work. Emergency aid Rapid assistance can save lives in a How we help large-scale emergency. We respond Disaster risk reduction through immediate grants and donation We support initiatives aimed at matching programmes for Swiss Re preventing and preparing for the employees. adverse impacts of natural disasters and the suffering they cause. Community support Our community programmes promote Capacity building social welfare and protect the natural We help people and communities environment close to Swiss Re offices. develop skills to improve their living conditions and their resilience. For more information see swissrefoundation.org/ 72 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Serving low-income areas of Lima, Peru, that lack municipal sanitation, x-runner offers water-free toilets and solid waste pick-up at affordable prices. The Swiss Re Foundation in 2015 – Seeds of resilience What we What our This report presents the Swiss Re Foundation’s respond to priorities are approach, a focus section Threats to: ̤̤ Climate on building resilience ̤̤ Health ̤̤ Natural hazards and an overview of its ̤̤ Security ̤̤ Water programmes. ̤̤ Prosperity ̤̤ Society ̤̤ Opportunity The Swiss Re Foundation in 2015 Seeds of resilience Who we Where we support help ̤̤ Social entrepreneurs ̤̤ In emerging and developing ̤̤ NGOs countries ̤̤ Academic institutions ̤̤ In regions where Swiss Re that help communities has offices increase their resilience Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 Other Swiss Re publications Our publications provide the gateway to Swiss Re’s broad knowledge base and expertise. They cover a broad range of topics: from technical reinsurance issues and emerging risks to natural perils, economic trends and strategic issues in our industry. This is a selection of recent publications, in addition to those featured on page 46. You can download or order our publications at www.swissre.com/library/ Forestry insurance: A largely untapped potential China’s coastal cities have been escaping severe storms but how long will it last? Keeping tabs on the typhoon threat Severe weather events in the late 19th century and their potential impact on insurance today Over the last 30 years, only very few major tropical cyclones have caused severe insurance loss in the Pearl River Delta region and Shanghai, the two Winter storms in Europe: main exposure clusters along China’s southeast coast. Several storms have made landfall in China every year but most struck areas with relatively low insured values. That said, there is no guarantee that this pattern will remain messages from unchanged in the future. And given the exponential growth in population and physical assets the region has experienced during the same period, there is forgotten catastrophes certainly no room for complacency. Should a severe typhoon hit one of China’s big urban centres today, the economic and insured loss could be substantial. Small quakes, big impact: lessons learned from Christchurch Forestry insurance: Winter storms in Europe: Keeping tabs on Small quakes, big impact: A largely untapped potential messages from forgotten the typhoon threat lessons learned from Forests are a vital resource catastrophes Smart modelling can help Christchurch for life on our planet but This publication analyses China strengthen its resilience Discover how a small after­­shock remain largely uninsured severe weather events in the to typhoon risk. In this in Christchurch, NZ – a city today. Swiss Re believes the late 19th century and their publication, Swiss Re NatCat not considered an earthquake re/insurance industry can potential impact on insurance experts describe a modelling hotspot – triggered one of the make a big difference for today. approach that could offer Hong largest insurance losses ever. forestry stakeholders by Kong and Shanghai a way of Our report points to soil helping them close the preparing more systematically liquefaction as a contributing protection gap with viable for natural disasters. factor and considers the forest management solutions. potential for similar scenarios in Tianjin, Jakarta, Vancouver and Singapore. 74 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Ten years after the first tropical cyclone ever recorded in the South Atlantic, we investigate the possibility and The big one: The East Coast’s Sub-Saharan Africa – breadbasket potential impact of another event like it. USD 100 billion hurricane event for a growing population The risk of tropical cyclones in Brazil Building a sustainable energy future: risks and opportunities Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle Category: Categorytitle Scriptographer Plugin 10 50 Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re The big one: The East Coast’s Sub-Saharan Africa – The risk of tropical cyclones Building a sustainable USD 100 billion hurricane event breadbasket for a growing in Brazil energy future: risks and With its exceptional size, population Ten years after the first tropical opportunities perpendicular track to the coast Farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa cyclone ever recorded in the With an expanding population and record-breaking low pressure, are heavily exposed to South Atlantic, we investigate and world economy powered Sandy is generally regarded as a weather-related events like the possibility and potential by oil, coal and gas, fossil fuels 1-in-500-year event. The storm flood or drought. If they are impact of another event like it. have become a large part of offered many new lessons to hit by a natural catastrophe, The study by Swiss Re and the our daily lives. But this has modellers, underwriters and they often abandon their land. Swiss Federal Institute of come at a price: greenhouse coastal communities, but it should Insurance can help to keep Technology (ETH) explores the gas emissions, which not be the only catastrophe farmers in business and main atmospheric conditions adversely affect our climate. benchmark in the quest for contribute to a more resilient that lead to the development How much higher will this improved resiliency. This society. of tropical cyclones in the price rise before we achieve publication draws on hurricanes South Atlantic. a more sustainable energy of greater magnitude to paint system? a scenario that will help plan for the future. No 6 /2015 A mature market Building a capital market for longevity risk Flood – an underestimated risk ances SA Mind the risk Inspect, inform, insure A global ranking of cities under threat from natural disasters Life insurance in the 01 Executive summary 02 Introduction digital age: fundamental 04 Key technology transformation ahead developments impacting life insurers 13 Impacts on life insurance industry 26 Strategic implications 31 New challenges 39 Conclusion 16.09.13 09:33 SR Mature Market brochure v7 11825.indd 1 13/09/2012 11:48 Mind the risk: A global A mature market: Building a Flood – an underestimated sigma: the series ranking of cities under capital market for longevity risk: Inspect, inform, insure For more than three decades, threat from natural risk Floods affect more people the sigma series has been a disasters A capital market for longevity worldwide than any other trusted source of market This publication provides risk could help address the type of natural disaster. But information for managers and a comprehensive analysis challenges of funding longer the risk from flooding is often specialists in direct insurance of natural disaster risk in lives. Such a market would underestimated. In many companies worldwide. To locations around the world. form part of an overall solution countries, flood insurance is ensure a truly global involving the cooperation and not widely available or readership, sigma appears in innovation of the public and affordable. six languages: English, private sectors to ensure that German, French, Spanish, we continue benefiting from Japanese and Chinese. our ageing societies. Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) ­ We have been engaged to perform d) The consolidated CO2 emissions The accuracy and completeness of assurance procedures to provide 2015 (Scope 1, 2 and 3 in CR indicators are subject to inherent limited assurance on the consolidated adherence with the Greenhouse Gas limitations given their nature and CO2 emissions reporting and CR topics Protocol) of the tables entitled “CO2 methods for determining, calculating and sections disclosed with the 2015 emissions per employee (full-time and estimating such data. In addition, Swiss Re Corporate Responsibility equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group” the CO2 emissions quantification is Report (“CR Report 2015”). on page 49, “Underlying subject to inherent uncertainty because environmental data, Swiss Re of incomplete scientific knowledge Scope and subject matter Group” on page 49 and “Indirect used to determine emissions factors Our limited assurance engagement emissions from purchased and the values needed to combine focused on the following data and electricity, Swiss Re Group” on page emissions of different gases. Our information disclosed in the CR Report 49 in the CR Report 2015 covering assurance report should therefore be 2015 of Swiss Re and its consolidated the reporting period from 1 October read in connection with Swiss Re’s subsidiaries, for the financial year 2014 to 30 September 2015; internal guidelines, definitions and ended 31 December 2015: e) The retirement of 70 600 tonnes of procedures on the reporting of its CR CO2e (CO2 equivalents) described on performance. a) The management and reporting page 52 of the CR Report 2015. processes with respect to the Swiss Re’s responsibility consolidated CR reporting as well Criteria The Swiss Re management is as the control environment in The management reporting processes responsible for both the preparation relation to the aggregation of data with respect to the CR Report 2015 and the presentation of the selected and information; were assessed against the internal and subject matter in accordance with the b) The organizational measures and external policies and procedures as set reporting criteria. Our responsibility internal key controls in place at the forth in the following: is to form an independent conclusion, corporate level regarding ̤̤ “Internal Environmental based on our limited assurance aggregation of information obtained Performance Indicators for the procedures, on whether anything has from the subsidiaries and reporting Financial Industry” published by come to our attention to indicate that functions; the Verein für Umweltmanagement the subject matter is not stated, in all c) The consolidated data and in Banken, Sparkassen und material respects, in accordance with information disclosed in the Versicherungen e.V. (VfU) published the reporting criteria. sections “Creating solutions for in 1997 and 2011; sustainability” on pages 16–25, ̤̤ “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Our responsibility “Extending our risk intelligence” A Corporate Accounting and We conducted our limited assurance on pages 26–37, “Exploring and Reporting Standard (Revised engagement in accordance with shaping the risk landscape” on Edition)” published in 2001 by International Standard on Assurance pages 38–46, “Reducing our the World Resources Institute and Engagements 3000, Assurance environmental footprint” on pages the World Business Council for Engagements other than Audits or 47–57, “Empowering our people” Sustainable Development; Reviews of Historical Financial on pages 58–67 and “Compliance: ̤̤ The framework document Information’, and, in respect of Code of Conduct” on pages 70–71; “Environmental Performance greenhouse gas emissions, Indicators Reporting at Swiss Re”, International Standard on Assurance version 1.1 from August 2014 Engagements 3410, Assurance including Annex; and Engagements on Greenhouse Gas ̤̤ The defined internal guidelines, by Statements, issued by the International which CR data and information are Auditing and Assurance Standards internally gathered, collated and Board. These standards require that we aggregated. plan and perform this engagement to 76 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ obtain limited assurance about whether performing analytical procedures and We believe that the evidence we have the identified CR indicators are free interviewing selected key contacts to obtained is sufficient and appropriate from material misstatement. assess whether the internal to provide a basis for our limited Environmental Performance Indicators assurance conclusion. A limited assurance engagement under Reporting guidelines and CR guidance ISAE 3000 (revised) is substantially were consistently applied by the Conclusion less in scope than a reasonable selected locations; performing Based on our work performed and assurance engagement in relation to enquiries of personnel responsible for described in this report on the both the risk assessment procedures, internal CR reporting and data identified CR Reporting 2015 nothing including an understanding of internal collection at the Swiss Re corporate has come to our attention causing us to control, and the procedures performed level to evaluate the reporting and believe that in all material respects: in response to the assessed risks. aggregation process and to assess its a) Nothing has come to our attention Consequently, the nature, timing and appropriateness; that causes us to believe that the extent of procedures for gathering ̤̤ Reconciliation of CO2 emissions Swiss Re internal CR reporting sufficient appropriate evidence are data guidelines are not applied in all deliberately limited relative to a reasonReconciling the CO2 emissions data for material respects, in accordance able assurance engagement and energy consumption, business travel, with the reporting criteria; therefore less assurance is obtained copy paper, waste, water, technical b) Nothing has come to our attention with a limited assurance engagement gases and commuting and CR data and that causes us to believe that the than for a reasonable assurance information to the data used for the internal reporting processes to engagement. internal CR emissions reporting of the collect and aggregate CR data and selected locations; information is not functioning as The procedures selected depend on the ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures designed and does not provide an assurance practitioner’s judgement. Performing tests on a sample basis of appropriate basis for the evidence supporting selected CR data presentation of CR data and Our independence and quality and information (sensitive business risk information, in all material respects; control process, management of emerging c) Nothing has come to our attention We have complied with the risks, responsible investment, HR data that causes us to believe that the CR independence and other ethical and information, diversity and data and information disclosed in requirements of the Code of Ethics inclusion, development & training, the 2015 CR Report is not stated, in for Professional Accountants issued sustainable energy solutions, the all material respects, in accordance by the International Ethics Standards commitments to the United Nations with the reporting criteria; Board for Accountants, which is and to the Grow Africa Partnership) to d) Nothing has come to our attention founded on fundamental principles assess their completeness, accuracy, that causes us to believe that the of integrity, objectivity, professional adequacy and consistency; CO2 emissions data and information competence and due care, ̤̤ Review of the documentation disclosed in the 2015 CR Report is confidentiality and professional Reviewing the relevant documentation not stated, in all material respects, in behavior. on a sample basis, including Swiss Re’s accordance with the reporting CR-related policies, the management criteria; and Our firm applies International Standard of reporting structures, the e) Nothing has come to our attention on Quality Control 1 and accordingly documentation and systems used to that causes us to believe that the maintains a comprehensive system of collect, analyse and aggregate retirement of 70 600 tonnes of CO2e quality control including documented reported CR data and information; has not been conducted, in all material policies and procedures regarding ̤̤ Assessment of the processes and aspects, in accordance with the compliance with ethical requirements, data consolidation internal requirements. professional standards and applicable Reviewing the appropriateness of the legal and regulatory requirements. management and reporting processes for CR reporting; and assessing the Summary of work performed processing and consolidation of data at Zurich, 31 May 2016 Our assurance procedures included the Swiss Re’s Group level; and following work: ̤̤ Review of verified emission PricewaterhouseCoopers AG ̤̤ Evaluation of the application of reductions Swiss Re CR reporting guidelines Reviewing the retirement of 70 600 Assessing whether the methodology tonnes CO2e verified emission applied by Swiss Re is in line with the reductions (VER) according to the Marc Schmidli Konstantin Meier reporting criteria; Voluntary Carbon Standard or Gold ̤̤ Interviews and management Standard. inquiry Evaluating the CR reporting and underlying performance indicators by Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 Memberships, commitments, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, commitments, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. ­ Memberships and Clinton Global Initiative Klimastiftung Schweiz Established in 2005 by former (Swiss Climate Foundation) commitments US President Bill Clinton, the Clinton The Swiss Climate Foundation is a Global Initiative (CGI) convenes non-profit foundation that directly CDP global leaders to devise and implement champions the cause of climate CDP is an international, not-for-profit innovative solutions to some of the protection in Switzerland, helping to organisation providing the only global world’s most pressing challenges. fund small and medium enterprises system for companies and cities to www.clintonfoundation.org that are proactive in their approach to measure, disclose, manage and share reducing CO2 emissions. Swiss Re is vital environmental information. CDP FSB Task Force on Climate-Related one of the foundation’s members and works with market forces to motivate Financial Disclosures is sponsoring its managing director. companies to disclose their impacts on The Financial Stability Board (FSB) is www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch the environment and natural resources an international body that monitors and take action to reduce them. and makes recommendations about Öbu (“Ecologically conscious www.cdp.net the global financial system. Its Task enterprises” network) Force on Climate-related Financial Öbu is a Swiss think tank for Chief Risk Officer Forum Disclosures (TCFD) will develop sustainability and management topics. The CRO Forum is a group of voluntary, consistent climate-related It carries out projects focusing on professional risk managers from the financial risk disclosures for use by corporate and economic policy, and insurance industry that focuses on companies in providing information promotes experience-sharing among developing and promoting industry to investors, lenders, insurers, and its members. best practices in risk management. The other stakeholders. www.oebu.ch Forum consists of Chief Risk Officers www.fsb-tcfd.org from large multinational insurance Principles for Responsible companies. Insurance Europe Investment (PRI) www.thecroforum.org Insurance Europe is the European (re) The PRI is the world’s leading insurance federation. Through its 34 proponent of responsible investment. It ClimateWise member bodies, the national insurance works to understand the investment ClimateWise is the global insurance associations, Insurance Europe implications of environmental, social industry’s leadership group driving represents all types of insurance and and governance (ESG) factors and to action on climate change risk. reinsurance undertakings, eg pansupport its international network of The group leverages the insurance European companies, monoliners, investor signatories in integrating these industry’s expertise to better mutuals and SMEs. factors into their investment and understand, communicate and act www.insuranceeurope.eu ownership decisions. on climate risks. www.unpri.org www.cisl.cam.ac.uk International Risk Governance Council Principles for Sustainable Insurance IRGC is an independent organisation Launched at the 2012 UN Conference whose purpose is to help the on Sustainable Development, the understanding and management of UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable global risks that impact on human Insurance (PSI) serve as a global health and safety, the environment, framework for the insurance industry to the economy and society at large. address environmental, social and www.irgc.org governance risks and opportunities. www.unepfi.org/psi/ 78 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ RE100 Recent awards Selected index The Climate Group is partnering with CDP to encourage the world’s most Top Company for Graduates to Work listings and ratings influential businesses to join RE100 for from TheJobCrowd Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, and commit to going 100% renewable. We were recognised as the “Top Industry Leader 2016 The aim is for at least 100 companies Accountancy & Insurance Company for to make a global 100% renewable Graduates to Work for” (larger intake) commitment with a clear timeframe and came third overall. for reaching their goal. www.theRE100.org Employer of the Year award at the 2014 Asia Insurance Industry ECPI Indices Swiss Sustainable Finance Awards Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) We won the inaugural edition of strengthens the position of Switzerland this award for our talent development in the global marketplace for and diversity initiatives. sustainable finance by informing, educating and catalysing growth. ANZIIF Women’s Council Employer Currently SSF unites 90 members and of the Year 2014 Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) network partners from financial service In recognition of our ongoing Excellence Global providers, investors, universities and commitment to diversity and inclusion, business schools, public sector entities we received this award at the 2014 and other interested organisations. Australian Insurance Industry Awards. www.sustainablefinance.ch Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical The Climate Group Companies 2014 The Climate Group is an independent, Swiss Re was once again listed as one not-for-profit organisation working of the world’s leading ethical firms Euronext Vigeo index: internationally with government and by Ethisphere, a leading international Eurozone 120 business leaders to advance smart think tank. policies and technologies to cut global emissions and accelerate a clean European Diversity Awards 2013 industrial revolution. Jean-Jacques Henchoz, Swiss Re’s www.theclimategroup.org CEO Reinsurance EMEA, won the 2013 European Diversity Award in the The Geneva Association “Inspirational role model of the year” FTSE4Good Index Series The Geneva Association is a leading category. inter­national insurance think tank for strategically important insurance and risk management issues. It identifies fundamental trends and strategic issues where insurance plays a substantial role or which influence oekom research, the insurance sector. Prime investment status www.genevaassociation.org UNEP Finance Initiative UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. Over 190 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and social considerations on financial performance. www.unepfi.org WE SUPPORT Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 79 The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): Our Public Disclosure of Progress Developed by the UN Environment Swiss Re and the PSI We support the PSI’s call for Programme’s Finance Initiative We are keen to support the spread of transparency and disclose our progress (UNEP FI) in collaboration with leading sustainable business practices in the on implementing its principles below. re/ insurance companies, the Principles re/insurance industry. Not only are we for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) provide one of the original signatories to the a framework for the global insurance Principles of Sustainable Insurance, industry to address environmental, we have played an active role in their social and governance (ESG) risks and development and currently provide one opportunities. of its board members. Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 We will embed in our decision-making We will work together with our clients We will work together with ESG issues relevant to our insurance and business partners to raise governments, regulators and other key business. awareness of ESG issues, manage risk stakeholders to promote widespread and develop solutions. action across society on ESG issues. As described in our “approach to As described in our “approach to As described in our “approach to corporate responsibility”, we seek corporate responsibility”, we corporate responsibility”, we to embed ESG issues in both our engage in regular dialogue with engage in regular dialogue with business solutions and risk our clients and other stakeholders, all our stakeholders (see page 12). management (see page 12). and apply ESG guidelines in our sourcing activities (see page 12). ⇒ We plan to achieve this by: We plan to achieve this by: sharing and advancing our risk a) developing innovative risk We plan to achieve this by: expertise with a special focus on transfer solutions (eg index a) interacting with clients and five Top Topics, supported by our insurance products and cat taking an active role in industry own dialogue platform, the Centre bonds) and by working closely initiatives to advance sustainable for Global Dialogue. with partners both in the private business practices; and public sectors; b) sharing and advancing our risk Key actions taken in 2015: b) using tailor-made tools in our expertise with a special focus on See stakeholder dialogue risk management to address five Top Topics, supported by our achievements on pages 38–46. sustainability risks; own dialogue platform, the Centre c) integrating ESG criteria in our for Global Dialogue; Principle 4 asset management. c) applying overarching guidelines We will demonstrate accountability and specific “minimum standards” and transparency in regularly Key actions taken in 2015: in our sourcing activities. disclosing publicly our progress in a) for business solutions, implementing the Principles. see achievements described Key actions taken in 2015: on pages 16–25; a) for client and industry Starting in 2012, we have been b) for risk management, cooperation, see achievements disclosing our progress in see achievements described described on page 30; implementing the Principles on an on pages 26–34; b) for general risk dialogue, see annual basis, as an integrated part c) for asset management, achievements described on of our Corporate Responsibility see achievements described pages 38–46; Report. on pages 34–37. c) for sourcing guidelines, see achievements described on page 54. For more information see www.unepfi.org/psi/ 80 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) references This Corporate Responsbility Report References to the UN Global Compact contains Standard Disclosures from the principles addressed as part of our G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Communication on Progress (COP) are of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). incorporated into the GRI Content Index, The corresponding GRI Content Index in line with UN recommendations. (indicator G4-32) is provided below. UN Global Compact principle Page General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Chairman’s and CEO’s statement Statement of continuing support 2–3 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  11–13, 16–25, 26–30, 38–42 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation  4 G4-4 Brands, products and services 4, 6 G4-5 Headquarter location 4 G4-6 Countries of operation 4, FR 182 G4-7 Nature of ownership 4, FR 78–83 G4-8 Markets served 4–7, FR 172–182 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 4–5, 7, FR 156–160 G4-10 Employment data 6 58, 60 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 3 66 G4-12 Description of supply chain 54 G4-13 Organisational changes 6, 14 G4-14 Precautionary principle 8–11, 16–22, 32–34 G4-15 External charters and principles 8, 78–79 G4-16 Memberships 78–79 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Scope of financial report FR 162, 237–239 G4-18 Content definition 12–14 G4-19 List of material aspects 11–13 G4-20 Internal boundaries of material issues 15 G4-21 External boundaries of material issues 15 G4-22 Restatements 14 G4-23 Changes in scope 14 FR = 2015 Financial Report Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 81 GRI content index UN Global Compact principle Page Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders 10 G4-25 Basis for stakeholder identification 10 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 10 G4-27 Key topics raised by stakeholders 10, 38–46, 59–60 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 14 G4-29 Most recent previous report 14 G4-30 Reporting cycle 14 G4-31 Contact point 86 G4-32 GRI content index 81–85 G4-33 External assurance 76–77 Governance G4-34 Governance structure 14, 68–69, FR 76, 92-96 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values and Codes of Conduct 10 9, 70–71 Specific standard disclosures Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Economic category Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to the economic category is primarily disclosed in our 2015 Financial Report. Specific aspects (“implications of climate change” and “indirect economic impacts”) are disclosed in this report in the “Who we are and what we do”, “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape” chapters. Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value 7, FR 156–161 performance generated G4-EC2 Implications of climate 7 11, 16–17 change G4-EC3 Benefit plan obligations FR 223–230 Indirect economic G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments 35–36, 42–43 impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect impacts 4–7, 16–22 Environmental category Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to all material aspects of the environmental category in the chapter “Reducing our environmental footprint”. Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight/ 8 49, 52 volume G4-EN2 Recycled materials used 8 49, 52 Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption 7, 8 49 G4-EN4 Indirect energy 8 49 consumption G4-EN5 Energy intensity 8 49 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy 8, 9 49–51 consumption FR = 2015 Financial Report 82 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Water G4-EN8 Water use 7, 8 49, 52 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas 7, 8 49 emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas 7, 8 49 emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse 7, 8 49 gas emissions (Scope 3) G4-19 Reduction of greenhouse gas 8, 9 48–51 emissions Effluents and G4-EN23 Total weight of waste 8 49 waste Transport G4-EN30 Environmental impact of 8 49, 51 transport Supplier G4-EN33 Negative environmental 8 54 environmental impacts addressed in assessment supply chain Social category Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work Disclosure of management approach: Our management approach to all material aspects of the sub-category “labour practices and decent work” is disclosed in the chapter “Empowering our people”. Employment G4-LA1 New hires and turnover 6 58 Labour/ G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods 3 We always respect minimum management notice periods and in some relations cases exceed them. Occupational G4-LA6 Lost days due to illness 66 health and safety Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training 6 63 education G4-LA10 Skills management and 62–65 life-long learning G4-LA11 Regular performance 6 67 reviews Diversity and equal G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees 6 58, 60 opportunity Equal remuneration G4-LA13 Ratios of basic salaries 6 We adhere to the principle for women and of equal pay as part of our men commitment to diversity & inclusion but do not disclose such salary data. Supplier G4-LA15 54 assessment for Negative impacts on labor practices labour practices addressed in supply chain Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 83 GRI content index Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Sub-category: Human rights Disclosure on management approach: We address human rights aspects relevant to our business through our Sustainability Risk Framework, our sourcing guidelines and employee relations policies. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Extending our risk intelligence”, “Reducing our environmental footprint”, and “Empowering our people”, respectively. Investment G4-HR1 Coverage of human rights 2 35 screening G4-HR2 Human rights training 1 30 Freedom of G4-HR4 Addressing risks to 3 26–30, 54, 66 association freedom of association and and collective collective bargaining bargaining Child labor G4-HR5 Addressing risk of child 5 26–30, 54 labor Forced or G4-HR6 Addressing risk of forced 4 26–30, 54 compulsory labor labour Assessment G4-HR9 Human rights screening 1 26–30 Supplier human G4-HR11 Negative human rights 2 54 rights assessment impacts addressed in supply chain Sub-category: Society Disclosure on management approach: We provide information on our management approach for the “local communities” aspect in the report of the Swiss Re Foundation and the “Creating solutions for sustainability” chapter; for “anti-corruption” in the “Ensuring good governance and compliance” chapter; and for our supply chain in the “Reducing our environmental footprint” chapter. Local communities G4-SO1 Local community 1 72–73, engagement SRF 5, 22–23 FS14 Initiatives to give access to 19–22 disadvantaged people Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training 10 70–71 Supplier G4-SO9 Negative society impacts 54 assessment for addressed in supply chain impacts on society SRF = The Swiss Re Foundation in 2015 84 Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Sub-category: Product responsibility Disclosure on management approach: We disclose our management approach to developing products with specific social or environmental benefits in the “Creating solutions for sustainability” chapter and on “active ownership” in the “Responsible investment” section of the “Extending our risk intelligence” chapter. Product portfolio FS7 Products with specific social 17–22, 25 benefit FS8 Products with specific 9 17–24 environmental benefit Active ownership FS11 Environmental and social 1–5, 7 36–37 screening Swiss Re 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 85 Contact details Contact address Group Sustainability Risk Andreas Spiegel Telephone +41 43 285 7677 Andreas_Spiegel@swissre.com © 2016 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Production: Group Sustainability Risk Group Communications Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Corporate Real Estate & Logistics/ Media Production, Zurich Printing: Photographs: Multicolor Print AG, Baar Patrick Aventurier/Getty Images (Cover & back cover) Geri Krischker (page 3) Swiss Re (page 6) Swiss Re (page 11) Lea Müller/Swiss Re (page 18) Swiss Re (page 20) Deepwater Wind (page 23) Swiss Re (page 27) audioundwerbung/Getty Images (page 33) This report is printed on sustainably produced Swiss Re (page 39) paper. The wood used comes from forests Getty Images (page 41) certified to 100% by the Forest Stewardship Valeriano Di Domenico /Swiss Re Council (FSC). (page 44) M3 Solutions (page 50) Visit www.swissre.com to South Pole Carbon (page 53) download or to order additional Stefan Birrer/Swiss Re (page 55) copies of Swiss Re publications. Swiss Re (page 59) Congena, Munich (page 61) Order no: 1490937_16_EN Indigo Plum (page 64) 06/15, 2000 en Swiss Re Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
