2016 OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 2/6 In accordance with our investigation perimeter and our international development, we have analysed all the principles and we have concluded that we can justify of future actions for 6 principles. The 4 others are, for the moment, out of our perimeter of intervention (cf. Table under). OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 3/6 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Insert this principle in our Company protection of internationally proclaimed Dec. 2016 Terms & Conditions. human rights Principle 2 In our current perimeter of intervention, Make sure that they are not complicit in / we are not concerned by this principle. human rights abuses. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 4/6 LABOUR Principles Actions Status/ Deadline Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Organize new election of staff Dec. 2016 association and the effective recognition of representatives. the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 In our current perimeter of intervention, The elimination of all forms of forced and / we are not concerned by this principle. compulsory labour Principle 5 In our current perimeter of intervention, / The effective abolition of child labour we are not concerned by this principle. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect Write a charter. July 2017 of employment and occupation. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 5/6 ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 7 Organize brain storming, to bring out Businesses should support a precautionary ideas about applicability of principle 7 in Avr. 2017 approach to environmental challenges our company Principle 8 Organize brain storming, to bring out Undertake initiatives to promote greater ideas about applicability of principle 8 in Avr. 2017 environmental responsibility our company Principle 9 In our current perimeter of intervention, Encourage the development and diffusion / we are not concerned by this principle. of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption Write this Principle in all of our Dec 2016 in all its forms, including extortion and Proposals bribery. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2016 6/6
