Our Place in the World At Crown, we aim to do business in a way that positively impacts the communities in which we live and work. By establishing responsible policies, monitoring our impacts and continuously seeking improvements, we are determined to be an asset in each of our locations. 2016 Sustainability report • Supporting the United Nations Global Compact • Chairman’s letter of commitment • Performance against targets • Goals for 2016 • Environment • Health and Safety • Data Privacy • Fair Labor Practices • Our Birthday Gift to Communities • Stakeholder Engagement • Anti-Bribery and Corruption 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Supporting United Nations Global Compact In March 2015 Crown Worldwide joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. This achievement is a result of an ongoing effort to become a more caring and sustainable business. To reach this status, Crown’s Chairman, Jim Thompson, formally committed to the UNGC’s 10 principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Crown has agreed to set goals in each of these areas and be transparent and accountable in its performance by publicly reporting its progress every year. Read our Chairman Jim Thompson’s letter of commitment in next page. The following chart demonstrates how Crown’s sustainability initiatives align with the ten UNGC principles. Crown Environment Health Data Fair Labor Community Stakeholder Anti-Bribery & Initiative and Privacy Practices Partnership Engagement Corruption Safety Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles 1. Support and respect protection of human rights. 2. Make sure not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of rights of collective bargaining. 4. Elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 5. Abolish child labor. 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Environment 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Work against corruption in all forms, including extrotion and bribery. 2 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World 3 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Vehicle fuel efficiency Performance against targets Target How weatperformed 2% against previous goals. Actual at -4 % Ve Target for environment Target Vehicle Targ Target at 2 % 2% fuel Vehicle fuelefficiency efficiency Actu Target Target Actual at 5 % Target Targetatat2 2% % Electricity use 2%2% Actual Actual Actual atat-4-4% %per square meter Target at 2 % Electricity 1.7% of facility space Targ Electricityuse use Act Actual Actual Actual at 6 % per persquare squaremeter meter 1.7% 1.7% of facility space of facility space Targetatat2 2% % Target Actual Actualatat5 5% % Targ Act Target Targetatat2 2% % Actual Actualatat6 6% % Increase the ENVIRONMENT number of ENVIRONMENT community Improvement ENVIRONMENT support events to 85% on-time Improvement Increase the number of community support events and accurate Improvement in which Crown participates by 10%. Aim for 50% reporting of toto of85%85%on-time on-time Increase the natural resource Increase the employees to participate in CSR projects. andand accurate accurate number of We have recorded 277 events globally in addition reporting ofparticipating usage. Currently number of reporting to 65 locations of in our ‘Golden Relay’ community community Incre natural resource 73% natural resource making 343 in total. This marks a 9% increase. support supportevents events in wh of em usage. usage. Currently Over 61% of Currently our office based employees were Increase thethe number of community support events 73%73% involved in CSR activity relating to our 50th Increase in which Crown number of community participates by 10%. in which Crown participates by 10%. Aim for support Aim for events 50%50% We h celebration. This, combined with other events of employees to participate in CSR projects. to 65 of employees to participate in CSR projects. maki exceeding our target. WeWe have recorded have recorded events 277277 globally events in addition globally in addition to 65 locations participating in our ‘Golden Relay’ Over to 65 locations participating in our ‘Golden Relay’ invol making 343 in total. This marks a 9% increase. making 343 in total. This marks a 9% increase. celeb Over 61%61%of our office based employees were exce Over of our office based employees were involved in CSR activity relating to our involved in CSR activity relating to our 50th 50th 4 celebration. This, celebration. combined This, combined other withwith events other events exceeding our target. exceeding our target. 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World ACHIEVE EXTERNAL CERTIFICATIONS AT ADDITIONAL CROWN ACHIEVE BUSINESSES EXTERNALAROUND GROUP CERTIFICATIONS THE WORLD IN AT 2015 POLICIES ADDITIONAL CROWN TO 100% OF BUSINESSES AROUND GROUP EMPLOYEES POLICIES THE WORLD IN 2015 of employees: Code TO 100%Health and OF Communicate the following Group policies to 100% of Conduct, Safety, EMPLOYEES Environment, Employee Volunteering, Anti-Bribery & Corruption. Communicate the following Group policies to 100% Achieved: the above policies are now embedded to of employees: Code of Conduct, Health and Safety, our HR management tool, “Target” a) ISO 14001 Environment, Employee Volunteering, Anti-Bribery – Target: 9 sites. 17 were added & Corruption. b) OHAS 18001 – Target: 7 sites. 14 were added Achieved: the above policies are now embedded to c) ISO 27001 our HR management tool, “Target” a) ISO 14001 – Target: – Target: 9 sites. 178were 4 site. wereadded added b) OHAS 18001 – Target: 7 sites. 14 were added c) ISO 27001 Employees – Target: 4 site. 8 were added • Increase number of Crown sites which engage in CSR activities by 10%. Achieved – over 65 offices celebrated our Employees 50th anniversary with CSR activity • Increase Vehicle efficiency for trucks remains a target for us, having number of Crown seen improvements sites in van andwhich car efficiencies for two years running. We are determined to achieve our goal for more engage • 100% in CSR efficient activities Crown We of trucks. by employees10%. and new are looking hires vehicle GPS tracking at various and monitoring systems to enhance our usage efficiency and undergo tofurther Crown’s improve Anti-Bribery performance in &this area. This together with better route planning and technology advancements in Achieved – over 65 Corruption newer vehicles offices e-learning will help uscelebrated curriculum. ourongoing goal. achieve this 50th anniversary with CSR activity Achieved – it is now an essential onboarding • 100% of Crown requirement foremployees and newand all new employees hiresis to undergo Crown’s Anti-Bribery embedded within our HR management tool & Corruption “Target” e-learning curriculum. Achieved – it is now an essential onboarding requirement for all new employees and is embedded within our HR management tool “Target” Supply chain • Develop e-learning material specifically designed to educate our supply chain on Crown’s code of conduct and CSR expectations throughout 2015 – achieved. Supply chain 5 • Develop e-learning material specifically designed to educate our supply chain on Crown’s code of conduct and CSR TO 100% OF 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World EMPLOYEES Communicate the following Group policies to 100% of employees: Code of Conduct, Health and Safety, Environment, Employee Volunteering, Anti-Bribery & Corruption. Achieved: the above policies are now embedded to our HR management tool, “Target” a) ISO 14001 – Target: 9 sites. 17 were added b) OHAS 18001 Stakeholder – Target: engagement 7 sites. 14 were added c) ISO 27001 – Target: 4 site. 8 were added Employees • Increase number of Crown sites which engage in CSR activities by 10%. Achieved – over 65 offices celebrated our 50th anniversary with CSR activity • 100% of Crown employees and new hires to undergo Crown’s Anti-Bribery & Corruption e-learning curriculum. Achieved – it is now an essential onboarding requirement for all new employees and is embedded within our HR management tool “Target” Supply chain • Develop e-learning material specifically designed to educate our supply chain on Crown’s code of conduct and CSR expectations throughout 2015 – achieved. 6 e-learning curriculum. commu support 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Increase the number of community suppo Employees Improve fuel to 300 recorded events. • 100% of Crown employees and new hires to undergo Crown’s Anti-Bribery & Corruption and electric Goals for 2016 e-learning curriculum. Clients efficiency by 2%. • Partner with external stakeholders in CSR initiatives in 30% of our countries. • Develop measurable goals for joint initiatives within key client relationships. Environment ENVIRONMENT ACHIEVE EXTERNAL Clients Redesign of • Partner with external stakeholders in CSR CERTIFICATIONS AT initiatives in 30% of our countries. reporting of • Develop measurable goals for joint ADDITIONAL CROWN natural resource initiatives within key client relationships. BUSINESSES system for accuracy and Increase the ease of use. Clients number of Continue to develop measurable goals for community joint initiatives within key client relationships. support events Joint sustainability/CSR goals have been discussed and agreed Increase the number by Crown of community and several of support events Improve fuel to 300 recorded events. our key global clients. Details will be added to and electric this report as soon as they are confirmed and agreed. Clients efficiency by 2%. a) I SO 14001 (environmental) – 10% Continue to develop measurable goals for b) OHA S 18001 (health and safety) – 10% joint initiatives within key client relationships. c) I SO 27001 (customer data privacy) – 10% ENVIRONMENT Joint sustainability/CSR goals have been discussed and agreed by Crown and several of Supply chain our key global clients. Details will be added to Redesign of Goals for 2016 and beyond include ensuring reporting ofACHIEVE EXTERNAL this report as soon as they are confirmed and that 100% of partners have completed the agreed. CSR-related elements of Crown’s qualification natural resource CERTIFICATIONS AT process and enhancing due diligence to ensure system for ADDITIONAL CROWN responsible conduct for the higher-risk parts of the supply chain. accuracy andBUSINESSES Increase the ease of use. Supply chain number of Goals for 2016 and beyond include ensuring that 100% of partners have completed the community CSR-related elements of Crown’s qualification support events process and enhancing due diligence to ensure responsible conduct for the higher-risk parts Increase the number of community support events of the supply chain. Improve fuel to 300 recorded events. and electric efficiency by 2%. a) I SO 14001 (environmental) – 10% b) OHA S 18001 (health and safety) – 10%understanding and use Increased c) I SO 27001 (customer data privacy) – 10% of legal registers to ensure compliance and improve local practices in environment management. ACHIEVE EXTERNAL Increased understanding and use 7 CERTIFICATIONS AT of legal registers to ensure compliance ADDITIONAL CROWN and improve local practices in environment management. 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Environment Hybrid-electric trucks and electric vehicles continue to allow Crown to better understand how investment in these In 2015 our operations in Vietnam attained their ISO energy-efficient technologies can best serve customers while 14001 certification. Nine months of careful planning reducing emissions. These trucks have smaller capacities and preparation went into the readiness for the audit and driving distance ranges but have proved well-suited with local environmental goals introduced. One of to records retrievals and other small intra-city deliveries. these goals evolved into a project partnering with Advancements in Solar Power and LED Lighting have also companies and organizations to collect paper and allowed Crown to investigate the fitting of low power longer card products for disposal from their offices and life LED units, and energy producing solar roof panels. With providing secure destruction and recycling services. every new purchase Crown learns more about how to make As of the end of 2015 our operations in Vietnam had these investments financially sustainable so that we can recycled 156,911 kgs of paper products. continue to expand their use around our world. Vietnam also attained their ISO 27001 certification in Carefully handling our earth 2015 and are extremely proud of their achievement. We know that our greatest impacts remain vehicle fuel and the electricity consumption at offices and facilities around the world. we’re also looking at how we can improve our packing materials and our waste management. We are enhancing the systems used on all of these areas in a natural resources consumption database redesign. The database aim is to provide a consistent global view of business energy use with comparisons between locations, regions and time periods. We continue to find solutions on how to better quantify and monitor our packaging consumption and waste globally. while geographically-varying practices in the packaging and recycling industries have posed significant challenges, we want to find meaningful metrics to help us better understand our performance in this area. Crown is developing its Move Crew Handbook, a manual that is specifically targeted at the operational teams involved in packaging and protection of personal effects in transit. This manual contains guidance on products to use to provide the best protection at the same time as being sustainable. Since 2010, Crown has worked with a tree planting charity in Thailand “PATT”. In that time Crown employees have planted nearly 15,000 new trees. 8 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Health & Safety Through 2015, Crown implemented In 2015, Crown received a Gold Award in the a globally accepted Health and Safety UK’s RoSPA health and safety awards. Manual. Available to all employees, Following its addition to Crown’s global OHSAS it is the basis for our global OHSAS 18001 certificate, the awareness of health and safety practices of Crown Indonesia’s team helped 18001 policy. After external audits, the team to celebrate the achievement of zero Crown has now retained and grown to accidents for the third year in a row. 37 certified sites, up from 21 in 2013. This exceeds the company goal of 20% growth in certified sites. To further embed good practices, we have improved access and knowledge of global processes, policy and standards in health and safety through the company’s internal SharePoint platform. This now gives our people better access to manuals, documents and local records to ensure the wellbeing of our staff. Certified sites can use this to manage required documentation; locations aiming for initial certification have access to guidelines enabling them to achieve certification. In addition, we continue to maintain easy-to-read pocket guides on general health and safety advice and on safe driving for all our employees. Our goals Our goals for 2016 include expanding our OHSAS 18001 health and safety certification to at least 10% additional locations. In doing so, we will further spread and embed safe work habits for our employees around the globe. We will also continue work to establish a common global accident record to help us monitor our worldwide performance in a more consistent way, then set global targets for improvement. 9 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Data Privacy Being a responsible company means Because in some cases sensitive information is also handled by its service partners, Crown’s supply chain management protecting customers’ and employees’ system emphasizes compliance with data privacy policies right to privacy. through the qualifying and contractual stages of an engagement. This is led by Crown’s Chief Risk Officer and a We have consistent policies and practices to safeguard Group Compliance Officer, appointed in 2014. personal information about our customers and employees. Crown’s Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) on data privacy – ISO 27001 is an externally audited information security which comply with international legislative requirements and standard that Crown has achieved and is extending to its recommendations – are mandatory privacy procedures for businesses around the globe. At the end of 2015, 28 all our sites. Crown sites have achieved this certification, up 26% from 2013. In 2016, the company targets successful It helps keep personal information safe and ensure prompt certification at additional sites, including our Hong Kong reporting to management if there is any data breach. We headquarters. are certified with the US Department of Commerce’s Safe Harbor Program which means handling of customer data according to the standards of EU countries. Most of our offices also ensure that individual customers sign a consent Achieving this at headquarters will form prior to the processing of their personal data. have a positive impact across the organization. We target 10% growth in site certifications in 2016. 10 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Fair Labor Practices We are committed to treating our employees fairly. In In 2015, Crown’s HR team conducted the company’s first addition to complying with local employment laws, we global Employee Engagement Survey. 65% of employees support the labor principles of the UN Global Compact, participated and stated the following: including: • “Crown as a great place to work” – 82% responded yes • Equal opportunity employment • “Crown provides a good and safe environment” – 87% • Prohibiting child labor responded yes • Prohibiting mistreatment by workplace bullying • “Crown enabled me to make a difference and contribute • Prohibiting sexual harassment to the company’s success” – 90% responded yes. • Prohibiting retaliation to employee seeking to invoke his/ • “I am aware of Crown’s values and try to build them into her rights everything I do” – 90% responded yes These policies are detailed in our formal Code of Conduct Overall employees around the world responded that they which documents a zero-tolerance for discriminatory most valued: practices, forced labor or the employment of children under • Company culture and work environment 16 years of age, all of which Crown views as violations of • Teamwork, team members, and coworkers basic human rights. Our Code of Conduct is acknowledged • Convenience, freedom, flexibility, and work-life balance annually by all employees; any suggested violation of these • Company, brand, reputation, values, and CSR principles will result in investigation and corrective action. Crown’s Group Vice President of Human Resources and our global HR team maintain and manage these labor policies. Diversity and Inclusion have been a greater focus for Crown in recent years. Crown currently employees staff from 83 countries, of which women represent over 40%. This gender balance is reflected in all levels of the company: in 2015, females fill 41% of all management positions and 44% of Crown’s Executive Management Group members are women. Gender balance remains a strategic priority for Crown in 2016. 11 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Our Birthday Gift to Communities We celebrated our 50th anniversary in February 2015. To This initiative supported a common cause, local charities that commemorate this milestone, Crown teams from nearly fund children’s education or health issues. The aim was to 60 countries took part in a global CSR campaign called raise US$ 50,000 collectively as a company, then The Crown “Crown’s Golden Relay” throughout the whole of 2015. Foundation would match a percentage of the total global donations to fund a specific project for underserved kids. Each country organized its own CSR event to raise money, involving as many employees as possible. To reflect on a At the end of 2015, the grand total raised was US$ 103,212. little history, every country held their event in the order that Crown opened. Once their activities completed, they We’re very proud and honored to have made such a “passed the baton” to the next country. contribution to so many fantastic causes. CSR events that took place around the Crown world We’re very proud and honored to be able to make such a contribution to so many fantastic causes. Crown’s Golder Relay Target Original goal = $50,000 USD Raised $103,212 USD 12 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Stakeholder Engagement Working together to have a positive impact Employees Clients From the top down, every manager and employee sets A focus in 2016/17 will be to increase Crown’s partnerships performance goals – including those aligned with Crown’s with key clients and external stakeholders in CSR initiatives. CSR goals. CSR goals help each employee to reflect on the We proved the value of this during our Golden Relay impact of their role and find measurable ways to improve. activities in 2015, where in partnership with our supporters Crown’s global Employee Volunteering Policy allows we more than doubled our fundraising target. It is evident employees to take paid time to support local community that we can accomplish even more for the community at issues. Employees are encouraged to organize local events, large by working together. Partnering with clients to help invite clients and share their achievements through Crown’s the community has the added benefit of helping teams internal social media network. to communicate and function even more successfully in business activities. Targets have been set in relation to this For the first time in Crown’s history, in 2015 a global for each of our senior account managers. internal survey was conducted, measuring employee engagement throughout all levels and across all geographies. Supply chain In line with recommended practice, employees were asked a variety of questions across a number of key engagement As Crown’s impact extends to the actions of our service drivers, including “Making A Difference”. Tellingly, it partners and suppliers, we continue to work to ensure was in this section where we found the highest levels of that members of our supply chain are aligned to Crown’s engagement. It seems that participation in CSR activities sustainability goals. is of great value to all involved (not just the intended beneficiaries), and that employees are proud to work for an Crown has launched a website, a code of conduct and an organization that puts giving back, at the heart of what we do. enhanced database to heighten service partner compliance. A hotline has been established for service partners to At the time of reporting, the 2016 employee survey has just report any suspected code breaches, non-compliance and been launched. Managers and senior leaders of the company unethical behaviour. Improved contractual documentation will be looking for increased participation from employees supports the commitments made by Crown to its clients and throughout the organization, and improved scores across all includes topics such as legal compliance and fair employment engagement drivers. practices. Opportunities to participate in CSR activities are valued Crown has introduced mandatory e-Learning programmes by our employees and have a significant impact on our to help service partners and suppliers to better understand communities. the issues of compliance and corporate social responsibility. We will continue to expand our portfolio of knowledge to further educate our supply chain where appropriate. 13 2015 Sustainability report | Our Place in the World Anti-Bribery and Corruption It is Crown’s policy to conduct business Employees also review and acknowledge our documented global Code of Conduct. This details expectations of with a zero-tolerance approach to bribery every employee when it comes to business integrity. and corruption. Crown is committed Acknowledged by employees annually through Crown’s performance management system, these include rules on to acting professionally, fairly and with appropriate practices related to: integrity and in compliance with local laws. • Conflicts of interest We continue to improve, implement and • Securities and antitrust laws enforce systems to counter bribery and • Agreements with competitors, customers or licensees • Relationships with public officials corruption in our business dealings and • Bribery, kickback and fraud relationships. • Sanctions and trade embargoes As with any global business, this comes with challenges when Also available to all our employees is an ethics and doing business in almost every country of the world. In compliance hotline to anonymously report any suspicious 2015, Crown focused on further assuring full compliance in activities. These programs are driven by Crown’s Chief Risk every country, including those with less developed legislation Officer and Group Compliance Officer, roles which work on anti-bribery and corruption (ABC). This requirement will independently and impartially to uphold our objective to cover every service segment, even those most at risk. To work against corruption in all forms. facilitate 100% compliance, all service providers are to be vetted, trained and will sign our Service Partner Agreement which will includes a provision that we can audit their accounts at any time. This will enable us to more easily conduct periodic audits, especially in high-risk locations. These enhancements are targeted to be fully implemented by early 2016. Service partners undergo training on antibribery and corruption through our ‘Doing Business without Bribery’ program. In 2015, 23% of service partners completed the course and in 2016, we are targeting completion by 50% of partners. We are specifically targeting service partners in areas with low levels of existing corporate governance. Every year, our own people receive training on our AntiBribery and Corruption Policy; this also helps our people learn how to identify and avoid supporting improper practices of others. 14
