United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Statement from the CEO 30 December 2016 To all our stakeholders: I am pleased to reiterate FJS Consulting Pvt Ltd’s continued commitment in upholding the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. FJS firmly believes in the values and principles that the UNGC represents, and we stand by our commitment as one of the first signatory members of the UNGC Maldives Network to encourage other entities in the Maldives to embrace the UNGC Principles. We are pleased to share the 2016 Annual Communication of Progress with our stakeholders. Yours Sincerely, Hamid Sodique CEO Human Rights § Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and § make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals 2016 marks another year of our continued commitment to the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and we actively refrain from activities which may restrict the human rights of our employees. Furthermore, as an economic advisory service engaged with policy makers, we advocate the protection of human rights across the Maldives and ensure we engage with parties that respects values of human rights and upholds standards contained in the UN Global Compact. Implementation During this year we have strengthened our policies on employment and business engagements to ensure the values of human rights enshrined in the Global Compact are upheld and our clients and business associates respect and promote these values we strongly stand for. Our employment policy and employment contract provides for equal remuneration for equal work and explicitly defends employees’ rights against discrimination of any form or type. Measurement of Outcomes Most of the projects carried out by FJS during this year have been for clients engaged in socio-economic development of the country supporting gender parity and addressing economic inequalities in the island communities, helping us to play a role in promoting the human rights values we have endorsed. We are happy to note that there has been no report of discrimination or violation of rights of any of the employees during the foregoing year and we have carried out information sessions for our employees to ensure they understand their rights as individuals and employees and their responsibilities in promoting the values within the FJS family. Labour § Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and furthermore uphold § the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor § the effective abolition of child labor and § the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals FJS promotes freedom of association, and respects employees’ right to collective bargaining. We firmly oppose all forms of forced and child labour, and promote a policy of nondiscrimination in employment opportunities. Implementation FJS employment policies, contracts and code of conduct provide a strong framework that ensures all employees go through the same hiring and selection process. Employees are remunerated based on a transparent, accountable basis in accordance with employment contracts and hours worked. Our recruitment process involves measures to ensure we leave no room for inadvertent employment of minors. We also promote a policy of work-family balance to ensure our employees have adequate time are economically supported to live a decent family life. Measurement of Outcomes FJS continues to retain most of our employees and all of those who had to leave, for educational pursuits and career development, remain in the social circle of FJS family and we are assured of their return to FJS in the future. Environment § businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, § undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and § encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” is continued with increased vigilance and we focus on involving in projects aimed for sustainable development and environment protection of Maldives and supporting green technology to address the current environment challenges. Implementation FJS enforces a recycling policy among staff to reduce wastage of paper, and has energy management policies for office equipment that all staff are advised to adhere to. Although our aim of a paperless office operation has not been realized yet, we have significantly reduced the wastage of paper and controlled energy consumption. We also have taken part in the social events organized by the government and leading NGOs to promote environmental awareness among the public. Measurement of Outcomes Our employees have been well-oriented on the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” and we continue to minimize paper usage. We are happy to note that we no longer use plastic bags, and use environment friendly alternatives wherever possible. Even with increased number of staff and expansion of our operation we have been able to keep the energy consumption reasonably low. Anti-Corruption § Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals FJS promotes a business environment free from the clutches of corruption. We seek to win our projects only through fair competition and ensure our clients and business associates respects and promotes values and standards set forth against spread of corruption. Implementation FJS continues to maintain the professional standards set to ensure we do not associate with any parties that may deal in corruptive engagements and refrain from seeking business from state or corporate bodies our owners or staff are involved in to avoid conflict of interest. We have carried out projects for NGOs and UN agencies aiming to promote public awareness and equipping government and state bodies in fighting against corruption. Measurement of Outcomes FJS is proud to note that we have received no allegation of corruption or bribery in the foregoing year as well, and we aspire to maintain this record in the future. With our increased association with NGOs and state agencies fighting against corruption we have been able to educate and equip our team to participate in the fight against corruptive engagements.
