Greenland Financial Holdings Group_COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From:2015.06 To:2016.06 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2016.06. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Greenland Financial Holdings Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. James Geng Chairman of the Board & President Greenland Financial Holdings Group 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Greenland Financial Holdings Group provides our employee safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. We respect the capability and ability of our employees regardless his/her gender, religion, race, age and nationality. We provide our staff an equal working environment. Labour Greenland Financial Holdings Group ensures that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor. We strictly comply with the Chinese Labor Law and other relative regulations to protect our employees’ rights, including the minimum wage standards, mandatory social housing fund and social security insurance and statutory annual leave, pregnancy leave etc. We encourage our employees’ self-improvements and advancement. We provide variety training courses and design an incentive scheme to motive our staff enhance their self-learning during off-work time. We provide open opportunity for our employees to apply any internal job positions they are interested in when they prove to be qualified. We have set up labor union in accordance with Chinese Labor Union Law and ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Environment Greenland Financial Holdings Group avoids environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system. We minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances. We control the office temperature at a reasonable degree to reduce the electricity wasting. We encourage our employee to turn off the power of the facilities and equipments after usage and work. We control the volume of the printing usage to save paper. Every staff has to use a card to print and every printing will be recorded for analysis and review. Anti-Corruption Corruption is a very serious crime in China and Greenland Financial Holdings Group always assesses the risk of corruption when doing business. We have a very strict anti-corruption policy with matrix procedures executed by different departments to monitor and avoid interest conflicts. We also have an internal audit team and inspection committee to support the company’s anti-corruption. We have specific training courses on the topic of anti-corruption and ethical behavior for every new staff joined in our company less than a year. General Manager office has set up a mail-box to welcome anti-corruption reports from staff. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES By the end of May 2016, there are total 83 employees including 3 from overseas in Greenland Financial Holdings Group. Among the employees, there are 50 male and 33 female staffs, with an average age at 34. Since the establishment of Greenland Financial Holdings Group in 2011, there are ZERO occupational diseases, injuries and absenteeism in the 5 years. Because of our excellent performance in business and labor work, Greenland Financial Holdings Group was awarded by Shanghai City “51” Labor Honor in April 2016. In the past 5 years, there are ZERO corruption reports we have received or recorded. After the training courses, an examination would be held and the results show every staff is aware about the rules of anti-corruption.
