INFINERA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS About this Report  02 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 Letter from the CEO  03 Environmental Legal Compliance  29 Energy and Climate  30 ABOUT INFINERA 04 About Infinera  05 Carbon Footprint  30 Products and Services  07 Air Emissions  31 Sustainability Context Through the Value Chain  09 Waste and Recycling  31 Water Management  33 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 10 Greening Our Facilities  33 Stakeholder Engagement  11 Materiality  12 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Sustainability Governance  13 Our Workforce  36 Memberships & Associations  14 Diversity and Inclusion  36 Facts & Figures  38 BUSINESS ETHICS  15 Health and Safety  39 Fair Business Practices  16 Development and Engagement  41 Compliance  17 Community Engagement  44 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 18 UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDEX 46 Responsible Sourcing  19 Management and Oversight  20 Compliance Across the Value Chain  21 Greening Our Products  23 Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction  24 About this Report This is the first annual sustainability report of Infinera aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines Corporation (referred to herein as “we,” “us,” “our” and and meets GRI’s Core disclosure standards, but has not been “Infinera”) and covers calendar year 2015. This report provides externally assured. A full GRI Content Index, as well as a crossan overview of our sustainability programs and activities based reference to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Principles can be on our identified material aspects. The focus of this report is our found on pages 46–49. To provide feedback or to ask questions, significant operations: headquarters, manufacturing, engineering please contact sustainability@infinera.com. and packaging operations, unless otherwise stated. This report is 02 LETTER FROM THE CEO I am proud to introduce our first annual sustainability report, which highlights our commitment to sustainability across our global operations. This report is a significant step in fulfilling our commitment to transparency and leadership in our industry, and sets the stage for future sustainability initiatives. We aim to create a corporation that considers all choices in light of our role in the global community. As an established player in transport networking, we recognize our role in the areas where we operate and in the marketplace. Whenever possible, we aim to use our role to drive responsible choices, new best practices and a sense of obligation to the world around us. Infinera was founded with the vision of enabling an infinite pool of intelligent bandwidth that the next communications infrastructure is built upon. Infinera Intelligent Transport Networks connect people around the world, in order to provide communities with opportunities for economic growth. Additionally, Infinera’s Cloud Xpress addresses new cloud network architectures and new traffic patterns, which are servicing increasing bandwidth requirements. We are proud that Infinera is redefining optical networking, and we take this seriously. “Whenever In 2015, we expanded our sustainability program overall and laid foundations for longer-term possible, we aim goals and initiatives. Business ethics and integrity are a priority of our sustainability program, and to use our role to in 2016 we joined the UNGC to cement principles of social and environmental responsibility. By actively reporting on our support to the UNGC’s ten principles, Infinera joins thousands of other drive responsible companies in making business a force for good in the world. choices, new We are committed to ensuring that responsible business practices are integrated into our global operations, including new acquisitions. A significant event for us in 2015 was our acquisition best practices of Transmode in Europe, and the process of combining our operations, policies and culture will and a sense of continue into 2016. We are fortunate that Transmode had a long history of sustainability practices, and we are committed to developing the strongest sustainability strategy for our obligation to the combined company. world around us.” Another priority for the coming year is to continue to improve the environmental impacts of our products. We believe our photonic integrated circuits change the dynamics of the optical transport network industry by increasing optical performance and reliability while reducing physical size, power consumption and heat dissipation. We are committed to realizing the impact of sustainability considerations in our designs for future products. While the focus of this report is on the sustainability aspects of our business, I encourage you to visit www.Infinera.com to learn more, including a more detailed analysis of our financial performance, approach to risk management, and our products and services. We also encourage your feedback on this report, and we hope you will return to find out more about our sustainability progress in the future. Tom Fallon Chief Executive Officer 03 ABOUT INFINERA ABOUT INFINERA About Infinera We provide optical transport networking equipment, software and services to telecommunications service providers, Internet content providers (ICPs), cable providers, wholesale and enterprise carriers, research and education institutions, and government entities (collectively, “service providers”) across the globe. Optical transport networks are deployed by service providers facing significant demands for optical bandwidth prompted by increased use of high-speed Internet access, mobile broadband, high-definition video streaming services, business Ethernet services and cloud-based services. We offer an end-to-end portfolio of packet-optical solutions for metro, long-haul and subsea networks. We believe that when our customers win, we win. Meeting customers’ specific deployment needs and providing industry-leading customer support is in our DNA. Stockholm, Sweden London, UK Kanata, Canada Allentown, PA Annapolis, MD Beijing, China Sunnyvale, CA Tokyo, Japa Carrollton, TX Hong Kong Bangalore, India AMERICAS EUROPE APAC Sunnyvale, CA Corporate headquarters Stockholm, Sweden Research and Hong Kong Sales, service and support and manufacturing development, sales, service and support Allentown, PA Manufacturing and London, UK Sales, service and support Tokyo, Japan Sales, service and support research Annapolis, MD Research and Bangalore, India Software development development, service and support Kanata, Canada Research and Beijing, China Research and development development Carrollton, TX Sales, service and support 05 ABOUT INFINERA MISSION VALUES Earn a superior return by enabling Drive For Results We are aggressive in the pursuit of our goals. our customers to build and operate the world’s best optical networks. Customer-Centric Focus The success of our customers is paramount and we will do everything necessary to honestly earn our customer’s business. VISION Pioneering Spirit We are courageous and we take risks. We solve problems others are afraid to solve, or can’t even see. To enable an infinite pool of intelligent bandwidth that the next Honesty & Humility We are committed to hold ourselves to the highest standards of communications infrastructure is conduct and behavior in every action, interaction, and aspect of our work. built upon. World-Class Quality We are committed to ensuring the highest standards of quality in our products, our services and our approach to doing business. Teamwork We are comfortable with cross-functional structures, and regardless of title, we work as a team. We make things happen. Visit Infinera.com for more information on... • Our board of directors and senior management • Economic performance and investor relations • Recent news and press releases 06 Products and Services Information flows through the Internet almost instantly—but we software solutions including the Infinera Open Transport Switch rarely see or think about the infrastructure that makes it possible (OTS) and Infinera Management Suite (IMS) to increase the to seamlessly connect different parts of the world to the efficiency and optimization of the network. global hub. Consumers and businesses expect their data to be available anywhere, anytime, without delay. In fact, the Internet Our Support Services is built on a highly complex network of fiber optic cables that run along the bottom of oceans, through deserts and forests, We market and sell our products and related support services and under city sidewalks. Long-haul optical networks crisscross primarily through our direct sales force, supported by marketing continents and oceans, and metro networks connect users to and product management personnel. We also use distribution or data centers. At their termination, these cables must connect support partners to enter new markets or when requested by a to hardware called optical transport systems that process the potential customer. optical signal and the data carried within it, ultimately sending In connection with our product offerings, we provide a it on to the more familiar network of local cables that connect comprehensive range of support services for all hardware and homes and businesses to the Internet. Network operators need software products. These support services cover all phases to quickly respond to exponential growth in the demand for of network ownership, from the initial installation through bandwidth and to have that capacity available to their customers day-to-day maintenance activities and professional services. when it’s needed. There is a continuing expectation for more Our support services are designed to efficiently manage and bandwidth, which is rapidly changing the way networks need to maintain customer network operations in the face of today’s be built. ever-increasing demands for lower operational costs and minimized downtime. Our Product Lines We design optical transport systems, ensuring that information flows smoothly from one region to another. Infinera Intelligent Transport Networks enable carriers, cloud operators, governments and enterprises to scale network bandwidth, accelerate service innovation and simplify optical network operations. Our end-to-end packet-optical portfolio is designed for long-haul, subsea, data center interconnect (DCI) and metro applications. Intelligent Transport Networks make it possible for businesses and consumers to access data and share ideas in real time. We have a complete portfolio of packet optical solutions, solving optical transport needs of network operators from the core to the access. Our product portfolio consists of the Infinera DTN-X family of platforms, the Infinera DTN platform, the Infinera Cloud Xpress platform, the Infinera XTM Series, the Infinera XTG Series and the Infinera ATN platform addressing subsea, long-haul and metro networks end-to-end. The emerging DCI application is a subset of the long-haul and metro applications. We also provide 07 ABOUT INFINERA SDN AND INFINERA NMS METRO LONG HAUL /SUBSEA DC INTERCONNECT Triple Play Broadband DTN-X Cloud Family Xpress Cable Broadband XTM Series NID EDU TM-102 TM-301 TM-3000 XTC-2 XTC-2E XTC-4 XTC-10 XT-500 XTM Business Ethernet Series Mobile Front/Backhaul XTG Series MTC-9 PHOTONIC LEADERSHIP Impact on the Industry We believe that a number of trends in the communications • Compelling technology: Today, only Infinera customers can industry are increasing the demand for network bandwidth capitalize on the significant benefits that stem from PIC and ultimately will increase the demand for optical transport technology, including ease of operation and life cycle cost networking systems. These trends include growth in bandwidthsavings. Ease of operation results from the elimination of intensive services like streaming high-definition video services, hundreds of discrete components and the reduction of intra the proliferation of 4G and WiFi mobile broadband due to the and inter shelf fiber patch cords. Fewer discrete components availability of smartphones and tablets, and the growth of cloud and less fiber complexity results in operational simplicity and services. As traffic grows, service providers add transmission ease of installation. Significant savings from reduced space bandwidth to existing optical networks or purchase and deploy and power are realized over time. additional systems to keep pace with bandwidth demands and • Extreme reliability: More than a decade of comprehensive service expansion. field quality and reliability data demonstrates that Infinera’s We deliver highly scalable optical networking solutions to composite systems are on average five times more reliable support this growing demand for high bandwidth across various than industry Telcordia benchmarks recommend. It means end-to-end network locations all the way from the high-capacity customers experience far fewer service-impacting events, long-haul core to the metro access. We manufacture large-scale resulting in higher consumer satisfaction ratings and Indium Phosphide photonic integrated circuits (PICs), which corresponding revenues. are used as a key differentiating component inside our optical • Flexible portfolio of services: It is our mission to differentiate transport equipment, enabling service providers to scale the Infinera professional services experience from all others, network bandwidth, accelerate service innovation and simplify in terms of flexibility, customization and execution in every optical network operations. customer engagement. Our high-touch model for the The Infinera experience is the union of three complementary professional services experience is highly proactive, and we pillars: compelling technology, extreme reliability and a flexible will do whatever it takes to keep our commitment. portfolio of services. Our business has grown significantly over the past 12 years as a result of our exceptional technology, reliability and flexible services. We have products deployed in 72 countries and the supporting infrastructure to service it. Building on our leadership in long-haul, we now provide an end-to-end portfolio of packet-optical solutions for metro, DCI, long-haul and subsea networks. 08 ABOUT INFINERA Sustainability Context Through the Value Chain We act in a global marketplace, where business practices and have led to higher transport and delivery costs. Other risks are conditions vary. It is vital, therefore, to identify and minimize flooding, extreme weather conditions and drought that could risks and capitalize on opportunities along the value chain to potentially affect both suppliers and transportation. See pages build robust operations and business strategies. 21–23 and 28–34 for information about our environmental As our suppliers are globally distributed, responsible sourcing management programs. and managing the social and environmental risks in the supply Finally, we want to drive initiatives that benefit local chain are crucial. We have extensive management systems in communities and causes as well, as we want to attract and place to identify and mitigate risks. See pages 19–22 for more develop the right people to maintain a competitive advantage. information. We place special emphasis on providing a good working From an environmental perspective, we consider both the environment and being the employer of choice across all of our environmental impact of our operations as well as the life cycle global operations. See pages 35–45 for more information on our impacts of our products and services. In particular, we are taking workplace programs. a close look at the potential financial, regulatory and continuity impacts of climate change on our business. The regulatory risks associated with climate change pose a potential financial risk to our business. Changes in fossil fuel taxation, for example, SUPPLY CHAIN OUR BUSINESS PRODUCT USAGE • We rely on a global network of suppliers • Headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, we • Customers include telecommunications to provide everything from office supplies have manufacturing, design and packaging service providers, ICPs, cable providers, and leased office space to semiconductor facilities in the U.S. and Sweden that wholesale and enterprise carriers, raw materials and contract manufacturing. maintain robust environmental, health and research and education institutions and safety (EHS) programs to ensure compliance government entities across the globe. • Key sustainability issues in the supply with all laws, regulations, and customer chain include business ethics, responsible • Products include optical transport specifications. sourcing, product and legal compliance, networking equipment, software human rights and labor rights. • We also have design facilities in Canada, and services that provide a unique China and India, which work closely with combination of highly scalable • We manage sustainability in the supply suppliers and customers to develop transmission capacity and easy-to-use chain through a world-class supplier products that meet strict quality and bandwidth management tools to simplify risk management system, a process for efficiency specifications. transport network operations. tracking/screening conflict minerals, and regular on-site oversight and auditing of • Our global marketing, services and sales • Key sustainability issues in our products key suppliers. teams are trained to deliver exceptional and customer use phase include the customer service to ensure that our environmental impacts of our products, products are used correctly and to their to ensure that they comply with maximum potential. environmental laws and regulations, as well as improving the energy efficiency • We manage sustainability in our business and longevity of our components. through strong EHS management systems, data tracking and reporting, business ethics • We work closely with our customers and a focus on continuous improvement. to ensure that we meet all product specifications, and have invested significant resources into R&D innovation to continuously improve our impact. 09 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T Stakeholder Engagement Many different stakeholders influence our business on a daily contact with main stakeholder groups through a web-based basis. We continuously interact with stakeholders through a questionnaire as well as interviews asking them to state their key number of forums and surveys to enhance relations and identify focus areas. The results from this stakeholder dialogue provided expectations and needs. valuable input for our materiality analysis. Our priority is to address key areas of interest of our key In 2016, we will expand our engagement with stakeholders on stakeholder groups through our business and sustainability issues of sustainability, focused on feedback for the following issues: strategy. Our key stakeholders are those with a high level of • Validation of the relevant material issues influence and interaction, and with whom we interact directly • Coverage of relevant topics in a cohesive way and actively in our daily business—customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and the community. All are crucial in • Emerging issues we should keep on the horizon for future enabling us to achieve our overall targets and sustainability consideration objectives, and if we succeed, it will be mutually beneficial. We look forward to sharing the results of this engagement in In 2015, we built on previous stakeholder engagement dialogue next year’s report. conducted by our metro business. This engagement included STAKEHOLDER GROUP KEY PRIORITIES HOW WE ENGAGE Product energy performance Customer surveys Environmental impact of products Personal meetings Business practices Demos Customers Responsible sourcing Seminars and conferences Innovation to reduce environmental impact and inspire others Questionnaires from customers Requests for quotation Innovation collaborations Customer satisfaction Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Employee engagement Staff meetings Employees Product quality and safety Incident follow up Health and safety Intranet and email Human rights Transparency and open dialogue Supplier Code of Conduct Business ethics Evaluations and procurement Suppliers Responsible sourcing Annual supplier forum Labor and human rights Innovation and product quality Economic performance SEC filings Business ethics Interim reports Environmental legal compliance Sustainability Report Shareholders Responsible sourcing Website Risk management Investor and analyst meetings Investor conferences Compliance with requirements Environmental reporting Corporate governance and risk management Collaborations Community Economic performance Media communication and releases Innovation and contribution Certification audits 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T Materiality The concept of materiality, or identifying the sustainability issues in the workshop prioritized material aspects based on their level that matter most, is used to guide the development of our of actual impact and how they affect the views and decisions of sustainability strategy as well as the contents of our sustainability our stakeholders. communications. Recently, we undertook a formal materiality Our materiality analysis identified that our key aspects are assessment process that forms the basis of this report. grouped into four focus areas—business ethics, product The first step of the materiality analysis was an internal responsibility, environmental responsibility and social workshop that involved members of management, and key responsibility. Our aim is to minimize risks and seize functions at Infinera, including legal, purchasing, human opportunities in our value chain. Key aspects per focus area can resources, manufacturing, facilities and marketing. This group be found in the chart below. evaluated aspects starting with our value chain—both risks The outcome of the materiality analysis was validated by and opportunities—covered by the UNGC, the GRI reporting members of our management team, including the CEO. The framework, and those aspects that have been emphasized in materiality analysis will be reviewed and revised on a regular recent customer surveys. Consideration was also given to the basis to ensure our priorities are right at all times. This industry and competitors, legal requirements and benchmark of methodology is compliant with the fourth-generation GRI best practices. guidelines, with materiality analysis applied to define the scope The workshop also included closer consideration of who we of sustainability reporting. interact with, to identify which stakeholders are most important in terms of their level of influence and interaction—customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and community. Participants SUPPLY CHAIN OUR BUSINESS PRODUCT USAGE Business Ethics Fair Business practices and responsible corporate governance Risk management Legal Compliance Product Responsibility Responsible Sourcing Product Compliance Product Environmental Impact Environmental Responsibility Emissions including Carbon Footprint Waste Management Social Responsibility / Working Responsibility Health & Safety Employee Development & Engagement Human Rights & Labor Practices 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T Sustainability Governance Sustainability Goals 2016 The commitment to sustainability is anchored at the highest level To drive performance in each area, we will continue to focus on of Infinera. Our executive management team sets our corporate the following in 2016 and beyond: sustainability strategy and establishes our sustainability goals. • Promoting business ethics and anti-corruption through Responsibility for implementing the sustainability strategy continued implementation of the Code of Business Conduct reside within the dedicated Corporate Quality & Sustainability and Ethics in our value chain team together with respective individual business units and • Reducing the environmental footprint of our products departments. Dedicated personnel throughout the company are trained to manage, monitor and report on sustainability issues. • Reducing the environmental footprint from our operations Our focus in 2015 and in the first half of 2016 has been to • Developing working conditions within Infinera to be an establish a more formal process for evaluating and prioritizing attractive employer and to drive initiatives that benefit local sustainability activities. This work will continue in the coming communities and causes years, including further implementation of sustainability aspects throughout the company. We look forward to sharing the results of our work in subsequent reports. Profitable & Sustainable Growth SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY/WORKING BUSINESS ETHICS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT Implement Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in the Facilities and working environment Targets for green house gas value chain Increase product power efficiency well positioned for sustainable emissions growth Establish business amenities and Waste reduction Employee development gift policy Driving initiatives that benefit local Responsible use of water community and causes CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS SHAREHOLDERS COMMUNITY 13 Memberships & Associations We participate in a number of industry associations, trade groups and peer networking organizations—many of which have a special focus on sustainability. Here are a few of the groups we engaged with in 2015: United Nations Global Compact (UNCG) is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. The UNGC is a voluntary program that commits companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption, and to take actions that seek to advance societal goals. Learn more at https://www.unglobalcompact.org/. American Society for Quality (ASQ) is a global community of experts and the leading authority on quality in all fields, organizations, and industries. ASQ Silicon Valley is a knowledge-based local community of quality professionals dedicated to the promotion and advancement of quality tools, principles, and practices in their workplaces and in their communities. We have employees who participate on the membership committee of the ASQ Silicon Valley chapter. Learn more at www.asq.org/. Conflict Free Smelter Initiative (CFSI) is a program founded by members of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. The CFSI offers companies and their suppliers an independent, third-party audit that determines which smelters and refiners can be validated as “conflict-free,” in line with current global standards. Learn more at www.conflictfreesourcing.org. QuEST Forum is a global association of companies including service providers, suppliers and liaisons, that is dedicated to impacting the quality and sustainability of products and services in the information and communications technology industry. In addition, we are a participant in QuEST Forum’s network function virtualization (NFV) initiative, created in 2015 to assess the needs and requirements of organizations developing and offering NFV services, encompassing reliability, performance and security. Learn more at www.questforum.org/. Silicon Valley Leadership Group (SVLG) is a public policy business trade organization representing almost 400 of Silicon Valley’s most respected employers on issues, programs and campaigns that affect the economic health and quality of life in Silicon Valley, including energy, transportation, education, housing, health care, tax policies, economic vitality and the environment. We are a proud member of SVLG and our leaders sit on several committees. Learn more at http://svlg.org/. Women in Photonics, Silicon Valley is a group started by and composed of women representing the vibrant and diverse work force of Silicon Valley from both industry and academia, specifically in the field of optics and photonics. Its mission is to provide a platform for networking, career growth and development in the field of photonics among women at different points of their career. Learn more at http://wiphotonics.weebly.com/. 14 BUSINESS ETHICS BUSINESS ETHICS We are committed to operating with integrity in all of our While the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics does not decisions, in all of our facilities and throughout the business. address every possible circumstance an employee might From our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to ongoing encounter, it does provide guidance for the most common training for employees, good corporate governance and fair ethical situations. It also outlines the process by which and honest business practices are expected of everyone. employees may raise concerns about our ethical, social, or environmental practices, including: • Talking with their local supervisor or member of local Fair Business Practices management Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics sets out our • Discussing the issue with a Human Resources representative commitments to, and expectations for, employees. It covers all operations, subsidiaries, affiliates and related entities worldwide, • Reporting violations or suspected violations to the Legal and covers the following topics: Department • Calling our third-party Ethics and Compliance hotline CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS Our whistleblower policy provides a mechanism for employees Compliance with laws, rules and regulations who reasonably believe they are aware of conduct that violates Conflicts of interest our legal duties—including, but not limited to: questionable Insider trading accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, Corporate opportunities or the reporting of fraudulent financial information to our Competition and fair dealing stockholders, the government or the financial markets—to raise Making Decisions Honestly & Ethically Payments to government personnel these concerns free of any harassment, discrimination or retaliation. Political activities Money laundering and funding illegal activity Following anti-boycott laws Learn more about Infinera’s Complying with export and import controls Record keeping approach to corporate governance, Protecting Infinera Information & Infinera Confidentiality risk management and executive Assets Protection and proper use of Infinera assets compensation in our proxy Purchasing policies and supplier relations Labor rights statement at infinera.com. Be Safe & Reliable Human rights Health and safety Environmental impact 16 BUSINESS ETHICS Compliance We take compliance with laws and regulations very seriously, Compliance Training throughout the company and in every jurisdiction. We had no Human resources and Legal work closely together to ensure confirmed cases of breaches to our Code of Business Conduct that our employees have appropriate training on complianceand Ethics in 2015. In the following table, we report the number related issues including our Code of Business Conduct and of formal grievances and legal claims filed against us, along with Ethics and our anti-corruption and bribery policy. We have an their status at the end of 2015. online training module that allows managers to assess a new employee’s job responsibilities to ensure that the appropriate COMPLIANCE AND GRIEVANCES IN 2015 compliance training is identified and assigned. The employee Business Ethics 0 receives a welcome email with log-in credentials and completes Environment 1* the training electronically. Automatic reminders are sent out for refresher training, and status reports are sent regularly Labor and Human Rights 0 to supervisors for those employees who fail to complete the Product Responsibility 0 training in a timely manner. Customer Privacy 0 ENVIRONMENTAL JOB SPECIFIC ETHICAL TRAINING* HEALTH & SAFETY Total 0 TRAINING* TRAINING* Grievances and legal claims may be filed from within the company or from an Universal and Root Cause external source. Insider Trading Policy Hazardous Waste Corrective Action Training *See page 29. Foreign Corrupt Injury and Illness Electrostatic Practices Act Prevention Discharge Training *Listed in the table are examples of training course in respective areas 17 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Responsible Sourcing Over the years, we have developed a network of suppliers that SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT support our business. We see our suppliers, licensees and their Compensation subcontractors as an integral part of our success, and we work Hours of work to select those who adopt strong ethical standards, respect Forced labor the rights of their employees and demonstrate stewardship Respect for Human Young workers Rights & Labor Rights of the environment. Harassment Nondiscrimination Freedom of association Supplier Code of Conduct Providing a safe and healthy workplace Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards Health & Safety Health and safety training expected of our suppliers so they act ethically, responsibly Illegal drugs and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This Hazardous substance management and code is required to be applied by our suppliers to their first tier restriction suppliers and subcontractors, including providers of contract Non-hazardous waste management labor. We expect suppliers to be transparent about their Wastewater management compliance with this code, either through self-assessment and Environmental Stormwater management Responsibility disclosure or through third-party audits. Topics covered in the Air emissions management Supplier Code of Conduct include: Boundary noise Environmental permits and reporting Pollution prevention and resource reduction Compliance with our Ethics Policy Bribery, gifts and favors Business records Conflicts of interest Ethics Competition Money laundering Privacy Responsible sourcing of minerals Commitment to responsible business practices Management accountability and responsibility Management Systems Risk assessment and management Performance objectives Communications Audits and assessments 19 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Key suppliers of raw materials and purchased assemblies are 2015 SUMMARY OF SURVEYS, AUDITS, AND TRAINING screened for compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct before being added as an approved supplier. In addition, Number of Supplier Reviews 57 every two years, key suppliers are required to extend their commitment to compliance with the code. At the end of 2015, Number of Supplier On-site Audits 19 98* percent of these suppliers had renewed their commitment. Suppliers Complying to Infinera Supplier CoC 98%* In addition to following our Supplier Code of Conduct, key Infinera procurement of personnel trained in business ethics 100% suppliers are also expected to be transparent about the sustainability impacts of the materials and components they Number of Instances of non-compliance 0 provide to us. We require that key suppliers report their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Number of Supplier terminations over ethics / 0 compliance / etc. Project (CDP), disclose on their website sustainability priorities, goals and progress, and cooperate with our efforts to monitor *We work on an on-going basis with all suppliers to be compliant. We qualify the supplier’s conformance, which includes on-site assessments alternate sources in the event of non-compliance. of their facilities, use of questionnaires and surveys and other measures necessary to allow us to review a supplier’s Annual Supplier Forum performance. We reserve the right to disqualify any potential supplier or terminate any relationship with a current supplier For the past nine years, we have hosted an annual Infinera that has failed to conform to these standards. Supplier Forum (ISF). ISF is where we host senior executives from our key suppliers (for semiconductors, mechanical and optical parts and assemblies from CMs, installation service Management and Oversight providers, and key second tier vendors). Speakers from Infinera We expect our suppliers to conduct their business in a lawful include our CEO, President, senior leadership, Marketing manner, but also in compliance with the same high standards of personal, Operations personnel and on occasion an individual integrity and ethics that we apply to our own operations. Here from a key customer. The objective of ISF is to share our vision, are some of the ways that we manage supply chain risk and hold key objectives and challenges (including initiatives related to suppliers accountable. corporate social responsibility directions), as well as allow for direct discussions between our suppliers and Infinera. Surveys and On-Site Audits We use surveys and conduct on-site audits of our major contract manufacturers (CMs) and key suppliers to assess and evaluate their performance on topics including labor conditions, child labor and human trafficking. We consider these principles in the selection of our CMs and suppliers with the intention to actively monitor their compliance through our internal audit program. Supplier audits are announced and conducted by Infinera at selected supplier facilities using audit protocols in line with the standards of the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition’s Code of Conduct and our Supplier Code of Conduct. We believe that employees at supplier facilities have the right to freely choose employment, the right to free association, and the right to be free of harassment and unlawful discrimination. 20 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Compliance Across the Value Chain We are committed to maintaining compliance with all REACH environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations, REACH addresses the production and use of chemical products and services. Our business and operations are substances, and their impacts on both human health and the subject to various federal, state, local and international laws environment. and regulations that have been adopted with respect to the We have a comprehensive REACH compliance program in place environment. Compliance with these requirements means that to help ensure that applicable obligations are met within the we must work diligently with the suppliers who manufacture specified timeframes. Additionally, we work with electronics our products. To date, we have not received notification of any industry peers to promote common regulatory and industry product environmental violations related to the Waste Electrical approaches to REACH compliance, and in 2015 accomplished and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive, Directive on the the following to upgrade our EU REACH compliance Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in requirements: Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS), and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals • Evaluated substances used in the manufacturing or (REACH) regulations. preparation of products to determine our obligation for registration or communication. • Identified substances of very high concern that could have RoHS been used in our products to determine any reporting and/or RoHS regulates the environmental impact of certain hazardous communication requirements, as needed. substances in electrical and electronic equipment. • Determined the list of chemicals used by the manufacturers We maintain a robust RoHS program comprising systems, tools of cleaning kits and the chemicals used in the manufacture of and processes to ensure all products meet the EU’s RoHS our products. requirements. Our RoHS program is comprised of business systems for product life cycle data management, product governance and compliance processes, supplier certification of WEEE compliance, and qualification and audit of CMs. WEEE aims to prevent electronic waste by promoting reuse, We accomplished the following in 2015 in an effort to meet our recycling and other forms of recovery. We have systems and RoHS compliance requirements: processes to manage the requirements of the WEEE regulations • Updated our database with supplier certification such as registration, labeling, reporting, recycling and take-back of conformance for over 18,000 parts used in the programs. We are in compliance with all WEEE directives and in manufacturing of our products to ensure their compliance. 2015 continued to: • Completed audit of three major CMs and numerous • Provide product marking and labeling as required by the component suppliers to ensure the continuation of WEEE directive. compliance to environmental regulations through process, • Oversee a take-back system and a program for recycling of system, and training of operators. products in each EU country, as required per local legislations. • Held regular weekly meetings with CMs and suppliers • Improve our documentation and reporting system for all to maintain a high level of integrity and transparency in products sold into the European Union. product development and manufacturing. 21 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY: CONFLICT MINERALS We share international concerns over the conflict in the • Annual disclosure: In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we report countries, where certain conflict minerals are sometimes mined annually to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and sold under the control of armed groups to finance conflict about our conflict minerals program. characterized by extreme levels of violence. We are working • Grievance mechanism and reporting: Employees, suppliers, to ensure that the mining of the minerals that end up in our and other affected parties are encouraged to report products does not contribute to human rights violations in the concerns and reported violations of our conflict minerals region. Our conflict mineral strategy has three main components: policy. Concerns can be reported anonymously, and are • Conflict minerals policy: Applicable to all our suppliers covered under our whistleblower protection and noninvolved in the manufacture of our products, this policy retaliation provisions. requires suppliers to have a policy in place to reasonably To read our most recent report to the SEC about our progress ensure that the tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in the on conflict minerals, visit www.infinera.com. products they supply or manufacture does not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or an adjoining country. • Supplier engagement: We communicate with our suppliers our requirements for our conflict minerals program. At least once annually, suppliers return their findings on conflict minerals in their supply chain using the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT). Following the due diligence framework provided by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, we follow up with suppliers who provide incomplete or contradictory answers for clarification and provide feedback when necessary on how to improve the quality of their reports. 22 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Greening Our Products Historically, our customers have made their buying decisions Reduced CO2 Emissions based primarily on the lowest total cost of ownership. As Higher electricity costs. Limited space. Availability issues. Just laws and regulations, public policy and corporate purchasing a few challenges you face in developing tomorrow’s advanced increasingly address environmental sustainability issues, we transport networks. In all types of networks—from power-hungry need solutions that address not just competitive pricing but the data centers to locations at the edge of the network—the overall environmental impacts of our products. pressure is on to reduce CO2 emissions. The use of our products and solutions is helping reduce Our low power design offers a way to meet all of these needs greenhouse gas emissions in two ways. First, we design our while reducing environmental impact, by providing products products for low power consumption. Running a network and solutions with industry-leading low power consumption— is a complex and expensive job, with the cost of energy an up to 75 percent lower compared with other leading packetongoing concern. The more efficient we can make the network, optical solutions. the lower the network costs for our customers and the lower environmental impact from use of our products. That’s why developing energy-efficient products is at the top of our product Reduced Need for Cooling development goals. Our lower power design means the need for cooling is reduced. Secondly, our products enable the efficient use of services Every kilowatt saved in equipment power saves up to 0.5 such as web conferencing and teleconferencing. By employing kilowatt of air conditioning as the system generates less heat. these services, we can help achieve the reduction of global The Infinera DTN-X family of products have flexible settings to travel and its associated negative environmental impact. While conserve power. For example, the DTN-X XTC-4 system changes harder to measure across our customer base, we believe that our the fan rotations per minute (RPM) depending on the ambient products and technology innovations are a key element of temperature. The fan power consumption changes based on the a low-carbon future. RPM. At the lowest temperature the fan power consumption is 122 watts, while at the highest temperature it is 1753 watts. LOW POWER DESIGN Thus operators can save up to 93 percent power depending on AT A GLANCE the ambient temperature using the DTN-X XTC-4. Similarly, the DTN-X XTC-10 has a fan power consumption range from 208 watts up to 3505 watts, saving up to 94 percent power. The Cloud Xpress family can save fan power consumption by Lower power consumption up to 76 percent. All this is enabled by the intelligent design of our products. Smaller on-site footprint Avoid Expensive Power Upgrades DIRECT Lower power consumption makes it easier to SAVINGS deploy systems in areas where power is limited. Less need for in-building Competing systems have significantly higher power cooling requirements, which require expensive power upgrades in consequence. Avoid expensive power upgrade Our Transparency Gives You Power To make it easier for customers and prospective INDIRECT customers to understand and compare what they are Reduced CO2 SAVINGS getting, we share detailed power consumption data in emissions accordance with the industry-standard recommendations of the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions. 23 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction We have a dedicated team devoted to managing product quality and customer satisfaction, working closely with individual teams, operations, and business units to ensure that our products and services meet the highest level of quality. We are registered according to TL9000 and apply those requirements to our quality and customer satisfaction by ensuring reviews and surveys for direct customer feedback. Companies certified to TL9000 benefit from a well-defined common standard addressing the telecommunications quality system requirements for design, development, production, delivery, and service. As a QuEST Forum member company (see page 14), we also benefit from best practice collaboration, quality benchmarking studies, and recognition for promotion of excellence from the leading companies in the information and communications technology sector. Product Design and Development Quality Manufacturing We work closely with our customers to develop design We have vertically integrated production facilities, which means specifications that meet their needs for performance, quality, that we manufacture our products in factories that we own and and compliance. Increasingly, these design specifications call for operate, giving us excellent control over the entire process. energy use requirements, restrictions on hazardous substances, In some instances, we also use CMs to assemble portions of our and compliance with laws and regulations on conflict minerals. products. Each CM procures components necessary to assemble Once we have a design in place, we create a production the products in our forecast according to our specifications and bills plan. This includes selecting parts and components, qualifying of material. To ensure we manage risk during manufacturing, we: suppliers and CMs, and determining production timelines and • Maintain quality, health and safety, and environmental quality assurance processes. management system certifications To mitigate the risk in our supply chain and to ensure that we are • Validate manufacturing methods and processes positioned to meet our product specifications on time and on budget, we: • Monitor and comply with product specifications and legal and regulatory requirements • Qualify multiple sources of critical components to spread risk geographically. • Score suppliers using our proprietary risk tool, which covers Testing and Quality Control aspects including capacity, quality, performance, sustainability, Despite outsourcing certain manufacturing operations for and responsiveness, along with other risk factors like cost-effective scale and flexibility, we perform rigorous in-house geography, stability, and longevity. quality control testing to ensure the reliability of our products. • Conduct additional monthly risk reviews, focusing on key To mitigate risk during this phase, we: items identified by the risk tool. • Implement extensive quality assurance and reliability testing • Maintain an electronic database of product specifications • Establish systems integration and validation requirements that interface with customers and suppliers to ensure a • Conduct testing and validation of software consistent set of expectations and requirements throughout the value chain. 24 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Satisfaction and Feedback Supporting Customer Satisfaction Our commitment to product responsibility doesn’t stop once our Through Technical Training products are installed. To go the extra mile to ensure that our Technical training is an essential part of Infinera services, customers are satisfied, we: ensuring customers and partners worldwide are certified • Conduct quarterly operations reviews with customers. These to install, operate, maintain, and troubleshoot our reviews cover specific reliability issues for each customer, products. Through technical training, the end-users (our services provided to the customer and new products, customers) gain the skills needed to use our products upgrades and ongoing service provisions. to optimum efficiency, reduce unnecessary product • Conduct internal reviews, surveying product and service replacements and extend the life of our products in data from deployments to sustaining product through their network. Infinera technical training is in the midst metrics developed collaboratively with customers, customer of a shift from instructor-led curriculums conducted in scorecards and TL9000 metrics. person that depend on extensive travel and time away from the office, to eLearning and other distance-learning • Send an annual customer satisfaction survey to a subset curriculums. This shift results in more customized/ of customers. Feedback from these customer satisfaction focused training, saving time, travel costs, and other surveys is tracked internally and communicated across infrastructure requirements. the company. Training is delivered worldwide at either a customer’s • Transmit customer requests for enhancements in our location; in training labs in Sunnyvale, Baltimore, London, products and services into our product and service Stockholm, and Hong Kong; or through “live” remote development life cycle. sessions using Lync, Skype, and WebEx. All trainees are given access to eLearning for refresher training and as a Customer Privacy support resource. We are committed to respecting individual privacy rights To ensure the training is of the highest quality, courses and expectations, and to protecting personal data against are constantly revised to reflect today’s market and unauthorized access, use, retention or disclosure. These aspects customer needs, and certification programs are are considered throughout the value chain as design and maintained. Using certifications helps ensure that all development, installation, deployment and sales. customers and partners have a verified skill set and knowledge base. We are not aware of any substantiated complaints about breaches of customers’ privacy received from any outside Technical training is provided for all Infinera platforms parties or regulatory bodies, or of any leaks, thefts or losses of and is available immediately after product release. customers´ personal data from breach of customer privacy. 25 F F P I TAT I Q U I B U S Q UA M . Awards for Product Innovation Optical Network Innovation of the Year Award was awarded to Infinera for our Cloud Xpress metro optical platform for the Cloud Xpress’s unique innovation in high performance data center interconnection. Cloud Xpress was honored as part of Telecom Asia Readers’ Choice and Innovation Awards, which are based on the overall quality of innovation and contribution to technology advancement, vision and industry leadership and market acceptance. This is the third year in a row that the Infinera “family” (including Transmode) has been recognized with a Telecom Asia Readers’ Choice and Innovation Award, and the second Optical Network Innovation Award in a row. Broadband Technology Report’s 5 Diamonds/Innovation Award goes to products that demonstrate game-changing technology and new standards for performance. In 2015, our PT-Fabric got the award for allowing operators to easily grow into a 100G metro network through pay-as-you-go additions. IHS (formerly Infonetics Research) named Infinera a Leader in Optical Networking and Data Center Interconnect Market in its 2015 Optical Network Hardware Vendor Scorecard, as a result of “outstanding customer perceptions, large market share gains and tight finances.” The Leading Lights awards highlight the cream of the telecom crop—bestowing awards in categories such as software-defined networking (SDN), NFV and Internet of Things (IoT), and recognizing companies demonstrating innovation at its best in the telecom industry. In 2015, we enjoyed the honor of being named finalist in three award categories: Company of the Year (Public), Best New Product (Telecom) category for the Cloud Xpress and Most Innovative SDN Product Strategy (Vendor) category with the Infinera Open Transport Switch. 26 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY: SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Our suppliers are a key element of our mission success, We are dedicated to supplier diversity and are actively involved providing impactful innovation in all aspects of company in organizations and outreach events that include the following: operations and a competitive advantage in the marketplace. • Western Region Minority Supplier Development Council We support the use of qualified diverse suppliers, including (WRMSDC) WRMSDC supports the growth and welfare of but not limited to the following certifiable classifications: minority communities by championing the use of minority• Small Business Enterprise (SBE) owned businesses in Northern California, Nevada, and Hawaii. • Women Business Enterprise (WBE) • National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) – The NMSDC is the global leader in advancing business • Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) opportunities for certified Asian, Black, Hispanic and Native • Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB) American business enterprises and connecting them to • Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) member corporations. • Veteran Business Enterprise (VBE) • Technology Industry Group (TIG) TIG is a forum to bring awareness of supplier diversity to the high tech supply • Service Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise (SDVBE) chain. It brings the foremost industry experts from high tech • Disabled Small Business Owners (People with Disabilities) companies together in a setting where knowledge is shared and connections are made. • LGBT Business Enterprise (LGBTBE) 27 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of Responsible Use of Resources: our operations through energy efficiency, waste reduction, Percent Increase from 2013 to 2015 and resource conservation. We have a dedicated team of EHS experts and facility managers who work closely with individual 70% sites to manage environmental risk that consider local and regional concerns. 60% Our precautionary approach is based on a risk assessment 50% process that identifies, assesses and mitigates environmental risk throughout our operations and supply chain. In the United 40% States and in Sweden, we have environmental management systems registered to ISO 14001. We are considering additional 30% registrations worldwide. 20% Environmental Legal Compliance 10% We take compliance with environmental regulations very seriously. We have procedures and processes in place both Revenue Headcount Space Water Electricity Nat Gas to identify new and updated legal and other requirements as well as to periodically evaluate compliance with applicable The above chart summarizes our responsible use of resources. While revenue requirements. In addition, we recently undertook a broad and headcount have increased by 63 percent and 49 percent, our use of electricity has increased by only 18 percent. Water increased by 24 percent review of our programs and operations in Sunnyvale, California while natural gas has remained essentially flat. We hope to continue this trend using a third-party expert. Changes in legal requirements and as we grow our revenue and business operations. Note: Revenue includes revenue from Transmode since its acquisition on August 20, 2015. Headcount, operations are incorporated into the annual review of our EHS space and electricity include major sites in California, Maryland, Pennsylvania, hazard and risk assessment and calendar of activities. India and China. Water includes our site in Sunnyvale, California (biggest use of water) and natural gas includes U.S. sites (no usage in other sites). Even with best efforts directed towards due diligence and regulatory compliance, a perfect compliance record can be elusive. We have had a spotless wastewater discharge record for at least the last five years, with quarterly sampling results showing compliance. In October 2015, however, we had a single event fluoride excursion from our Sunnyvale semiconductor fabrication plant, a violation under California Hazardous Waste regulations. To prevent recurrence, we voluntarily installed fluoride monitoring equipment closer to the process and made other facility modifications to allow for earlier detection. 29 E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Energy and Climate Carbon Footprint We recognize that anthropogenic sources of carbon can We estimate the carbon footprint of our business in accordance contribute to climate change. To identify our risks and to Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard. We have opportunities, we measure energy consumption and CO2 calculated our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for our major emissions arising from our business each year. Energy operations for several years. In 2015, we started the activity to consumption has been closely monitored at our facilities for gather data for Scope 3 emission with the intent to externally several years to identify areas for improvement. Efforts to publish this data in future sustainability reports. increase our energy efficiency are paying off, with a reduction Scope 1 and 2 calculations are focused on natural gas consumed of over 1,000 megawatt hours (MWh) since implementing our on-site and electricity purchased from the local grid, process energy reduction program. gas, diesel fuel for emergency power generators, and companyowned vehicles. Natural gas usage consistently represents about ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh) IN 2015* 5 percent of our combined Scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint. Natural gas is used primarily for heating space and water and is Electricity 28,463 largely consistent year-over-year. District heating** 3,819 Electricity makes up approximately 95 percent of our combined District cooling*** 404 Scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint and has increased by approximately 18 percent on an absolute basis since 2013. Over Total 32,686 that same period our amount of leased space for which the data covers increased by approximately 29 percent. * Major sites and sales offices included: United States, Sweden, India, China, Canada, United Kingdom and Hong Kong ** District Heating: District heating is a system for distributing heat generated in EMISSIONS BY SCOPE (TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENTS [tCO2E]) IN 2015* a centralized location for residential and commercial heating requirements such as space heating and water heating. District heating in Sweden is generated by Fleet vehicles (S1) 29 86 percent renewable sources. *** District Cooling: District cooling delivers chilled water to buildings like Facilities (production gases) (S1) 115 offices and factories needing cooling (Sweden). Facilities (energy use) (S2) 12,970 Recent Energy Efficiency Highlights Total emissions 13,114 In 2015, we implemented several projects at our Sunnyvale, *S1 and S2 stand for Scope 1 and Scope 2 according to GHG protocol. The California facilities to replace inefficient fluorescent lighting with chart above covers our major sites in the United States, Sweden, India, China, newer LEDs and to upgrade our HVAC systems. These changes Canada, the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. are expected to result in annual savings of approximately 600 MWh. CO2 Emissions Key Performance Indicators (Scope 1 and 2) In 2015, our facility in Bangalore, India implemented energy Absolute GHG emissions will vary over time and often efficiency projects upgrading HVAC systems in labs and LED correspond to the expansion or contraction of an lighting across three floors. These changes are expected to organization. It is useful therefore to use reporting metrics result in annual energy savings of approximately 1,300 MWh. that take these metrics into account and monitor relative In 2014, we implemented several projects at our Allentown, GHG emissions intensity. Pennsylvania facility including replacement of inefficient fluorescent lighting with new LED lamps and replacing REFERENCE DATA KPI* inefficient compressed air plant and chillers with new high 0.0015 tCO2e per thousand efficiency units. These changes resulted in annual savings of 886,714 thousand USD revenue ($) USD revenue approximately 500 MWh. 6.38 tCO2e per full-time 2056 full-time employees (FTE) equivalent employee *The chart above covers our major sites in the United States, Sweden, India, China, Canada, the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. 30 E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Air Emissions The semiconductor fabrication facility in Sunnyvale, California Waste Categories is the only site subject to air emissions permitting requirements. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE Monitoring and reporting of air emissions is also required, including Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) emissions. These results Paper, cardboard, plastic bottles and cans and are shared annually on the U.S EPA´s TRI website. printer cartridges Recycled Polyurethane and non-polyurethane foam from office, shipping and receiving Waste and Recycling Composted Kitchen waste Each of our facilities identifies and implements the most appropriate options for waste diversion and reduction Incinerated Mixed non-hazardous trash depending on operation and type of waste generated. Landfilled Mixed non-hazardous trash Production waste associated with manufacturing our products, such as cardboard and paper, scrap metal and foam, is sorted HAZARDOUS WASTE and recycled, with hazardous waste treated and removed by Solvent waste (fuel blended or recycled offsite as qualified service providers. Our design and sales offices mainly Recovery feedstock) focus on recycling waste items like bottles, cans, and office paper. Qualified external partners are contracted to manage Flammable wipes used in cleaning of equipment Incineration all waste with a focus on recycling and safe management of Corrosive wipes used in cleaning of equipment waste that cannot be recycled in accordance with federal and 95:5(%) Water/Hydrofluoric Acid (HF) from state regulation. semiconductor fab Treatment Offsite 2015 WASTE GENERATION Concentrated acidic waste NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE METRIC TONS Recycled 205 Wafers and solid material not able to be Landfill incinerated Compost 10 Incinerated 6 Universal Waste (approved recycle/recovery Landfilled 93 facility) Total 366 Alkaline and lithium batteries HAZARDOUS WASTE METRIC TONS Other Recovery 25 Fluorescent and high-intensity discharge (HID) lamps Incineration 8 Treatment Offsite 92 Electronic waste (e-waste/universal waste) Landfill <1 Other (Universal Waste) 1 Total 126 This table covers waste generation at our Sunnyvale, California, and Allentown, Pennsylvania facilities. 31 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY: WASTE REDUCTION Foam Densification: Two years ago, we installed a foam Composting: Since opening our new café in a recentlydensification tool to condense the large amount of foam leased Sunnyvale, California building, we have increased our packaging received from suppliers. This new equipment can composting by approximately 1,000 pounds per month. This reduce the packaging material at an 80:1 ratio, taking up program meets the City of Sunnyvale requirements for cafeteria less square footage. This reduces the need for frequent foam operations. Prior to that we had a dispersed composting pickups, eliminating several truck trips each week and reducing program for office areas that resulted in 1,800 pounds per carbon emissions associated with transportation of lightweight month. With the increase to 2,800 pounds per month, we are foam. In 2015 we condensed approximately 5000 pounds of on our way to greater landfill diversion of waste and eliminating foam into ingots. We reduced the truck emissions from multiple methane/GHG emissions from this source if it were to go to foam pickups by 8:1, and the densified foam now becomes a landfill. marketable, recyclable product. Going Landfill-Free: Our Allentown, Pennsylvania facility is a 100 percent landfill free site; all waste is either recycled or incinerated. A recycling contractor is used for all recycling and universal waste. For 2015, 56 percent of the Pennsylvania facility’s waste was recycled, with 44 percent of its waste incinerated for electricity. 32 E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Water Management Greening Our Facilities Semiconductor fabrication requires a significant quantity of While each of our facilities has dedicated personnel assigned to water, while offices and design facilities use water in a more facility management, we also harness the power and enthusiasm limited fashion in kitchens, bathrooms and landscaping of our employees to help green the way we operate. irrigation. For that reason, most of our water efforts are focused on maximizing water efficiency at our fab facilities. When the Green Teams opportunity arises, however, we also take advantage of other opportunities to conserve water. In 2011, Infinera created a Green Team with a diverse group of employees at our Sunnyvale, California headquarters. Since then, Over the last several years, we have taken advantage of local the team has identified resource conservation improvements utility rebate programs to implement low flow solutions in including composting, segregation of waste, minimization of restrooms and break areas. We continue to evaluate process water and energy savings. We actively solicit and evaluate water opportunities and track water use to identify where employee suggestions and act on them appropriately. The additional efforts are needed. Landscape irrigation water Green Team also issues a periodic newsletter with information consists of city recycled water wherever possible. Since our for all employees on how to take simple steps—like using buildings are leased, we advocate for low water use landscaping online paycheck vouchers and composting in the kitchen—to with owners and property managers. minimize their environmental impact. In addition, the Green Treatment of process water is accomplished by a permitted Team provides support and guidance for employees to help on-site acid waste neutralization plant and discharged to the them green their personal lives. We have embarked on a series municipal sewage treatment system. of “green bag” lunchtime meetings open to all employees, with WATER CONSUMPTION (CUBIC METERS) IN 2015 outside speakers on relevant topics. Total Consumption 65,936 This table covers our major sites and sales offices in the United States, India, Sweden, China, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong Xeriscaping In September 2015, due to the ongoing drought in the State of California, we started working on a turf reduction project in Sunnyvale. The project included replacing lawns around buildings with a drought tolerant and more sustainable landscape. It was completed in February 2016. We expect to see a reduction in our potable water usage of 946 cubic meters per year at our semiconductor fabrication building, and a reduction in the use of lawn chemicals and treatments. 33 CASE STUDY E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y CASE STUDY: SMOKE FREE CAMPUS We are smoke-free at all of our facilities. This is particularly Green Building Features important at our corporate headquarters in Sunnyvale, California Our building managers continually investigate and implement due to our proximity to the San Francisco Bay Estuary. Save the energy-saving opportunities throughout our locations. We Bay estimates that over three billion toxic cigarette butts are have implemented many projects, resulting in over 1000 littered in the Bay Area each year, threatening water quality MWh saved over the last 18 months at our California and and wildlife in the Bay. To address this, we have placed signs on Pennsylvania facilities. These savings are tracked and verified short trails leading to flood levees that hold back tidal wetlands in order to ensure effectiveness. The projects include a new connected to the South Bay Salt Ponds and channels. For those building management system, retrofitting light fixtures with LED individuals who do smoke, we provide receptacles for their lamps, retro-commissioning building infrastructure to optimize refuse and regularly keep track of known smoking areas that are performance, and deploy the use of hot aisle – cold aisle off-property for cleanliness and proper use. environments for our labs. We are also preparing to participate in the EPA’s Energy Star Program to track and compare our energy use with other facilities in order to achieve best-inclass efficiency. We will continue to investigate and implement opportunities for improvement at all of our facilities. 34 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We believe a connected world is a better world. But connection Employee Diversity in and of itself is not enough. Those connections need to foster Employees are our most important resource and the basis mutual respect, appreciation of ideas and the lifting up of those for our success. We seek an environment characterized by most in need. In our realm of social impact, there has to be respect for the individual, where cultural and ethnic diversity movement toward sustained relationships and betterment within are blended by teamwork into a harmonious work force. We our global community. are proud to have more than 60 native languages in our organization, spanning a spectrum of employees with very diverse social and professional backgrounds. Our Workforce We are required to put into place an affirmative action plan at We have grown rapidly, going from 1,318 to 2,056 employees each of our U.S. locations. This plan includes equal employment in the last two fiscal years. The advancement and expansion of opportunity to ensure the rights of each person in all actions, our business, products and service offerings places a significant including recruitment, selection, training, compensation, strain on our management, and operational and financial promotion, and recreation, all of which shall be based upon resources. To manage any future growth effectively, we must individual ability, interests and performance. continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems, and our ability to manage headcount and processes in Gender Diversity Percent of Women an efficient manner. 25% With thousands of employees and contractors around the world, 20% our core value of teamwork is a critical aspect of our success. As 15% our company continues to grow, we are working hard to ensure 10% that the Infinera culture, which emphasizes collaboration and 5% innovation, is embedded into every effort and operation. 0% Our strategy ensures our success through attracting, retaining 2015 2014 2013 and developing the top talent in our industry, all with an Americas APAC EMEA emphasis on excellence, transparency and contributing to a dynamic and engaging environment. The increase in female workers in Europe from 2014 to 2015 is a result of the Transmode acquisition. Race and Ethnicity Diversity and Inclusion Race and Ethnicity We are committed to providing employees with a non60% discriminatory work environment that promotes open and honest 50% communication and embraces dignity, respect and diversity in all aspects of our business operations. 40% 30% Discrimination and Harassment 20% To maintain our culture of diversity, all employment decisions 10% are based on a principle of mutual respect and dignity for one 0% another, as well as compliance with local laws. 2015 2014 2013 Asian Caucasion/White Our equal employment policy prohibits discrimination on the Black/African American Hispanic or Latino basis of gender, religion, age, origin, sexual orientation or Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander functional disability, as well as any other legally protected class. Because race and ethnicity categories differ between countries, as do laws Harassment can come in many forms, including physical actions, regarding tracking of employee racial association, we only report this diversity data in our U.S. facilities, where the majority of our employees are located. verbal or written remarks, or visual depictions. We strictly Human Rights and Labor Rights prohibit any acts of harassment, whether by an employee or a non-employee, and require regular training to ensure managers are aware of what constitutes harassment. 36 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Human Rights and Labor Rights and by country, or where specified in collective bargaining We support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights, agreements. For example, our site in Sweden provides notice including the principles reflected in the Universal Declaration for operational changes according to its CBA Teknikavtalet with of Human Rights issued by the General Assembly of the United a minimum of four weeks (maximum 52 weeks). Notice periods Nations. We are always seeking new ways to demonstrate our and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in commitment and dedication to ethical practices. To that end, we the collective bargaining agreement. publicize our internal standards and our supplier requirements, including but not limited to the policies outlined below: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct • California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657) • Conflict Minerals Policy • Purchasing Ethics Policy We further support the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor. We do not recruit child labor and support the elimination of exploitative child labor. We support the right to freedom of association, and until late 2015 none of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. With the acquisition of Transmode in 2015, our site in Sweden has 100 percent of its workforce covered by a collective bargaining agreement. In facilities where workers are not unionized, we have mechanisms in place to ensure that workers have a voice in operational decision-making. In our manufacturing plants, there are a number of EHS meetings and committees that involve employees. We seek to provide adequate notice to employees in advance of any significant changes to our operations. We provide the appropriate levels of transparency and notice based on organizational change, labor standards per region 37 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 Facts & Figures Our Employees Hires by Age Group, Region & Gender 1200 180 160 1000 55 140 800 120 100 600 50 80 99 60 400 40 18 9 60 200 20 27 24 22 1 6 4 1 0 0 Female Male Female Male Female Male 2015 2014 2013 Americas APAC EMEA Americas APAC EMEA Under 30 30–50 Over 50 Employees by Management Level & Gender Employees by Region & Gender 1400 1000 900 1200 800 1000 700 600 800 500 600 400 300 400 200 200 100 0 0 Managers Non-Managers Americas APAC EMEA Female Male Female Male Employee Category Percent by Gender Employee Category Percent by Age Group 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% Female Male Under 30 30–50 Over 50 Manager Individual Contributor Manager Individual Contributor 38 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Health and Safety We are committed to providing all employees with a healthy and Safety Training safe work environment by preventing accidents and improving Training is based on the specific hazards of the job. Jobs are physical and psychosocial conditions. Our health and safety categorized, and each category is assigned a predetermined programs focus on the following elements: list of EHS classes in a Learning Management System (LMS) Accountability: Each employee is responsible for maintaining a managed by our Human Resources department. For example, healthy and safe workplace by following health and safety rules required safety classes might include topics like chemical safety, and practices, and reporting accidents, injuries, and unsafe laser safety, electrical lock out/tag out, forklift training, and equipment, practices or conditions. office or industrial ergonomics. Conduct: We do not tolerate violence or threatening behavior. Our emphasis on the importance of ergonomics stems from Employees should report to work in a condition to perform their our heightened awareness of the physical implications of any duties, free from intoxication due to drugs or alcohol. The use of repeatable task that our employees undergo in their daily illegal drugs in the workplace is never permitted. jobs. Our ergonomic concerns range from the typical office Compliance: We comply with relevant health and safety ergonomics to industrial ergonomics. We have measures in regulations everywhere we operate. place to address our ergonomic issues, from educating our employees to mandatory ergonomic training to information sessions. Additionally, we conduct ergonomic evaluations both Management Systems in-house and by an ergonomic specialist—either as a follow-up We maintain an OHSAS 18001-certified safety management to a concern, or as requested by the employee. system in our Sunnyvale, California and Allentown, Pennsylvania facilities, which helps us identify, manage and continuously Emergency Preparedness improve safety risks and performance across all of our activities through: We have trained Emergency Response Teams at all locations. For example, we have a trained team who is certified by the • Safety policies that outline requirements and expectations State of California’s Emergency Management Agency to • Standard operating procedures (SOPs) that provide detailed respond to all on site emergencies involving hazardous materials. instructions for safely completing tasks At our other sites that have hazardous materials, we have Medical Emergency Response Teams that respond to medical • Audits and corrective action plans to identify and redress emergencies that may arise. health and safety gaps • Detailed data tracking and reporting to measure performance SAFETY PERFORMANCE IN 2015 over time Fatalities 0 Health and safety is a top priority, particularly in our manufacturing operations, which involve an elevated safety Number of OSHA Recorded Cases 3 risk for certain tasks. We have a dedicated team of EHS professionals that oversees all aspects of EHS for the company, Number of Lost Time Injury Cases 1 with the help of local representatives at each site. EHS programs Number of Restricted Work Day Cases 1 are implemented throughout the company based on the site’s individual risk assessment. At sites with significant health and This table covers U.S. employees only. At this time, we do not track health and safety data by gender. safety impact, risk assessment is further detailed through recognized methods such as job hazard analysis. 39 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY: SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS The use of hazardous materials is a necessity in a semiconductor With an automated closed system for chemical delivery, human fabrication facility. With the use of hazardous materials comes interaction is minimized. This ensures that even the most toxic the responsibility to “engineer out” potential exposure or corrosive chemicals are managed safely without the hazards to employees and the public. With this in mind, we have involved with manual handling. established multiple levels of control, with reliance on • Employers are required to maintain Material Safety Data automated bulk chemical delivery systems supporting the safety Sheets (MSDS) for all the chemicals on-site of our operators. With proper facility and process design, we • MSDS are located in binders in each of the buildings with ensure the safe use and handling of all hazardous materials. chemicals, and all MSDS documents are also available Engineering controls reduce the risk of employee exposure, electronically regardless of hazard level and the physical state of the chemical. If substitution with a less hazardous chemical is not an option, • Chemical purchases must go through a formal review process we reduce risk by minimizing the number of steps that require to evaluate safety and environmental impact manual chemical handling. To achieve this, we have built a state-of-the-art Bulk Chemical Delivery room. Ample ventilation and containment for the room itself is only the beginning. Inside the room, there are enclosures with additional ventilation, containment, and controls. 40 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Development and Engagement We believe in the value of continuous learning and professional Training growth. Whether it’s encouraging employees to share their Starting in 2011, we launched our first formal development candid feedback about working for the company through our training program. In 2014, we expanded this program to all Culture Survey, our Executive Suggestion Site, or on public offices and all employee levels. Available development training forums such as Glassdoor.com, or ensuring that all employees includes: Infinera Influencer, Powerful Presentations, Mastery of have access to informal and formal learning opportunities, we Mindset and many more. The session topics were specifically know that our evolution as an organization is underpinned by selected based on the preferences of employees across the the evolution of our people. company. In addition, we offer monthly information sessions In 2015, while every employee took part in a learning activity, where employees can expand their knowledge of the business we recognize that the pressures of rapid growth and the and departments outside their own. disconnect between learning activities and impact were barriers From a formal learning perspective, nearly all of our employees for many employees. Yet we were pleased to learn that our have taken part or have had the opportunity to participate in limited program offerings did not diminish strong organizational some sort of formal development in 2015, including leadership indicators of an engaged workforce. Eighty-eight percent of coaching, instructor-led training, and eLearning. On average, employees surveyed would recommend working at Infinera to employees received 4.1 hours of formal learning, including a friend (which is supported by our sourcing statistic that 33 compliance training. Metro Sweden employees are not included percent of our new hires were referred by an Infinera employee) in these figures. and 94 percent of employees are proud to work for Infinera. LEADERSHIP AND “LUNCH AND COURSES AND In 2015, we invested in a global function leader who is focused DEVELOPMENT LEARN” INFO PROGRAMS FOR on expanding the way we think about learning and ensuring that COURSES FOR SESSIONS EMPLOYEES AT MANAGERS ALL LEVELS every employee has ready access to learning activities that will Evaluation, have the greatest impact on their development. We conducted Leadership through acquisition and Infinera influencer coaching our first Learning and Organization Development survey to integration better understand how employees experience Infinera from the Our stock and Managing within the investor relations Mastery of mindset perspective of opportunity to master skills, autonomy, purpose, law strategy collaboration and how they experience our values. The results of Leadership Five tips to getting Powerful the survey have been shared with senior management and used effectiveness your emails noticed presentations to shape our priorities for 2016 and beyond. Transitioning from How to negotiate individual contributor Meditation anything to people manager Employee Career Development Understanding our Executive coaching Project management earnings report We offer a variety of opportunities to guide employees on their Coaching Managing time and career journeys. We believe individuals should play an active role conversations priorities in their own career development to achieve their professional Effective goals. Because we realize that experiential learning is the most communication powerful type, we focus on providing new job-based learning Work style analysis: individuals and teams opportunities, such as new projects, cross-functional transfers, Toastmasters club expanded roles and relocations to other geographies. New employees are introduced to Infinera through an orientation program, where they receive an overview of our industry, products, and culture. Our Summer Scholar development program for high school seniors and college freshman provides job-specific skills, mentoring, peer networking opportunities, and a holistic understanding of our business. 41 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The transition to “Coaching Conversations” was embraced by the company in 2011. Through our annual trainings and HR guidance, we develop our managers into stronger leaders who are comfortable having healthy exchanges with their employees, and teams that focus on solutions. In turn, employees are encouraged to discuss career aspirations and ideas with their managers or a mentor on a bi-annual basis. The “Career Conversation” is intended to broaden an individual’s skills and knowledge. This is an opportunity for employees to discuss their career interests and to review activities and progress. Wages and Benefits Our goal is to provide our talent with a total compensation package competitive with the market. Total compensation includes base salary, bonus and equity awards (for eligible employees). Factors such as internal and external comparisons, individual employee performance, potential, and unique skills or Learning Management System (LMS) knowledge required for the success of the company affect the In 2015, we made a significant investment in a sophisticated composition and level of total compensation for each employee. LMS. Our first use phase for the LMS has been “core training” to automate product training for our workers and customers, and to automate business ethics, safety and compliance training Employee Participation in U.S. Employer-Sponsored Benefits for workers. As we onboard employees in manufacturing and 1200 engineering jobs, we are planning a knowledge management 1000 use case to automate their training on our manufacturing and 800 engineering processes and systems. 600 400 Our next use phase will be to build a repository of internal 200 and external learning opportunities—from brief videos to 0 live classes—that are linked to a handful of competencies 2015 2014 2013 that are crucial to the effectiveness of individuals and the Medical Dental organization. These competencies include business acumen, building relationships, cross-functional collaboration, scaling, communication and leading teams. U.S. Benefits All regular full‐time employees and regular part‐time employees Employee Coaching who work 30 or more hours per week are eligible for all Infinera We believe that once-a-year performance evaluations aren’t benefits. All regular part‐time employees who work between enough. We encourage management and our employees 24 hours and 29 hours per week are eligible for partial benefits. to engage in more frequent and regular dialogue and to Part-time employees working fewer than 24 hours per week will engage in an interactive process to provide timely recognition be eligible for such benefits as are legally required. and feedback on an ongoing basis. The Infinera POWr (Position, Outcomes, Way Forward, and revisit) model shifts the performance focus from a one-time annual event to a process that builds relationships with transparency and better alignment within the teams and departments. Our “Coaching Conversations” are two-way discussions intended to drive outcomes in a rapidly shifting environment. 42 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Health Insurance Global Operations Health insurance is one of the most critical benefits offered Our goal is to provide market-competitive benefits as part at Infinera. Our goal is to offer comprehensive benefits while of our total reward structure to ensure peace of mind for all minimizing costs for our employees and for Infinera. global employees and their dependents. Our primary coverages pertain to private medical coverage, life insurance, and various We currently provide a comprehensive health benefit program, forms of accident or disability coverage. We strive to provide which includes medical, dental and vision plans for eligible these coverages 1) where they are legally required, 2) where employees and their dependents. We currently pay the majority group and individual plans can be obtained, and 3) to be of the cost of such health benefit coverage for employees. market-competitive. Employees in the United States are offered a choice of health These coverages can be found in all major regions including plans including medical, dental, and vision. Employees may also the United States, Sweden, Canada, the United Kingdom, India enroll in a Flexible Spending Account for healthcare, dependent and China. Additionally, many of these coverages are in places care, and commuter costs. The cost of basic life, accident, across the rest of the Americas, EMEA and APAC. Benefits disability insurance, and Employee Assistance Plan (EAP) is may differ based on location, statutory requirements and local employer-paid. customary best practice. Offering a choice of medical plans allows our employees to choose a plan that best suits their needs. Among the choice of medical plans, most employees have opted to enroll in a PPO Wellness Programs plan, which allows for flexibility when choosing a physician We promote and support the health, safety, and well-being of and hospital. our employees. Through our wellness program, employees may participate in several team sports, a variety of fitness challenges, attend information sessions on nutrition, financial wellness and 401(k) Retirement Plan healthy living. For employees who do not have access to the We offer a 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan to our U.S.-based on-site fitness centers, we offer a reimbursement subsidy for employees. Employees are eligible to enroll as of their hire gym membership. date and contribute a percentage of his or her salary up to the maximum limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. In 2015, we implemented an employer match. Our 2015 401(k) participation rate was 75 percent. 43 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Employee Recognition Community Engagement We are proud of our talented and hardworking team. Our We actively support the communities in which we operate standards and expectations are high, but from time to time and encourage our employees to do the same. Through individual contributors or sometimes a team of people will our Community Fund, company-sponsored volunteering perform above and beyond our own high standards and are opportunities, and donation matching, Infinera is fulfilling our worthy of special recognition. That recognition can come in a commitment to be a good corporate citizen. We believe that our multitude of ways: net impact on communities in the areas where we operate is positive. • A personalized thank you – whether this be in a one-on-one meeting or through an email or team meeting • Personalized gifts that are selected to suit each individual’s Community Fund interests by managers who know what each person enjoys on In 2010, we launched the Infinera Community Fund (ICF) and its a personal level all-employee volunteer team. ICF’s mission is to foster mutual • “You Rock” awards – for any employee to recognize anyone respect, appreciation of ideas and the lifting up of those in that has gone above and beyond need through employee-run events and initiatives in our local communities. We want to support the causes that matter most • Spot bonuses to our teams, empowering them to make a difference in their • Guiding Light Awards spotlighting employees who exemplify surrounding neighborhoods and the world at large. Infinera values ICF has over 50 members throughout our offices. We encourage • Round of Applause – our Team Recognition Award to employees to work and engage with non-profit organizations in celebrate a new “Infinera Moment of Magnificence” their local areas to help benefit the community we live and work in. • Five and 10 year awards to recognize longtime employees ICF offers employees an active internal portal dedicated to helping them find ways to give back in their local communities. • Annual events such as picnics, Take Your Kids to Work There are areas for employees to learn about current company Day, afternoon socials, quarterly lunches, and corporate volunteer opportunities and team-building events, and submit achievement celebrations matching fund requests. There are also photo galleries to view NUMBER OF YOU ROCK AWARD RECIPIENTS past events and fundraising activities. 2015 800 2014 677 2013 573 44 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ICF Sunnyvale Event: Bike Build for the Boys and Girls Club In April 2015, different departments in our Sunnyvale, California facility came together for our first Bike Build event. One hundred employees participated in the event, which challenged 10 teams against each other in friendly games and competition to win bike parts, which were then assembled into bicycles. In a surprise appearance, children from the San Jose Boys and Girls Club chapter met the Infinera team and were presented with their new bikes. Volunteerism ICF organizes quarterly volunteer events for employees and contractors to have an opportunity to give back to the community with their coworkers. Volunteers receive paid time off to participate in these events, which are scheduled during the normal workday. Organizations we support include: • Reading Partners • We teach science • Citizen Schools • Year Up • Second Harvest Food Bank • Sacred Heart Community Service • Family Giving Tree • HandsOn Bay Area Donation Matching We also support local causes with regular employee matching donations. ICF offers a quarterly fund-matching program. Employees can apply and the committee will review their application to make sure that it fits within the guidelines. Once the funds are approved, the committee sends the matched funds to the non-profit organization. Each employee can have funds matched up to $500 a year. 45 UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDEX UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDEX PRINCIPLE # UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE NUMBER 1 Businesses should support and respect the 16, 19, protection of internationally proclaimed 36–37 human rights 2 Business should make sure that they are 17, 20, 22 not complicit in human rights abuses 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 16–17, We are a proud member of the UNGC, a voluntary initiative association and the effective recognition of 19–20, 37 the right to collective bargaining based on CEO commitments to implement 10 universal sustainability principles on human rights, labor, the 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination 16–17, environment and anti-corruption, and to take actions that of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 19–20, 37 advance societal goals. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective 16–17, This report explains our progress in implementing the UNGC abolition of child labor 19–20, 37 principles, cross-referenced in the adjacent table. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination 16–17, of discrimination in respect of employment 19–20, and occupation 37–38 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 29 approach to environmental challenges 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives 28–34 to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Businesses should encourage the 23 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10 Businesses should work against corruption 16–17, in all its forms, including extortion and 19–20 bribery 47 UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDEX We report on our sustainability efforts according to GRI GRI PAGE DESCRIPTION Guidelines according to “In accordance – Core” level. This INDICATOR NUMBER report has not been externally assured. The GRI content GOVERNANCE index includes General Standard Disclosure Items and Specific G4-34 Governance Structure 2016 Proxy Standard identified as material in our materiality analysis. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, Principles, Standards and Norms of 6 GRI PAGE Behavior DESCRIPTION INDICATOR NUMBER ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 2016 10-K G4-1 Statement from CEO 3 G4-EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and 2016 10-K ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Distributed G4-3 Name of the Organization 2 G4-EC2 Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 9 G4-4 Primary Brands, Products and Services 7–8 G4-EC3 Coverage of the Organization's Defined 2016 10-K Benefit Plan Obligations G4-5 Headquarters Location 5 ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-6 Countries of Operation 5 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 44 G4-7 Ownership and Legal Form 2016 Proxy G4-EC7 Development and Impact of Community 44 G4-8 Markets Served 7–8 Investment and Support Services G4-9 Scale of the Organization 5, 8 G4-EC8 Indirect Economic Impacts, Including the 44 G4-10 Workforce Profile 36–38 Extent of Impacts G4-11 Collective Bargaining Agreements 37 ASPECT: ENERGY G4-12 Supply Chain 9 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 30 G4-13 Significant Changes During the Reporting 3 G4-EN3 Energy Consumption 30 Period G4-EN5 Energy Intensity 30 G4-14 Precautionary Approach 29 G4-EN6 Energy Reduction (Organization) 30 G4-15 Environmental Economic Charters, Principles 14 G4-EN7 Energy Reduction (Products) 23 and Other Initiatives ASPECT: WATER G4-16 Memberships and Associations 14 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 33 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-EN8 Water Use 33 G4-17 Entities Covered in Financial Statements 2016 10-K ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-18 Process for Defining Report Content 12 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 30–31 G4-19 Material Aspects 12 G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 30 G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the Organization 12 (Scope 1) G4-21 Aspect Boundaries Outside the Organization 12 G4-EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 30 G4-22 Restatements N/A Emissions (Scope 2) G4-23 Significant Changes Since Last Reporting N/A G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity 30 Period ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 31–32 G4-24 Stakeholder Groups 11 G4-EN23 Waste Generation 31 G4-25 Basis for Identifying Stakeholders 11 G4-EN24 Spills 29 G4-26 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement 11 G4-EN25 Hazardous Waste 31 G4-27 Key Topics Raised Through Stakeholder 11 ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Engagement G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 23 REPORT PROFILE G4-EN27 Environmental Impacts of Products and 23 G4-28 Reporting Period 2 Services G4-29 Date of Most Recent Previous Report N/A ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-30 Reporting Cycle 2 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 17, 29 G4-31 Point of Contact 2 G4-EN29 Environmental Fines and Sanctions 29 G4-32 In Accordance option 2 G4-33 External assurance 2 48 UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI PAGE GRI PAGE DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION INDICATOR NUMBER INDICATOR NUMBER ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 19–20 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16 G4-EN32 Supplier Environmental Screening 19–22 G4-HR12 Human Rights Grievances 17 ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 17 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 44 G4-EN34 Environmental Grievances 17 G4-SO1 Operations with Local Community Engagement 44 Programs ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 36–44 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16–17 G4-LA1 Employee Turnover 36, 38 G4-SO4 Anti-Corruption Communication and Training 17 G4-LA2 Benefits 42–43 G4-SO5 Corruption Incidents 17 ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 37 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16 G4-LA4 Minimum Notice Periods 37 G4-SO7 Anti-Competitive Incidents 17 ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 39 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16–17 G4-LA6 Injury and Illness Rates 39 G4-SO8 Non-Compliance, Fines and Sanctions 17 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 41–42 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 19–20 G4-LA9 Employee Training 17, 41 G4-SO9 Suppliers Screening on Societal Impact 20 G4-LA10 Skills Management Programs 41–42 ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 36 G4-SO11 Societal Grievances 17 G4-LA12 Diversity of Governance Bodies and Workforce 36, 38, 2016 10-K ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 24–25 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 19–20 G4-PR4 Product Labeling Non-Compliance 17 G4-LA14 Supplier Social Screening 20 G4-PR5 Customer Satisfaction 24–25 ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 17 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 24 G4-LA16 Labor Grievances 17 G4-PR7 Marketing Non-Compliance, Fines and 17 Sanctions ASPECT: INVESTMENT ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16–17 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 25 G4-HR2 Employee Training on Human Rights 17 G4-PR8 Breaches of Customer Privacy and Losses of 17 ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION Customer Data G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16, 19, 36 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-HR3 Incidents of Discrimination 17 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16–17, 21 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-PR9 Product and service non-compliance, fines and 17, 21 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16, 19, 37 sanctions G4-HR5 Significant Risks of Child Labor 17, 20 ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 16, 19, 37 G4-HR6 Significant Risks of Forced Labor 17, 20 ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 19–20 G4-HR10 Supplier Screening of Human Rights 20 49 Global Headquarters US Sales Contacts Asia and Pacific Rim Europe, Middle East, Customer Service and 140 Caspian Court sales-am@infinera.com Infinera Asia Limited Africa Technical Support Sunnyvale, CA 94089 8th floor Infinera Limited (EMEA HQ) North America USA Samsung Hub 125 Finsbury Pavement Tel: 877 INF 5288 Tel: 1 408 572 5200 3 Church Street London EC2A 1NQ, Outside North America Fax: 1 408 572 5454 Singapore 049483 United Kingdom Tel: 1 408 572 5288 www.infinera.com Tel: +65 6408 3320 Tel: +44 207 065 1340 techsupport@infinera.com sales-apac@infinera.com sales-emea@infinera.com © 2016 Infinera Corporation. All rights reserved. Infinera, Intelligent Transport Network, DTN, and logos that contain Infinera are trademarks or registered trademarks of Infinera Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Infinera specifications, offered customer services, and operating features are subject to change without notice. AR-SR2015-2.0
