Think Global Jump Together Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 01 About this Report Contents Introduction Reporting and verification guidelines 04 CEO Message Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. (KHNP) has been pubThis report was compiled in accordance with the Global Re06 KHNP, Creating Greater Value for Korea lishing the sustainability report every year with the aim of reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core options. In particular, major leasing its sustainability management goals and performancissues in the power plant facility category recommended in es in a transparent manner and sharing its commitment to the GRI Sustainability Topics for Sector were adopted with creating future value with the public. This is KHNP’s seventh the purpose of selecting key issues suitable for our business. Recognition Sustainability Plan and Goals sustainability report focused on introducing changes and diSome unchanged performances and information since the rections in management activities in line with the head office previous report were also restated to help readers understand relocation to Gyeongju in 2016. better and revised data were reported with separate notification. The reliability of the contents was verified by a third-parReporting scope and period ty assurance institutes and detailed results of verification can This report includes major financial and non-financial perforbe found in the independent assurance statement in the Apmances from January 1 through December 31, 2015. Quanpendix (page 86 to 87). titative data of the three most recent fiscal years from 2013 through 2015 were utilized to provide time-series trends, Additional information of the report while some qualitative data included performances in 2016. Korean and English versions of this report are available at the T The scope of this report covers the head office and all domesKHNP website (www.khnp.co.kr) and are downloadable as 16 About KHNP Technology tic and overseas offices. Time and region based boundaries PDF file. For further inquiries in relation to the sustainability 17 KHNP Vision 2030 were also complied. report, please contact us below. 20 Stakeholder Engagement 38 ‌KHNP, Growing into Global Nuclear Power Generation Leader 24 Core Sustainability Management Issues Planning Team, Planning Dept., Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., LTD. R Respect 1655, Bulguk-ro, Yangbuk-myeon, Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea Tel. +82-54-704-4135 Fax. +82-54-704-4198 44 KHNP, Opening a New Chapter in Gyeongju Homepage www.khnp.co.kr 50 KHNP, Creating Healthy NPP Ecosystem E-mail ojs24601@khnp.co.kr U Ultimate Safety Strategic Approach 54 KHNP, Placing Utmost Importance on Safety S Social Responsibility 65 ‌KHNP, Practicing Eco-friendly Management for Next Generations 73 KHNP, Growing with Local Communities T Timeless Integrity 78 KHNP, Pursuing Culture of Integrity and Honesty 28 Transparent and Stable Operation of the BOD 30 Nurture Competent Talents Accountability 83 Performance Data 86 Third-party Assurance Statements 88 GRI Content Index 90 SR10 Certificate 91 Implementation of the UN SDGs 92 Participation in Initiatives and Memberships CEO Message CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, Throughout the year 2015, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power has continued journey toward realizing the vision of “KHNP, the Reliable Global Energy Leader” as we committed to safe nuclear operation and new growth engine discovery. As a result, we recorded the best-ever financial performance since our establishment; the annual revenue in 2015 reached KRW 10.7 trillion, and the net income was KRW 2.5 trillion. We resolved key issues like continued operation permit of Wolsong #1. In July 2016, we demonstrated once again our excellence in nuclear operation by concluding the OSSA (Operating Support Services Agreement) after completing the construction of the four nuclear plants in UAE. Our all-out efforts at stable supply of electricity power and safe nuclear operation have resulted in a dramatic reduction in failures, allowing us to record a remarkable NPP usage of 85.3%. What makes year 2016 especially meaningful for KHNP is that we relocated to Gyeongju this year. Having moved into the new HQ in April, KHNP embarked on a fresh journey toward the energy future of Korea. The slogan “New & Clear Energy Silk Road” represents our aspiration of “trailblazing a new Silk Road with nuclear energy in Gyeongju”. Under this new vision, we carry out 5 key projects aimed at mutual growth with Gyeongju and 10 key projects for local communities in the city. KHNP is now poised to make a second leap forward to stand tall in the global arena while re-establishing itself as a corporation respected by local citizens that lives up to the expectations of our time to contribute to the balanced regional development. To that end, KHNP commits itself to delivering on the following three promises: First, we will ensure operational safety of the nuclear power plants. It is our responsibility to form the foundation to win trust from the general public to ensure stable supply of electricity power through safe nuclear operation. Having set safety as the top priority, KHNP strives to foster safety-first culture and attain the world-class technology. We also seek to advance nuclear plant operation and management system while enhancing employee capabilities and facility reliability to embrace for operation expansion. We pledge to maintain strict security measures both in online and physical environment. Second, we promise to usher in the safe nuclear era to grow with communities. Nuclear industry cannot grow without support and trust from local communities and the general public. KHNP pledges to reach out to people in a closer communication, thereby resolving issues facing us. We also recognize that it is also our responsibility to seek shared growth with our suppliers and build a sound and future-oriented industrial ecosystem. Our unique supply chain management rooted upon the win-win partnership will ensure transparent management of component supply channel and ultimately enhance the competitive edge of the nation’s nuclear business. We promise to grow into a global energy Thirds, we will identify new future growth engine. company respected and trusted by people. KHNP enhances comprehensive capabilities to deliver the next 15 years of greater growth over the past 15 years, 30 years of trust and respect from people, and 100 years of the national energy security. For starter, we promise to engage employees, suppliers, and local The largest power company generating about 30% of the nation’s communities in open communication as we push ahead with new nuclear power plant projects including Kori #1 and #4 and NPP construction in Yeongdeok County. Additionally, we will develop “OSSA after completing the construction of the NPP”, recently signed with electricity power, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power (KHNP) constitutes UAE, into a new business model, extending solid support for the global expansion of nuclear power plant, hydropower, and renewable the reliable backbone fueling the national economic growth and energy. We will also expedite the completion of the entire cycle of nuclear plant construction-operationdecommissioning by securing technologies for reactor decommissioning and used nuclear fuel treatment. enriching quality of life. Valued stakeholders, KHNP is committed to safe nuclear operation, rising into a “corporation that fosters the nation’s economic growth”, “global energy leader generating new growth engine”, and “a corporate citizen trusted by people fulfilling its social responsibility”. I would appreciate your lasting support and encouragement as we continue to deliver sustainable management. Thank you. President & CEO, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Cho Seok 04 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 05 KHNP, KHNP, Creating Greater Value for Korea KHNP, KHNP currently operates 24 nuclear power plants, 21 hydro Construction and operation of power plants plants, and 16 pumped storage plants with the overall capacNuclear power Hydro power Pumped storage Creating Greater Value ity amounting to 27,039MW. Nuclear power plants play a critYangyang Hwacheon ical role in generating electricity power in Korea, accounting Cheongpyeong Hydro Pumped Storage Pumped Storage Han River Hydro Power Site for 21,716MW, or 21.44% in terms of market share. for Korea Cheongpyeong Uiam Hydro New nuclear Hydro Gangneung power plant Preparation (2) Nuclear power Paldang Hydro About Our Sustainable Growth and Development Hydro Domestic market share in facility capacity (as of end of August 2016) Operation 24 units Hanul #1~#6 Operation (6) Under construction Shin-Hanul (preparation) 12 units Hanul Nuclear #1 & #2 Under construction (2) Nuclear power 21.44% Power Site Shin-Hanul #3 & #4 Preparation (2) Korea’s largest power company generating about 30% of Hydro power Goisan Hydro Yecheon Hydro Cheonji #1 & #2 Preparation (2) domestic electricity power Yeongdeok Hydro power 21 units Wolsong #1~#4 Operation (4) Pumped storage 16 units Cheongsong Pumped Storage Hydro power 5.23% Shin-Wolsong For 37 years since April 1978 when Kori #1 reactor first went into commercial operation, the Wolsong Nuclear #1 & #2 Operation (2) Muju Pumped Storage Power Site share of nuclear power generation in Korea has kept increasing. Currently, three out of every Seomjin River Hydro Kori Nuclear Power Site Kori #1~#4/ Renewable energy 0.03% Shin-Kori #1 & #2 Operation (6) 10 households in Korea consume electricity generated by nuclear power plants. In addition Hanbit Nuclear Sancheong Shin-Kori Hanbit Power Site #3~#6 Under construction (4) to nuclear power generation, KHNP generates 34.3% the domestic electricity power with #1~6 Operation (6) Pumped Storage Samrangjin Pumped Storage renewable energy such as hydropower and pumped storage power, contributing to stable power supply for the nation. Competitors 73.30% Nuclear power that has contributed to Korea’s economic development 1978 ‌Started commercial operation of Kori #1 1995 ‌Started commercial operation of Hanbit #3 2000 ‌Exceeded 1 trillion KWh of nuclear power 2007 Acquired continued operation of Kori #1 2012 ‌Started commercial operation of Shin-Kori #2 and (recognized as the world’s 21st nuclear power 1996 ‌Started commercial operation of Hanbit #4 generation 2008 ‌Exceeded 2 trillion KWh of nuclear power generation Shin-Wolsong #1 generating country) 2001 ‌Launched Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., 2013 ‌Signed a contract with ACRC for integrity success project 1997 ‌Started commercial operation of Wolsong #2 2009 Won the NPP project of UAE (USD 40 billion) 1983 ‌Started commercial operation of Wolsong Ltd. (spun off from KEPCO) ‌First obtained the license for heavy water reactor safety analysis 1998 ‌Started commercial operation of Wolsong #3 2010 ‌Installed a nuclear reactor at Shin-Kori #3 #1 and Kori #2 2002 ‌Started commercial operation of with domestic technologies ‌Started commercial operation of Hanul #3, (first adopted APR1400) 1984 ‌Established a plan to secure a proprietary Hanbit #5 and #6 2014 ‌Acquired a standard design approval (Korean reactor APR+) Korea’s first Standard NPP (OPR1000) 2011 ‌Started commercial operation of Shin-Kori #1 nuclear plant construction technologies ‌Ranked 6th in the World’s Power Generation ‌Won the first overseas NPP contract (first adopted QPR1000) ‌Held the groundbreaking ceremony for new head office building 1985 ‌Started commercial operation of Kori #3 Facility Capacity (Gyeongju) (Guangdong NPP technical advisory) ‌Acquired pumped storage power generation from a 1986 ‌Started commercial operation of Kori #4 and ‌Developed a next generation light water thermo-power generation company (4,700MW) 2015 ‌Exceeded 3 trillion KWh of nuclear power generation 1999 ‌Started commercial operation of Hanul #4 and Hanbit #1 reactor (APR1400) Wolsong #4 ‌Selected as an excellent family-friendly company ‌Acquired continued operation for Wolsong #1 1987 ‌Started commercial operation of Hanbit #2 2004 ‌Implemented ERP system Founded KHNP ‌Selected as the top Korean company in quality ‌Started commercial operation of Shin-Wolsong #2 ‌Commenced proprietary nuclear plant Community Service Group competitiveness ‌Concluded permanent shutdown of Kori #1 and secured a construction technology project 2005 ‌Completed construction of renewable Founded the Nuclear Safety Committee bridgehead for new business of decommissioning ‌Exceeded 100 billion KWh of nuclear power energy plants (Kori Wind Plant and Yeonggwang Solar Park), Hanul #5 and #6 ‌Confirmed the construction of Cheonji nuclear power plant generation (Yeongdeok) in line with the 7th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply 1988 ‌Started commercial operation of Hanul #1 and Demand Total power generation facilities (as of end of August 2016) 1989 ‌Started commercial operation of Hanul #2 Domestic market share 2016 Completed the movement of the head office to Gyeongju 27,039 in power generation capacity Acquired the construction permit of Shin-Koi #5 and #6 34.3 % (as of 1H 2016) MW Nuclear power facilities 21,716 MW Hydro power and other facilities 5,323 MW 06 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 07 KHNP, KHNP, Creating Greater Value for Korea Recovering People’s Trust on Safety Timely Construction of Nuclear Power Plants Advance Disaster Response Construction progress rate vs. plan Since becoming the 21 nuclear power generating country in April st Evaluation on disaster management KHNP has won the first prize in the “General Evaluation of Disaster 1987 with the operation of Kori #1 unit, Korea has kept investing in system and recognitions Response Activities of Disaster Response Agencies” conducted by the 100.12 (as of end of December 2015) % constructing NPPs. As a result, 24 NPPs are operating as of July 2016. Furthermore, 12 additional NPPs will be constructed by 2029 under the 7th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand. Currently, a (Supervised by the Ministry of Public Safety and Security) Target: 72 institutions in 9 sectors including energy Evaluation: ‌5 categories including disaster Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Furthermore, KHNP received Grade A in the disaster response system evaluation of agencies that manage national infrastructure conducted by the Ministry of Public control capability, disaster situation total of six NPPs (Shin-Kori #3 to #6 and Shin-Hanul #1 and #2 units) Safety and Security. management, and emergency plan are under construction without setbacks in accordance with the schedule. 2014 2015 B level A level Evaluation on disaster control capability (Supervised by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Target: ‌22 institutions with responsibility and in cooperation for disaster control Evaluation: ‌Disaster management organization, safety management activities, training and education capability, etc. 2014 2015 Shin-Kori #3 and #4 13 th 1 st Drill for fighting against gas leak and fire Activities to Recover People’s Trust on Nuclear Power Generation Secure Nuclear Safety Increased approval rating for nuclear power KHNP carries out promotional activities for NPP safety customized for Level of all nuclear power plants in safety KHNP has demonstrated safe operation of nuclear power plants as we the general public and local communities. The communication activExcellent inspection by WANO 2014 2015 were rated “excellent” in the conformity test of international nucleities, ranging from media campaigns and planned broadcast to meet(Target: Kori #1 & #2, Hanbit #1 & #2, Wolsong #3) ar power safety standard conducted by World Association of Nuclear Operators in all categories including operation, maintenance, radiation, organization, and administration. 50 % 59 % ing with CEO commercials, contribute to raising people’s approval rate and receptivity of nuclear plant operation. Increased local community’s receptivity 2014 2015 WANO’s safety performance index (as of 1Q 2016) 90.2 points 45.5 % 54.7 % (Unit: points) US 93.0 Korea (KHNP) 90.2 China 88.6 Ukraine 86.9 Russia 85.2 CEO Talk Concert at Konkuk University Wolsong #3 and #4 08 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 09 KHNP, KHNP, Creating Greater Value for Korea Construction and Operation of Secure New Growth Engines for Future Sustainable Nuclear Power Plant Continue to Win Orders for New Nuclear Plant World-class Nuclear Operation Construction Projects World’s No.1 Number of unplanned KHNP ranked No. 1 in the world in terms of unplanned loss rate for While the demand for nuclear plant is in on the rise globally, the unplanned loss rate nuclear reactor auto-stops two years in a row. Also, our unplanned long-term shutdown is at an competition to win nuclear plant construction project are increasingCountry Unplanned Country Unplanned nuclear all-time low at 0.13. KHNP is committed to securing the world-class ly getting fiercer with the emergence of new rivals. Advancing comloss rate reactor auto-stops Penetrated Preparation for penetration nuclear operation capabilities in preparation for the year 2029 when petitiveness of export reactors while diversifying business portfolio, (%) (case/unit) Potential target areas KHNP overseas offices Korea 1.34 Korea 0.13 35 nuclear power plants are introduced. KHNP secures competitive edge in the global nuclear markets. Russia 1.86 China 0.55 Overseas business status US 2.00 Russia 0.80 Sweden Swedish Public Power Company UK 2.79 US 0.80 : NPP construction project France 3.20 UK 1.07 Canada 4.07 Canada 1.42 Finland TVO, a Finnish power company Germany 4.23 France 2.67 : Olkiluoto Nuclear Plant #4 Unit Canada (as of 2015) (as of 2015) (OL4) construction project The Republic of Czech Europe Office (Paris) US Office (New York) WANO Tokyo Center Egypt Headquarters (Korea) Saudi Arabia Nepal Won the electrical machinery and facility project for Chamelia hydro power plant in 2009 UAE · ‌Won the UAE nuclear plant construction project in 2009 (4 APR1400 units) Indonesia · ‌Signed the MOU with ENEC for professional Peru support for the UAE nuclear power operaPakistan Won the Athmuqam hydro tion in 2013 power plant project in 2016 · ‌Signed the OSSA (Operating Support South Africa Services Agreement) for the UAE nuclear Safe nuclear power plant operation plant in 2016 “Nuclear Plant Operation Support,” New Export Model Localize Nuclear Reactor Vessel Head OSSA for the UAE nuclear plant KHNP endeavors to identify new business model in addition to NPP Reduction of nuclear reactor head To ensure safety for older NPPs, key anticipatory replacement is carexport. We not only build nuclear plants with our highly competitive Contract period replacement expenses ried out for core equipment of nuclear reactor vessel head. KHNP has technology but also strive to win bids in order to generate additionyears after the completion Existing units (Kori #1 & #2) dramatically cut replacement cost and at the same time enhanced 10 of construction Until 2030 al revenue by continuously supporting operation after completion. safety of facilities by adopting localized nuclear reactor vessel heads These efforts have resulted us in signing the Operating Support Ser97.9 for Hanbit reactor 3 and 4. Furthermore, having let residents around NPPs observe the entire replacement process, we have eased their Contract volume vice Agreement, or OSSA for the 4 APR 1400s in UAE in July 2016. We expect to export rich experience and expertise in nuclear plant opera920 KRW billion safety concerns over NPP. tion which we have obtained over the past 40 years. USD million New projects (Hanbit #3 & #4) (main contract: USD 600 million, indirect expenses: USD 320 million) KRW 39.9 billion Dispatch qualified plant operators and staff Until 2030 3,052 Up to maximum persons 436 annually Replacement of Hanbit nuclear reactor head OSSA for the UAE nuclear plant between KHNP and ENEC 10 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 11 KHNP, KHNP, Creating Greater Value for Korea Develop Reactors with Purely Domestic Technology Establish a Foundation to Advance into Global Nuclear KHNP concentrates all of its resources into technology development to Decommissioning Market enhance its exporting competitive edge and at the same time identiConclusion of permanent shutdown of Kori #1 unit Since the decision of permanent shutdown of Kori #1, KHNP has been fies future growth engine by obtaining world-class technology by 2030. preparing its successful decommissioning and site restoration. We aim APR1400, the 3rd generation Korean NPP, is now undergoing main inJune 16, 2015 to secure the complete decommissioning technologies and develop spection following the preliminary inspection by the US Nuclear Regulahigh-valued equipment for remote control and system decontaminatory Commission (NRC) in March 2015. Meanwhile, the 3.5th generation tion by 2021. The technologies will lay the foundation for KHNP to seKorean proprietary new nuclear power plant development is underway cure competitive edge in the future nuclear decommissioning market. in accordance with the Government’s technology development goal. The next generation new nuclear power APR+ features upgraded structural safety based on Korea’s standard NPP (OPR1000) and APR1400. APR1400 passed the preliminary Roadmap for developing APR+ inspection of the US NRC*(March 2015) ㆍSecure indigenous technologies (LA) ‌ 2015.3 Begin main inspection of the NRC (2007.8~2015.12) 2016.1 Complete the first stage inspection New NPP ‌Accomplish technology independence ㆍ Accomplish core nuin design, procurement, clear power technolo2016.2 Under the 2nd stage inspection (APR+) manufacturing, and operation gy independence *NRC: Nuclear Regulatory Commission ㆍ ‌Export NPP without infringement of overseas intellectual property rights Expected effect for Korean NPP export Sales from exporting 2 units Next-gener‌ ㆍMake agreements on technology use (LA) (1992.5~2002.5) Secure renovation 10 ation NPP ‌Secure real-time extension and ㆍ technologies (APR1400) permanent rights KRW trillion Workshop for decommissioning business ㆍMake agreements on technology ‌ Korea’s stanintroduction (TTA) (1987.5~1997.5) Renewable energy facilities Contribute to the National Energy Security with ‌Secure independent NPP ㆍ Secure independent dard NPP construction capability capability Total Renewable Energy (OPR1000) ㆍ ‌Localization of design and manufacturing technology Excellence in Nuclear Plant Facilities and Operation 682.25 Hydro power MW Major energy sources such as oil, coal, and natural gas on the planet are becoming depleted. The ensuing uncertainty gives rise to demand for alternative energy and renewable energy. Nuclear energy is essential for economic and stable power supply while renewable energy 606.7 NPP utilization rate The utilization rate of the NPP is an index that evaluates nuclear plant should be approached from a long-term and sustainable point of World average Domestic average (Unit: %) integrity, excellence in operational workforce, and operation level. view. To meet these trends and grow into an eco-friendly corporation, MW Korea’s utilization rate of the NPP in 2015 was 85.3%, about 10.0%p KHNP is focusing on renewable energy business as a pillar of our new 69.1 2013 75.5 higher compared to the global average of 75.3%. Wind power growth engine. 2014 2015 75.8 75.3 85.0 0.75 Photovoltaic power MW 85.3 16 Fuel cell MW 58.8 (as of August 2016) MW APR1400, Korean third-generation NPP Kori wind power plant 12 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 13 Recognition This part explains how our strategy is built around sustainable management and the communication channels through which we interact with stakeholders. Learn about key issues facing KHNP identified by stakeholders’ participation and the ensuing crisis and opportunity. About KHNP 16 KHNP Vision 2030 17 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Core Sustainability Management Issues 24 14 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 15 Recognition About KHNP KHNP Vision 2030 Stakeholder Engagement Core Sustainability Management Issues About Corporate Profile KHNP Global Leader Ushering in New Era of Hope KHNP KHNP is a public corporation specializing in energy business which was established in April Vision 2030 Establish Mid-term Management Strategy 2030 to Reflect Changes 2001 through the spin-off of the power distribution division from Korea Electric Power Corin Management Environment poration (KEPCO) in accordance with the government’s Electricity Industry Restructuring As the prolonging stagnation in the global economy affects domestic growth rate, power conProgram. We are committed to contributing to the enhancement of national energy comsumption is on the decrease. Furthermore, new paradigm of low carbon power mix is emergpetitiveness as well as people’s quality of life through the stable supply of eco-friendly and ing in power industry in preparation for Post 2020. To respond to the changes in management high-quality energy and technology sharing. environment, both internal and external, and to carry out business activities aligned with the corporate philosophy, KHNP has established the “2030 mid-term management strategy.” Ministry of Trade, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd Modification of Strategic Direction in Line with Domestic and Overseas Power Business Issues Company Governing Industry and Energy name Organization Issues in Power Business Strategic Direction 2030 Management Goals Cho Seok Public enterprise ㆍ ‌Release of the Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand Safe NPP operation first / Sales: Proportion of Institution Domestic and conclusion of new NPP construction plan stable promotion overseas sales: CEO type KRW 25 trillion ㆍ ‌Fierce competition in NPP export market and diversification Phased overseas 16 % KHNP Head Office Building Overseas business promotion / April 2, 2001 KRW 1,212.2billion of ways for winning orders gradual expansion (as of Dec. 31, 2015) Establishment Paid-in capital ‌Increasing demand for developing hydro power sources in ㆍ Targeting countries where Domestic: Technological Power Generation Hydro underdeveloped countries our business operates / prowess: Capacity (Unit: GWh) 1655, Bulguk-ro, Yangbuk-myeon, 10,842persons ㆍ‌Increasing demand for improving hydro power performance promotion of tailored Operate 37 NPPs Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea (as of Dec. 31, 2015) such as facility upgrade businesses Overseas: Global No. 1 Nuclear Hydro, New & Renewable Head office Employees Expansion of technologyDomestic M/S New ㆍConclusion of permanent shutdown of Kori #1 ‌ driven businesses / Win 11 32.3% ‌Growing trend in low-carbon electricity mix policy for GHG ㆍ new NPP orders 31.3% Act on the Promotion of Electric Business cultivation of new energy reduction in preparation for POST-2020 in the world Power Sector Restructuring businesses 28.1% 169,065 Basis of (Act No. 6282) KEPCO 100% establishment Ownership 162,272 4,294 KHNP’s Mid to Long-term Management Strategy 7 HQs, 26 departments and offices 5,866 Development of electric power 164,771 resources / power generation and (Head Office), 4 nuclear power sites 144,375 (Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong, Hanul), related businesses / R&D and affiliated Purpose of Contribute to the enhancement of national energy competitiveness as well as people’s quality of 5,591 156,406 businesses / overseas business 1 hydro power site, 7 pumped storMajor function Organization age power plants, and 8 other offices Establishment life through the stable supply of eco-friendly energy 138,784 Vision Reliable Global Energy Leader, KHNP Main Business Core Values Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity 3Strategic Our business domain covers power generation (nuclear power, hydro power, and new and reDirections Prioritize safe operation of nuclear power plants Promote overseas business in phases Expand technology-oriented businesses newable energy), construction, R&D, and overseas business. As Korea’s largest power generaBusiness Domestic Nuclear Power Overseas Nuclear Power Hydro Power New Businesses 2013 2014 2015 Strategies tion company which accounts for about 30% of domestic electricity power supply, KHNP operㆍ ‌Establish KHNP’s own integrated ㆍ ‌Foster global competitiveness of ‌Improve efficiency by upgrading ㆍ ㆍ ‌Lay the foundation for ates 24 nuclear, 16 pumped storage, 5 photovoltaic, 1 wind, and 14 small hydro power plants. management model nuclear reactor technology for export facilities and sharpening decommissioning business and ㆍ ‌Strengthen engineering capability ㆍ ‌Secure project development technological competence promote exports ‌Sharpen procurement capability and ㆍ capability ‌Secure reference for overseas ㆍ ㆍ ‌Develop unit technology business Power Plant Facilities (As of end of August 2016) secure integrity of SCM ㆍEnhance financing capability operation projects based on customer needs Nuclear ‌Build professional manpower ㆍ ‌Establish overseas manpower ㆍ ‌Expand overseas operation projects ㆍ ㆍ ‌Pursue new and renewable energy Hydro New and Classification Total cultivation system cultivation system centered on countries with reference business portfolio with economic Kori Hanbit Wolsong Hanul (incl. PumpedStorage) Renewable* ㆍ ‌Secure global leading nuclear power feasibility Units in operation 6 6 6 6 37 20 81 technology Capacity (MW) 5,137 5,900 4,779 5,900 ㆍ ‌Diversify talent recruitment pool 5,295 28 27,039 ‌Improve efficiency of HQ organization ㆍ Total (Domestic M/S) 21,716(21.44%) (5.23%) (0.03%) (26.70%) Strategic and enhance execution capability of *Small hydro power, wind power, and photovoltaic facilities Tasks local business sites ‌Restructure the organization for ㆍ New Power Plants under Construction (As of end of August 2016) promoting 2030 mid to long-term business strategy Under Construction (6 units) Preparation for Construction (6 units) Classification ‌Expand performance-oriented HR ㆍ Shin-Kori #3 & #4 Shin-Hanul #1 & #2 Shin-Kori #5 & #6 Shin-Hanul #3 & #4 Cheonji #1 & #2 Other (2 units) evaluation Capacity 1,400MW×2 units (APR1400) 1,400MW×2 units (APR1400) 1,400MW×2 units (APR1400) 1,400MW×2 units (APR1400) 1,500MW×2 units (APR+) Unfixed ㆍ ‌Enhance construction process and secure leading technologies Const. Period 2007.9~2017.3 2010.4~2019.2 2016.6~2022.10 2017.2~2023.12 2021.5~2027.12 ㆍ ‌Secure quality and safety Status Commissioning Electro-mechanical works Basic excavation works Evaluation on Preparation for applying improvement system for main facility enforcement plan enforcement plan ㆍ ‌Improve process for enhancing PR/ PA3 effects Progress 99.34% 88.34% 16 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 17 Recognition About KHNP KHNP Vision 2030 Stakeholder Engagement Core Sustainability Management Issues Sustainable Management Built around Five Core Values Major Sustainability Management Performances KHNP operates under our sustainable management strategies to grow into a leading enerIndicator Unit 2013 2014 2015 2015 Evaluation 2016 gy company that generates values in economy, environment, and society. The strategies are Results Results Targets Results Targets rooted in “T.R.U.S.T”, the five core values of our 2030 mid-term management goals. KHNP fulTechnology fills its social responsibilities as it achieves key management goals and raises environmental R&D Investment KRW in billions 336.9 303.1 384.1 323.6 ◑ 505.7 and social performances by faithfully implementing the sustainable management strategies. Overseas Sales USD in millions 105.43 176.26 269.94 280.05 ● 301.6 RPS Execution GWh 1,770 1,812 2,133 2,161 ● 2,335 Sustainability Management Strategy Strategic Evolve into a global energy leader that contributes to national growth and happiness through Direction creating economic, environmental, and social values Respect Family-friendliness Points 131.8 146 161 161.7 ● (Plan to change Tasks Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity indicator) Per-capita Education KRW in millions 3.4 3.41 3.5 3.91 ● 3.9 ㆍSecure world-class ‌ Employees ㆍ ‌Put safe NPP Environment ㆍ‌Enhance ethical Expense NPP technology ‌Organizational culture ㆍ operation first ‌Strengthen ㆍ management system Labor-Management Points 3.03 3.13 3.21 3.31 ● 3.48 ㆍ ‌Expand overseas and create GWP ㆍ ‌Improve reliability of environmental ㆍ‌Establish a culture of Relationship NPP projects ‌Cultivate professional ㆍ NPP facilities management system ethics and integrity ‌Diversify business ㆍ manpower ㆍ ‌Enhance risk ㆍ ‌Minimize environmental Purchase of SME Products % 50.2 50.3 52.5 52.7 ● 54.3 portfolio management impacts capabilities to ㆍ ‌Respond to climate HR Support Persons 15 25 44 48 ● 50 reassure people change (including Atom Mentor) Overseas/Domestic Cases 473 499 500 503 ● 520 Suppliers Society Marketing Support ㆍ ‌Support shared growth ㆍ‌Implement social contribution activities Financial Support KRW in billions 79.2 91.7 95.0 86.7 ◑ 100.0 for SMEs Performance Sharing Tasks Cases 12 77 76 81 ● 100 Sustainable Management Task Force and Committee KHNP operates teams dedicated to the general administration of sustainable management. The Planning Team, for example, handles general tasks such as sustainability report, eduUltimate cation, and annual review of annual initiatives while the Management Advisory Committee Failure & Shutdown Cases/Unit 0.26 0.22 0.33 0.13 ● 0.33 Safety (MAC) serves as both consultative and decision-making body on key sustainable manageRadioactive Dose man-Sv/Unit 0.53 0.36 ≤0.57 0.36 ● 0.55 ment issues. In 2015, the MAC carried out additional discussion on safety improvements of Comprehensive NPP Points 99.731 99.804 99.5 99.853 ● 99.957 NPP, social contribution activities review, previous value sharing activities for local commuSafety Performance Index nities, and other core issues. Meanwhile, by emphasizing the communications with onsite Operating NPP Safety % 12.228 6.7112 ≤9.90 3.07 ● 8.90 workers and assigning operators to each area of “T.R.U.S.T”, we share information on key acManagement Index tivities and conduct monitoring activities on a regular basis. Follow-up Measures after % 65.2 73.9 100 87.5 ◑ 91.07 Fukushima Crisis Sustainability Management Organization Management Advisory Committee (Under the BOD) Social Dandelion Spore Fund KRW in billions 4.3 5.2 9.0 10.0 ● 12.0 Responsibility Local Community’s Points 46.1 45.5 52 54.7 ● 54 Chairperson Member Secretary Receptivity Head of Corporate CEO Head of Each Division Environmental Points 150.6 182.7 201 257.6 ● 283.3 Planning Dept. Performance Index* Working Group of Sustainable Management Operators Member: Head and Deputy Head of Leader: Head of Corporate Planning Dept. Corporate Planning Team Timeless Integrity Index Grade 5 3 2 2 ● 1 Integrity Units in Charge of Sustainable Management Assessment of AntiGrade 3 2 2 1 ● 1 Corruption Plans Future Growth Employees and Environment and Ethical *‌The tightened scoring criteria of performance indicators such as waste recycling rate was applied retroactively to data in 2013 and 2014, thereby there are some Safety differences from data of the previous report. Engines Suppliers Social Contribution Management 18 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 19 Recognition About KHNP KHNP Vision 2030 Stakeholder Engagement Core Sustainability Management Issues Stakeholder Promote Sustainability Management along with Stakeholders Engagement Sharing & We classify our stakeholders into 12 groups and listen to their opinions through communicaDissemination Strategy tion channels suitable for their characteristics. Collected opinions are reflected to our management activities and also used for continuous improvement. We will be proactive in paying attention to their interests and concerns and adopting requirements to our sustainability management activities. Sharing of the Value of Necessity and Importance of NPP and Dissemination of Sympathy Redefine Stakeholder Group Analysis of Impacts on Policy Existing (7 groups) → Extension (12 groups) Establishment and Business Importance Communication Strategy & Agenda ① ‌Government/ ① ‌Government/ Impacts on policy Government / National Assembly National Assembly Domestic & Overseas 1 Sharing & Dissemination Strategy National Assembly / People Employees ③ Employees ② ‌Local Government Suppliers ⑤ ‌Domestic Suppliers ③ Employees High Local Government / NGO 10 2 Importance and economic feasibility of NPP ⑦ People ④ ‌Family/Labor Union 7 8 ⑧ ‌Local Communities ⑤ ‌Domestic Suppliers ㆍExplanation on pending issues ‌ ‌ ㆍ(Offline) Energy Talk Concert ㆍSite-centered management of ‌ ㆍSuppliers conference 12 9 ‌Inspection of the ㆍ ‌(Offline) Year-round operation ㆍ the CEO ‌Conclusion of MOUs with ㆍ ⑩ Media ⑥ ‌Overseas Suppliers Trust & Co-prosperity Strategy ⑪ ‌NPP-friendly ⑦ People 11 5 administration of the Energy Farm, ‌New head office building tour ㆍ female entrepreneurs Organization ⑧ Local Communities 4 Policy consistency and receptivity of residents ㆍ ‌Workshop of public institutions a participatory cafe with families ‌Cooperation with overseas ㆍ ⑨ ‌Residents in Gyeo3 and councils of related ‌(Online) Operation of blog ㆍ ‌KHNP Artact, a culture & art ㆍ NPP operators ngju & New Areas organizations ㆍ ‌(Online) Operation of facebook education program 6 Communication & Response Strategy ⑩ Media ‌Development of 100 questions ㆍ ‌(Online) Compliment relay and ㆍ ⑪ ‌NPP-friendly Management transparency and safety of NPP and answers for collaboration campaign for positive thinking Organization with the Korea Nuclear Energy ‌(Online) Setup of internal ㆍ ⑫ ‌Anti-NPP & Low Business importance High Foundation knowledge management Environmental system Organizations Communication & Trust & Co-prosperity Response Strategy Strategy Transparent Communication and Continuous Effort to Enhance Trust on Timely Response to Pending Issues Nuclear Power Policies and Receptivity of Residents Anti-NPP & Environmental Residents in Media Labor Union Local Communities Organizations Gyeongju & New Areas ㆍCEO’s broadcasting conversation ‌ ‌ ㆍReceive trainings at anti-nuclear ㆍBriefing session on management ‌ ‌ ㆍCultivation of world-class NPP skill ㆍOutdoor advertising in KTX ‌ ㆍContribution to media school issues manpower Shingyeongju station and ㆍPress conference ㆍ ‌Operation of civil anti-corruption ‌Event for cementing laborㆍ ‌TF operation to promote ㆍ downtown of Gyeongju ㆍ ‌Establishment of a media center to watchdog management relations co-prosperity and cooperation ‌Introduction of famous restaurants ㆍ offer information to the press ㆍ ‌Regular conference with anti-NPP ㆍ ‌Conference for communicating projects for Wolsong #1 in corporate magazine ‌Domestic and overseas site tour of ㆍ organization staff between executives of the labor ㆍ ‌Conference with local communities ‌Launch of Yeongdeok Office ㆍ accredited journalists ㆍ ‌Invitation conference with global and management ‌Publication of local site newsletter ㆍ ‌Yeongdeok Co-prosperity Forum ㆍ experts ‌Workshop for labor staff ㆍ ‌Sponsorship of local culture events ㆍ ‌Presentation on a far-sighted ㆍ throughout the company development plan of Yeongdeok ‌Special labor-management council ㆍ Power Plant ㆍ ‌Enhancement of exclusive organization to handle labormanagement relations 20 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 21 Recognition About KHNP KHNP Vision 2030 Stakeholder Engagement Core Sustainability Management Issues Communication with Stakeholders KHNP represents a considerable amount of electricity power generated in resource-poor Korea having an enormous impact on the nation’s sustainable development. It is a good news that KHNP is As the awareness of nuclear safety increases globally following the Fukushima disaster, nuclear opgrowing into a sustainable company respected by the general public by carrying out mutual growth erators increasingly recognize safety as essential to sustain nuclear business. Nuclear safety is based and social contribution activities following the relocation to Gyeongju. It is of paramount imporupon the general safety culture and nuclear skills are the ultimate expression. Skills in nuclear intance to win the trust from people if KHNP is to establish itself as a truly sustainable company that dustry mean quality workforce and investment. Increased awareness of safety in nuclear operation supplies energy to the national infrastructure. Also, KHNP should carry out in-depth analysis of ensures safety of today. To secure safety for the future, however, we need to perform more than just varied stakeholders and take strategic responses accordingly from the perspective of sustainable NPP operation, for example, by staying updated with the changing trend and investing in R&D. management to seek balanced values in economy, environment, and society. I look forward to seeAs KHNP is the only NPP operator in Korea, it is important to have a comprehensive understanding ing KHNP developing into a global energy company that recognizes “future generaof the NPP industry ranging from construction, operation, global trend, and R&D to policy, export, tions” and “eco system” as most critical to realizing sustainable management. electricity power markets, decommissioning, used fuel, nuclear waste and disposal to safety. Sustainability Management Ultimate Safety Professor Lee Byung Wook (Sejong University Graduate School of Public Policy, former Vice Minister of Environment) Professor Chung Bum Jin (Department of Nuclear Engineering, Kyunghee University) In order for KHNP to carry out nuclear business and even fulfill its social responsibilities, it is imporThere are two tasks that KHNP must perform to generate sustainable outcomes. First, R&D for techtant to place emphasis on communication with the general public. Instead of a unilateral comnology advancement. Though KHNP possesses excellent technology, it is integral to maintain conmunication, a two-way channel must be established where politicians, press, and academia come sistent nuclear performance and efficiency to be competitive in the global arena. With the planned together to build the national consensus. I also highly appreciate KHNP’s social contribution activpermanent shutdown of Kori #1 reactor, KHNP should secure decommissioning technology going ities. However, I would like to suggest that KHNP publish “Social contribution white book” in order forward. Second, overseas business diversification. In addition to obtaining international certifito systemically manage social contribution fund and maximize the effect of the activities. Wonderful cates like EU, KHNP will have to attain recognition of nuclear safety to take the lead in the global ideas will be generated if social contribution white book is published in each region. Outstanding somarkets. Furthermore, like KHNP has recently created a new business model when it signed OSSA, cial contribution cases will serve as good standards for benchmark. Also, if KHNP introduces social the company needs to diversify its export models in preparation for the future energy era. contribution cases to local communities and reflect their feedback on a regular basis, a Technology human network of trust will be created. Social Responsibility Director Seo Ga Ram (Nuclear Plant Export Promotion Division, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Chairman Kim Ho Sung (Korea Nuclear Energy Agency) KHNP has been dedicated to establishing integrity and ethics management culture by improving ethical management system and carrying out preventive ethical activities and participatory ethics The education programs developed and offered by KHNP Human Resources Development Institute programs. These efforts have resulted in selecting as the best institution in anti-corruption policy including consortium course for SMEs and other customized quality improvement seminars contribevaluation by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission, jumping two grades in general integute to increasing work capabilities and understanding of nuclear quality system. In addition, a wide rity evaluation, and improving the KHNP-BEX in 2015. KHNP is also confident that our efforts for range of technical support for technology domestication helps SEMs to enhance their competitive disseminating integrity practices through cooperation networks with relevant agencies have conedge. KHNP’s support for NPP equipment domestication, implemented as part of shared growth tributed to maintaining the most optimal level of integrity in nuclear industry ecosystem. KHNP is initiative, leads to technology development and increases quality confidence, paving the way for now poised to depart from the regulation-based ethics culture to the internalization of ethics by NPP export. My company benefitted from this initiative when we joined NPP projects in the UK and reviewing the existing strategies and practices, thereby setting up a more systematic and effective China. This experience has helped us to continue bidding activities in Turkey. If KHNP expands edethical management. In addition, we promise to never tolerate illegal solicitation or receipt of ucation programs through the shared growth initiative while concentrating resources into ingift while ensuring that whistleblowers are always protected from unfair treatment by taking approcreasing workforce for equipment verification, the dream of becoming global energy leader as well priate measures upon report of violations. Respect Timeless Integrity as boosting the nation’s economic growth will be realized before long. President Choi Jung Sam (La-Tech Co., Ltd.) Manager Son Byung Oh (KHNP, Planning Dept. Planning Team) 22 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 23 Recognition About KHNP KHNP Vision 2030 Stakeholder Engagement Core Sustainability Management Issues Core Identification of Core Issues Analysis of Core Issues and Determination of Reporting Contents Sustainability Checking stakeholders’ interests and identifying core issues are very significant activities for Management ensuring management transparency and trust. As the first step to figure out KHNP’s material A total of 11 core issues secure new engines for global growth, advance response capability issues, we formed an issue pool by reviewing the trend of domestic and overseas energy Issues to disaster and crisis, secure leading technological competitiveness which were closely rebusiness, management issues of related companies, and our news articles reported in the lated to our business features we identified through the materiality analysis. The results may media. And then, the issue pool was reevaluated by collecting stakeholder opinions through tell us that people’s interests in the safety of nuclear power plant has increased and co-prosdiverse monitoring channels. After these processes, we identified core reporting issues that perity with neighboring communities is considered very important. This report was compiled KHNP have to cope with preferentially. The materiality analysis process was systematically by handling core issues in the aspect of KHNP’s five core values “T.R.U.S.T.” conducted in a transparent and consistent manner and verified by a third-party assurance institution. STEP 02 STEP 03 Conduct Materiality Analysis Determine Core Reporting Issues We conducted materiality analysis of the issue pool in Core reporting issues were determined in STEP 01 accordance with importance for business and society. the aspect of importance among issues selected through materiality analysis. Materiality ❶ Importance for business Form Sustainability Management Issue Pool ‧‌Review of short, mid, and long-term financial impacts ❶ ‌Selection of core issues through materiality Analysis Review of diverse internal and external data to understand KHNP’s sustainability ‧Survey of internal stakeholders analysis management issues Process ❷ Importance for society ❷ ‌Setup of table of contents in line with GRI ‧‌Survey of external stakeholders ‧Media research G4 Core type ❶ Media research ❷ Study on management issues of global leading companies ‧‌Benchmarking of global leading companies ❸ Analysis of issue trends in energy industry ❹ Review of international standards for sustainability management ❺ Review of internal data such as operating performances Step 02 Conduct Materiality Analysis Step 03 Determine Core Reporting Issues We surveyed internal and external stakeholders on 19 materiWe compiled this report by realigning 11 core issues identified through al issues in three categories. And then, we identified core issues the materiality analysis in the aspect of KHNP’s five core values through a comprehensive study of their direct and indirect influ“Technology,” “Respect,” “Ultimate Safety,” “Social Responsibility,” Step 01 Form Sustainability Management Issue Pool ences, goals, and performances. and “Timeless Integrity.” Each issue section contains its background, We formed a pool comprised of 112 issues through reviews of international sustainability goals, and performances to help stakeholders understand better. management standards such as GRI G4 and ISO 26000, benchmark of reporting issues of Manage radioactive waste global leading energy companies, and media research in 2015. The issues were condensed Importance for Business Store and treat harmful waste safely Core Reporting Issue Five Core Values Page into 19 core issues in accordance with materiality and categorized into three sectors of econInternalize integrity and Advance response Secure leading technological competitiveness 39 omy, environment, and society. business ethics capability to disaster and crisis Technology Secure new engines for global growth 40-41 Secure leading Enhance response to technological global environmental issues such as climate competitiveness Strengthen management innovation and efficiency 48-49 change Secure new Respect engines for Promote truthful shared growth with suppliers 50-53 global growth Promote truthful shared Economy Environment Society growth with suppliers Advance response capability to disaster and crisis 54-63 Tighten protection of private Participate in sharing Ultimate and developing and national information by social value in new Tighten protection of private and national Safety 64 adopting ICT technologies information by adopting ICT technologies 1) ‌Strengthen management innovation and 8) ‌Enhance response to global 14) Advance ‌ response capability to disaster business sites efficiency environmental issues such as climate and crisis Enhance response to global environmental Strengthen management 67 2) ‌Promote listing on KRX by improving change 15) Tighten ‌ protection of private and national issues such as climate change innovation and efficiency financial structure and transparency 9) ‌Manage sources and energy efficiently information by adopting ICT technologies 3) ‌Secure new engines for global growth 10) Manage emissions safely 16) Internalize ‌ integrity and business ethics Store and treat harmful waste safely 70 4) ‌Ensure substantiality in overseas business 11) ‌Store and treat harmful waste safely 17) Promote ‌ truthful shared growth with Social 5) Promote integrated risk management 12) Manage radioactive waste suppliers Manage radioactive waste Responsibility 72 6) ‌Secure leading technological 13) ‌Protect biodiversity around business 18) Participate ‌ in sharing and developing competitiveness sites social value in new business sites Participate in sharing and developing social value in new business sites 73-77 7) ‌Improve sustainability management 19) Expand ‌ stakeholder communication strategy by adopting UN SDGs channels Timeless Internalize integrity and business ethics 78-81 Integrity External stakeholders’ interest 24 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 25 Strategic Approach It is frontline employees who realize sustainable growth. Employees are the essential strategic resources and at the same time the values driving the company’s growth and development. Transparent and Stable Operation of the BOD 28 Nurture Competent Talents 30 26 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 27 Strategic Approach Transparent and Stable Operation of the BOD Nurture Competent Talents Transparent Enhancement of the Corporate Governance Decision-making Process of the BOD Transparency and Stable The BOD is chaired by a non-executive director. Major agendas are shared with all BOD members before the meeting to ensure smooth decision-making. They have an equal opportunity Operation Composition of the BOD for statements at the meeting, while exclusive statements are prevented and checks on maof the BOD jority rule are also ensured in making decisions. In 2015, we strived to advance communiThe Board of Directors (BOD) is a supreme decision-making body at KHNP which not only cation further between the company and the BOD and established a culture of conducting reviews major management strategies but supervises overall business operations. The BOD in-depth discussion before the BOD meeting. As a result, the average deliberation time per consists of six executive directors and seven non-executive directors with three-year term, meeting increased 87% from 80 minutes in 2013 to 150 minutes in 2015. making responsible decisions and participating in management activities in a proactive manner. The independence of the BOD is assured by electing the chairperson among non-executive directors and making them hold a majority of the BOD. Enhance the Professionalism of and Communication with Non-executive Directors Operation of the BOD and Subcommittees Non-executive directors check and monitor activities of the management. They boast rich experiences in the fields of business operation, corporate management, media, and community relaThe roles of the BOD cover decisions on management activities in line with government poltion. They are proactive in reviewing and consulting major agendas and management issues in icies, matters stipulated in rules and articles of association, basic corporate principles, and each field. To help newly nominated non-executives better understand our businesses, we invite business executions as well as supervision of performance of the CEO’s duties. Six subcomthem to domestic and overseas power plants and hold workshops for capability enhancement. mittees are operating under the BOD, which offer management consultation and professional supports, facilitating the operational efficiency of the BOD. The subcommittee members Programs to Enhance Non-executives’ Understanding of Our Business meet regularly and are proactive in supporting the BOD. For newly nominated ㆍStart-up program BOD Operation Process non-executives Workshops to strengthen capabilities of new non-executives Company ㆍ‌Site tour of nuclear power plants at home and abroad For better ‌Kori NPP, Samrangjin pumped storage (Feb.) / Wolsong NPP, Korea Execute understanding of Plan and Receive Draw up Review and Radioactive Waste Agency, Gyeongju Head Office (Aug.) Notify preliminary Convoke pending issues notify the agendas minutes execute Barakah NPP tour in UAE (Nov.) agendas explanation the BOD meeting (D-10) (D+1) proposals (D-7) Executive Directors Remuneration and Compensation Name Position Discuss and Convoke Review agendas Request Draw up Operation of the BOD The BOD remuneration limit complies with “Executive Wage Guideline” that the Minister of Cho Seok President & CEO conclude (Chairperson) preliminarily Q&A data resolutions Strategy and Finance established through deliberation and conclusion of the Management vagendas Unit 2013 2014 2015 Wi Jae Min Executive Auditor Kim Bum Nyun Head of Power Generation No. of BOD Times 11 10 9 Committee, and is appropriated at the shareholders’ meeting. Total remuneration in 2015 Division (VP) Board of Directors meetings amounted to KRW 840 million. The remuneration volume depends on regular evaluation on Resolved Cases 34 50 58 Yoon Chung Ro Head of Quality & Safety agendas their performances. The kind, basis, and total amount of remuneration of executive directors Division Composition and Operation of Subcommittees Rate of % 100 100 100 who receive remuneration above criteria are disclosed separately to ensure the transparency. Chun Young Taek Head of Planning Division preliminary Lee Young Il Head of Construction Division Subcommittee Composition Role Major Activities in 2015 reviews Remuneration Status (Unit: KRW in thousands) Amended and Cases 2 2 2 1 executive Audit on business & ㆍ28 meetings (19 resolutions, 26 reports) resolved agendas No. of Total Remuneration Remarks Audit Committee ㆍ4 site-centered communication activities Members Remuneration per Member Non-executive Directors accounting 2 non-executives ㆍComments on insufficiencies in reporting audit results Reported Cases 23 16 13 Executive Auditor 1 126,396 126,396 CEO agendas Name Position Executive Recommendation ㆍ7 meetings ‌ Executive Director 5 505,585 101,117 Recommendation 5 non-executives of executive → Screening an executive audit member and 6 non-executive directors Attendance rate % 93 94 97 Cho Seong Hee Director of Research Council Committee 2 external experts candidates ㆍ‌Launch of the committee before two months of the expiration of executive terms Non-executive 7 210,000 30,000 KRW 2.5 million per month of Energy & Resources Director for service allowance Industrial Development ㆍReview of responses and countermeasures to cyber security and discuss on ‌ Financial Consulting on future actions plans Lee Tae Hyeong Chairman of Soobong Management 1 executive finance & ㆍ ‌Consultation on mid to long-term financial plans and management goals Educational Foundation Committee 2 non-executives management ㆍSuggestion on invested businesses Management Consulting (times) Non-executives’ Participation Performance of Jeon Seong Hwan Chair-professor at Konkook Managerial Suggestions (cases) in Corporate Management Non-executive Directors (Unit: %) Univ. ㆍPreliminary review of 2014 PR plans and proposal Reflection of Managerial Suggestions (cases) Press Relationship 1 executive ㆍConsultation on TV ads Consulting on PR Attendance Rate Statement Rate Ryu Sung Kyu Former president of Korea Committee ‌Suggestion on PR activities in Seoul and Gyeonggi-do after the relocation to ㆍ 98 2 non-executives 33 Coal Corporation Gyeongju 32 95 60 93 Cho Jeong Je Chairman of Daehannews ‌ ㆍReexamination of the company housing project in Gyeongju and request on 87 Media Group Local Community 1 executive Consulting on alternatives 30 53 86 Development regional & ㆍ‌Priority-execution of social contribution activities in regions where nuclear 85 Park Kyu Ho CEO of Korea Electric Vehicle Committee 2 non-executives civil complaints power plants are located Charging Service 48 21 Lee Jin Gu Former non-executive director ㆍConclusion of assets redemption volume in line with former CEO’s and executive ‌ of Korea Radioactive Waste Non-Executive Discussion on the director’s violation of integrity policy 19 Directors Committee 7 non-executives BOD operation ㆍDiscussion on continued operation of Kori #1 unit Agency ㆍAmendment of the BOD rule 16 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 28 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 29 Strategic Approach Transparent and Stable Operation of the BOD Nurture Competent Talents Nurture Talents, the Key Competitive Edge to Nuclear Human Rights-based HR Industry of Future Competent KHNP faithfully abides by the principles on human rights and labor of the UN Global Compact which we joined in 2007. Our human rights-based HR policy allows no discrimination regardTalents HR Philosophy ing gender, academic background, or career, stipulating that no one is ever discriminated against for employment, promotion, rewarding, or retirement because of their physical disUnder the overarching HR philosophy of “KHNP people loved by the general public”, we look ability or race. for professionals “who are faithful to the basics, considerate of others, mutually respect, and global professional”. The three criteria serve as the standard for recruitment, personnel manProhibit Child Labor and Forced Labor agement, and talent training, as KHNP works to achieve its goals and management vision. KHNP observes the Labor Standard Act and the UNGC principles on labor in taking preempEmployment Status Employees Who KHNP Wants tive measures against child labor and forced and compulsory labor. We monitor any potential form of forced labor via the regular labor-management council meetings, taking strict Gender (As of end of Dec. 2015) Sense of ethics measures on any of confirmed cases regardless of rank. We also pay additional 150% of legal Female: ‌1,202 Sense of ownership (11.1%) Employees wage for work on holidays. Those efforts have resulted in us recording no cases of labor diswho are faithful Sense of safety to the basic pute or violation of child labor or forced labor in 2015. Male: ‌9,640 (88.9%) KHNP Prevent Sexual Harassment and Sexual Discrimination 10,842 Employees who Employees Sexual Harassment We hold education on sexual harassment preventions at workplace in the HQ and 14 repersons Who Are Loved consider Prevention Training gional offices more than once a year. The education is delivered by outside lecturer. Heads others by People Communication (Unit: times) of department are required to be present in all of education. We also set up guidelines on Cooperation Employees with global Passion Business Site Head Office Total prevention of sexual harassment, ensuring stringent and immediate measures on any cases Social responsibility 59 competitiveness Professional capability reported to head of department or HR team. 55 Age (Unit: %) World’s best Recruitment Transparent Performance Evaluation and Reward 50s: 19.9% 40 36 20s: 16.4% New Recruitment Plan KHNP forecasts long-term recruitment demand based on new NPP construction and over25 Performance Evaluation and Reward Principles 24 seas expansion in accordance with the 2 National Energy Framework Plan. We plan to innd Employees at KHNP have personal goals clearly aligned with those of the company. KHNP crease the current number of employees from around 10,000 to 18,000 by 2030 while expandstrives to ensure stable working environment where employees can deliver the goals by 30s: 34.4% ing social equality recruitment programs for the disabled and increasing local talent quota to 4 4 letting them unleash potential in full. Heads of department engage with employees in sinenhance the company’s diversity. 1 cerity while monitoring their progress in reaching both the individual and company goals. 2013 2014 2015 Meanwhile, achievements and performance are evaluated in a fair and transparent manner. 40s: 29.4% Expert Recruitment Objective two-way evaluation process ensures that all employees are rewarded according to As demand for highly skilled workforce in sophisticated positions is on the rise because of their duties and capabilities in a fair manner. Any form of discriminatory factor is excluded NPP expansion, decommissioning, and other new projects, KHNP has increased slots for profrom this process. Retirement fessional contract experts. To hire professionals in equipment and design verification, patent (Unit: persons) Regular Voluntary lawyers, accountants as well as on-site engineers with proven experience in maintenance, Performance-based System 220 KHNP has in place systematic wage system and personnel policies. KHNP applies the performance-based system introduced in 2011 to evaluate employees’ 204 work values and performance for promotion and reward. We evaluate performance based Employees (Unit: persons) 196 on their capabilities and performance, instead of academic background, region, or gender. 2013 2014 2015 Total 9,553 9,816 10,842 All process ranging from recruitment, placement, promotion to evaluation are conducted in Type of Permanent 17 28 33 accordance with the objectively defined qualitative and quantitative index. employment Temporary 232 230 255 Reasonable Reward System Gender equality Female permanent 899(9.4%) 971(9.9%) 1,202(11.1%) positions 13 11 Female managers 7(0.79%) 7(0.72%) 10(1.05%) 7 Social equity Disabled 324 336 341 Our employees are rewarded in a reasonable manner under the transparent and fair system. High school diploma 2,829 2,757 2,780 Our decisions on HR and reward are made based on the data that is complied according to 2013 2014 2015 Local talents 6,050 6,196 6,780 individual performance and capabilities in an objective manner. Also, by offering incentives involving multi-dimensional organization evaluations aimed at strengthening structural coEmployment of Permanent Positions in 2015 (Unit: persons) operation, we strive to create working environment to let employees fully engage in impleTotal High school diploma 158 Female 260 Local talents (non-capital areas) 824 menting their responsibilities. 1,369 persons Disabled 9 Local talents (relocation sites) 114 Engineering major 1,014 30 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 31 Strategic Approach Transparent and Stable Operation of the BOD Nurture Competent Talents Strengthen HR Capabilities Labor-management Relationship of Mutual Respect HR Development Strategy Labor-management Advancement Strategy Education Expense per Employee In order to secure quality competitiveness and nuclear safety, KHNP endeavors to improve Labor Union Members (As of end of Dec. 2015) KHNP has put forward our labor-management vision as “Creation of future-oriented la(Unit: KRW in millions) employees’ work capabilities. KHNP conducts customized training for each job category, bor-management relationship of mutual respect and harmony” based on our core value 2013 2014 2015 3.40 3.41 3.91 position, and level to strengthen employee capabilities. We introduced the “Job performance ability certification system” in 2014, issuing certificates to KHNP employees who meet assessment requirements of knowledge and skill for each job. Certified employees are 64 % (6,812 persons) “T.R.U.S.T”. Our labor-management vision and strategy system consists of three values of “capability”, “respect”, and “communication”, and 19 implementation tasks. Employees at KHNP are committed to delivering the future-oriented labor-management ties under this strategy. acknowledged for their unique capability of job performance. As of 2015, the rate of inside As a result, we set the record of negotiation without dispute for 15 years in a row. experts who obtained the certificate rose by 4.9%p to 62.7%. Establish Reasonable Labor-management Relationship Talent Cultivation Strategy Diagnosis of LaborKHNP has defined labor-management relationship as the “relationship of trust that comes Management Culture with freedom and responsibility based on rules and principles”. The company has estabCultivate Creative and Integrated Talents lished practical labor management system to thoroughly prevent unfair labor practices and Vision Labor union’s trust with Global Competence in the management (5 points scale) expand cooperation with suppliers. Labor and management at KHNP practice social responImplement 2013 3.10 sibilities while delivering the foundation for sustainable management. In 2015, KHNP joined career developStrengthen Establish Foster talents for ment programs individual Upgrade foundations for 2014 3.21 the Union Corporate Committee (UCC), the Korean consultative body of the UN SDG to carry enhancing core Directions competencies of reflecting the competencies competencies of duty-oriented 2015 3.31 out social responsibility as a public corporation. needs of both through training managers human resource KHNP employees and and education development the company Labor-management relations (5 points scale) Enhance Labor Management Capabilities 2013 3.03 Set a career Establish movement Establish education Under the defining leadership by its CEO to establish advanced labor-management relationprinciple and Build systematic 3.13 Strategies development system operational plan and training systems career development 2014 ship, KHNP has expanded company-wide labor organization by designating labor officers in based on the type of foster employee talent which support career competencies infrastructure 2015 3.31 NPPs. The company holds customized and intensive education for team managers and labor development officers to ensure field-oriented labor management. In addition, we conducted research satisfaction with workplace through enhanced communication among team members, comTrain Specialists pany vision aligned with management goals, and organizational culture improvement. The company plans to establish capability evaluation system of team managers and intensive No. of Trainees and KHNP introduced in-house professional lecturer system to transfer and share knowledge in course on labor management in 2016. Satisfaction Level core areas. We either recruit or designate a total of 50 professional lecturers from the pool man(In-company Training) aged via the in-out system on a yearly basis. We also operate education & training center for Efforts to Prevent Labor-management Conflicts No. of trainees Satisfaction on hydropower. The company introduced an additional simulation trainer for nuclear conductor. (persons) training (points) Labor-Management Communication To take preemptive measures against labor-management conflicts, KHNP has established the Select Core Duty Professionals No. of grievances received (cases) “integrated grievance process system”. Launched in 2015, the integrated grievance process sys95.95 94.47 94.38 tem serves to prevent and resolve conflicts between labor and management by analyzing the KHNP has selected 100 core duties from the fields of development, safety, machinery, measNo. of grievances treated (cases) compiled data on employee complaints. Furthermore, KHNP collects inputs from employees Rate of treatment (%) 7,959 urement, and quality. We then designated core duty professionals in charge of technical 7,223 through a variety of communication channels including the Labor-Management Joint Com7,202 consultations and knowledge management, thereby facilitating information and knowledge 90.1 91.0 89.9 mittee and Labor-Management Council. Issues regarding management are disclosed to emsharing across the supply chain and raising productivity industry-wide. As of 2015, 180 core 265 task specialists were designated. 263 241 ployees in a transparent manner. KHNP also monitors the council to ensure the appropriate 237 operation of the Labor-Management Council in accordance with laws and purposes. Strengthen Employees’ Competitive Edge 217 2013 2014 2015 195 Communication with Employees to Create Consensus KHNP provides a wide variety of education programs including OJT, leadership education, KHNP recognizes that “communication” comes before everything if we are to implement the and global education to help employee achieve individual goals and deliver performance. Government’s policies and to create new corporate culture to keep abreast of internal change Employees with proven business knowledge are dispatched to leading overseas companies to 2013 2014 2015 and innovation. We therefore strive to understand employees’ needs and build consensus. In review business expansion into international nuclear markets. KHNP has updated the materiorder to promote company-wide communication, which would be otherwise difficult due to als and lecturer line-up according to the global education and training process of Systematic differences in duty and position, KHNP endeavors to restore trust by engaging with employees Approach to Training. The Global Village in the Professionals Development Center is a 24-hour in events such as labor-management festival and labor-management meeting. The company language-learning center that was specifically established for language training. KHNP plans also commits to strengthening strategic communication between department, job category, to expand education courses on overseas export to meet the expected training demand for generation, and region. Meanwhile, KHNP has formed the Special Committee on Labor-Manthe UAE project in the NPP-adopting Middle East, Europe, and Asia. KHNP works to improve agement Relationship of outside professionals to bring balanced third-party perspective. its competitive edge by training employees through programs such as circulatory position system, department and business unit circulation, and career development program. 32 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 33 Strategic Approach Transparent and Stable Operation of the BOD Nurture Competent Talents Reasonable Welfare System Create Happy Workplace Satisfaction on 10 Pledges KHNP has initiated the “10 Resolutions for Making a Happy Workplace” in order to remove Principles of Welfare System (Unit: points) unhealthy practices at the workplace in 2014. Ten improvement tasks were identified in a While maintaining reasonable and appropriate welfare system, KHNP addresses lax manage2014 71.88 survey of all employees in the company. KHNP encourages employees’ participation in the ment practices by managing a strict welfare system. To eradicate lax management practices, 2015 76.21 campaign by selecting one issue on a regular basis, and producing promotional videos. In in particular, the company has established a 24/7 monitoring system of the welfare benefits 2015, we selected three practices – vacation, meeting, and events – based on the survey conbased on labor-management consensus, thus proactively carrying out the Government’s ducted last year and sent e-mails encouraging employees to address them. welfare system for public organization. 10 Pledges for Happy Workplace Develop Sustainable Welfare System Certification on Family-friendly Our reasonable welfare system ensures that employees are fully engaged in work enjoying 1. ‌Clarify the background, direction, and timeline when 6. ‌Establish monthly vacation plans by each team and encourage ordering works higher positions to use the vacation first Management from the Ministry of Gender stable working environment. In addition to four major public insurances and other basic wel2. ‌Involve only necessary staff in a meeting and set closing time 7. Complete company dinner at the first round and do not press a drink Equality and Family fare benefits, KHNP offers optional welfare system designed around lifecycles, helping raise 3. ‌Do not speak or act if it can disregard personality of others 8. Treat suppliers as partners for co-prosperity 4. ‌Minimize the scale of events and streamline the process of 9. Respect others’ privacy in company housing 5 employees’ work engagement. protocols 10. ‌Dedicate oneself to works and minimize private affairs during 5. Minimize overtime works and maximize the efficiency if necessary the workday years in a row Improvement of Welfare System Key improvement Relevant regulations Maternity Protection and Gender Equality ㆍ‌Conversion of college expense Collective agreement, employment Employees’ Receptivity to Welfare System KHNP operates programs for maternity protection and gender equality to prevent women’s caLay basis Review system scholarship system rules, reward regulations, Intrafor system appropriateness Up 15%p reer discontinuity and ensure continued career development. Female employees can take materㆍ‌Observe the Government standard company fund management rules, 2015 for school expense for middle and welfare system management rules improvement by and execution 2014 nity leave for up to 3 years for marriage, childbirth, and child care. Female workers can choose to high school children ㆍImprove vacation system revising rules record 47% 62 % take the shortened work hour system for maternity protection instead of maternity leave. In addition, KHNP has established the Women’s Committee for the first time as a government-owned organization to listen to female employees voices regarding management in general. As of 2015, ㆍ‌Rational adjustment of retirement Collective agreement, employment there are 1,202 female workers in KHNP, or 11.1% of the entire workforce, and rising. memorial gift rules, reward regulations, HR Monitor Eliminate lax ㆍAdjust subsidy for family events management regulations, Intraapplication management ㆍ‌Pay wage equivalent to the amount company fund management rules, of improved practices Childbirth Support Programs for KHNP Women’s Committee regulations of public officials for sick leave welfare system management rules Female Employees Offer pregnant employees a KHNP Women’s Committee (KWC) is a special committee that seeks to enforce policies MOM’s package including guidance for regarding the training of female workers. In 2014, the committee selected eight proKHNP Work & Family Advantage Program Package in-company rules and benefits, motion tasks, including “Working Mom Program”, and completed eight tasks in 2015. work support materials, and gifts Results of Flexible “Work & Family Advantage Project”, one of the core programs implemented by KHNP to creCulture of Promote action guides to protect Workplace System (Unit: persons) ate a work and life balance, takes its inspiration from the Korean proverb known as “Il-geoMaternity pregnant employees and enforce Protection maternal protection indicators yang-deuk”, which means killing two birds with one stone. KHNP strives to create a pleasant Health Promotion for Employees Working hour selection workplace by hosting programs such as organization revitalization education and cultural Operate a program to help 2013 32 “Restart” employees with career events. We pursue the balance between work and family by boosting company loyalty and Program discontinuity due to childbirth KHNP is providing psychology consultation to help employees deal with stress from work 2014 33 employees’ dedication. Employees are contributing to the expansion of a positive company and childcare return to work and daily lives so that they can effectively carry out their duties. Employees can receive stress 2015 89 culture after recovering their pride after experiencing work-life balance. coaching and psychological consultation at a professional psychological consultant center Difference in commuting time contracted with the company. A “Visiting Counseling Service” has been operating for remote Enhance Flexible Work Use of Childbirth 2013 2,910 and Childcare Leaves (Unit: persons) areas in order to increase accessibility. Also, to deal with radiation emergency situations and KHNP operates flexible work to support employees commuting long distances and to delivoffer preliminary medical assistance in case of emergencies, the Radiation Emergency Medi2014 3,196 Use of childbirth leave Use of childcare leave er a balanced work-family life through childcare and education subsidies. Alternative work 186 cal Center (REMC) was opened at the head offices of the four NPPs (Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong and 2015 3,351 schedule, introduced in 2013, has been diversified as the operation method was expanded. Hanul). The REMC minimizes damage by giving first aid to patients exposed to radiation and Working schedule selection* Work hour selection system has increased practical benefits for employees. Those who take 121 taking them to hospital in cooperation with the National Radiation Emergency Treatment 111 2013 the work hour selection system are free to work from 4 to 12 hours a day for up to 5 days as Center. During normal operation, the REMC serves as health care center, providing measurelong as they work 40 hours during weekdays. KHNP prohibits discrimination in wages, work78 ment services like cerebral blood flow and body fat. In case of industrial accident, the REMC 2014 72 ing conditions, evaluation, and promotion against employees who use this system. protects the health and safety of employees by carrying out preliminary medical treatment, 2015 68 the transportation of emergency patients and other related tasks. *Newly introduced in 2015 59 2013 2014 2015 34 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 35 Sustainability Plan and Goals As the Korea’s largest power generating company producing 30% of the nation’s electric power through nuclear power, hydropower and pumped storage hydroelectric power, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power (KHNP) is growing into the “trusted global energy leader” carrying out the management activities rooted in the five core values, “T.R.U.S.T”. Technology KHNP, Growing into Global Nuclear Power Generation Leader 38 Respect KHNP, Opening a New Chapter in Gyeongju 44 KHNP, Creating Healthy NPP Ecosystem 50 Ultimate Safety KHNP, Placing Utmost Importance on Safety 54 Social Responsibility KHNP, Practicing Eco-friendly Management for Next Generations 65 KHNP, Growing with Local Communities 73 Timeless Integrity KHNP, Pursuing Culture of Integrity and Honesty 78 36 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 37 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Lead World-class NPP Technology Development Technology R&D Strategy System KHNP, Growing into Global Nuclear KHNP concentrates its resources into technology development to secure the global top technology and future growth engine by 2030. Pursuing the R&D strategy aligned with managePower Generation Leader ment strategy, KHNP spearheads the 3.5th generation NPP in accordance with the Government’s technology development goals. R&D Strategy System Aspect Report R&D Vision Lead World-class NPP Technology Development Report Context As awareness and concerns over NPP safety mount, receptivity of new NPP construction and operation in local communities is increasingly on the decline. Furthermore, the tightening Strategy Enhance nuclear safety Raise facility reliability Secure stability in power supply Generate growth momentum regulations and policies on nuclear power industry are creating greater hurdles to carrying out nuclear business on a sustainable manner. In response, major nuclear operators across 1. Safety enhancement 4. ‌Material degradation from long 8. Operation 11. New NPP 2. Radiation safety management operation 9. Used fuel 12. Dismantling the world are engaged in fierce competition to secure safer and more effective core technolMain 3. Response to natural disaster 5. Raise equipment reliability 10. Construction 13. Renewable energy technology ogy. However, due to difficulties in accessing the technological information and the limita6. Hydrochemistry 7. Inspection and equipment tions in acquiring technology, businesses and countries with leading technology are gaining monopoly in the industry. ㆍ‌Major accident prevention and ㆍ‌Equipment and structure ㆍHuman error prevention and MMIS ㆍ‌New concept lightwater reactor Key response degradation evaluation ㆍUsed nuclear fuel safe storage development ㆍOptimal safety analysis ㆍOptimum reliability base operation ㆍ‌Data (ICT) based NPP life cycle ㆍ‌NPP dismantling and environment Secure world-class technology Sustainable Progress & Future Plan ㆍRadiation life safety evaluation ㆍ‌Major equipment monitoring, management technology recovery technologies ㆍRadioactive waste vitrication diagnosis and verification ㆍHydraulic and renewable energy KHNP has put forward the “securing proprietary nuclear plant technologies” as the top ‌APR1400 passed ㆍ priority to address safety concerns at home and abroad and overcome technological Develop Korean Proprietary Technology and Secure the preliminary limitations. KHNP is committed to enhancing nuclear safety while raising efficiency by inspection on design acquiring Korean proprietary nuclear technology. Drawing upon the abundant experience certification of the Competitive Edge Nuclear Regulatory and technological competitiveness in NPP construction and operation, KHNP is advancing Commission (NRC). R&D Investments Featuring anti-aircraft collision technology and earthquake-resistant technology, the domesinto the global markets, thereby establishing nuclear technology as the new growth ㆍ ‌APR+ was involved in the Basic Plan for Investments tically built advanced power reactor APR1400 was introduced to Shin Kori #3 and #4 in 2007. engine for the nation’s economy. KHNP is growing into a sustainable energy company by (Unit: KRW in billions) Electricity Supply and APR1400 is the 1400㎿ pressurized water reactor, the power generation capacity of which continuously investing in hydropower and renewable energy. Demand of Korea 2013 336.9 has increased by 40% compared to the Korea’s standard NPP. In 2009, KHNP beat advanced 2014 303.1 countries in nuclear industry such as the US and France to win the USD 40 billion worth of 2015 323.6 UAE project. KHNP promises to secure future growth momentum by investing in proprietary Case for Sustainable KHNP technology development. Acquire International Certification of APR1400 Develop Korean Proprietary NPP Technologies The standard design of the Korean reactor Rate of Construction In the second half of 2014, after seven years of development, KHNP received NPP standard APR1400 has passed the preliminary inspecProcess of the UAE NPP Project design approval from the Nuclear Safety and Security Commission for APR+, the 1,500MW tion of the USNRC Design Certification (DC). NPP, which has been developed with purely domestic technology. Boasting superior safety The standard design of APR1400 features anti-aircraft collision technology as well as 61.4 % compared to foreign competitors, APR+ has been reflected in the basic construction plan of earthquake-resistant technology with greatly (As of end of 2015) Chunji # 1 and #2. APR+ is touted as innovative in that the proprietary technology will allow enhanced safety in electric system. The secKHNP to negotiate overseas export independently. ond inspection is underway in the first half APR+ of 2016. We expect the certificate to greatly Blueprint of APR1400 improve the awareness of Korean NPP while increasing our chances for business expansion into the US market. Develop passive Anti-aircraft 3 major domestic Enhance redundancy RPS Implementation technologies auxiliary feed Develop 1,500MW collision design and independency Rate in 2015 water system proprietary of safety system ‌Reflect the NRC requireㆍ reactor type with ㆍCore NPP design code ‌Enhance response capabiliㆍ ments ‌Nuclear reactor coolant ㆍ ㆍ ‌Safe design completely purely domestic ties in case of power outage ‌Strengthen concrete ㆍ pump 81.2 % ㆍ ‌NPP measurement and control facilities such as Fukushima disaster ‌Core cooling for 72 hours ㆍ technology separated both mechanically and electrically outer wall ㆍ‌Quadrant physical separatwithout power ㆍReduce CDF ed layout design 38 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 39 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Expand Overseas NPP Business Secure NPP Post-management Technology Enhance NPP Export Competitiveness Permanent Decommissioning of Kori #1 and Dismantling KHNP expects to overcome the limitations in the local power supply market by raising manPreparation agement efficiency with improved revenue as well as by advancing into overseas NPP marIn June 2015, KHNP decided that Kori #1 reactor completely cease its operation. The Kori #1 kets. To that end, KHNP continues to expand overseas business based on the proven technolreactor is being shut down permanently in June 2017 with dismantling scheduled for 2022 afogy and expertise obtained from local NPP business activities. The recent global NPP market ter the stable suspension period. Preparatory dismantling, used fuel cooling and uploading, is shifting from EPC(Engineering, Procurement, Construction), where design, procurement, decontamination and demolition, and site restoration will be phased in according to the nuand construction are signed in package, to EPC+Operation that includes operation and clear decommissioning technology development roadmap of 2015 over the expected period maintenance service. Having signed the EUR consultancy agreement with Skoda-Praha of of 15 years. KHNP is currently establishing the basic principles and strategy for dismantling the Czech Republic, KHNP embarked on Korean NPP marketing activities in Brazil. KHNP has while coming up with measures for dedicated teams and workforce. KHNP has also identialso signed an agreement on technical support for NPP operation with China’s largest power fied a total of 58 commercial technologies in five categories and analyzed advanced foreign generator CNNO in its effort to diversify profit model to meet clients’ needs. The business cases. We have secured 41 of them so far. The remaining 17 technologies will be obtained in Finland has been suspended due to the client’s request after being chosen as the final independently based on additional development plan by 2021. suppliers but the cooperation channel is still open with the client for the next business order. Expected Decommissioning Process (Kori #1 Unit) Organize Task Force Decommissioning Plan Extraction & Cooling of Decontamination & Restoration of Land Spent Nuclear Fuel Dismantling KHNP has undertaken restructuring of overseas business department to maximize work efficiency. The “Global Strategy Office” has been newly organized under the direction of CEO. 2 years Over 5 years Over 6 years 2 years The formerly overseas departments including overseas nuclear business development, overseas hydropower business development, international relations, and overseas office operation were integrated. This restructuring has streamlined the decision-making process, creating synergy in the company’s overseas business activities. ‌ ㆍLicense for operation change ㆍDecommissioning process design ‌ ‌ ㆍRemote cutting and decontamina‌ ㆍTreatment of radioactive waste ‌Launch of an organization for ㆍ ‌Extraction of spent nuclear fuel and ㆍ tion of nuclear reactor ㆍRestoration of land decommissioning safety management ㆍ ‌Dismantling of buildings and facilities Focus Business OSSA Contract, Start of Another New Business Model Status of the UAE Rate of construction process Rate of construction process Total KHNP has strived to identify new growth engine by creating new business model ranging from winNuclear Power 79.27% 36.7% 61.4 % ning NPP construction projects to operation. KHNP pursues Operating Support Service Agreement Plant Project (OSSA) to dispatch workforce in charge of operation and management after NPP construction. In UAE NPP Business (As of end of 2015) April 2013, we dispatched workforce to the Abu Dhabi office in UAE to support the Baraka NPP construction while signing an MOU on human resources exchange. Thanks to those efforts, KHNP NPP Construction Project: from #2 Unit #4 Unit succeeded in concluding OSSA with the Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation on July 20th, 2016 #1 Unit #3 Unit Contract to Construction in the first case of NPP human resources and know-how export in Korea. Under the agreement, Korea’s KEPCO consortium led by KHNP KHNP will supply around 400 qualified operators and operation workforce a year by 2030, 10 years Scheduled Scheduled beat the largest competitor to be selectScheduled completion completion Signed the Operating Support Services Agreement after the completion of the UAE reactor #4. In addition, we plan to establish a long-term coopercompletion Scheduled (OSSA) between KHNP and UAE ENEC ed as the supplier for UAE’s NPP busiMay 1, 2017 May 1, 2018 completion May 1, 2020 ative relationship with UAE to share our experience and expertise in NPP operation of 40 years. May 1, 2019 ness in December 2009. This marks the first time in 30 years that Korea exportOSSA Contract with UAE ENEC ed APR1400, the new light water reactor. UAE NPP Project Dec. 27, 2009 Signed a main contract Sep. 15, 2014 ‌Obtained construction license Contract Volume Period Duties With this achievement, Korea became Dispatch of Schedule Jul. 18, 2012 ‌Obtained construction for #3 & #4 units and conducted Since completing license for #1 & #2 units concrete forming work for #3 unit the 6th country in the world to join the USD 920 million the UAE Barakah NPP #4~ KHNP staff for NPP operation and conducted concrete Mar. 26, 2015 ‌Applied for #1 & #2 units operation ranks of NPP exporters following the forming work for #1 unit license (Main contract: USD 600 million, US, France, Russia, Canada, and Japan. Feb. 3, 2013 ‌Started trainings for local Mar. 31, 2015 First energized #1 unit indirect expenses (residential 2030 workers of the contractor Jun. 16, 2015 ‌Installed nuclear reactor of #2 unit costs of dispatched employees, (accumulative 3,052 persons until 2030) Following the construction of reactor #1 etc.): USD 320 million) in July 2012, KHNP has started to build Apr. 15, 2013 ‌Conducted concrete Jul. 30, 2015 ‌Conducted concrete forming work forming work for #2 unit for #4 unit reactor #2 in April 2013, #3 in September May 21, 2013 ‌Dispatched the staff for Feb. 5, 2016 ‌Conducted hydraulic test of #1 unit 2014, and #4 in July 2015. commissioning Jul. 20, 2016 ‌Signed the Operating Support May 20, 2014 ‌Installed nuclear reactor Services Agreement (OSSA) of #1 unit 40 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 41 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Expand Renewable Energy Business Renewable Energy Business Strategy Renewable Energy Strategy ‧‌Develop new businesses in consideration of economic feasibility and potential The largest electricity power supplier in Korea, KHNP develops renewable energy to replace ‧‌Encourage joint development with local governments and government agencies coal and oil that are gradually being depleted. KHNP operates 51 hydropower and pumped storage plants while engaging in solar, wind, bio, and fuel cell industry. ‧‌Choose and concentrate on power sources meeting company ‧‌Invest in equity of SPCs in case of characteristics large-scale projects ‧‌Compose optimal power sources ‧‌Reduce investment costs and Promotion of Renewable Energy Business considering exploitable resources diversify business risks in the country Proactive Fuel cell Implementation of RPS Hydro Small hydro Hwacheon hydro Chuncheon hydro Yangyang small hydro Choice and Risk Photovoltaic Euiam hydro 39MW Inje wind power Concentration Management (promoting) 58.8MW Wind Noeul fuel cell Cheongpyeong hydro (under construction) Gangneung hydro Implement Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard Topyeong small hydro Bio Anheung small hydro 40MW Songdo fuel cell Paldang hydro (promoting) Geothermal RPS Implementation Performance Implementing the Renewable Portfolio Standard, KHNP is growing into a global green enerGyeonggi fuel cell Yeongwol photovoltaic Requirement (Unit: GWh) gy leader that values people, environment, and technology. The company has constructed Goisan small hydro independent facilities while engaging in joint development projects to meet the required 2013 2,462 amount of renewable energy. The company also has secured Renewable Energy Certificate Yecheon photovoltaic 2014 2,523 through selection agreement, independent agreement, and spot market. Our new power Yecheon small hydro 2015 2,662 generation facilities are registered in the CDM, laying the groundwork to obtain the Certified 20MW Cheongsong wind power (promoting) Emission Reductions (CER). Achievement (Unit: GWh) Noeul Fuel Cell Power Generation Business 2013 1,770 6.2MW Pohang geothermal power (promoting) 2014 1,812 60MW Seonam offshore wind power (promoting) Seomjin Generating electricity power with electrochemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen, River hydro Muju small hydro 2015 2,161 fuel cell power generation is an eco-friendly energy. Fuel cell power generation does not re5MW Milyang photovoltaic power (promoting) Sancheong Rate of Achievement (Unit: %) quire long transmission line but yields high efficiency with virtually no emission of harmful sub5MW Shin-Kori photovoltaic small hydro power (promoting) stances compared to other renewable energy sources. KHNP signed shareholders’ agreement Hanbit Solar Park Kori wind power 100 81.2 for “Noeul Fuel Cell Power Generation Business” in May 2014. Having invested the share of 29% 80 71.9 71.8 30MW in the KRW 121.9 billion project, KHNP plans to construct the 20MW fuel cell power generation Busan fuel cell (under construction) 60 facilities in Sangamdong, Seoul. Once completed, the facility will be capable of generating elec320MW Gwangyang bio (promoting) 40 20 tricity power of 157.6 million kWh and heat of 65 billion kcal per year. This takes up 1.5% of the 300MW household electricity consumption of Seoul, an equivalent to the electricity enough to power Boseong River hydro Kori offshore wind power (promoting) 2013 2014 2015 40MW Goheung wind power (promoting) 50,000 households. KHNP expects to cut 20,000 tons of CO2 emission every year. Advance into Customized Overseas Hydropower Business As it is expected that the facility capacity of hydropower generation in Asia and Latin America will increase by 700GW over the next two decades, KHNP is developing customized business in accordance with business environment and risk level in different countries. KHNP teams up with specializing partners, local or international, when advancing into overseas markets to manage risks involved, thus raising chances of winning projects. The company also identifies small and medium sized promising projects in key markets to selectively carry out low-risk business. We seek to enhance expertise in business development by promoting collaboration between inhouse professionals in finance, accounting, and legal affairs while operating experts’ groups. In addition, we mainly target EPC business in consideration of investment risks. For regions where electricity power markets are mature and investment environment is stable, we carry out bidding activities for private power generation. As a result, KHNP was selected as the preferred bidder in the Cerro Campama hydropower project in Peru and Song Ma 3 hydropower in Vietnam in 2015. 42 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 43 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity New & Clear Energy Silk Road Respect Future Synergy Slogan KHNP, Opening a New Chapter “New & Clear Energy Silk Road” In 2016, eight years after the Government’s approval in 2008, KHNP relocated to Gyeongju. Upon the completion of relocation, KHNP put forward our future synergy slogan “New & in Gyeongju Clear Energy Silk Road” along with five key projects and 10 social initiatives aimed at pro“New” “Clear” Energy Silk Road moting shared growth with local communities and boosting local economy. [Nu] [clear] 5 Key Projects and 10 Social Initiatives Aspect Report Nuclear Create future For the five mid and long-term initiatives to promote shared growth with Gyeongju, KHNP silk road has announced “Attract nuclear energy suppliers to Gyeongju”, “Nuclear site personnel train(Symbolize nuclear energy) Report Context through energy ing center”, “Dormitory in Seoul to accommodate university students from local communiThe existing power generation markets including nuclear power that have been around for ties near NPPs”, “Women’s football team”, and “Promote MICE industry through HICO”. 10 SoCreate future silk road together a long time have a relatively predictable revenue structure with proven technical stability with Gyeongju through supplying clean cial Initiatives, designed to improve the quality of life for citizens of Gyeongju, include social and response capability to regulations. However, the increasing uncertainty surrounding the nuclear energy contribution for happiness sharing, foster decent cultural infrastructure, cultivate next-genglobal management environment and the fluctuations in the global energy prices present eration talent, and more. power generators of today with new tasks in management. Not just this, as environmental issues keep emerging over new energy industry such as renewable energy, companies are 10 Daily Experience Projects Five Major Projects increasingly coming under pressure to undertake structural transformation. This changing environment will require the existing leading players in the power and energy industry to imImprovement of Happiness Sharing Attract nuclear energy ‧‌Attract 100 or so suppliers to Gyeongju and build nuclear energy industry cluster prove management efficiency, implement market-friendly strategy, invest in environmental suppliers to Gyeongju Short-term: 30 suppliers(2016), long-term : 100 suppliers Employees’ Conscious❶ Streetlights to ensure safe way back to home ‧‌Set up “Gyeongju Mutual Growth Team”, taking charge of attracting corporations and infrastructure, and push ahead with innovation tasks for management. ness (in 2015) ❷ Prevention of heart attack of senior citizens fostering local companies. ❸ Eyesight recovery project ‧Raise KRW 100 billion as cooperative loan fund for SMEs based in Gyeongju Effectiveness of ❹ Renovate old houses ‌Low interest loans for business Sustainable Progress & Future Plan Innovation (interest exempted by 3%, up to KRW 1 billion, renewed every year) To keep abreast of the changes in the energy consumption markets, KHNP designs power gener60.3 % Promotion of Culture and Arts Nuclear site personnel training center ‧Establish technical education center in Gampo, Gyeongju to train 100 engineers a year Budget share: KHNP(50%), central government(25%), local government(25%) ation capacity in a flexible and reasonable manner while striving to maintain competitive ener(Up 16.7% from the previous year) ‧‌Preferred recruitment of local citizens and regional limit of employees at HQ ❺ Construction of KHNP Culture Street gy prices. The company address the exiting authoritative and conventional policies to improve ❻ ‌Mecenat activities for a cultural (job creation initiative) Preferred recruitment of new employees and continue region-limited recruitment the general public’s awareness of nuclear power generation, thereby overhauling the manageEnhancement of city Gyeongju Communication ❼ ‌Implementation of the KHNP Culture ment environment and corporate culture to develop into customer-friendly energy company. Day event Dormitory for KHNP promises to generate synergy in cost and technology by sharpening its competitive edge 47.3 % students studying in Seoul ‧‌Establish a dormitory in Seoul to accommodate 500 university students from local communities near NPPs through the integrated management model and proactive communication with stakeholders. (Up 23.5% from the previous year) Cultivation of Future Talents ❽ “Happiness Plus, Hopeful Wings” program ❾ Einstein Class program Women’s ‧Found KHNP women’s football with players from Gyeongju ❿ ‌Expansion of collaboration with football team Promote sports and culture and build sports infrastructure in Gyeongju Case for Sustainable KHNP *Surveyed by KCF Partners local universities Promote MICE industry ‧Attract local and international events on nuclear energy to HICO, Gyeongju Introduce Integrated Management Model In 2017 : WANO BGM ‌In 2016 : Meeting on Nuclear Energy(Korean Nuclear Society), Nu-Tech Conference (KHNP), Korea Atomic Power Annual Conference(Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, KHNP has introduced the integrated manageKorean Nuclear Society) ment model aimed at growing into the world’s Improvement of Best Practice leading nuclear operator. The integrated People’s Consciousmanagement model classifies nuclear operaness (in 2015) tion business into 35 functional area and 155 Safety of Nuclear processes, effectively managing plants with Power Plant New & ClearGyeongju Mutual Growth Fund Agreement multiple reactors as if they are single-reactor plant under clearly specified structure of HQ 41.0 % KHNP signed “New & ClearGyeongju Mutual Growth Fund Agreement” with Gyeongju city, (Up 14.8% from and regional offices. The model complies with the previous year) Gyeongju Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and IBK. In this low-interest credit program Workshop for the establishment of integrated standards and regulations, both domestic and management operation for businesses based in Gyeongju, KHNP deposited KRW 100 billion with IBK. Businesses Necessity of Nuclear international, placing emphasis on defining duties for individual organization and establishing Power Plant can take out up to KRW 1 billion in credit. The fund will help SMEs in Gyeongju have better cooperative system. GOSP – Governance, Oversight, Support, and Perform – in the model leads access to capital and ultimately contribute to boosting the local economy. KHNP promises to clarification of duties and functions, re-establishment of task implementation document, per85.1 % to seek mutual growth with local businesses. (Up 3.4% from formance monitoring, and cooperation system. The system prepares for simultaneous operation the previous year) Agreement ceremony for New & Clear-Gyeongju of more than 30 NPPs, departing from worker-oriented operation to process-oriented. In March Shared Growth Fund 2016, we held CFAM/SFAM workshop for the settlement of the integrated management model. *‌Surveyed by the Korea Nuclear Energy Agency 44 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 45 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Special Report Discussion 2 Measures to Win Trust and Support from Citizens of Gyeongju Stakeholders’ Meeting for Mutual Participants shared ideas on the roles and activities for KHNP to win residents’ trust and support for its busiGrowth and Local Communities ness including NPP operation and used fuel process. Kim Shin Jae Even if the mutual growth program between KHNP and the local community works successfully, the impact KHNP held stakeholders’ meeting of local communities on September 1st, 2016, where we listened to Gyeongju citizens’ expectaof the program will be limited unless KHNP ensures the safety of nuclear power and old reactors. In particular, KHNP and local comtions on our relocation and discussed cooperation works with the city as a partner for mutual growth. The participating stakeholdmunities have to discuss high-level nuclear waste management to reach an agreement that satisfies both parties. ers included local organizations, NGOs, media, and academia who shared ideas on cooperation between KHNP and Gyeongju. Kim Hyeong Cheol Immediate information disclosure about NPP safety is necessary. As there is no system to inform leaks, breakdown or shutdown in operating NPPs, citizens of Gyeongju have no choice but to become concerned over the safety of NPPs. Therefore, transparent information including negative issues must be made public immediately to help them be relieved. Lee Sang Deok We need to win trust by carrying out policies and pledges regarding NPP. The most troubling issues of local people are long-term operation of Wonsong #1 unit and the saturation of temporary storage facility for used fuel. In particular, as policies for used nuclear fuel treatment have been repeatedly created, revised and modified, citizens of Gyeongju Gyeongju are concerned that the period of temporary storage of high-level radioactive waste could be extended. The policies and pledges must be put into action to relieve residents of their concerns. Lee Seung Pyo It may be a good idea to found a consultative body, for example, committee on development of Gyeongju between KHNP and Gyeongju. Locally based scholars, experts, media and NGOs can create a united group to discuss and share opinions to develop the city. KHNP should listen to the voices of different social groups and reflect them in the company’s policies Secretary General Kim Hyeong Cheol Director Kim Shin Jae Lee Seung Pyo Professor Lee Sang Deok to build a solid foundation of trust and support. Gyeongju Environment Talent Development division, Gyeongju Headquarter, Social Welfare department of College Protection Council Dongguk University at Gyeongju Daeagu Daily of Health and Welfare, Sorabol College Discussion 1 Community Issues following KHNP’s Relocation to Gyeongju Discussion 3 ‌Measures to Create Values for Mutual Growth between KHNP and Local Communities A variety of both positive and negative factors have arisen since KHNP’s relocation to Gyeongju. Participants discussed whether the issues would threaten or provide opportunity for KHNP; and effective measures to Participants discussed measures to enhance co-prosperity and create environment where KHNP can ensure respond to the situation. sustainable operation based on the support from the local community and the local community can enjoy economic growth, cultural prosperity and job creation. Kim Shin Jae It was expected that KHNP’s relocation to Gyeongju would bring about increase the influx of population Kim Shin Jae KHNP’s 5 projects and 10 social initiatives are all necessary for the city of Gyeongju. Therefore, more detailed to the city. The recent reports show the population is declining although it was increasing during the early days of the relocation. schedule and plans need to be known to the citizens. Meanwhile, those are partially concentrated on particular groups such as In order to prevent the outflow, KHNP is required to lay the foundation for better educational environment for children as well as women, senior citizens and students. Projects and initiatives to help all ages and genders are required in the future. In this regard, I increase the level of residential satisfaction. suggest parks for citizens and tourists and expansion of sports facilities in the town. Kim Hyeong Cheol Citizens in Gyeongju expected to have inflow of population and regional economic revitalization after the Kim Hyeong Cheol KHNP should have included a project for farmers in the 5 projects and 10 social initiatives. I think operating relocation of KHNP. But the number of people who moved to Gyeongju was not as large as expected. Instead, most of them settled NPPs has negative impacts more on the rural communities. With this in mind, I suggest an additional program for farmers, that is, in the east side of Gyeongju, bringing about only a marginal impact on the downtown area. I hope that brisk economic activities stabilization fund for minimum produce price. If negative sentiment of food produced in the area near NPPs spreads, the price may help invigorate the local economy even if it’s only the east Gyeongju area. drop below the production cost. Many farmers in Gyeongju would welcome this kind of buffer fund. Lee Sang Deok I welcome KHNP with open arms because of their well-designed social responsibility programs consisting of Lee Sang Deok KHNP unveiled the “Comprehensive Plan for Gyeongju Development” on April 27 to celebrate the relocation five projects for win-win partnership and 10 social initiatives. But first, the residents have to be assured of safe operation of NPPs to to Gyeongju. However, the local government is working on its own comprehensive development plan. It may add to confusion to accept these great pledges. KHNP must understand what people want and make its best effort to ensure safety. operate two different plans independently. In order to ensure sustainable and effective development of Gyeongju, an integrated master plan should be implemented by integrating the plans prepared by KHNP and Gyeongju City. Lee Seung Pyo The expectations of the residents toward KHNP are all positive except that it’s difficult to find any positive impact resulting from the relocation. It’s meaningful for KHNP to be situated near radioactive waste storage facility, but some peoLee Seung Pyo The most effective way of downtown revitalization is to create tourist attractions. I think setting up a landple don’t even know that KHNP is located in Janghang-ri that is quite distant from the downtown area. The first thing to ensure a mark tower is more influential than building culture street proposed by KHNP. The tower will be a landmark of Gyeongju for tourists. stronger presence, the company should actively promote itself and accurately inform residents of its roles and businesses. 46 KHNP Korea Hydro can also & Nuclear use Power it asSustainability Co.,LTD a museumReportof energy, 2016 which will help promote and improve brand awareness of the company. 47 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Create Foundation for Sustainable and Systematic Four Major Process Innovation Innovation KHNP has undertaken the four major process innovation covering management model, procurement, finance, and human resources. For management model, KHNP has developed the Management Innovation integrated management model to realize the Fleet Management where NPP of multiple reactors are managed like a single reactor plant. This system has allowed KHNP to standardize tasks reKHNP strives innovate itself to grow into a global company while contributing to the national lated to NPP operation and realize management model with an enhanced cooperation system. competitiveness. The Nuclear Safety and Communication Committee of outside experts led For procurement, we established an integrated system to manage internal procurement process by the Management Innovation Office under the CEO, in particular, reviews implementation and suppliers based on our unique supply chain management system. For procurement, meanoutcomes of management innovation tasks. while, separate accounting system has been introduced to measure and analyze financial per2016 Management Innovation formance of different business units, improving the efficiency in financial management. KHNP also established the career development system to innovate HR management. KHNP enhances Innovation Goal Pursue Stronger Capability and Qualitative Improvement to Grow into Global Leader employee capabilities and identify demands for education by utilizing the career development Best Practice system while managing human resources based on functions and capabilities. Strategic Direction Lay Foundation for SCM System Future Innovation Communication KHNP pursues SCM innovation as it strives to integrate internal procurement process covering procurement request, contract, and material Strengthened global Qualitative change with Substantive Communication management. Our SCM system is being established under the three goals of “creating value”, “quality guarantee” and “on-time delivery”. Once competitiveness innovation completed, a series of process from item and volume planning, procurement and delivery process, SCM control, monitoring to control will be ㆍ ‌Standardize operation process in ‌Build KHNP-oriented SCM and ㆍ ‌Realize Team KHNP by boosting ㆍ integrated into a single system. KHNP has finished 12 tasks of the phase 1 including opening of private contract items and document simplifiNPP Safety · Communication Committee major nuclear plants secure sound supply chains for employee morale and enhancing ‌Foster global professionals and ㆍ nuclear plant parts competency cation, laying the foundation for productivity increase. enhance support ‌Settle personnel management and ㆍ ‌Recover trust through open ㆍ ‌Secure overseas nuclear energy ㆍ separate accounting systems to communication Major Tasks market channels and develop deliver management performance ㆍ ‌Improve practical communication 3 Goals for Building SCM System Organization relevant technology ‌Build radiation safety manㆍ with stakeholders ‌Expand investment business to ㆍ agement and disaster safety ㆍ ‌Improve communication with overseas countries with high management system communities near NPPs chances of hydropower industry ㆍ ‌Enhance emergency response Timely Procurement Quality Assurance Value Creation Co-chairperson Member capabilities to respond to the ㆍSet procurement plan ㆍ‌Set quality control system ㆍ‌Establish reasonable price changes in internal and external environment ㆍEstablish timely supply system ㆍ‌Establish quality forgery prevention calculation system 14 Professionals in system ㆍPromote inventory optimization CEO, in-company communication and professionals energy sector Innovation ㆍEstablish spontaneous system to preemptively identifies and address issues Foundation ㆍ‌Form consensus on need for continued enterprise innovation and encourage participation in the innovation Opinion Collection and Service Development Function Revitalize Internal and External Communication KHNP commits itself to collecting opinions from the general public while restoring trust on ㆍ‌Consultation, policy proposal, and prevention and KHNP operates company-wide communication programs such as group meeting, Team NPP safety via the Nuclear Safety and Communication Committee. We carry out Government control of conflicts in line with NPP safety and KHNP innovation workshop, management innovation seminar, and more to build employ3.0 tasks to relate with people by communicating and sharing information and work to raise communication ees’ consensus on innovation. At Team KHNP innovation workshop, in particular, the comservice satisfaction as a public organization. ㆍ‌A channel to communicate with the public about transparent management, information disclosure, pany offered special lecture on management issues and innovation. Meanwhile, we promote and NPP-related issues Development and Execution of the Government 3.0 Tasks customized communication activities for stakeholders. For example, KHNP hosted the “communication workshop of nuclear industry” in cooperation with the Ministry of Trade, IndusEstablishment of One-stop System Innovation of Information Convergence & Opening of try and Energy to share innovation outcomes and discussed inspection results of abnormal Disclosure Process Data in Demand to Support Small & Medium-sized Nuclear Power Companies practices on sites and countermeasures. The company also organized the “on-site commuBest Practice nication seminar” with suppliers to share key issues regarding industrial safety and informaㆍ ‌Open sought-after and high-value ‌Build an export support system for ㆍ data and establish their practical use the collaboration of KHNP, power tion security, thus strengthening cooperative system. ‌ ㆍDevelop record management criteria system companies, and private enterprises ㆍ ‌Improve information disclosure ㆍ ‌Set up tailored technology informaㆍ‌Conduct joint project development process tion offering system and marketing activities ㆍCreate user-tailored homepage Nuclear Safety & Communication Committee’s Site Visit and Workshop ㆍ‌Create a website for technology ㆍ‌Launch a company specializing in transfer exporting NPP facilities KHNP expanded the Future Development Committee into the Nuclear Safety and Communication Committee for the purpose of restoring the public’s trust on nuclear safety. The committee members visited sites and held workshops in November 2015. During the visit to Kori #1 plant and #2 construction site, they reviewed the status of NPP construction and operation and listened to conflict and communication status. They ㆍ ‌First adopt record management ‌Creating KRW 59.5 billion worth ㆍ ㆍ ‌Share bid information on nuclear criteria among public institutions new growth engines by supporting fuel and operation in South Africa also discussed and shared ideas on KHNP promotion strategy, key civilian conflicts, and committee operation. It was proposed that KHNP win ㆍ‌Shorten 1.7 day in each information technology transfer and commerㆍ‌Jointly bid for the International people’s trust by explaining about NPP to the public in a detailed manner while institutionalizing agenda identified. KHNP pledges to reflect disclosure treatment time cialization Thermonuclear Experimental ㆍ‌Increase satisfaction on homepage ㆍ‌Help SMEs and venture companies Reactor (ITER) construction mansuggestions raised during the workshop and to implement a wide range of activities to restore people’s trust. (66.7%→77.3%) reduce costs agement project 48 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 49 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Responsible Management of SCM Respect Establish and Operate Strategic System for Mutual Growth KHNP, Creating Healthy Evaluation on Shared Growth of Under the overarching vision for mutual growth “Global leader KHNP, creating a healthy NPP Public Institutions by the ecosystem”, KHNP has put forward the slogan “KHNP helps SMEs realize their big dream”. NPP Ecosystem Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy KHNP extends its full support to SMEs with overseas expansion and technology development 2013 General through its core mutual growth values “KHNP WITH”. 2014 General KHNP’s Shared Growth Strategy Satisfactory Aspect Report Vision Global Top KHNP That Creates a Healthy NPP Ecosystem 2015 Report Context Slogan “KHNP helps SMEs realize their big dream.” It is essential to create a healthy and fair industrial ecosystem to ensure the sustainable Core Values growth of our economy. Mutual growth and win-win environment may be one solution to World-class Innovation Transparency Harmony such task but the private sector has been relatively slow to follow suit with the perception Lead shared growth Differentiate Create a culture of Create NPP ecosystem through consistent clean and transparent for harmony and that businesses should bear the cost for mutual growth. Large conglomerates may regard innovation shared growth coexistence assistance for SMEs in the form of technology, capital, and marketing as short-term burden. However, they should realize that they can sharpen competitive edge with the very technolStrategies Strengthen supports Upgrade technology Promote fair Pave the way for for overseas sales innovation capability competition shared growth ogy developed by small companies. Meanwhile, SMEs can become more self-sufficient while increasing sales. The Government and public organizations are required to cultivate success ‌Establish a company to ㆍ ㆍ ‌Support the establishment of quality system ‌Enforce advance ㆍ verification system ‌Expand public ㆍ procurement cases so that mutual growth and win-win culture take foothold throughout the society while support SMEs’ exports Core Tasks ㆍ ‌Support oversea ㆍ ‌Energize R&D activities ‌Enhance supervision of ㆍ ㆍ ‌Expand financial supports ‌Transfer owned ㆍ payment system ‌Industrial Innovation ㆍ raising awareness that mutual growth translates into opportunity. Furthermore, by eradicatEvaluation on Shared marketing technologies ㆍ ‌Lower entrance barriers Movement 3.0 Growth of Public ing unfair business practices with suppliers and establishing fair transaction practices, they Institutions (in 2015) should create a vibrant ecosystem for SMEs and help improve the competitive edge of not Review and Performance review and feedback on shared growth by utilizing K-PGI Satisfactory Feedback (a composite index consisting of eight indicators such as rate of purchasing SME products) just large conglomerates but also the nation’s overall industry. Sustainable Progress & Future Plan (World-class) Enhance Support for Overseas Expansion KHNP contributes to creating a sound and vibrant nuclear ecosystem. Under the strong leadHaving finished feasibility test on overseas equipment market and export company model ership of CEO and the management for mutual growth, KHNP supports promising SMEs by in July 2015, KHNP launched the Korea Nuclear Partners to support SMEs struggling with transferring technology, marketing, and financing. Furthermore, we help SMEs stay competientry barriers in the global nuclear industry and limited marketing strategy in November tive with our SCM to maintain soundness industry-wide. KHNP promises to keep discovering 2015. Also, to ensure better access to information for SMEs advancing overseas, the company mutually cooperative support programs for SMEs, not simply short-term and unilateral, in SMEs’ Satisfaction on Shared Growth carries out customized service for different steps including preparation, advancement, and order to enhance the competitiveness of nuclear industry. (in 2015) settlement. To help SMEs targeting overseas expansion, KHNP supports their participation in exhibitions at home and abroad and market exploration projects. In 2015, 109 compa84 points nies benefitted from the programs as they participated in seven global exhibitions including Case for Sustainable KHNP Power-Gen USA. 41 SMEs received support when they dispatched foreign market exploration Establish Export Company of Nuclear Equipment team to the Middle East. We cooperated with KOTRA to let businesses in the early stage of overseas expansion use their offices as temporary foreign office. KHNP also donated KRW The Korea Nuclear Partners (KNP) was estab11 million to five SMEs in 2015. In the meantime, we helped 19 exporting SMEs to purchase lished in November 2015 as an exporting agenoverseas product liability (PL) insurances and also provided support so that local SMEs could cy of nuclear equipment and technology. KHNP export maintenance equipment once UAE project is completed. and other 29 private companies have invested 29% and 71% into the agency, respectively. Tailored Projects for Supporting SMEs’ Exports KNP will participated in exporting project of 3rd Phasev equipment, investigation, and service worth of 2nd Phase KRW 650 billion over the next 10 years. Other ‌Support application to overseas PL ㆍ insurance services include registration of qualification for 1st Phase ‌Support participation in KOTRA-led ㆍ Established the Korea Nuclear Partners ‌Promote joint entrance into ㆍ projects overseas nuclear constructor and local operaㆍ ‌Support participation in overseas Survey ‌ on overseas market overseas markets tors, and certification for local companies for major international technology standards. KHNP exhibitions (Market Frontier Corp) information, etc. Counseling ‌ on export with foreign expects that KNP will help Korean exporting businesses to overcome barriers of stringent qualibuyers ty requirements. KNP will also contribute to promoting mutual growth with SMEs while helping SMEs with plans for SMEs at the initial stage of raise their exporting capabilities. Export enterprises entering overseas markets overseas business 50 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 51 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity (Innovation) Enhance Technology Innovation Capabilities (Harmony) Lay Foundation for Mutual Growth Invigoration of Joint R&D Activities With the cost to maintain quality certificate rising due to toughening safety regulations on KHNP, the largest buying company in nuclear industry, has increased purchasing expense suppliers in nuclear industry, the number of small domestic suppliers leaving the industry from SMEs, technology products, and women-owned business goods to KRW 19.1 billion. System is on the rise. In order to discover new suppliers and also to retain existing suppliers, KHNP We also operate phased financial support for suppliers to provide flexible customized supImprovement ‌ ㆍIncrease research expenses Invigoration of operates quality support programs for SMEs. This program comes in two parts; support for port while carrying out Industrial Innovation Campaign 3.0 aimed at enhancing productivity per task (KRW 800 million → Task Development KRW 1,000 million) ‌ ㆍReflect task development to certificate obtainment and renewal such as instruction cost and evaluation cost; and support through on-site inspection. ㆍ ‌Increase commissioned internal evaluation research expenses (KRW 50 ‌Reward individuals who presㆍ for consultation service on nuclear quality system for SMEs. KHNP expects this program to Tailored Financial Supports million → KRW 100 million) ent excellent proposals ‌Enable co-development by ㆍ give SMEs better access to markets as NPP equipment suppliers while strengthening pro(Unit: KRW in billions) multiple companies curement reliability by diversifying supply channels. Cooperation Level Financial Support Programs Performances In the meantime, KHNP operates the “support for technology transfer and marketing for 2014 2015 Cooperative SMEs ‧Shared Growth Cooperation Loan (1.2%p lower interest rate) 385 54.2 SMEs” to attract SMEs into R&D projects. In 2015, we transferred a total of seven technology Companies under ‧Power Energy Loan, Shared Growth Loan 19.2 21.5 Performances on IRWST filter inspecting robot of APR1400. We also supported production of prototype and contract ‧Advance payment 101.6 106.0 marketing to contribute to sales increase. Furthermore, KHNP operates the “joint research Best Practice 2nd-tier suppliers ‧Shared Growth Cooperation Loan (1.2%p lower interest rate) 10.9 11.0 ㆍ ‌Increase task proposals (16 cases → 102 cases) and project support for SMEs” and “conditional support for procurement for new development new joint R&D activities (2 cases → 7 cases) ‌Designate 4 development items including Digital Rod ㆍ project” to provide fund for NPP equipment localization and new product development. Position Indication System and purchase 3 items (secure stable sales channels for R&D products and reduce KRW 4.51 billion compared with purchasing foreign equipment) (Transparency) Promote Fair Competition High Value Award System to Promote Mutual Growth ‌Reward SMEs’ outstanding researchers (President ㆍ KHNP is faced with difficulties in business management following the recent bankruptcy of 1st and 2nd tier suppliers due to low-priced bid KHNP’s prior opening of procurement specifications ensures transparency and fair comPrize: 3 persons, prize money: 2 teams) (awarding rate of Shin-Kori #3 and #4: 61.52%) and the past five failures in the bid for the main facility construction project of Shin-Hanul petition in procurement. Procured items are announced on-line for 20 days before signing #1 and #2. KHNP recognizes that a healthy contract practice is the foundation for a sound NPP ecosystem for technology development and contract under “Opening of private contract”. “Prior opening of procurement specification” quality construction. KHNP thus runs technology proposal to prevent low-priced bid in order to guarantee appropriate construction cost for SMEs’ Grievances and Opinions (2015) ensures that no specific supplier has preferable position by opening the specification on-line suppliers while raising technological competitiveness and quality. For example, the company limits technical evaluation to 80% and price (Unit: cases) before confirmation. “Permanent opening of private contract items” ensures that all supplievaluation to 20%, to prevent disputes over low-priced award through price calculation method. Furthermore, having introduced the mandaReceived Treated ers have equal access to fair opportunity and information. The “Collusive tender detection tory standard subcontractor contract and subcontract plan evaluation, KHNP secured the appropriate subcontract rate of 91.8%. The compa369 347 system” prevents unfair practices by suppliers and encourages fair competition. KHNP also ny addresses unfair subcontract practices while preventing subcontractor from going bankrupt or sub-standard construction. Going forward, runs a system to ease entry barrier for social disadvantaged businesses. Start-up companies, KHNP promises to commit itself to discovering mutual growth initiatives to create sustainable nuclear ecosystem. women-owned businesses, and disabled people-owned business receive incentives on qualification evaluations in our expanded preferred procurement. Major Contents SMEs’ Satisfaction on Joint Projects Furthermore, KHNP promotes fair competition through meetings, surveys, and online chan(Unit: points) nels through which we understand SMEs’ needs. KHNP purchased employer’s liability insurBlock up Disputes over Low Price Bid Improve Technological Competitiveness Break Unfair Subcontract Custom Promote Transparent and 2014 2015 and Construction Quality Fair Bid Process ance after safety concerns were raised over employees of suppliers engaging in dangerous ㆍ‌Encourage technology competition ㆍ‌Develop technical evaluation items ㆍ‌Identify unfair transaction ㆍ‌Secure professionalism of evaluation 82 84 work while establishing an emergency medical support center for NPP workers. In response to a call for a channel to resolve conflicts filed by suppliers, the company set up the contract conflict resolution committee and designated outside expert as chair. KHNP promises to lisbeyond price (technical proposal bid) ㆍ‌Calculate and assess budgets based on cost accounting method meeting construction process features ㆍ‌Enable bidders to propose their owned technologies and new methods cases between contractors and subcontractors (on-site hearing of opinions, subcontractor meeting, etc.) ㆍ‌Make standard subcontract committee (five multiple evaluators, of which 40% are external evaluators) ㆍ‌Submit technical proposals anonymously ten to the voices of suppliers to improve policies. ㆍ‌Introduce cyber security and advanced agreement compulsory safety and environment control ㆍ‌Do not disclose bid evaluation place methods ㆍEvaluate subcontract agreement and conduct collective evaluation Diverse Communication Channels Performances Subcontractors KHNP Contractors Local People Prevention of bankruptcy and Efficient project implementation Timely capital operation Revitalization of local economy faulty construction Reduction of procedure time Reduction of subcontract Achievement of appropriate Expansion of local for bid (Unit: months) payment time (Unit: days) subcontract rate (Unit: %) equipment* use (Unit: %) Direct Communication Online Communication 91.8 Over 90 Research for Needs Analysis 45 with SMEs Channels 82 11.5 82 ㆍ‌Workshop for co-prosperity and Reduction innovation in nuclear power industry of 40 days ㆍ‌Survey through specialized agencies 6 ㆍ‌CEO-led discussion meeting with ㆍ‌Operation of the Customer Center (Dec. 2015) female venture and technology to treat grievances and opinions in 5 SMEs’ grievances and opinions companies the e-Commerce system ‌Satisfaction on each shared ㆍ‌Discussion meeting for shared growth ㆍ‌Operation of a website to support growth program ㆍ‌On-site meeting and workshop by SMEs (notice on projects and Shin-Hanul Shin-Kori Legal Proposal Inspection Subcontract Shin-Kori Shin-Kori ‌Implementation of fair transaction, each site hearing of opinions) #1 & #2 #5 & #6 standard criteria rate #3 & #4 #5 & #6 etc. ㆍ‌T/F operation for improving NPP site *‌Construction equipment owned by environment local companies 52 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 53 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Safety Management Trusted by People Ultimate Safety Establish Safety Management Strategy KHNP, Placing Utmost Under the goal of safety management trusted by the general public, KHNP has put forward three key projects in reflection of the changing management environment home and Importance on Safety abroad and the contribution of government policies – “NPP safety management”, “disaster response”, and “safety communication.” KHNP has also identified implementation tasks for safety aligned with strategies of individual business. Safety Management Strategy System Aspect Report Goal Nuclear Power Safety Management Trusted by People Report Context Producing approximately 30% of the electric power in Korea, nuclear power is the nation’s major power source that constitutes the backbone of the national economy. Operating 24 reactors, Korea is one of the six largest NPP operating countries in the world. Boasting the Core Projects Safe NPP Management Response to Disasters Communication for Safety lowest failure rate per reactor in the world, Korea is recognized for its excellence in NPP opStrategic Advance NPP safety and management system Enhance integrated disasters control capabilities Restore trust in NPP safety eration, maintenance, and management. Following the Tohoku earthquake and the FukushiDirections Performance ma disaster in March 2011, however, we learned that we should never stay complacent with Targets Improve comprehensive NPP safety performance Secure omnidirectional disasters control capabilities Increase trust in NPP safety our NPP safety. Recognizing that safety issue may arise anytime, anywhere from NPPs built ㆍ‌Establish advanced NPP safety check and monitoring systems ㆍ‌Advance disaster response systems to protect national ㆍ‌Restore trust in NPP safety by tailored PR activities with state-of-the-art technology, it is of utmost importance to ensure that we are capable of ㆍSecure objective safety evaluation system infrastructure ㆍ‌Expand stakeholder communication through diverse PR responding to disasters 24/7 with a sense of accountability. ㆍImplant safety culture in employees’ mind ㆍ‌Reinforce disaster prevention and accident control activities WANO* Safety Tasks ㆍInnovate radiation safety management capabilities ㆍProvide tailored information through online channels Performance Index ㆍEnhance cyber threat control capabilities ㆍAdvance disaster control networks Sustainable Progress & Future Plan 90.2 points KHNP recognizes that it is our duty to ensure stable supply of electricity power through NPP (As of 1Q 2016) Operate Safety Supervision and Safety Inspection System and at the same time protect people’s lives and preserve environment based on the transparent operation. KHNP has thus announced the NPP operator’s safety charter of six initiatives; seKHNP operates under the advanced safety inspection system which lives up to the internacure the top safety; transparent NPP operation; create safety culture; transparent information tional safety standards. The company continues to enhance safety management capability *‌WANO: World Association disclosure; communication with people; and reassurance for the general public. In addition, of Nuclear Operators by identifying and analyzing safety issues based on the safety inspection system. Our safety KHNP takes thorough measures to ensure that no radiation is leaked by carrying out simulated supervision group is responsible for practices that compromise safety culture by employees accident from design, production, construction, to operation. KHNP pledges to win the general while monitoring repeated recommendations by WANO’s peer review. In addition, in case republic’s trust by engaging with them in continued communication and information sharing. ported case occurs, the 3-step direct reporting system is mobilized where the case is reported from NPP safety officer through safety inspector to the management. Evaluation of Disaster Safety Management Case for Sustainable KHNP (in 2015) Operation of Safety Inspection System Inspected by Method Period Company-wide Expansion of Information Security Management System A rating Government (KNRB) Regular inspection Planned maintenance (Evaluation on Disaster Regulatory agency (KINS) Commissioned inspection Frequently In February 2016, KHNP held the certification Safety Management System by the Ministry of International IAEA Safety inspection (OSART) When necessary ceremony to expand company-wide the global Public Safety and Security) organizations WANO Safety inspection (Peer Review) Every 4 years information security standard by ISO “InforINPO Technology exchange (TEV) When necessary mation Security Management System (ISO/ No.1 KHNP Safety evalution PSR*, PSA** 10 years (Evaluation on Disaster IEC27001:2013)” at Seoul HQ. The global stanManagement Activities *PSR: Periodic Safety Review dard for information protection management by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) **PSA: Probabilistic Safety Assessment established jointly by ISO and IEC, ISO27001 is awarded to businesses or institutions who meet Certification of Safety and Health Management System requirements in four areas and 114 items. KHNP Obtained the ISO27001 certification was certified by Bureau Veritas, the internationthroughout the company The certifications on safety and health management system were prepared to evaluate the pracally recognized certification agency based in France. KHNP expanded the certification obtained tices of voluntary activities for safety and health and relevant programs. The certificates serve as by HQ and Data Center in December 2014 to head office of NPP, Han River hydropower head a yardstick to evaluate the status of the practices, contributing to preventing human and propoffice, pumped storage power plant, and research center. ISO27001 certification will serve as a No. of Serious erty loss and improving quality. Our head office, five hydro power sites (Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong, Disasters (in 2015) chance for KHNP to take information protection capability as an operator of the nation’s major Hanul and Han River) and five pumped storage power plants (Simnyangjin, Cheongsong, Muju, infrastructure to the next level, thus elevating its competitive edge in the global nuclear industry. Zero Sancheong, Yecheon) obtained both KOSHA 18001 and OHSAS18001 certifications. Yangyang and Cheongpyeong pumped storage power plants obtained the KOSHA 18001 certification. 54 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 55 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Objective Nuclear Safety Evaluation System Strengthen Global Competitiveness through International Evaluation NPP operators diagnose their NPP operation levels, compare performances, and set up imOperating NPP – Safety Evaluation through Systematic Safety provement strategies through WANO PI (World Association of Nuclear Operators Performance Management System Index). In 1Q 2016, KHNP ranked the 2nd on WANO PI evaluation among the countries with KHNP carries out an effective safety evaluation based on PSR, PSA, RIMS, and ORION. We more than 10 NPPs in the world, proving its world-class safety level. In particular, we were evaluate the 14 safety factors recommended by IEAE once every decade through Periodic highly recognized in three fields of “radiation exposure dose,” “the number of unplanned Safety Review (PSR). We also enhance critical accident response capability through Probabilnuclear reactor auto-stop,” and “nuclear fuel trust.” Meanwhile, three tasks of “development istic Safety Assessment (PSA). Risk Monitoring System (RIMS) lets us monitor risks involved available index,” “auxiliary water feeding system,” and “unplanned loss rate” were identified in the conditions of NPP while Outage Risk Indicator of Nuclear Power Plants (ORION) enables as needing improvement efforts. In this regard, KHNP will improve weak areas such as unus to manage risks depending on NPP conditions during planned preventive maintenance. planned long-term shutdown and strengthen preemptive operational maintenance. In 2015, KHNP’s five NPPs subject to be evaluated by WANO won the “Excellent” level or better and Aged NPPs – Establish Additional Safety Enhancement Measuresv fully implemented follow-up measures for WANO CPR in 2015. KHNP carries out stress test to evaluate the impact of extreme cases of natural disasters on aged NPPs and to identify vulnerability and improvement tasks. The results are verified by experts in earthquake, tsunami, critical accident, and fire to secure accuracy and reliability. Operation Index Operation Index Comparison of Safety of NPP Operation in 1Q 2016 KHNP then determines whether to continue the operation of aged NPPs in accordance with by Country by NPP Ukraine the vote and approval of the Nuclear Safety and Security Commission. 86.9 86.9 NNEGC Canada China Focus Business 79.1 77.6 OPG 88.6 U.S. Korea Approval of Continued Operation of Wolsong #1 after Stress Test Stress test is conducted to confirm safety of aged NPPs by evaluating their capability to respond to major natural disasters which exceed 93.0 95.3 88.7 90.2 90.2 EXELON ENTERGY KHNP design standard. Wolsong #1, whose design life has expired, passed stringent stress test to be approved to continue operation. KHNP plans France India to reinforce Wolsong #1 to raise its response capability to extreme natural disaster. 76.0 76.0 70.7 70.7 Detailed Contents EDF NPCIL Set up evaluation Conduct evaluation and Establish and reinforce Set up evaluation sectors and principles (regulatory agency) identify improvement items (KHNP) improvement measures (KHNP) sectors and principles (regulatory agency) Safety Management Process Promote Nuclear Safety Real-Name System ㆍ‌Require verification of safety even ㆍExecute EU-type stress test ㆍ‌Fully improve safety facilities and ㆍ‌Form and operate private KHNP operates Nuclear Safety Real-Name System to ensure safe management of NPPs. The in extreme situations such as ㆍ‌Identify safety enhancement plans operation methods inspection group (local Fukushima crisis Extension ‌ of operation time ㆍMajor sectors governments & civic group) “Integrated Information Management System”, in particular, allows KHNP to track equipment, person in charge of parts, real name of part owners, and historical details of each part ㆍ‌Evaluate all sectors including driven by emergency power ‌Expansion of earthquake-proof 15 briefing sessions crisis, emergency response, and Response ‌ to simultaneous rechargers ㆍ‌Secure objectiveness by joint NPP operation accidents of multiple units ‌Addition of mobile generator verification by experts and private throughout the entire cycle of NPP in real time, ensuring transparent safety management. Soundness of PAR vehicles sectors Operation of CFVS ‌3-demensional hydrogen ㆍ‌Strengthen communication ‌ Enhancement monitoring of initial accident behavior analysis ‌Clarification of operation through transparent information disclosure Evaluate Safety Culture Practices Upgrade ‌ emergency response manual KHNP has crafted its own safety culture evaluation criteria based on international standards facilities ‌Enhancement of the 2nd control tower on safety. We evaluated our safety culture by utilizing the criteria and identified improvement ‌Expansion of emergency tasks and best practices through interviews with internal and external professionals as well as response facilities employees. The results were shared throughout the company. Furthermore, our safety culture practices were verified by third-party institutions such as the Korea Nuclear Safety Commission and the results were reflected in creating safety culture enhancement measures. Performances Enhance Safety Education for Supplie Approval of Transparency Secure Local Continued Operation Safety Enhancement Improvement Receptivity Safety trainings customized for each position and jobs are provided to suppliers to foster Appropriateness Reinforcement of Information Briefing session safety culture and to enhance capacity for execution. Partnerships are reinforced by sharing and approval facilities of Wolsong disclosure through with private #1 unit the internet inspection groups solutions to conflicts. KHNP contributes to raise partnership by providing education on conflict resolution and sharing ideas on conflict resolution. 56 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 57 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Establish Safety Culture Company-Wide Reinforce Disaster Response and Management Safety Culture As regulations on nuclear safety toughen and rate of new employees at power plants increasTraining Results (Unit: persons) es, it is increasingly required to establish safety culture company-wide through education. Secure Disaster Response Capability Managers Working-level staff KHNP has thus established strategy to raise employees’ awareness of safety culture by proKHNP’s advanced disaster response system based on the integrated management model New employees viding customized education on safety and job capability enhancement. clearly specifies roles and responsibility between the HQ and regional plants in case of dis4,604 aster, thus ensuring effective collaboration. In 2015, in particular, KHNP set up the general 4,435 Safety Culture Internalization Strategy situation room in the HQ in Gyeongju and developed the disaster-specific response guide3,870 lines for both individual and institution. Furthermore, KHNP has devised preventive meas900 Safety CulDetails in ures against fire or flooding of hydropower plants. Our e-Learning on disaster safety manage830 ture Practice 2015 ment, the first to be developed by a power generation company in Korea, has contributed to ‧‌Safety culture Strategy KNRB (deliberation) 750 enhancement + Safety ‌ Committee advancing the disaster response system. P A measures + Safety ‌ Culture ‧‌Safety culture Deliberation training plans D C Committee ㆍ ‌Enhancement of safety culture training 475 119 130 ‧‌Compliance with Evaluation of ‌Redesign of training courses ‌Execution of advanced training Advance Disaster Response system It is necessary to set up an integrated system to standardize safety management for operatsafety culture safety culture programs principles + Safety ‌ monitoring ㆍ ‌Implementation of safety culture 2013 2014 2015 ‧‌Execution of safety culture + Safety ‌ culture index monitoring promotion programs ing NPPs and to clearly specify collaboration and separation of duties between the HQ and ‌Safety culture improvement practice programs measures regional offices. To that end, KHNP operates disaster response system based on “Govern‌Implantation of safety culture in employees’ mind ance, Oversight, Support and Perform (GOSP)”. Disaster Safety Management System Customized Education KHNP offers a variety of on and off-line safety education customized for employees from Governance Oversight newly hired to executives, raising their awareness of safety and promoting safety culture. ‧‌Establish detailed execution plans for national safety management ‧‌Monitor the execution of detailed disaster safety management plans New employees learn about the importance of safety through introductory course. Mid-level ‧‌Establish detailed execution plans for national critical infrastructure protection Governance Oversight ‧‌Monitor 36 disaster safety management indices employees receive safety culture curriculums through e-learning. Managers take safety cul‧‌Establish disaster safety management, train‧‌Monitor the achievements of disaster safety ing, and evaluation plans management indices ture expert course to reinforce their safety capabilities. Programs to Promote Safety Culture Perform Support Perform Support Employees’ Safety & Health Safety Moment, Safety Suggestion System, Positive Objection System, Safety Culture Practice ‧‌Build site-owned plans linked with HQ policies ‌Build and implement detailed plans for ‧‌Conduct coaching of risk evaluation for all NPP sites No. of disasters (Unit: cases) Indicator are the field-oriented programs aimed at promoting safety culture company-wide. enhancing disaster safety management ‌Build and implement disaster response ‧‌Purchase electric pollution protectors and distribute them company-wide training plans ‧‌Open e-learning courses about disaster 2013 2 safety management Employees’ Safety Counterargument Safety Culture 4 Safety Moment 2014 Proposal System System Practice Index 2015 1 Secure Preemptive Anti-Disaster Infrastructure KHNP has expanded the emergency planning zone from 8~10km radius of reactor to 20~30km, Accident rate (Unit: %) thus enhancing preparedness against radiation leakage and expanding protective measures 2013 0.1 for communities near NPPs. The company also increased the thyroid protection medication 2014 0.2 by 100 pills. The emergency alarming network was expanded from the existing 42 centers to 2015 0.05 206 while the local government’s emergency communication network from 40 lines to 96 to Develop safety-conCreate a culture to Build safety-conscious Create an atmosphere secure anti-disaster infrastructure. Following the recent accidents in Fukushima, KHNP has No. of deaths (Unit: persons) propose safety issues scious messages and work environment to check and monitor carried out safety inspections into NPPs to implement the improvement tasks identified. 2013 0 by installing safety offer them before and invigorate safety safety culture practice proposal boxes 2014 0 meetings (incl. suppliers) issue proposals index Establish Emergency Response Preparedness 2015 0 In order to secure emergency response preparedness in case of accident in NPPs, KHNP carSeverity rate* (Unit: %) Safety and Health Council ries out a wide range of disaster drills for natural and social disaster, radiation response, cyKHNP operates the Safety and Health Council to ensure pleasant and safe working environber terrorism, operator’s emergency response, and more. 0.06 0.054 ment for all employees. The Industrial Safety and Health Committee, a consultative body 0.05 represented between labor and management in an equal number, serves as a communicaDisaster Response Drill in 2015 0.039 0.04 0.028 tion channel to establish disaster-free workplace. The Company-wide Safety Council pro0.03 Natural & Social Disasters Radioactivity Prevention Protection of Cyber Terror and Facilities Emergency Drill for NPP Operators 0.02 motes effective information sharing. Furthermore, the Regional Safety Council is operated in order to elevate safety management level and prevent safety accident by categorizing all ㆍDisaster Response Safety Korea Drill (20 times) ‌ ㆍSpot drill (36 times) ‌ ‌ ㆍCyber terror response & recovery drill (4 times) ‌ ㆍUnusual situation response drill (228ghl) 2013 2014 2015 ㆍSpot disaster response drill (30 times) ㆍCompany-wide drill (11 times) ‌Control system attack response drill (10 times) ㆍ ㆍ ‌Emergency response drill (228 times) *Loss days related to accidents per 1,000 working hours workplaces into five regions. ‌Individual drill at NPP and hydro plants (310 times) ㆍ ㆍJoint drill (once) ㆍCyber attack response drill (3 times) ㆍ ‌Serious accident response drill (114 times) ㆍFirefighting drill (685 times) ㆍCombined drill (once) ㆍFacility protection drill (216 times) 58 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 59 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Zero-Critical Accident Improve Reliability of Nuclear Facility Operation No. of Serious Disasters Even a single critical accident of NPP may seriously compromise people’s trust, leading to serious management risks. To prevent such accident from occurring, KHNP has elected four Establish Safe Nuclear Facilities No. of Serious Disasters (Unit: cases) major critical accidents; “underwater work”, “work in closed space”, “electric shock and Nuclear power generation is safe because radioactive substance generated during nuclear 2013 0 burn”, and “harmful chemical substances.” Furthermore, KHNP has established customized fission is isolated to prevent leakage. KHNP operates the Defense in Depth system where 2014 3* critical accident response system, achieving no record of critical accident in 2015. In recogniappropriate measures are taken for different phases of accident to protect local communities 0 2015 tion of its efforts to protect NPP facilities, KHNP was awarded the President’s prize for Hanul near nuclear plants. KHNP adopts both the Multiple Levels of Protection and the Multiple *Suppliers’ disasters in KHNP sites NPP and the prize from Minister Trade, Industry and Energy for Kori and Wolsong NPP. Barriers system. The Multiple Levels of Protection consists of five levels; maintain normal NPP-related Accident Rate (Unit: %) situation, early response to abnormal situation, accident prevention, accident alleviation, Serious Disaster Prevention System and response measures. The protective walls are built in multi-layer to prevent radioactive 2013 0.16 substances from being leaked. 2014 0.16 Diving Work Closed Space 2015 0.14 Five-layered Protective Walls of KHNP’s NPP ㆍ‌Improve work process in closed spaces ㆍ‌Newly develop diving work manuals ㆍ‌Check and improve all valves with gas ㆍ‌Improve diving equipment such as voice leakage risk ❶ Protective wall’s fuel fillet Initially seals off most of radioactive material generated during nuclear fission communication device ㆍEnhance supervision of closed spaces 5 ㆍImprove diving work environment Zero serious ㆍ‌Reinforce gas concentration detection 4 ㆍStrengthen diver qualification ❷ ‌Protective wall’s fuel Composed of zirconium alloy, resistant to heat, radiation and corrosion, and disaster equipment 3 cladding conduit seals off even small amount of gaseous radioactive material from the fuel fillet 1 ❸ ‌Protective wall’s reactor Completely seals off radioactive material even when radioactive material leaks carriers due to defect of the cladding conduit, as it is steel carrier with 25~30cm thick Electric Shock & Burn Chemical Substances ❹ Inside walls of NPP buildings Protects the NPP buildings with 6mm-thick steel protective walls ㆍ‌Draw up guidelines for electrical safety work ㆍDiagnose risks of chemical facilities ㆍ‌Strengthen internal insulation of electric ㆍ‌Upgrade harmful chemicals control manuals equipment ㆍ‌Diagnose wall-thinning of chemical facilities Prevents any leakage of radioactive material outside the buildings with ㆍ‌Purchase and install 388 sets of low and ㆍ‌Conduct predictive evaluation on impacts ❺ Outer walls of NPP buildings from chemical accidents 2 120cm-thick ferroconcrete walls high-pressure contamination protectors Promote Fire Safety Improvement Measures Following Fukushima Accident To take preemptive response to the tightened regulations on fire safety of NPPs, KHNP has Following the Tohoku earthquake and the Fukushima accident in March 2011, KHNP has established 24 fire safety promotion measures in four areas. In 2015, we independently develbeen developing improvement measures to protect NPP from any major natural disaster. oped technology standards on NPP fire protection and established comprehensive relevant KHNP has come up with 56 safety improvement initiatives in six areas including response to facility improvement plans. In addition, we not only standardized manuals for fire protection, major accident in electricity and cooling system in case of earthquake, tsunami, and floodfire response, and fire drill in line with increasing NPP operations, but enhanced our firefighting, emergency response and emergency medical treatment, Kori #1, and aged plants in opBest Practice ing capability through fire department capability evaluation and advanced training course. eration. As of June 2016, the company has completed 49 improvement initiatives. NPP Safety Facilities Best Institution in Disaster Management Passive Autocatalytic KHNP ranked top in disaster management evaluation in 2015. In the evaluation of disaster manCostal barrier 10m Recombiner (PAR) Install hydrogen removal Containment Filtered Venting System (cFvS) agement on national infrastructure by the Ministry of Public Safety and Security, we received A Expand coastal barrier of Kori facility that can work Install containment building pressure rising NPP 7.5m → 10m rating, the highest in both energy and nuclear category. We also took won the No.1 ranking in the unpowered prevention and radioactive material filtering and Mobile ventilating facility disaster management evaluation supervised by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, wingenerator vehicle ning the minister’s award. All these feats were attributable to KHNP’s commitment to CEO-led Secure mobile Water-proof gate generator disaster safety management activities, advancement of disaster response system, upgrade of Install waterproof gate at the vehicle for Nuclear reactor special anti-disaster facilities following the Fukushima accident, collaborative disaster response emergency diesel generator room emergency cooler each site Install external injection with relevant agencies, and establishment of cyber security system. KHNP pledges to achieve oil route of emergency Won the Minister Citation of Trade, Industry and disaster response capabilities that exceed international standards to win the trust on NPP. coolant at reactor and Energy in disaster management evaluation steam generator EDG Disaster management evaluation by the Disaster management evaluation by the Disaster management evaluation by the SFP Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Ministry of Public Safety and Security Ministry of Public Safety and Security 1 A A Steam generator Spent nuclear fuel st (S rating) rating in energy sector rating in nuclear power sector ※ Scope of ratings: Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy S (best/excellent/participation)/A/B, Ministry of Public Safety and Security A/B/C Waterproof drain SFP emergency cooler pump Install used fuel storage Emergency cooler Secure waterproof drain through external injection oil route pump (portable diesel 60 Korea Hydro pump) for each plant Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 & Nuclear Reactor 61 T R U S T Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Special Report Sustainability Plan and Goals Are Our NPPs Safe from Earthquakes? Seismic Design of NPPs 1 Conventional Nuclear Power 2 Conventional Nuclear Power Buildings Plant Buildings Buildings Plant Buildings Recently, a series of earthquakes occurred across the southeast region in Korea: a 5.0-magnitude earthquake with epicenter 52 km of the southeastern area of Ulsan (Jul. 5, 2016); and a 5.1 and 5.8-magnitude earthquakes centered 9km southwest of Gyeongju (Sep. 12, 2016). The public is raising safety concerns over the NPPs in the regions where Wolsong #1 ~#4, Shin-Wolsong #1 and #2, Kori #1 ~ #4, and Shin-Kori #1 and #2 are located. However, our NPPs are managed to be earthquake-resistant in all processes ranging from site survey and selection to design, construction, and operation at the global level. Make walls or pillars of buildings thick Construct with more rebar Q Are the locations of NPPs safe from earthquakes? A YES, the NPP sites are selected by utilizing the most advanced technology and surveying a 320-km 3 4 Conventional Nuclear Power Conventional Nuclear Power radius of the proposed site. Buildings Plant Buildings Buildings Plant Buildings We use technologies in all areas from the stage of site survey. In compliance with the Nuclear Safety Act, an extensive survey includFerroconcrete ing literature, satellite image, and aerial image reading is conducted within a 320-km radius of the site. In area within a 40-km radius, Bricks and earthquakeblocks resistant walls geophysical survey and geological field investigation are conducted to see geological structure, fault distribution and rock quality. In area within an 8-km and 1-km radius, we execute phased precise survey such as geophysical and field-geology investigation, fault Reinforce the reinforced concrete structures with X-shaped bracing to Put up ferroconcrete earthquake-resistant walls by replacing bricks or withstand torsion blocks with the reinforced concrete structures dating, marine geophysical exploration, drilling investigation, seismic survey, and trench investigation. Phased Site Survey Q Are there safety measures prepared for earthquakes? A NPPs are operated with state-of-the-art monitoring system. 1km 8km 40km 320km NPPs in Korea are safely operated with the cutting edge earthquake monitoring system such as earthquake measuring instrument installed in reactor building and major structures and equipment. Also, our emergency response procedure ensures that we are ‧‌Field geology ‧‌Drilling ‧‌Field geology ‧‌Drilling ‧‌Satellite image and ‧‌Literature ready for earthquakes with alerting system and NPP shut down depending on the seismic scale. investigation investigation investigation investigation aerial image reading investigation ‧Fault dating ‧‌Trench ‧Fault dating ‧‌Trench ‧‌Geophysical ‧‌Satellite image Earthquake Detection System in NPPs of Korea Earthquake Monitoring Network ‧‌Marine geophysical investigation ‧‌Marine geophysical investigation investigation and aerial image exploration ‧‌Physical exploration ‧‌Physical ‧‌Field geology reading ‧Geophysical exploration exploration ‧Geophysical exploration exploration investigation Observable Earthquake Acceleration 0.01g or higher KHNP operates earthquake observatories in 13 locations near power plants in addition to the earthquake detection system. The observed data is shared via Q Should an earthquake hit, can the NPPs stand? System structure Independent earthquake detection system for individual the network between Korea Meteorological Administration, Korea Institute of Geoscience And Mineral Resources, and Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety. power plants A YES, NPPs are designed to be earthquake-resistant and constructed on solid bedrock. Time history accelerometer (6 ea) Earthquake alarming switch (1 ea) Hanul NPP The maximum earthquake magnitude is determined after considering all earthquake histories and faults in Korea based on the deKorea Meteorological Administration tailed data analyzed from the site survey. Then the level of earthquake resistance of NPPs is set by adding safety margin. NPPs in Korea Installed location are safe even in case a major earthquake hits because they are designed for the largest conceivable earthquake. Not just this, when Earthquake Monitoring Center constructing an NPP, strict quality control is conducted at every stage including selecting materials, manufacturing equipment, and in KHNP Research Center constructing structures. And the rigorous inspection and tests by regulatory authorities are mandatory. In particular, major facilities Korea Institute of Geoscience and Mineral Resources and equipment are constructed when strict seismic qualification such as precise seismic analysis or shaking table test are confirmed. Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety KHNP Head Office Wolsong Nuclear Seismic qualification means the rigorous examination of facilities and equipment after experiencing operating basis earthquake (5 Reactor containment building times) and safe shutdown earthquake (once). Meanwhile, reactor containment building is constructed in a solid manner by excavating Samrangjin Pumped Storagy solid base rock, densely installing reinforcing bars, and depositing concrete. An NPP constructed on the solid base rock can reduce Hanbit Nuclear Kori Nuclear earthquake vibration by 30 to 50 percent compared to buildings on ordinary ground. Auxiliary Seismograph Network (As of 2016) building Korea Meteorological Korea Institute of Geoscience and Administration Mineral Resources What is the value of seismic design? Free field The value of seismic design is represented with “g” after the initial letter of “gravity.” “g” is based on acceleration of gravity. 1g thus is 981cm/ 145 units 38 units sec2. The value of seismic design for NPPs in Korea is 0.2g. However, APR1400 reactor – installed in Shin-Kori #3 ~ #6 and Shin-Hanul #1 and Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety KHNP #2 – was designed to a 0.3g earthquake acceleration and has a 60-year lifespan. The technology was developed with the purpose of export. 5 units 13 units 62 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 63 Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety responsibility SocialSustainability Plan andTimeless Integrity Goals Advance Information Security Management System Enhance Information Security Management System Social Responsibility KHNP, Practicing Eco-friendly No. of Information Security Staff The importance of NPP information security is on the rise due to many challenges such as cyber (As of 2015, Unit: persons) threat on NPP facilities, increasing public concerns, and tightening regulations. To respond to Management for Next Generations Cyber security Technology information these challenges and fundamentally prevent cyber threats against NPPs, KHNP has established a long-term information security strategy and a roadmap. We have continued to address weak 46 8 points identified since 2014 when the a long-term information security strategy was set up and plan to optimize and advance the cyber security system by 2016. In 2015, the obtainment of ISO27001 certification was expanded to our NPP sites and pumped storage power sites beyond Aspect Report head office. The Information Protection Committee led by CEO and the Security Consultative Body were organized to strengthen governance. KHNP also completed formation of new inReport Context formation teams and workforce reinforcement as the Security and ICT Department at the HQ In December 2015, COP21 of UNFCCC agreed on Post 2020 that requires all parties to cut greenhas been designated to administer general information security tasks and the newly organized house gases. Accordingly, it is expected that stricter greenhouse gases policies than Kyoto ProGeneral Technology Information Team to take handle technology information. We formed cytocol would be in place, and the Korean government is seeking countermeasures such as GHGs ber security team at NPP sites, reinforcing implementation capabilities of on-site teams. emission cut target by 2030 and adaptation guideline for public agencies. Given that, industries and businesses must pay attention to not only cutting GHGs emission but also make efforts Mid to Long-term Strategy for Information Security to turn risk coming from GHGs reduction into opportunity. In particular, as it has become a requirement to develop alternative energy due to limitations in the existing fossil fuel and its Goal Secure Cyber Safety System for Enhancing NPP Safety environmental impact, the role and weight of renewable energy including nuclear power has Strategy 2014 2015 2016 been highlighted. Meanwhile, environmental load from business operation has become a huge Environmental Roadmap Reinforce cyber safety system Reestablish cyber safety system Stabilize cyber safety system issue. While attentions have been only paid to the impact on air or water quality in the past, Performance Index* now it even goes to harm to human bodies and effect on next generation. Thus, it is required to have a continuous and thorough management on radioactive waste of nuclear energy. 2013 Acquire the int’l standard information security management Acquire ISO27001 certification throughout the company, Establish ISO27001 certification and enhance the security of Strategies system (ISO27001) certification for introduce security governance, and advance security system nuclear power control system HQ and reinforce internal security system 150.6points ㆍ‌Strengthen the competence of cyber security monitoring ㆍ‌Advance the level cyber security monitoring and optimize ㆍ‌Acquire ISO27001 certification throughout the company Sustainable Progress & Future Plan Tasks center security system ㆍ‌Build PC-level integrated certification system and introduce 2014 ㆍEstablish NPP cyber security plan ㆍPromote the CSP* document centralization system KHNP, based on an advanced environmental management system, is practicing diverse environ*CSP : Cyber Security Plan ment conservation activities as a leading environment-friendly energy company. The company 182.7 points established the environmental management system in compliance with ISO 14001 while conReinforce NPP Cyber Security ducting continuous environmental management and internal and external environmental ex2015 amination. The company controls emissions including radioactive waste to protect environment KHNP has reinforced security in control system by identifying vulnerabilities in points in NPP 257.6 points around NPPs while taking measures for heated effluents not to have an environmental impact. At control network and inspecting points of NPP control system. The company has also laid the the same time, our effort extends from saving energy internally, responding to emission trading foundation for safe NPP operation by tightening security on USB memory and other portable scheme, to registering new power generation facilities to CDM in order to prepare for post 2020 era. storage devices to protect facilities vulnerable to virus, revising cyber threat response manu*‌The tightened scoring criteria of performance indicators such as al, and carrying out simulation drills. waste recycling rate was applied retroactively to data in 2013 and 2014, thereby there are some Prevent Cyber Terrorism Case for Sustainable KHNP differences from data of the previous report. KHNP has maximized its capabilities to prevent and respond to cyber terrorism by reinforcIntroduce EVs for Work ing the cyber security system in five areas including early detection of cyber terrorism and A public enterprise specializing in power, cyber security control. Furthermore, the company proactively responds to cyber threats by KHNP has introduced electric vehicles for work controlling data leakage by printing or wireless communication. in order to foster the new energy industry. As GHG Emissions (Unit: 1000tCO2eq) of June 2016, the company operates a total of Strengthen Cyber Security System 25 electric cars and allocated them to different 2013 Classification Details Effect offices according to their business size with 14 Early detection of cyber terror ㆍAdvance the Anti-APT* system ㆍPrevent cyber terror and respond preemptively charging stations installed. Electric cars are 3,296 Cyber security control ㆍEstablish next-generation crisis response and analysis system ㆍ‌Maximize cyber terror monitoring effect known to save about 70% fuel cost compared (10 thou. → 100 mil. cases a day) 2014 Document and data management ㆍ‌Reinforce printed materials and document security systems and build ㆍ‌Prevent outflow of corporate data to gasoline counterparts. In addition, they can Introduction of electric vehicles for business document centralization system (enhancing security and collaboration) reduce GHGs (CO2) by 3.2 tones when running 3,753 Control of wireless and smart ㆍ‌Build wireless internet blocking system at the new head office building and ㆍ‌Prevent outflow of NPP information and wireless 20,000km as they does not emit any CO2. KHNP plans to introduce about 100 electric cars by phones smart phone control system at NPPs communication 2015 Information security management ㆍ‌Establish exclusive work system for suppliers, tighten internet security of ㆍPrevent data outflow by suppliers 2020 while installing 20 fast charging stations. Introduction of electric cars would be a chance of suppliers residential suppliers, and evaluate information security status of suppliers for the company to become a leader of new energy industry. 2,998 *APT : Advanced Persistent Threat 64 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 65 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Eco-friendly Management Efforts to Respond to Climate Change Environment-friendly management strategy Nuclear Energy and Climate Change KHNP has established advanced environmental management system based on three basic diNuclear energy does not emit any GHGs during the process of power generation. And the rections of “environment·safety first management”, “lead environmental protection actions, total amount of GHGs emitted throughout the whole lifecycle from construction to dismandisclose environmental information and cooperate with stakeholders” and “compliance with tlement is lesser than that of renewable energy. Likewise, KHNP is actively participating in national & international environmental standards and minimize pollutant emission.” The the national campaign to cut the GHGs having set 4 key areas and established detailed tasks company is also setting up mid and long-term environmental business plans by 2019. in order to inherit sustainable habitat to the next generation with nuclear power, a promising alternative to GHGs reduction. Basic Direction of Environmental Major Projects Management 4 Major Areas and Detailed Tasks for Response to Climate Change ‌ ㆍDesignation (Yecheon pumped storage) and re-designation as a green company (Sancheong & Samrangjin pumped storage) Major projects ㆍ ‌Implementation of safety training tailored to features of employees who handle harmful chemicals at Secure carbon sinks Put environmental and safety in 2015 NPP and establishment of safety culture Implement government policies ㆍ‌Expand open spaces including the establishment of green parks on KHNP’s idle lands management first ‌Wall-thinning diagnosis and safety assessment of old chemicals storage tanks ㆍ ㆍ‌Cope with GHG emission trading scheme ㆍEstablish water resource management system (16 tanks of 3 kinds such as sulfuric acid) ㆍ‌Expand renewable energy business ㆍ‌Introduce eco-friendly and high-efficiency buildings ㆍPromotion of re-designation as a green company (Wolsong & Hanul site, Chuncheon hydro) ‌ ㆍSet up action plans for climate change ㆍ ‌Development of CPP’s high-density organic recycled wastewater treatment technology Lead environmental Major plans Comply with ㆍIdentification of plans for stable reuse of NPP wastewater and on-site verification test protection actividomestic and overseas in 2016 ㆍ ‌Follow-up measures in line with diagnosis results on old chemicals storage tanks ties, transparently disclose environenvironmental (replacement or repair) mental information, criteria and minimize and cooperate with pollutants emission Plans for Response stakeholders to Climate Change Green Certificate and Designation as a Green Company (2016~2025) Designation as a Green Company For systematic environmental management to meet the international standards, KHNP ahs Build infrastructure and cooperate Reduce GHG emissions established an environmental management system in compliance with international stanㆍ‌Strengthen site organizations and cultivate experts (As of July 2016) ㆍ‌Maintain appropriate proportion of NPP ㆍ‌Enhance PR activities to improve KHNP’s clean dard (ISO 14001.) Furthermore, environmental performance is continuously monitored and ㆍIncrease the use of nuclear power image ㆍ‌Promote use and supply of hydro power ㆍ‌Promote the obtainment of global certifications Nuclear Yangyang improved by identifying and implementing new approaches through KHNP’s own internal asfacilities on carbon management ㆍ‌Support photovoltaic power projects in areas ㆍ‌Introduce eco-friendly vehicles such as Chuncheon Hydro sessment and consultations with specialized organizations. Meanwhile, KHNP has been desigelectric ones around power plants ㆍSupport GHG reduction of SMEs in Gyeongju Cheongpyeong Pumped storage nating green company since 2010. As of 2015, nine of our sites, Wolsong, Hanul, Chooncheon, ㆍParticipate in COP industry mission ㆍ‌Promote industry-academy-research Hanul Moojoo, Yangyang, Cheongpyeong, have been designated as green companies and the status collaboration for climate change Yecheon has been maintained up to now. Energy Reduction Activities Muju Wolsong Measure and Manage Environmental Performance Sancheong All plants of KHNP engage in diverse activities for an effective energy use and energy consumpIn order to proactively respond to regulatory standards and enhance company-wide capabiltion reduction to minimize GHGs emitted directly and indirectly from business operation. Samrangjin ity of environmental management, KHNP developed an environmental performance index, business 9 sites which has been applied to measure and monitor environmental performance. The index consists of 17 detailed indexes in 6 areas and is calculated based on the management performance of environmental management and compliances, and operational performance of input and output. KHNP measures environmental performance index every year and conducts Eco-friendly Replacement vehicles Introduction of renewcomparative evaluations of NPPs for improvement. KHNP scored 257.6 on its environmental with LED lights Turn-off of Reasonable Car Exclusive parking able energy to new office lights elevator operation Free Day area for small cars performance index in 2015, confirming that it has continued to improve environmental per33.9% 65% head office building formance for the latest three years. Response to Carbon Emission Trading Environmental Identification of EnvironPerformance Index* (Unit: points) mental Improvement Items (Unit: cases) Korea has begun implementing carbon emission trading since 2015. Pumped storage power 257.6 In-house internal inspection External post-inspection plant takes up about 80% of the total emission of KHNP and is thus subject to the government 90 88 GHGs indirect emission control. To cope with it, KHNP has established emission trading guide35 27 line and company regulations, and come up with an effective response scheme by designating 182.7 59 managers dealing with emission trading, setting up and implementing a long-term strategy for 61 150.6 17 55 reducing carbon emission. In addition, a joint response system for emission trading with other *‌The tightened scoring criteria of performance indicators 42 power generating companies has been established. Exchange activities for GHGs reduction as desuch as waste recycling rate was applied retroactively to data in 2013 and 2014, thereby there are some differences veloping GHGs cut technologies and joint participation in industrial development are promoted. from data of the previous report. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 66 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 67 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Material flow at a glance KHNP is committed to environmental management activities. We strive to minimize pollutant emissions and reduce resource use by efficiently monitoring and managing the use and discharge of resources necessary for business activities. Fuel (Unit: kgU) Energy (Unit: 10×TJ) Hazardous (Unit: tons) Water (Unit: kg*) Consumption 2013 2014 2015 Consumption 2013 2014 2015 Chemicals 2013 2014 2015 Pollutants 2013 2014 2015 Nuclear Light-water reactor 380,222 373,523 343,358 Direct energy (fuel) 27 15 50 Emission Nuclear Hazardous 6,673 7,537 7,406 Emission Nuclear power COD 19,918 18,566 18,504 fuel (enriched uranium) Indirect energy (electricity) 6,655 7,660 6,038 power chemicals plants SS 4,968 4,667 3,096 Heavy-water 291,143 359,617 278,635 plants consumption Total Energy Consumption 6,682 7,675 6,088 T-N 34,235 33,476 39,085 reactor No. of hazardous chemicals 0 0 0 (natural uranium) emission (cases) *Emissions intensity × Emissions volume OUTPUT Environmental (Unit: KRW in billions) Water (Unit: thousand ㎥) Wastewater (Unit: thousand ㎥) GHG Emission (Unit: 1000tCO2eq) INPUT Investment 2013 2014 2015 Consumption 2013 2014 2015 Discharge and 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Environmental 1.0 7.8 1.1 Nuclear Underground water 38 29 56 Recycling Nuclear Waste water 3,845 3,642 3,783 Scope 1 64 33 65 Investment power Industrial water 2,686 2,772 2,368 power discharge Scope 2* 3,232 3,720 2,933 plants Water supply 1,006 1,075 827 plants Recycled water 528 419 502 Purchase of 16.4 16.3 22.7 Total emissions 3,296 3,753 2,998 green products Surface water 3,853 3,951 4,828 Recycling rate (%) 13.7 11.5 13.3 Total water 7,583 7,827 8,079 *‌Usage of necessary external electric power for pumped storage and safe nuclear operations consumption *Environmental Data Estimation Criteria Waste (Unit: tons) Self-disposal (Unit: drums) “‌Nuclear power plants” report aggregated data of energy input and water supply to operate Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong, and Hanul plants and their data of pollutant emissions. Discharge 2013 2014 2015 of Radioactive 2013 2014 2015 Hydro and pumped storage power plants which do not emit pollutants aggregate environmental data centered on energy consumption and GHG emissions. Nuclear General waste 11,651 9,769 10,045 Waste Self-disposal results 1,015 1,320 1,410 power Designated waste 1,561 571 735 Hydro power plants (10 units in Cheongpyeong, Uiam, etc.), pumped storage power plants (7 units in Muju, Samrangjin, etc.) plants Total waste 13,212 10,340 10,780 Recycling rate* (%) 80.7 70.1 68.2 *Recycling rate compared to the amount of general waste Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Eco-friendly Value Creation through Minimizing Management of Marine Environment Environmental Impact Marine Environment Monitoring System KHNP has installed and operated bathythermograph, water quality analyzer, flow meter and curEnvironment Management System rent meter around intake hole and drain outlet of Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong, and Hanul plants. A total of nine systems, three for each new NPP, have been established for monitoring marine environAccording to the “Environmental Impact Assessment Act,” KHNP expects and analyzes the imment changes in areas where new NPPs (Shin-Kori, Shin-Wolsong, and Shin-Hanul) are located. pacts on environment, life, society, and economy in all process from power plant construction to Observed parameters are marine environment elements such as water temperature, salinity, curoperation and conducts in-detail impact reduction measures by sector. In addition, power plants rent direction and flow velocity and metrological elements such as temperature, wind direction, are constructed are operated in compliance with environmental impact report that is finalized afwind velocity, and atmosphere. And the observed environmental data is recorded both in the ter discussions with local communities and governmental bodies. Environmental management national monitoring system operated by the Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Agency and for NPPs are conducted in general and marine aspects under the ISO14001 system. in promotion and exhibition center of each NPP and is available to the public in real time. General Environment Management Measurement Items of Marine Environment Monitoring System In order to control environmental pollutants generated from plant operation legally, the Category Measurement Items Period company builds and operates wastewater disposal facility and waste storage and treatment Marine organism Fish assemblages, standing stock of zooplankton, phytoplankton(including chlorophyll), benthic organism, marine plants, fish, and Seasonal basis kinds, number, weight of organism bumping into intake screen, and kinds and number of organism sucked into the cooling facilities. The company also continues to survey and evaluate the impact on ecosystems Physical survey water temperature, salinity, transparency, quantity of cooling water intake, weather Seasonal basis nearby the plant in accordance with “Environment Survey Guidelines for Surroundings.” (temperature, humidity, direction of the wind, wind speed, precipitation), sea water flow (current direction, current speed, tide, etc.) hydro chemical hydrogen ion concentration(pH), suspended solid(SS), dissolved oxygen(DO), residual chlorine, nutrient salts, chemical oxygen Seasonal basis Sewage and Wastewater Management survey demand (COD), ocean deposits(ignition loss, grain-size composition, heavy metal) Specific harmful substance or heavy metal (copper, chrome or others) Half-yearly basis KHNP monitors the quality of sewage, wastewater, and affluent in real time with TMS (Telemetering system.) Sewage and wastewater treatment facilities are managed under 50% stricter criteria than the effluent quality standard. Nuclear plant wastewater, composing of non-organic wasteUse of Heated Effluents water, wastewater containing oil, and small amount of organic wastewater, is discharged after KHNP promote a wide range of business using heated effluents. First of all, Hanbit NPP, sitgoing through physicochemical treatment such as neutralization, condensation, sediment, and ting on 2,600㎡ size of site, has a fish farm using heated effluent with 17-ton of adult fish profiltering. Sewage from toilet or shower room is discharged after being biochemically treated. duction capacity and marine biodiversity exhibition hall. The exhibition hall is utilized as a learning place that demonstrates the safety of heated effluents to NPP visitors. Furthermore, Waste Disposal Management at NPPs starting from 1997, KHNP has used hot wastewater discharged from NPPs to cultivate fish Waste generated from NPPS is classified into various categories, that is, general waste, desigand shellfish. Cultivated fish and shellfish are released in the sea near the NPP around May nated, and construction waste discharged from regions other than radiation-controlled area. 31st every year on “Marine Day” to build up fishery resources. As of September 2016, high-valKHNP has a system to control the entire process from waste generation to final treatment. ued fish consisting of 8.5 million fish, 16.74 million abalones, 71 million crustaceans, 3.8 tons Waste storage facilities are expanded and newly built in each NPP to minimize air pollution of shellfishes, and 0.83 million sea cucumbers and all matching with the characteristics of generated from incinerating waste. In addition, approximately 90% of combustible waste is natural marine life in the sea have been released to contribute to the development of fishery Use of Hazardous Chemicals reused by sorting waste according to types, components, and process methods. resources and increase in fishery resources and increase in fishermen’s income. Hazardous Chemical Substances Control Reliability and Effect of Environmental Monitoring of NPP Chemicals Use Thorough supervision and prevention of leakage of hazardous substances are essential since Marine Water Quality around NPPs The environmental monitoring of NPPs has been conducted by reliable research centers such Water treatment room they may come in contact with the human body and the environment in the stages of produc(Unit: mg/L) as monitoring agencies, KEPRI, national/public universities or laboratories around the NPP Sulfuric acid : Recycling of ion exchange resin tion, use, and disposal. KHNP has thus developed the “NPP-customized Standard Emergency Item Region 2013 2014 2015 to secure reliability. In addition, KHNP has asked a civil association for sea conservation to DO Kori 8.40 7.60 7.96 conduct the physical disability evaluation related to environmental hormone and heated efHydrochloric Condensate polishing plan Response Guideline for Chemical Accidents” which covers control standards for chemicals, emerWolsong 8.60 8.10 8.43 acid : Recycling of ion exchange resin gency response processes, and emergency protocols, and applied it on the sites. In addition, we Hanbit 8.10 8.50 8.00 fluent to raise transparency and reliability of the test. Considering overall test result for the expanded the number of hazardous chemicals managers from 12 to 54 to conduct regular safety Hanul 8.43 8.35 8.50 past 28 years, considerable changes from surroundings of NPPs have not been witnessed. As Sodium Waste water treatment plant hydroxide : ph control inspection on nuclear plants with experts. KHNP also upgraded maintenance class for 1,115 safeCOD 고리 1.54 1.34 1.67 its ecosystem generally shows similar community structure as other natural ecosystem, it is 월성 1.47 1.54 1.64 ty-related equipment out of a total of 13,762 environmental facilities and introduced a risk as한빛 1.59 1.69 1.81 estimated that NPP operation has not had particular impact on the environment. Secondary system Hydrazine : Elimination of dissolved oxygen sessment system which tests and diagnoses diverse hazardous substances based tightened na한울 1.30 1.59 1.52 PO4³¯ 고리 0.006 0.009 0.007 DO(2015) (Unit: mg/L) COD(2015) (Unit: mg/L) PO 4³¯(2015) (Unit: mg/L) tional regulations company-wide, strengthening capabilities for managing hazardous chemicals. 월성 0.006 0.009 0.006 Ammonium Secondary system 8.50 0.015 한빛 0.026 0.020 0.015 8.43 1.81 0.014 hydroxide : ph control Water Reuse Management 한울 0.021 0.018 0.014 7.96 8.00 1.67 1.64 1.52 Sodium nitrite Sub system KHNP makes diverse efforts to reduce water consumption. In order to deliver effective water con: Corrosion prevention sumption, each plant reuses a certain amount of effluent water which is processed by wastewa0.007 Hydrogen Electricity dismantle facility ter disposal devices for filter cleansing, chemicals dilution, and road sprinkling. New NPPs are in0.006 peroxide : Elimination of residual chlorine stalled with wastewater reclamation systems to reuse water and to increase water use efficiency. Kori Wolsong Hanbit Hanul Kori Wolsong Hanbit Hanul Kori Wolsong Hanbit Hanul 70 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 71 Sustainability Plan and Goals Sustainability Plan And Goals Radioactive Waste Control KHNP transfers safety radioactive waste, which is inevitably generated during the operation of NPP to a radioactive waste facility located in Gyeongju. This is safely stored in a secured Social Responsibility KHNP, Growing with warehouse located inside NPPs before it is Isolated from the residential areas. Radioactive waste is classified into used fuel, high-level waste, and low and intermediate level radioactive Local Communities waste, to be managed accordingly. Low and Intermediate Level Radioactive Waste Control Low and intermediate level radioactive waste is packed inside drums that have guaranteed stability and then stored in a temporary storehouse located inside NPPs. KHNP disposed of 93,351 Aspect Report drums (200 liter) of waste in 2015. The company disposes of non-radioactive polluted waste or polluted waste below the legal standard level through methods such as incineration or landfill. Report Context KHNP will reduce systematically the occurrence of radioactive waste by introducing new techThe construction and operation of NPPs require understanding and cooperation from the local nologies and vitalizing self-disposal, as the number of reactors operated n NPPs as well as the communities. Therefore, the company must earn supports for the business from local comnumber of replacements of obsolete equipment are expected to increase in the future. munities and the public and contribute to the development of the region and co-prosperity through value creation. It is consistent with the concept of Creating Shared Value (CSV), creatSafe Control of Used Fuel ing social values while pursuing economic profits at the same time, as suggested by professor Since nuclear fuel generates radioactive emissions and heat, used fuel must be disposed acMichael E. Porter in 2011. In this regard, the company is required to identify needs of local comcording to a finalized management plan after being temporarily stored for a certain period in inmunities and develop and operate programs linked with its value, strategy, and capability to terim storage equipped with specific equipment. Regarding this, the Public Engagement Comsupport their growth. In addition, it is essential to raise awareness and trust in nuclear power mission has conducted activities to form a social consensus and set up a transparent follow-up business through consistent communication with local communities. At the same time, KHNP should make a concerted effort to listen their opinions and fulfill its social responsibility. Dandelion Spore Fund used fuel management plan from October 2013 to June 2015. KHNP has cooperated with the (in 2015) commission and participated in the TF organized by the government for the plan. When the high-level radioactive waste management plan is finalized, KHNP will execute the follow-up Sustainable Progress & Future Plan KRW 10 billion measures for used fuel saturation at a timely manner to control used fuel safely. Meanwhile, we KHNP appreciates the trust and support shown by local communities around our NPPs. In reare making efforts to stably ontrol used fuel until the interim storage facility is built as part of sponse, we pursue co-prosperity with them by implementing social contribution activities that the final management plan. For Shin-Kori #1 and #2, we have installed a high-density storage support long-term development of local communities beyond one-off benefits. As part of this, rack of wet storage system, which maximizes storage capacity by using materials with excellent KHNP has been implementing diverse social contribution activities such as installation of safe neutron absorption function. For Hanbit #2, its saturation year extended from 2019 to 2024 streetlight and utilization of waste heat in which all employees are proactively participating. with replacement of high-density storage rack. For Shin-Kori #3 and #4 and Shin-Hanul #1 and These efforts resulted in winning the Prime Minister’s Award for Social Welfare Enhancement in #2, KHNP plans to earn the operation permit of high-density storage rack to install. 2015. In addition, we are proactive in communicating with local communities and promoting our role as a public energy corporation. KHNP will continue its social contribution activities to Contribution to Social Radiation Exposure Expand Used Fuel Storage Capacity and Establish Management Plan contribute to the development of local communities. Welfare Promotion Dose of NPP Workers (Unit: man·Sv/unit) Prime Category Expected Activities Schedule Minister Prize 2 Expand storage for ~2024 ㆍ‌Start construction to expand storage for used fuel in operating used fuel plants in preparation of storage saturation Case for Sustainable KHNP (hosted by the Ministry of World’s lowㆍ‌Extend saturation year by replacing the high-density storage rack Health and Welfare and est level for consecutive years of Hanbit #2 (2019→2024) “Happiness Plus, Hopeful Wings” Ceremony Korea National Council on Social Welfare) ㆍ‌Complete construction of the high-density storage rack of Shin2013 0.53 Kori #1, #2 and obtain operating license (2016) On October 15th 2015, KHNP held a ceremony ㆍ‌Plan to operate construction of the high-density storage rack of of delivering school buses named “Happiness 2014 0.36 Shin-Kori #3, #4, Shin-Hanul #1, #2 and obtain operating license 2015 0.36 Plus, Hopeful Wings” at the Peace Square of Secure carriers for ~‌February, ㆍ‌Complete manufacturing Korea’s standard nuclear fuel carriers used fuel 2016 and pass the manufacture test (total 18 rods, 4 carriers) Seoul Olympic Park to hand over 50 vehicles (11 Develop management plan ~‌December, ㆍ‌Develop a roadmap on management used fuel in preparation of passenger capacity) to 50 local childcare centers of used fuel at Kori plant 2015 decommissioning of Kori #1 to help children return home safely. This project intends to improve educational environment Manage Workers’ Exposure Dose of local children’s learning center. Since it was Voluntary Service Hours per Employees To reduce radioactive exposure dose of employees, KHNP has established mid and long-term launched in 2012, a total of 150 units of vehicles Ceremony of school bus support (in 2015) radioactive exposure dose reduction plan (by 2025) while identifying 31 items to lower expohave been given to local childcare centers. The (Happiness Plus, Hopeful Wings) in 2015 sure level by sector. In addition, as part of implementing radioactive safety management and fund for the project was raised from “Dandelion Spore Fund” and those donated vehicles are 10 hours exposure reduction plan during high-radioactive operation, we cut working time to minimize expected to be utilized for safety trip of children and various activities. For children to live safe the exposure dose. As a result, radiation exposure for employees was 0.36man·Sv/unit in and fulfilling lives, KHNP will continue to carry out diverse contribution activities and do its best 2015, down 32% from the five-year average of 0.53man·Sv/unit. to build a safety net for children who need social care to find dreams. 72 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 73 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity KHNP, Contributing to the Development of Local Social Contribution Strategy 1「Safety and Happiness」 Communities Installation of Safe Solar-powered Streetlights The Safety Streetlight is KHNP’s flagship social contribution activity. It helps local people return Social Contribution Strategy and System home safe at late night as well as contributes to preventing crimes and saving public utility bills. The streetlights are made with solar LED and can last about 5 days on a single charge. KHNP aims to understand the needs of the public and implement customized social conReceiving public electricity, those do not go out even when the power is not generated by solar tribution activities to make Korea where all citizens lead happy lives. Under a vision of “the energy. KHNP has installed a total of 290 LED streetlights: 37 in Hongje Dong, Seoul in 2014, and world where all of us are safe and happy”, we practice a wide array of sharing initiatives such 69 in Youngdeok, Gyeongbuk, 48 in Gochang, Jeonbuk, 9 Yooseong-gu, Daejeon, 66 Gyeongju, as “People”, “Public Responsibility”, and “Public Interest.” Gyeongbuk, 36 in Seo-gu, Busan, and 25 in Geumcheon-gu, Seoul in 2015. Strategy for Social Contribution Lighting ceremony for the Safety Streetlight Happiness Plus, Hopeful Wings (Gyeongju) Vision The world Where All of Us are Safe and Happy The “Happiness Plus, Hopeful Wings” is an initiative to support local childcare centers with Slogan “Loving Neighbors, Giving Hope to Society” school bus provision and hope library construction with the fund drawn from the “Dandelion Support for the Happiness Plus, Spore Fund.” Until 2015, KHNP has donated about 150 school buses for free to local childcare People Public Public Interest Hopeful Wings Program centers and built 92 Hope libraries, improving environment of children centers. Across the Responsibility Core Values School bus (Unit: schools) nation including the city of Gyeongju where KHNP is headquartered, we will continuously 2013 25 expand this project to give wings of dreams and hope to children in need. 2014 60 Social Contribution Strategy 2「Loving Community」 Areas Safety & Happiness Loving Community Talent Cultivation Global 2015 50 ㆍ‌Investment on local ㆍ‌Improvement of living ㆍSafety streetlights communities ㆍ‌Einstein Class environment Investment in Local Communities ㆍ‌Happiness Plus, Hopeful ㆍ‌Health keeper in rural ㆍ‌Culture & education Small library (Unit: libraries) Tasks Wings project areas ㆍ‌Atom Engineering School ㆍKHNP scholarships sharing To return the favor of local communities who allow us to use local resources for a long period ㆍHope sharing concert ㆍ‌Tailored social ㆍ‌Solution of developing 2013 16 contributions countries’ social issues of time, KHNP has raised investment fund since 2006 to dedicate to the development of local 2014 40 communities through revitalization of the economy, promotion of the culture, nurture of huFinancial Source of Social Contribution Activity, “Dandelion Spore Fund” 2015 20 man potential, and environment improvement. Dandelion Spore Fund KHNP raises fund named “Dandelion spore fund.” It is to support its social contribution acAmount of Supports (KRW in billions) (Unit: KRW in billions) tivities and consists of two sub-funds: “love fund” of employees’ voluntary donation and Medical Check-ups for Farming and Fishing Communities 2013 1.0 “matching grant” of the company’s sponsorship. Approximately 82% of employees are parSince 2007, KHNP has been providing high-quality free medical check-up services ranging 2013 4.3 ticipating in the “Love Fund” as of 2015, raising KRW 10 billion in total for “Dandelion spore 2014 3.0 from conscious sedation endoscope, abdominal ultrasonography, to cancer screening to 2014 5.2 fund.” Raised funds are used to support welfare facilities and the vulnerable, promote local 2015 2.0 communities with poor medical facilities around NPPs every year. We also help them receive 2015 10.0 culture and healthcare, sponsor education and scholarships, and environmental protection. medical treatment from physicians and surgeons and drug prescriptions, playing a role as a Investments local community health supporter. KHNP Social Volunteer Group in Local Communities (KRW in billions) Social Volunteer Group Structure To fulfill its role and responsibility as a corporate citizenship, KHNP launched Social Volunteer 2013 56.9 Local Community Engagement for Social Contribution Group (SVG) in June 2004 to engage in various activities. Under the leadership of CEO, it com2014 51.8 To raise sense of unity with local residents, KHNP has promoted social contribution activities Social Volunteer Group prises of KHNP employees from HQs, regional offices, other offices and functional unit volunsuch as caring the underprivileged, vitalizing local economy, and building houses. We donate (Head: CEO) 2015 47.2 teer groups of social, medical, regional, and global. In particular, senior Social Volunteer Group free lunch and daily necessity to low-income families living around four NPP sites, Gyeong(SSVG), comprised of retired KHNP employees and their spouses was launched in September ju, and Yeongdeok. Vitalizing local economy is conducted by purchasing local products and Main Secretariat Local Secretariat (Head Office) (Each Site) 2014. SSVG is extending their experiences and knowledge to society through practice of sharing. helping farmers during busy season for 299 sister-villages near NPPs. Furthermore, KHNP has spent KRW 1.39 billion in total in improving living condition of 127 units of houses of single Social Medical Local Global Senior senior citizens and multi-culture families. The Charter of the Social Contribution Volunteer Volunteer Volunteer Volunteer Volunteer Social Contribution Strategy 3「HR Development」 Group Group Group Group Group We, KHNP, as a corporate citizenship with the public, put dignity and happiness No. of Einstein Class Program Beneficiaries (Unit: persons) first to fulfill our social responsibility. Einstein Class Voluntary Service A mentoring program “Einstein Class” has been held to minimize educational gap between Mentee Mentor Hours per Employees (Unit: hours) One, We‌ shall humbly work to have all live to the fullest regardless of physical, social, 52 economic conditions. urban and rural communities and develop human resources since 2010. College student 2013 16.3 40 40 390 mentors are selected via industry & academy cooperation program and help teenagers in One, We shall always be attentive to any opinion or complaint from our neighbors. 2014 12.6 One, We shall be our neighbor’s hands and legs and learn from them. 297 rural area to achieve their goals by guiding their studies and providing career counseling ser10.0 2015 One, We shall share our neighbor’ joys and sorrows. 239 vices. Currently, the class is held at four NPP sites and for student living near the Han River Hydro site. KHNP will foster local talents by providing various high-quality education endow2013 2014 2015 ment programs. 74 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 75 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity KHNP, Communicating with the General Public Information Disclosure and Diverse Communication Channels Best Practice Nuclear energy, an affordable and convenient energy source, has contributed to the development of national industries and improvement of living conditions in modern society. However, Greenhouse That Uses Waste Heat of NPP as the concerns and anxiety over safety issues of radioactivity and nuclear power have continKHNP contributes to increasing the income of local communities by supporting high-tech greenhouse farming project utilizing waste heat*. ued to escalate, it is required to deliver correct information and seek understanding from the Greenhouses using recovered waste heat have approximately 10 times higher productivity than plastic greenhouses and can save 70-80% of progeneral public about nuclear energy. To respond to the demands, KHNP strives to communicate duction costs due to its excellence in reducing energy, heating costs, and CO2 emissions. This project also makes it possible to control the harvest with the public more actively via diverse channels. While KHNP is communicating with staketime of agricultural products, increasing farming household incomes. KHNP expects this project will contribute to vitalizing the local economy. holders, it keeps listening to the feedback of employees. As a result, KHNP received the grand prize of communication management of Korea management award organized by KMAC in 2015. Utilization of Wastewater Heat Heating: 90℃ Cooling: 2℃ Media Channel Through diverse medial channels (blog, SNS, YouTube, etc.), KHNP shares all kinds of information associated with nuclear power and energy. The company prevents incorrect information from circulating online and makes timely response when such issues appear. By doing so, the company operates an active 2-way communication with the public. Blog and SNS Operation ‧School ‧Farm ‧‌Local cooperation facilities ‧‌Glassed green house ‧‌Residential facilities ‧Industrial complex Classification ‧Business facilities ‧Tourist facilities Blog Facebok Twitter Kakao Story YouTube Instagram blog.khnp. facebook.com/ twitter.com/ story.kakao. youtube.com/ instagram.com/ Water collection lines Address co.kr ilovekhnp ikhnp com/ch/khnp user/ikhnp ilovekhnp/ Promotion to Local Communities Business & Residential Area Production Area Heat Production Facility To realize the vision of “local community-centered management with residents”, KHNP is *‌Wastewater heat: Seawater is used for cooling down the turbine of NPP and discharged to the sea after use. The amount of wastewater heat Million kcal actively engaging in cooperative projects in the region under the goal of “making better-off from a NPP is about 40 tons a second, or 4.46 billion tons a year. Generating 250 Gcal energy, it has high value as an energy source. community, building a community for all.” To this end, each NPP comes up with all different communication channels and makes dynamic social contribution activities, reinforcing engagement with local communities. Atom Engineering Technology Class We train children interested in science through “Atom Engineering Technology Class” in coPR Activities for Local Communities by Business Site operation with the Korea Engineering Academy twice a year. This class consists of diverse science lab, “engineering camp,” and “visiting engineering car” programs to awaken their Site Activities curiosity and creativity and finally nurture future engineers. About 2,000 children have participated in this class. ‧‌Publication of a magazine “Kori Hill” ‧Invitation of local people and organizations (10,000 copies every other month) ‧‌Cultural events (movie show, music concert on Wednesday, etc.) Kori ‧Diverse volunteer services and special PR activities ‧Participation in restoration of flood damage Social Contribution Strategy 4「Global Social Welfare」 ‧‌Supports for local sports events (improvement of corporate image) Our social contribution activities are extended to countries where the NPP export is scheduled ‧‌Provision of real-time NPP operation information through SMS‧Diverse educational supports (transparency and safety) ‧‌Region-tailored social contribution activities Wolsong and has already made. We have dispatched 260 academic-industrial volunteers over 6 times to ‧‌Publication of a magazine “Yangji” ‧‌Special lecture on nuclear energy by one-day teachers ‧‌Revitalization of tourism for villages around NPPs to help economic development Vietnam since 2013 in order to improve education, environment, health and sanitary, and portable water conditions in remote villages. In September 2015, our employees visited Phuoc An ‧‌Provision of real-time NPP operation information ‧Marine environment cleanup activities through SMS (transparency and safety) ‧‌Publication of a magazine (Hanbit News (monthly), elementary school in Vietnam with students of Seoul National University to install rainwater har‧‌Expansion of fishing areas around ditch Hanbit Sympathy (quarterly)) Hanbit (leisure and increase of local income) ‧‌Site tour vest tanks, water-purifying filters, and drinking fountains. In addition, KHNP teamed up with stu‧‌Release of fry and shellfish (local communities, public officials, social organizations, etc.) (harmlessness of wastewater from NPPs) ‧Sponsorship of local events dents of Ulsan University to help children living in Yvanopka, Kyrgyzstan by improving their living ‧Proactive social contribution activities environment and providing educational programs. Going forward, KHNP will support emerging ‧Invitation to NPPs and site tour ‧‌Special lectures at elderly colleges and one-day teacher program on Global Volunteer Group in Vietnam in summer countries to resolve global social issues by improving living environment and offering education‧‌Press release through local media (communication with local nuclear power Hanul communities) ‧‌Region-tailored social contribution activities (Music Farm Festival, al and cultural activities. ‧‌Movie show and lectures by celebrities mobile PR booth, special campus lectures, corporate presentation at Nuclear Meister High School, special lectures for energy saving, etc. 76 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 77 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Strengthening Ethical Management System Timeless Integrity Establish Effective Ethical Management System KHNP, Pursuing Culture of While suggesting “the Reliable Global Energy Leader” as a vision of ethical management, KHNP endeavors to create transparent organization culture with ethical management activIntegrity and Honesty ities highlighting participation and sympathy. By putting both the ethical management system and system advancement as mid and long-term strategy, KHNP has made all-out efforts to improve the system while preventing corruption scandals. At the same time, the company strengthens participatory ethical management programs to embed the highest level of inteAspect Report gral and ethical culture company-wide, internalizing the ethics of employees. Report Context Ethical Management System Korea has recently made diverse efforts to create a social culture of integrity and ethics by Vision Become a Clean Energy Leader Trusted by People eradicating irregularities and corruption. At the government level, all different awards and Mid to Longrewards have been given while some public agencies put forward their own ethical manageterm Strategy Advance ethical management scheme and system Establish world’s top-class integrity and ethics cultures ment, restructuring overall integrity culture. As the “Improper Solicitation and Graft Act” enContinuously improve ethical Prevent recurrence of corruption by Strengthen participatory ethical Implant business ethics tered into force in September 2016, the attention on the integrity and ethics has risen across Tasks management system preemptive ethical activities management programs in employees’ mind the nation. Of course, KHNP is well aware that a single mismanagement would put the entire Responsible company at a huge risk due to its nature of business. Because the management of nuclear Organization Planning Dept. (ethical management & sustainability management) Audit Office (anti-corruption, integrity, and internal control) power plant directly relates to the life and safety of people, KHNP may lose trust of Korean people for a single corruptive behavior. Accordingly, KHNP is going through a tough restruc1 Major Activities Ethical management program, integrity ombudsman, BOD Code of ethics, Integrity Committee, anti-corruption citizen watch group Evaluation on Antituring process sto meet the public expectations for corruption eradication. Based on solid corruption Practices ethical management system, all employees will internalize the philosophy of integrity and by the Anti-Corruption Establish Employees’ Code of Conduct ethics to win the trust and support from internal and external stakeholders. and Civil Rights KHNP has continuously revised the code of ethical conduct, which stipulates the ethical behavCommission (in 2015) ior and standards for its employees to meet the needs of the public. For those who encourage Sustainable Progress & Future Plan 1st Rating or coerce corruptive behavior, the company takes stricter disciplinary measures while exploring additional items of accusation or request for investigation regarding work-related crimes. At the Since 2013, KHNP has continued to improve its ethical management system and prevent reocsame time, KHNP adheres to the oath of compliance of code of ethical conduct with suppliers. currence of illegal behaviors through preventive ethical activities. Stronger integrity education helps employees internalize the ethics while ethical organization culture has settled. KHNP belonged to near-bottom group of integrity level evaluation conducted by the Anti-Corruption Prevent Reoccurrence of Nuclear Plant Mismanagement & Civil Rights Commission (ACRC) in 2013. However, thanks to multi-dimensional efforts, the To fundamentally prevent any misconduct similar to the NPP-related corruption and test report company jumped to the 1st level of anti-corruption scheme and 2nd of integrity in 2015. At the alteration scandals occurred in 2013, KHNP has identified 6 major tasks aimed at eradicating missame time, KHNP won Korean Ethics Management Awards for two years in a row, standing as Evaluation on Integrity uses of connections and improvement of procurement system and has been focusing on prevenby the Anti-Corruption an integral company. KHNP commits to advancing its ethical management system and settle and Civil Rights tive ethical activities. To prevent retirees of KHNP from being hired by suppliers, we have extenddown global best ethical culture. In addition, the company promises to spread its commitCommission (in 2015) ed the limit of reemployment prohibition to the 2nd level and asks them to agree on the code of ment to all nuclear power industry, growing into a company trusted by the public. 2nd Rating this ethical conduct. In addition, suppliers that hired former KHNP retirees cannot participate in bids for our projects. For employees who have worked for a long time and meet customers at work, the company regulates them to rotate their position on a regular basis. Furthermore, KHNP Case for Sustainable KHNP newly established a quality control monitoring process by designating Lloyd Register Group as a Best Practice third-party institution, while enhancing the independence of procurement department. KHNP Selected as 1st Class “Best Agency” of Anti-Corruption Scheme in 2015 will continue to root out any corruption scandal by faithfully implementing these systems. KHNP was selected as the “Best Agency” of anti-corruption scheme in 2015 conducted by the ACRC. Since 2013, the company has put every effort to recover the trust of the public by promoting three major innovation campaigns at organizational, HR, and cultural levels. In particuKorea Ethics High-ranking Employees’ Pledge on Integrity lar, the company has strengthened punishment regulations for work-related mismanagement Management Award* In June 2015, KHNP held a ceremony for making a pledge on integrity and awarding integral to tighten discipline among employees. As a result, KHNP became the first public agency to staff with a total of 53 employees including executive directors and department leaders in atintroduce the disclosure system of private contracts. Likewise, the company reforms processes 2 consecutive years tendance. The written pledge contains five integrity practice principles such as “compliance of procurement, contract and quality control that are directly linked to the life of the public. In with laws and principles,” “public interest first,” “prohibition of abusing power and authoraddition, KHNP has engaged in all-out efforts for management innovation and integrity culity,” “prohibition of accepting bribery and special treatment,” and “exclusion of outsiders’ ture with “bringing integrity education to employees” to raise employees’ awareness of ethics. *‌Hosted by the Korean interference.” All of participants made a commitment to playing a leading role in practicing These efforts have resulted in KHNP receiving the 2nd class at the ACRC’s integrity level evaluAssociation of Ethics integrity, eliminate corruption, and creating a fair society. ation in 2015, which put the company at the lowest level for 2 consecutive years from 2013. Pledge on integrity in 2015 Furthermore, KHNP was selected as the best agency of anti-corruption scheme. 78 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 79 T R U S T Sustainability Plan and Goals Technology Respect Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility Timeless Integrity Establish Ethical Culture Company-Wide Create Environment to Encourage Participation in Ethics Management Internalize Ethical Management KHNP creates an environment where the management lead by examples to encourage pracKHNP implements ethical educations by position and collective education on integrity in ticing the ethical management. The Integrity Oath ceremony of high-ranking employees business sites to enhance employees’ awareness of anti-corruption and integrity. Each served as a chance to reaffirm our commitment to corruption eradication. KHNP takes strict team discusses core values every Wednesday and the results are shared through the bullemeasures against those who violate integrity regulations. tin board. In addition, our employees attend integrity-themed plays and other participatory training programs, which help embed integrity into their daily lives. Encourage Employees’ Participation in the Ethical Management By operating various ethical programs aimed at creating ethical culture and facilitating emLifecycle Ethical Education ployee participation, KHNP strives to form a consensus on the concepts of integrity and an From newly hired employees to board members, every employee working at KHNP has to ethical culture. KHNP shares diverse cases through the company-wide EM programs to encomplete ethical education without exception. The subject to the ethical education is catecourage employees to consent on integrity while internalizing ethics with employees. gorized into new employees, employees of 3 level or under, employees of 2 level or higher, rd nd Company-wide Ethical Management Programs in 2015 and board members to give them customized programs and minimum requirement hours. Program Details Sharing Ethical Education by Lifecycle of Public Officials Ethical management slogan (Jun.) ㆍ‌Slogan contest for ethical management Company-wide dissemination of → ‌Selected 6 items including the “Right Work Process Ensures Trust” screensaver containing the slogans Recommend a man of integrity (Aug.) ㆍ‌Recommend employees of integrity Insertion of the articles in New Employees Employees under 3rd Level Employees over 2nd Level Executives → ‌Selected 6 persons including a man who wrote an article company magazine “Preemptive anti-corruption behaviors” Training on integrity for over 4 hours in Completion of ethical education for Completion of ethical education for Completion of ethical education for KHNP’s ethical dilemma UCC (Sep.) ㆍEthical dilemma UCC made by employees, their families, and suppliers Company-wide showing of UCCS education for new employees over 1 hour per year over 5 hours per year over 2 hours per year (selected 6 teams) after the company news Integrity postcard (Oct.) ㆍ‌Made postcards containing integrity cases by team (selected 3 teams) Integrity Tree exhibition ㆍ‌Basic attitude of public official and compliance ㆍ‌Utilization of ethical standards and response to ㆍ‌Year of promotion: The role as manager and ㆍ‌Integrity leadership and initiatives required for with the code of ethics, etc. anti-corruption, etc. coaching methods high-level officials, etc. Wallpaper of groupware log-in screen ㆍ‌Development of integrity-related phrases (selected 12 items) Showing of the wallpapers in ㆍ‌From next year: The same with items of executives (Nov.) groupware every month Performance (Unit: hours) Performance (Unit: hours) Performance (Unit: hours) Performance (Unit: hours) Ordinary Integrity & Ethics Programs 2 hours 7 2 hours 7 increase increase 6 15 Minutes for Core Values KHNP Integrity & Ethics Day Integrity Log-in Screen Integrity & Ethics Film/Quiz 4 hours 5 5 4 increase Every Wednesday 3rd Thursday Ordinary 1st and 3rd Thursday 3 hours increase 2 ㆍ‌Discussion on core values by each team and ㆍ‌Dissemination of integrity message through ㆍ‌Exhibition of well-known sayings in line with ㆍ‌Automatic showing during groupware log-in 1 sharing the results through management company broadcasting integrity and code of ethics ㆍ‌Showing of films and quizzes about business innovation website ㆍ‌Pledge on self-diagnosis of ethics and ㆍPublication of employees’ opinions on integrity ethics and the code of ethics ㆍOrdinary broadcasting through in-company TV commitment 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 ㆍDistribution of handbook about core values Bring Ethical Education to Employees Nurture EM Instructors No. of Employees Who The circuit education on integrity is provided to all employees. This program covers the direcEM instructors are specialists with in-depth knowledge in EM. They offer consultation and Completed Circuit tion of integrity policies, studies on corruption cases, and measures, arousing their attention coaching services to handle tasks related to ethical issues through education classes for Education on Integrity to complying with business ethics. We also continue to improve ethics and integrity policies suppliers. Chosen from among employees who either have been recognized by KHNP for (Unit: persons) by listening to their opinions about integrity. These efforts for ethical management resulted exemplary ethical conduct or completed the EM course, the instructors hold meetings with Head Office Business Sites in achieving the highest level in the evaluation on anti-corruption scheme by the Anti-Corsuppliers working at different branches of KHNP while helping suppliers to better understand 3,109 ruption and Civil Rights Commission in 2015. the concept of an ethical corporate culture through suitable educational contents. 2,287 2,544 2,507 1,849 1,622 Ethical Education in 2015 Evaluation on Our Ethical Management Classification Course Operation Target Details Offline Circuit education on 21 times All employees Education on integrity for employees workIntegrity Level by the AntiEvaluation on Anti-corruption Self-inspection on Integrity KHNP-BEX* integrity ing at all business sites by the Audit Office 885 Corruption and Civil Rights Practices by the Anti-Corruption International antiOnce Employee of Basics and case studies in line 822 Commission and Civil Rights Commission corruption academy merit with anti-corruption, etc. 695 Humanities academy 25 times All employees Education to enhance humanistic knowl85.6 9.85 84.7 edge such as four Chinese classics 2013 2013 9.81 Ethics leader Once Over 2nd Ethical management, ethical culture, 7.65 (5th Rating) 3 rd Rating 9.74 83.2 2013 2014 2015 level solution of ethical dilemma, etc. 2014 2014 Ethical decision-making 5 times Under 3rd On-site ethics, case study on anti8.06 (3rd Rating) 2 nd Rating skill level corruption and integrity, etc. All courses at HR Ordinary Trainees Reflection of integrity to all courses Development Center 2015 8.36 (2nd Rating) 2015 1 st Rating 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Online New public servant ethics Ordinary All employees E-learning to enhance integrity *KHNP-BEX: Self-inspection on the level of ethics 80 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 81 Performance Third-party Assurance GRI Content SR10 Implementation Participation in Initiatives Data Statements Index Certificate of the UN SDGs and Memberships Performance Data Accountability Economy Financial Performances Financial Stability Economic Performances (KRW in billions) Financial Information Classification 2013 2014 2015 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Sales 6,398.4 9,503.5 10,747 Interest coverage rate Multiples 0.48 4.32 7.11 Operating income 261.0 2,520.6 3,791.7 Reliance on borrowings % 43.3 44.0 46.4 Net income (188.3) 1,440.5 2,457.1 Cashflow coverage rate % 95.5 244.0 424.1 Total assets turnover rate % 26.5 35.4 40.5 Financial Position (KRW in billions) Credit Rating Classification 2013 2014 2015 A+ Aa2 Assets Current assets 3,642.4 4,240.2 5,565.0 S&P Moody’S Non-current assets 43,338.0 45,243.3 4,568.8 Total assets 46,980.4 49,483.5 51,252.8 Liabilities Current liabilities 2,946.5 2,594.0 2,750.2 AAA+ Fitch R&I Non-current liabilities 23,796.8 25,254.5 24,873.7 Total liabilities 26,743.3 27,848.5 27,623.9 Equity Pain-in capital 10,704.5 10,704.5 10,704.5 Surplus 9,563.9 10,975.7 12,968.0 Other equity (31.3) (45.2) (66.8) Major Operating Performance Total equity 20,237.1 21,635.0 23,628.9 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Investment in R&D NPP usage % 75.5 85.0 85.3 Failures (Cases/unit) 6(0.26) 5(0.22) 3(0.13) (KRW in billions) Power sales Billion kWh 138.0 155.0 161.5 Classification 2013 2014 2015 Investment in plant KRW in 1,762.9 2,131.2 2,403.9 Investment in R&D 336.9 303.1 323.6 construction billions Distribution of Economic Value 2013 2014 2015 Government Corporate tax KRW 18,183 thousand KRW 590,687,272 thousand KRW 803,836,320 thousand Employees 2013 2014 2015 Avg. compensation per employee KRW 76,272 thousand KRW 79,947 thousand KRW 80,746 thousand Performance Data 83 Local Communities 2013 2014 2015 Social contribution Third-party Assurance Statements 86 KHNP expenses* KRW 4.3 billion KRW 5.2 billion KRW 10 billion GRI Content Index 88 Suppliers 2013 2014 2015 SR10 Certificate 90 Supports for Implementation of the UN SDGs 91 SMEs KRW 1.42 billion KRW 2.06 billion KRW 3.02 billion *‌Dandelion Spore Fund (enforced amount) Participation in Initiatives and Memberships 92 82 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 83 Accountability Performance Third-party Assurance GRI Content SR10 Implementation Participation in Initiatives Data Statements Index Certificate of the UN SDGs and Memberships Performance Data Environment Society Energy Consumption & GHG Emission Marine Environment Preservation Employment Status Education Expense per Employee (KRW in millions) Classification 2013 2014 2015 Energy Consumption by Business Site (Unit: 10×TJ) Changes in Seaweed Clusters around NPPs (Unit: species, g･dry･wt/m2) Employment Type & Human Resources by Region (Unit: persons) In-company education 2.29 2.32 2.32 External education 1.01 1.01 1.50 Classification 2013 2014 2015 Classification 2013 2014 2015 Classification 2013 2014 2015 Online education 0.10 0.08 0.09 Nuclear power HQ 1,464 1,268 1,425 Captured Kori 48 48 51 Total employee 9,533 9,816 10,842 species Total 3.40 3.41 3.91 Pumped storage plant 5,201 6,388 4,641 Wolsong 49 52 52 Position Executives 4 6 6 Hydro power plant 4 5 6 Hanbit 23 27 26 Middle managers 3,193 3,404 3,633 Other special business units 14 15 16 Hanul 77 87 86 Staff 6,356 6,406 7,203 Education on Security (Unit: persons) Total 6,683 7,676 6,088 Average Kori 199 211 192 Region Head office 1,194 1,290 1,245 Classifistanding Method Course 2013 2014 2015 Wolsong 189 204 189 NPP site 6,919 6,789 7,594 cation species Hanbit 4 4 3 Hydro & pumped storage 771 763 773 Security Collective Education on personal 66 66 215 GHG Emission by Business Site (Unit : 1,000tCO2eq) Hanul 86 101 93 Other sites 669 974 1,230 staff information handling (HQ) Classification 2013 2014 2015 CommisEducation for infrastructure 67 57 Average tenure (years) 15.2 15.1 14.0 Nuclear power HQ 761 641 731 sioned managers and information Pumped storage plant 2,526 3,103 2,256 Marine Zoobenthos around NPPs (Unit: species, population/m2) (MOTIE, etc.) protection staff Hydro power plant 2 2 3 Classification 2013 2014 2015 Retirement and New Employment (Unit: persons) General E-learning Education on information 3,384 3,384 8,660 staff security Other special business units 7 7 8 Captured Kori 134 155 137 Classification 2013 2014 2015 species Understanding of personal 7,267 8,669 Total 3,296 3,753 2,998 Wolsong 142 141 128 Regular retirement 196 204 220 information protection Hanbit 83 102 107 Voluntary retirement 13 11 7 Collective Special lecture on personal 66 719 578 Hanul 286 304 320 New employment in Female 125 114 260 information protection (HQ) permanent position Waste Treatment Average Kori 687 823 673 Disabled 7 3 9 Education on information 756 163 7,606 standing Wolsong 683 695 626 Local talents 409 453 938 security and infrastructure (Unit: tons) species (business sites) Hanbit 159 174 170 High school diploma 189 196 158 Classification 2013 2014 2015 Security education for new 876 1,691 Hanul 1,952 1,948 1,832 Engineering major 561 349 1,014 and experienced employees Recycling 9,404 6,843 6,854 Subtotal 627 678 1,369 (HR Development Center) Incineration 1,081 815 936 New employment in Internship 686 939 483 Total 4,339 12,572 27,476 Land-fill 2,662 2,581 2,990 temporary position Eco-friendly Power Generation Plan Short-term workers 232 230 255 Others 105 101 0 Subtotal 918 1,169 738 (Unit: GWh) Total waste amount 13,212 10,340 10,780 Classification 2015 2016 Plan 2024 MidAdvancement of Labor-Management Relations term Plan Female and Disabled Employees Mandatory supply (A) 2,662 2,882 12,056 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Green Product Purchase Status of Labor Union (As of end of Dec. 2015) (Unit: persons) Carry-over (B) 515 559 1,121 Total female No. of employees Persons 899 971 1,202 employees Site No. of Union Members Implementation Photovoltaic 324 429 1,674 Percentage % 9.4 9.9 11.1 Head Office 385 Since signing the “Voluntary Green Purchase Agreement” with the performance Hydro 601 784 1,225 Female team No. of employees Persons 7 7 10 leaders and NPP Sites 5,338 Ministry of Environment in 2005, KHNP has established the infraFuel-cell 723 774 3,315 Percentage % 0.79 0.72 1.05 higher positions Han River Hydro Sites 216 structure for purchasing green products by revising related guideWind 444 Percentage of the disabled % 3.11 3.07 3.02 Pumped Storage Sites 334 Geothermal 98 lines and contract rules and developing purchase record moniR&D centers and education institutes 206 Biomass 3,640 toring system. In line with this, we have established and executed Overseas sites and others 333 External purchase 1,028 907 1,116 green product purchase plans and implemented regular employee Development of Human Resources Total 6,812 Total (C) 2,676 2,894 11,512 trainings to expand green product purchase. Implementation performance for 2,161 2,335 10,391 the year(D=C-B) Education Courses in 2015 Collective Agreement to Correct Irrational Labor Practices Implementation rate (E=D/A) 81.2% 81.0% 86.2% Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Job KHNP agreed to provide rational compensation and welfare system Total purchase KRW in thousands 16,971,170 17,399,575 24,213,830 Classification Common Leadership Global Total Capability in compliance with the government’s guide by reestablishing collecGreen product KRW in thousands 16,332,413 16,252,203 22,688,359 purchase No. of courses 37 41 1,079 43 1,200 tive agreement process and shortening the period of meetings for No. of trainees 4,047 1,687 16,229 984 22,947 collective agreement. These activities contributed to advancing colGreen product % 96.2 93.4 93.7 purchase ratio lective agreement and improving labor-management relations. A to*‌Source & calculation basis: Green Purchase Information System of Korea Environmental tal of 6,812 persons, or 64% of total employees, are union members. Industry & Technology Institute (http://gd.greenproduct.go.kr), Public Procurement Service of Korea, Green Market purchase data. 84 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 85 Accountability Performance Third-party Assurance GRI Content SR10 Implementation Participation in Initiatives Data Statements Index Certificate of the UN SDGs and Memberships Third-party Assurance Statements Verification Statement of KOREA HYDRO & NUCLEAR Preface POWER Co., LTD 2016 Sustainability Report • Site visit KFQ visited KNHP headquarter to understand and assess the systems and processes in place for managing and reporting the sustainability data. KFQ Reviewed internal documents selected under sampling technique considering materiality and interviewed with interested person KFQ have been engaged by KOREA HYDRO & NUCLEAR POWER Co., LTD (Hereinafter “KNHP”) to perform an independent assurance in regard to confirm contents of the Report. Also, KFQ closely reviewed KNHP internal data controlling system and the Report compilation process. to the following aspects of this Sustainability Report (Hereinafter “the Report”). KNHP has responsibility to establish compilation criteria including content of this Report and KFQ’s responsibility is to provide a verification conclusion of KNHP 2016 Sustainability Report based on its verification procedures in accordance with the selected standards and criteria. • Resolution of findings KFQ Reviewed the final report to check the errors and issues identified during above process to provide correct and reliable sustainability performance information, and conducted an independent assessment of the Report in relation to GRI Guidelines. Independence • Consideration and limitation Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability performance information reported in the Report are subject to inherent limitation due KFQ was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other than providing a verification opinion, and there has been no conflict to their nature and the methodology used determining, calculating and estimating such data. of interest between KNHP and KFQ. Further to this KFQ has no biased opinion on stakeholders of KNHP. Verification standards Verification opinion Based in the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that this Report meets the GRI G4.0 “Core” option. According to the three prinAssurance/verification standards ciples of AA 1000 AS, namely, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information was assessed and KFQ • AA 1000 Assurance Standard 2008 • GRI G4.0 Electricity Utilities Sector Supplement could secure reasonable evidences to provide Type 1 level of assurance through followings. • AA 1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 • ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Standard • GRI G4.0 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 1. ‌KNHP has subdivided stakeholders as 12 core stakeholder group related to the major issues of sustainable management. To hear any concerns and opinions from them, KNHP has a customized communication channel of each stakeholder group and reflected it KNHP’s Verification scope business strategy and intensify sustainable management activities. 2. ‌According to the materiality test process, KNHP identified most relevant and significant sustainability issues then pool it in groups. The followings are included in the scope of this verification. Those issues were finally grouped as 11 major issues based on stakeholder survey, media analysis and opinion of external specialist, • ‌Report contents in relation to the headquarter, entire lo• ‌Application of Type 1 verification approach according to and reflect it KNHP’s 5 business strategy. cal nuclear power plants and hydropower plants, overAA 1000 and AA1000 AS 2008 to assess compliance with 3. ‌KNHP has included in the Report its response to the material sustainability issues that were identified through material analysis proseas business and construction of new nuclear power inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness principles cess. KNHP responded properly with coherent actions and concerned active response to their sustainability management work. plants of KNHP and reliability of sustainability performance information • ‌Application of GRI 4.0 Core option for the Report prepa• ‌The term “Moderate Assurance” used in AA1000AS is deRecommendation for improvement ration signed to be consistent with “Limited assurance” as artic• Application of GRI G4.0 EUSS ulated in ISAE 3000. Our assurance is a Type I assurance • ‌GRI G4.0 Compliance assessment regarding contents of engagement as defined in the Guidance for AA1000AS. 1. Systematic ‌ monitoring strategy of sustainability performance index through Social Responsibility Management System (SR 10) would help the Report and assurance principles of reporting quality • Core subjects in ISO 26000 planning a long-and short-term of business strategy ahead. Thus it is necessary to use SR 10 as a tool to evaluate sustainability performance and make up for the weak points of sustainability management activities. Verification procedure 2. In ‌ order to improve internal management system updating of sustainable management issues are required periodically thus, it is recommended to monitor major issues identified through material analysis according to the appointed cycle. Furthermore, it is necessary to KFQ considered the procedures to achieve reasonable assurance of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the susimprove series of process to report sustainability performance data from data generation, gathering and analysis. tainability information, as well as internal process and system of data collection to have reliability of sustainability performance information provided in the Report. October 2016 Seoul, Korea CEO Dae hyun Nam • Desk review Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) KFQ has performed GAP analysis of key issues and sustainability performance information provided in the Report against GRI guidelines and information acquired through media survey. With regard to the financial data included in the Report, our procedures were limited to verifying that they were correctly derived from the KNHPs audited 2016 statement of accounts for the first half year. 86 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 87 Accountability Performance Third-party Assurance GRI Content SR10 Implementation Participation in Initiatives Data Statements Index Certificate of the UN SDGs and Memberships GRI Content Index ● : Full ◐ : Half ○ : Not N/A: Not Applicable ● : Full ◐ : Half ○ : Not N/A: Not Applicable Level of Level of Category Aspect Index Indicators Page Note Category Aspect Index Indicators Page Note report report Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). ● 2 G4-1 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for ● 4-5 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● 2 Strategy and addressing sustainability. a. Report the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen. Analysis 24-25, 38, 44, b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● G4-32 ● 2 50, 54, 65, 73, 78 c. ‌Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends G4-3 Report the name of the organization ● 16 the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be “in accordance” with the Guidelines. Report Profile G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. ● 16 a. ‌Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. ● 16 b. ‌If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organiexternal assurance provided. G4-6 11 G4-33 ● 2, 86-87 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. ● zation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. ● 16 d. ‌Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and G4-8 ● 11, 16 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify beneficiaries). Governance G4-34 ● 28-29 any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the scale of the organization, including: ‧Total number of employees Ethics and Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes G4-56 ● 78-81 ‧Total number of operations Integrity of ethics. G4-9 ● 16, 83, 85 Economic ‧‌Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ● 83 ‧‌Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Performance ‧Quantity of products or services provided DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 38, 44 Indirect Economic a. Report the total number of employees by`and gender. EC7 DEVELOPMENT AND IMPACT OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND SERVICES SUPPORTED ● 40-41 Impacts b. ‌Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. EC8 SIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, INCLUDING THE EXTENT OF IMPACTS ● 40-41, 45 Economic c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 38 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. Research and Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting G4-10 e. Report ‌ whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally 16, 85 Development EU8 ● 39, 83 ● sustainable development recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees Plant and supervised employees of contractors. EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites ● 41 Decommissioning f. Report ‌ any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the Materials EN1 MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME ● 68 tourism or agricultural industries). Organizational EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION ● 68 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 85 Profile Energy EN6 REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION ● 67 EU1 INSTALLED CAPACITY, BROKEN DOWN BY PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCE AND BY REGULATORY REGIME ● 7, 13, 16 EN7 REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ● 67 EU2 NET ENERGY OUTPUT BROKEN DOWN BY PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCE AND BY REGULATORY REGIME ● 16 EN8 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE ● 68 EU3 NUMBER OF RESIDENTIAL, INDUSTRIAL, INSTITUTIONAL AND COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS N/A No direct power sales to common consumers Water EN10 PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED ● 69 EU4 LENGTH OF ABOVE AND UNDERGROUND TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION LINES BY REGULATORY REGIME N/A No power transmission and distribution facilities DESCRIPTION OF SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES ON BIODIVERSITY IN There is no result in emissions trading. But we EN12 ● 71, 84 Biodiversity PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OUTSIDE PROTECTED AREAS ALLOCATION OF CO2E EMISSIONS ALLOWANCES OR EQUIVALENT, BROKEN DOWN BY CARBON TRADING are preparing responses to the emissions trading EU5 ● 65, 67 EN13 HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED ● 71-72 FRAMEWORK scheme and relevant contents are disclosed partially. DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 65 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. ● 49, 50-53 Environmental Emissions EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) ● 69 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, EN16 ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) ● 69 There is no significant change in organization DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 65 or its supply chain, including: ● scale and share ownership during the reporting ‌Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions EN23 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD ● 69, 84 period. Meanwhile, the head office was relocated G4-13 ‌Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for ● 88 EN24 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS ● 69, 70, 72 and power generation capacity increased due to private sector organizations) Effluents and WEIGHT OF TRANSPORTED, IMPORTED, EXPORTED, OR TREATED WASTE DEEMED HAZARDOUS UNDER THE TERMS commercial operation of Shin-Wolsong #2 unit in ‌Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including Waste EN25 OF THE BASEL CONVENTION2 ANNEX I, II, III, AND VIII, AND PERCENTAGE OF TRANSPORTED WASTE SHIPPED 89 No waste shipped overseas July 2015. ● selection and termination INTERNATIONALLY G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 65-72 IDENTITY, SIZE, PROTECTED STATUS, AND BIODIVERSITY VALUE OF WATER BODIES AND RELATED HABITATS EN26 ● 71, 84 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY THE ORGANIZATION’S DISCHARGES OF WATER AND RUNOFF G4-15 ● 2, 91-93 organization subscribes or which it endorses. MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NONCompliance EN29 ● 89 No violation against laws List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS organizations in which the organization: TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND G4-16 ● 93 LA1 32, 84 Holds a position on the governance body Participates in projects or committees REGION ● Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membership as strategic All suppliers’ employees engaging in the ‧‌List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. DAYS WORKED BY CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES INVOLVED IN CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION & construction, operation, and maintenance of G4-17 ‧‌Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 83 Employment EU17 ● 89 ● MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES NPPs comply with legal working hours (8 hours a documents is not covered by the report. day) in accordance with the Labor Standards Act. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. PERCENTAGE OF CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES THAT HAVE UNDERGONE RELEVANT HEALTH We do not calculate relevant ratios, while G4-18 ● 24-25 EU18 57 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. AND SAFETY TRAINING ◑ conducting safety trainings for suppliers. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. ● 25 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 54 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE REPRESENTED IN FORMAL JOINT MANAGEMENT–WORKER HEALTH AND ‧Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization LA5 ● 58, 85 Occupational SAFETY COMMITTEES THAT HELP MONITOR AND ADVISE ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMS ‧‌If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the Health and Safety TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, AND ABSENTEEISM, AND TOTAL Identified G4-20 following two approaches and report either: ● 25 LA6 ● 58 NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND BY GENDER Material – ‌The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or LA8 HEALTH AND SAFETY TOPICS COVERED IN FORMAL AGREEMENTS WITH TRADE UNIONS ● 57-58 Aspects and – ‌The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Labor Practices Boundaries ‧‌Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT LABOR PRACTICES FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL Grievance LA16 ● 33 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Mechanisms Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization Social DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 73 ‌If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which G4-21 ● 25 Local PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities SO1 ● 74-76 identified Communities AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS ‌Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization SO2 OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES ● 54-63, 66-72 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 78 G4-22 ● 2 Anti-corruption restatements. SO4 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ● 79-81 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. ● 88 No significant change Supplier DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 50 G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 20-21 Assessment G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 20-21 for Impacts on SO10 SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON SOCIETY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN ● 51-53 Society Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Stakeholder G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the ● 21, 22-23, 46-47 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 64 Engagement report preparation process. Customer Privacy TOTAL NUMBER OF SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINTS REGARDING BREACHES OF CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF PR8 ● 89 No complaint Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization CUSTOMER DATA 20-21, MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING G4-27 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups ● Compliance PR9 89 No violation against laws 22-23, 46-47 THE PROVISION AND USE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ● that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. ● 2 EU28 POWER OUTAGE FREQUENCY ● 10, 19 Report Profile Access G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● 2 EU30 AVERAGE POWER OUTAGE DURATION ● 12 88 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 89 Accountability Performance Third-party Assurance GRI Content SR10 Implementation Participation in Initiatives Data Statements Index Certificate of the UN SDGs and Memberships SR10 Certificate Implementation of the UN SDGs The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) consists of 169 detailed goals under 17 main goals that the international society should achieve with the aim of solving universal problems of mankind as well as environmental, economic, and social problems. The SDGs was come into force on September 28, 2015 when 193 countries signed at the UN General Assembly and will be conducted for 15 years from 2016 to 2030. KHNP supports the UN SDGs and strives to adopt the goals to our management activities, thereby pursuing co-prosperity with all mankind and strengthening our sustainability. 1. No Poverty 2. Zero Hunger 3. Good Health and Well-being ㆍ‌Voluntary free meal service and donation ㆍ‌Sisterhood with local villages around ㆍ‌Employee health checkup and EAP of necessaries to low-income families power plants ㆍVisit for consulting service ㆍ‌Global social contribution activities ㆍPurchase of local specialties ㆍOperation of emergency centers (living condition improvement in ㆍSupports in farming season developing countries, supports for cultural ㆍCreation of happy workplace activities, etc.) 4. Quality Education 5.Gender Equality 6. Clean Water and Sanitation ㆍ‌Employee training ㆍ‌Indiscriminate recruitment and HR policy ㆍ ‌‌Installation of rain-receiving tanks, waterㆍEducational supports in Kyrgyzstan ㆍKHNP Women’s Committee purifying filters, and drinking fountains in Vietnam ㆍ‌Talent cultivation programs such as ㆍ‌Maternity protection and gender equality Einstein Class, Atom Engineering Class, etc. systems 7. ‌Affordable and Clean 8. ‌Decent Work and Economic 9. ‌Industry, Innovation and Energy Growth Infrastructure ㆍ‌Supply of nuclear power ㆍ‌Open recruitment ㆍ‌Safety-focused management ㆍ‌Supply of renewable energies such as ㆍAdvanced labor-management culture ㆍSustainable NPP operation water, wind, and photovoltaic power ㆍ‌Safety and health management for employees and suppliers ㆍ‌Creation and distribution of economic value ㆍJob creation in the private sector 10. Reduced Inequalities 11. ‌Sustainable Cities and 12. ‌Responsible Consumption Communities and Production ㆍ‌Social contribution activities at home and abroad ㆍ‌Supports for and cooperation with local ㆍ‌Purchase of SMEs’ products communities around NPPs ㆍPurchase of environmental products ㆍ‌Social contribution activities for local communities ㆍSafe treatment of nuclear waste 13. Climate Action 14. Life below Water 15. Life on Land ㆍReduction of GHG emissions ㆍ‌Usage of waste heat ㆍNuclear waste management ㆍSecuring carbon sinks ㆍ‌Survey and control of marine water quality ㆍHazardous chemicals management around NPPs ㆍEnergy saving activities ㆍWastewater management ㆍMarine environment monitoring system ㆍResponse to emissions trading scheme 16. Peace, ‌ Justice and Strong 17. Partnerships for the Goals Institutions ㆍ‌Application to and endorsement of UNGC ㆍ‌Ethical management system ㆍMembership activities including WANO ㆍ‌Principles and educations for anticorruption ㆍ‌Personal information protection and information security 90 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 91 Accountability designed by IR PLUS +82-2-557-9592 Participation in Initiatives and Memberships Join and Support the UN Global Compact KHNP joined the UN Global Compact, an international initiative for corporate social responsibilities, in March 2007. In line with the initiative, we has been complying with its 10 principles in 4 sectors of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-corruption Principle 1. Principle 3. Principle 7. Principle 10. Businesses should support and respect Businesses should uphold the freedom Businesses should support Businesses should work against the protection of internationally of association and the effective a precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, including proclaimed human rights. recognition of the right to collective environmental challenges. extortion and bribery. bargaining. Principle 2. Principle 8. Businesses should make sure that Principle 4. Businesses should undertake initiatives they are not complicit in human rights Businesses should uphold the to promote greater environmental abuses. elimination of all forms of forced and responsibility. compulsory labor. Principle 9. Principle 5. Businesses should encourage the Businesses should uphold the effective development and diffusion of abolition of child labor. environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Memberships Domestic Climate Change Center Public Institution Audit Committee Korea Welding Connection Association Korea Institute of Electrical Engineers Hydro and Pumped Storage Korea Electric Association Future Energy Forum Emissions Trading Market KRX Power Research Society Korea Business Council for Quality Competitiveness Excellent Korea Society for New and Renewable Energy Korea Association of Conflict Solution Sustainable Development Company Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Association for Radiation Application Korea Society for Radioactive Waste Korean Society for Nondestructive Testing Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Industrial Asset Management Association Korea Smart Grid Association Korean Women Nuclear Energy Korea New and Renewable Energy Association Korea Energy Engineer Association Korea Society for Energy & Climate Change Professional Association Korea Nuclear Association for Korea Nuclear Energy Promotion Agency Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Korean Nuclear Society International Cooperation Korea Electric Engineers Association Korea Suggestion System Association Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea Korea Standards Association Korea Society for Quality Management Korea Project Management Association Korea Environmental Engineers Association Environmental Protection Association Overseas Planning Team, Planning Dept., Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., LTD. CANDU Procurement Audit Committee (CANPAC) CANDU Owners Group Inc. (COG) Framatome Owners Group (FROG) Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) Pressurized Water Reactor Owners Group 1655, Bulguk-ro, Yangbuk-myeon, Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) Nuclear Procurement Issues Committee (NUPIC) World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO) (PWROG) Tel. +82-54-704-4135 Fax. +82-54-704-4198 World Nuclear Association (WNA) World Nuclear Fuel Market (WNFM) World Energy Congress (WEC) Korea World Nuclear Transportation Institute (WNTI) Homepage www.khnp.co.kr E-mail ojs24601@khnp.co.kr 92 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2016 93 This Report was printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council TM) certified paper with soy ink.
