Investing in the future Annual Report 2015 2016 Investing in the future For nearly 150 years, that is what we have been doing. At Aitken Spence, our past in many ways defines our future and we are aware of how much our present day operations are influenced by the experiences and values of our long heritage. Through it all, we have maintained our focus on the long term, looking beyond immediate profit to the steady progression of a truly valuable business enterprise. From a strategic point of view, the year under review was an exceptional one; remarkable for several large investments into key growth sectors, that we are confident will bring the Company excellent returns in the years ahead. A long term perspective and corporate endurance are characteristics of any successful business enterprise. The returns on what we commit to invest now will be evident in the growth of the value we deliver to our stakeholders over time, as we continue building on our legacy, expanding our presence, multiplying our value and investing in the future. Contents An introduction to the contents of this report We are pleased to present to stakeholders our integrated annual report for the year ended 08 13 17 Aitken Chairman’s Managing 31st March 2016. The report covers the integrated economic, social and environmental Spence at Statement Director’s Review performance of the companies in which Aitken Spence PLC has significant operational and a glance management control, including activities in South Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the South Pacific. The report provides information on our Group level operations and financial performance of subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity accounted investees. The names and details of the 56 107 135 Sector Corporate Financial companies are set out in the Group Companies and Directorate section of this report. Reviews Governance Statements Report The names and details of the companies The sustainability strategy of Aitken are set out in the Group Companies and Spence PLC is discussed in the Directorate section of this report. Management Discussion and Analysis and Our Strategy sections of the report. Methods used, assumptions made and A comprehensive shareholder feedback 04 MDiscussion 217 exclusions from the reporting boundary to form is available at the end of the report measure and evaluate our performance to obtain feedback about this report so anagement are also explained in the sector reviews. that the disclosures in future reports can & Analysis Contd. be improved to suit the reader’s needs Group Overview Supplementary Information Sector Reviews We have continued to report our performance “In hope that the annual integrated report will set How to navigate Performance highlights...................................4 UN Global compact....................................217 Accordance” – Core with the Global Reporting the basis for meaningful engagement with our Aitken Spence at a glance..............................8 Tourism sector..............................................56 GRI index....................................................219 this Report Maritime & Logistics sector..........................70 Initiative’s G4 Reporting Framework to disclose stakeholders in the year ahead. Corporate information..................................10 performance information on our sustainability Strategic Investments sector........................80 The financial statements are prepared in priorities. We also follow the guidelines of the Services sector ............................................96 accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting 226 International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Standards (SLFRSs and LKASs) in alignment with 11 to illustrate the cohesion between our priorities, resource streams, operations, processes and the International Financial Reporting Standards Executive Reviews 105 Investor Information Investor information....................................226 the performance. With the guidelines from these two reporting standards, the reporting practices (IFRS), the Companies Act No.07 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, as well as the Code of Best Practices on Corporate Further reading within this report. across the Group were improved to capture more Chairman’s statement.................................13 Governance Reports Group companies and directorate.............232 Governance Principles 2013 and other related comprehensive performance disclosures across Managing Director’s review..........................17 Glossary of terms.......................................241 Aitken Spence PLC. guidance. Corporate governance report.....................107 Notice of meeting.......................................244 Web link provides Nomination committee report...................115 The sustainability strategy of Aitken Spence PLC A limitation in this report is that the sustainability reference Form of proxy.............................................245 Audit committee report...............................116 performance is monitored for our operations 23 is discussed in the Management Discussion Aitken Spence PLC | shareholder only in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Also, where Remuneration committee report................118 and Analysis and Our Strategy sections of the feedback form ...........................................246 MDiscussion Risk management......................................119 report. Aitken Spence is engaged in a stakeholder sustainability systems are still in the implementation Performance data anagement engagement study with a third party research process, comprehensive data is not yet available. WEP relevant to the Women’s Annual report of the Board of Directors......126 Our reporting process is driven and supervised Empowerment Principles & Analysis company and an overview of the key findings is shared in this report. The material aspects and entirely by the internal expertise of the Group. About Aitken Spence ..................................25 Our short to medium term goal is to make the 131 priorities of each sector and the action taken is Performance data Board of Directors........................................26 reviewed in the respective sector Reviews. disclosures inclusive of all operational activities, UNGC relevant to the UNGC Group Management Committee..................30 material and relevant to the impacts and risks Communication on Progress Senior Management Committee..................34 Financial Statements The methods used, assumptions made and within our systems and focus on educating the exclusions from the reporting boundary to measure stakeholders about the operations of Aitken Our strategy and operating environment......39 This annual report is available in the following Statement of directors' responsibilities.......133 and evaluate our performance are also explained Spence. A comprehensive shareholder feedback Our people....................................................44 formats; Independent auditors’ report......................134 in the sector Reviews. We have provided material form is available at the end of the report to obtain Financial review.............................................48 Financial statements...................................135 disclosures on governance, ethics, strategy, feedback about this report so that the disclosures risk, opportunity and remuneration in relation in future reports can be improved to suit the Consolidated financial to our financial, economic, ethical, social and reader’s needs better. Further our social media statements in US$......................................214 environmental performance and prospects, at could also be used to communicate with us for Print Online; Ten year summary......................................216 operating level at the respective sectors. It is our feedback and comments. http://aitkenspence.com/corporate-governance/ integrated-reporting/ 2 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 3 In business since 1868... Sri Lanka Oman Today, the operations of Aitken Spence are categorised Heritance Negombo Al Falaj Hotel Oman under four sectors, namely; Tourism, Maritime & Logistics, Launch of Heritance Negombo, a 139-room Acquired the 150-room four star property, Al Strategic Investments and Services. LEED certified luxury five star resort on the Falaj in Oman for a purchase consideration Negombo beach. of approximately US$ 36 million. The hotel is spread out across five acres of freehold land The Group’s operations have a global reach spanning Turyaa Kalutara in Oman. South Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the South Pacific. “The Sands” was rebranded and launched as “Turyaa Kalutara” with the addition of 90 rooms at a project value of Rs. 1.6 billion. Fiji DB Schenker Fiji Ports Corporation Limited Secured the exclusive agency of worldInvested approximately US$ 16 million to renowned freight forwarding and cargo acquire a 20% equity stake in Fiji Ports handling company; DB Schenker, for Sri Lanka Corporation Limited, the regulator of the ports and the Maldives. DB Schenker leads the sector in Fiji and the owner of the infrastructure industry with extensive market share in the of all major ports in Fiji. The company also European region. provides dry-docking and ship repair services. Corporate Citizenship Award Only company in Sri Lanka to be awarded as a India best corporate citizen by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce for the tenth consecutive year. Turyaa Chennai Launched the 150-room “Turyaa Chennai,” located at the heart of the IT hub as the first Maldives property under the latest brand “Turyaa.” Oman India Bangladesh Initiated development on one of the newly acquired islands in the Maldives, with resort Sri Lanka envisioned to commence operations in winter 2017. Maldives Mozambique Fiji Islands Tourism Maritime and Strategic Services Logistics Investment 4 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 5 Performance highlights Financial Social 63.1% 35% 71.7Mn 2015/2016 2014/2015 Change % Rs. Mn Rs.Mn Results for the year Rs. of total employees are of employees Total funds channelled for Group revenue with equity-accounted investees 31,061 39,824 (22.0) below 35 years are females community development Group revenue 25,978 35,319 (26.4) Profit from operations 3,896 5,657 (31.1) Profit before tax 3,805 5,710 (33.4) Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,027 3,579 (43.4) 16,573 11% 3 As at 31st March Total assets 73,354 65,391 12.2 Total liabilities Current ratio (times) 29,154 1.37 23,154 2.04 25.9 (32.8) Top employees trained of total managers are Ranked amongst the Top Debt to equity (times) 0.28 0.22 27.3 young managers 03 companies in the STING during the year Return on equity (%) 5.7 10.6 (46.2) Corporate Accountability Index for 2015 Per Share (Rs.) Earnings per share 4.99 8.82 (43.4) Dividends per share 1.50 2.00 (25.0) Net asset value per share as at 31st March 90.26 86.27 4.6 Market price per share as at 31st March 73.50 99.50 (26.1) Environment A Rs. 26.0 Bn  Rs.2.9 Bn  Rs.4.99 1,136 tonnes Paper and cardboard 44% of the total water withdrawn Rs. 111.7Mn Investment on sustainability Revenue for the year Profit for the year Earnings per share recycled / sold for reuse was treated and reused or processes and action plans recycled for safe discharge  Rs. 1.50 Dividend per share  Rs.36.6 Bn B 5.7 % Shareholder funds Return on equity 76% of the total energy generated 22,548 tonnes CO2e of GHG emissions 152.5TJ Energy produced from reduced and /or offset renewable sources in 2015/2016 from renewable sources 6 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 7 Aitken Spence at a glance Tourism Sector Strategic Investments Sector • Hotels • Power Generation • Inbound & Outbound Travel • Printing & Packaging • Airline GSA • Apparel Manufacture • Plantations With an unparalleled knowledge and experience in the industry we have set up over twenty one hotels and resorts in Sri Lanka, the Maldives, Oman and India. The Strategic Investments portfolio includes printing & packaging, plantations, Inspired by the success of our resorts built in strategic locations in Sri Lanka, power generation and apparel manufacture. With over five decades of under the brands ‘Heritance’ and ‘Turyaa’ as well as ‘Adaaran’; our luxury brand experience Aitken Spence Printing remains a market leader in high quality offset in the Maldives, we have spread our expertise to Oman and India. Aitken Spence printing and is the first choice of many top-end international brands. Aitken is the leader in destination management in Sri Lanka. Partnered with the world’s Spence Apparels is one of the first apparel companies to be established in Sri largest name in travel, TUI, and with over three decades of experience, Aitken Lanka and is also a Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) Spence provides the best travel experience in Sri Lanka. With a technology certified company exporting to major high street brands in the United States driven marketing and management support strategy in place, the Group has and Europe. Aitken Spence owns and manages tea, rubber and palm oil consolidated tourism interests and continues to identify viable opportunities both estates, situated in the Upper, Middle and Low country regions of Sri Lanka. locally and overseas. While the sector is focused on growth, strong emphasis is also placed on sustainability. Our renewable energy projects as well as green printing solutions are a few of many such ventures that exhibit this philosophy. For more information: For more information: Page 56 Page 80 Maritime & Logistics Sector Services Sector • Maritime and Port Services • Inward Money Transfer • Freight Forwarding & Courier • Elevator Agency • Integrated Logistics • Insurance • Airline GSA (Cargo) • Property • Maritime Education • Technology Aitken Spence has been in the forefront of Maritime and Logistics from the Partnering with some of the world’s largest companies, the Services sector time the company originated business one and a half centuries ago. During continues to expand its portfolio with diverse business interests spanning this period the operations in maritime, freight forwarding, container services, across financial services, elevators, insurance, enterprise content management warehousing, distribution, transport and express, port management and solutions and many others. Given Sri Lanka’s strategic position in Asia and its maritime education expanded locally and globally whilst successfully partnering potential to become a service hub, the Group aims at expanding regionally and with leading international brands and service providers. With its involvement globally, leveraging on its leading position in the country’s service sector. We in the African continent, Aitken Spence became the first Sri Lankan company have been the sole distributor for OTIS products in Sri Lanka and the Maldives to perform port efficiency management services overseas. Aitken Spence also since 1989 as well as the oldest insurance service provider in the country. became the first Sri Lankan company to enter into a public private partnership Our relationship with Lloyds of London began in 1876. Heritage Grove is our overseas through its investment in Fiji Ports Terminals Limited and entering into first venture into luxury lifestyle communities. A partnership with experienced a concession agreement with Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd for the operations and U.S. investors and lifestyle managers, the property is situated in Negombo. management of ports of Suva and Lautoka. Armed with a wealth of knowledge This concept is a novel step for Aitken Spence and we believe this will be the For more information: For more information: and experience accumulated over the years Aitken Spence looks forward to foundation to a number of similar projects in the future. Page 70 Page 96 continuously expand its horizons in the global market. 8 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 9 Corporate information Investing in the future Building on Name Audit Committee Aitken Spence PLC R.N. Asirwatham Chairman G.C. Wickremasinghe Legal Form C.H. Gomez our legacy A Public quoted Company with limited liability, N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya/A.L. Gooneratne incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1952. (Alternate Director to N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) Company Registration Number Remuneration Committee PQ 120 G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman V.M. Fernando (retired w.e.f. 30.06.2015) Registered Office R.N. Asirwatham No. 315 Vauxhall Street, Nomination Committee Colombo 2, Sri Lanka. G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman D.H.S. Jayawardena Directors J.M.S. Brito V.M. Fernando (retired w.e.f. 30.06.2015) D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman R.N. Asirwatham J.M.S. Brito LLB, FCA, MBA Managing & Finance Director R.M. Fernando Ph.D., MBA, FCIM (UK) Related Party Transactions Review Committee P. Dissanayake R.N. Asirwatham Chairman MBA, Ph.D., Postgraduate.Dip Marketing FCIM, FICS, FCILT G.C. Wickremasinghe (UK), (GLE) Harvard Business School C.H. Gomez D.S.T. Jayawardena N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya/A.L. Gooneratne (Alternate Director to N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) G.C. Wickremasinghe C.H. Gomez Company Secretary N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya DL, FRSA, MEP R.E.V. Casie Chetty V.M. Fernando (retired w.e.f. 30.06.2015) FCA, FCMA, MCMI, J.Dip. MA R.N. Asirwatham FCA Auditors Alternate Director KPMG A.L. Gooneratne FCA Chartered Accountants (Alternate Director to N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) Contact Details No. 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka. T: (94 11) 2308308 F: (94 11) 2445406 www.aitkenspence.com Executive Reviews Reviews of the year’s activities and business environment by Chairman Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena and Managing and Finance Director, Mr. J.M.S. Brito 10 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Chairman’s statement The results contained herein tell the story of one of the most difficult years for your Group in recent times but I am happy to note that we have made many investments during the year to position ourselves for exponential growth in the medium to long term. I welcome you to the sixty fourth Annual General of public sector wage increases and higher Meeting of Aitken Spence PLC., and present disposable income. to you the Annual Report and the financial statements for the year. The results contained The fiscal deficit grew to 7.4% of GDP while herein tell the story of one of the most difficult the debt of the central government widened to years for your Group in recent times but I 76% of GDP as at 31 December 2015. The new am happy to note that we have made many government has proposed a series of economic investments during the year to position ourselves reforms and fiscal consolidation efforts over for exponential growth in the medium to long the short to medium term, which should inspire term. investor confidence and set the country on a path to sustainable growth. The Global Economy Shareholder Returns and Performance Global economic growth was a modest 3.1% in 2015, as growth levels dipped in emerging In the challenging operating environment markets and developing economies. The IMF which prevailed during the financial year under projects a modest global growth of 3.2% in consideration your Company reported a decline 2016, with stronger growth expected in 2017. in revenue of 26.4% to record Rs. 26.0 billion for the year. The Company reported a profit before Amidst an uncertain global economic climate, Sri tax of Rs. 3.8 billion, a 33.4% decline. The net Lanka is fortunate to have emerged from three profit attributable to equity holders was Rs.2.0 decades of war to become one of the safest billion. The earnings per share stood at Rs. 4.99. destinations to travel for any nationality. Although this was a difficult year in terms of performance, we are optimistic about the future The Sri Lankan Economy growth of the Company and therefore with Shareholder's Funds Sri Lanka’s GDP growth was 4.8% in 2015 a view to give our shareholders an attractive as at 31st March compared with 4.9% in 2014, with the ADB Rs.Mn dividend we recommend a final dividend of Rs. 36,646 estimating the economy to grow by 5.3% and 35,025 1.50 per share. I am confident of the Group’s 32,257 5.8% over the next two years respectively. In an resilience of overcoming the challenges it faced election year amidst the ensuing policy changes, during this year and the tremendous potential of investments and production both slowed down garnering exponential growth through its many as did the pace of infrastructure development; investments, in the coming years. domestic consumption picked up on the back  3.9 Bn Profits from Operations B Rs. 1.50 Dividend per Share 2014 2015 2016 12 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 13 Investing in the Future Stewardship Chairman’s statement page 41 page 107 During the year we made several At Aitken Spence, the Board and significant strategic investments with a senior management take responsibility view on long term results. to cascade a commitment to sustainable business and stewardship across the Group. The share price of the Company has been the power segment contributed negatively to of Sri Lanka, it is my duty to call on all the depressed but we are optimistic that the the bottom line of the Group. While I am happy stakeholders in the tourism industry to embark anticipated stable economic climate created by to report that our Embilipitiya power plant has on a comprehensive destination marketing the positive strategic direction of the country once again been contracted to generate power strategy. As the large international operators would influence the share price of your Company for the CEB, it is apparent that the private sector enter the market over the next few years, it is towards its true value. does not seem to have a future in the country’s important that we capitalise on the window of thermal power industry. As a Group, we will opportunity by promoting the destination through In a year rife with challenges, the maritime continue to invest in renewable energy while a clear strategy devised to attract the right mix and port services segment and the printing seeking opportunities overseas. of tourists. This is relevant more than ever today segment performed exceptionally well; despite – as local operators face manifold challenges these showings, however, the Group’s overall including competition from neighbouring Enabling Environment performance was not up to expectations due to destinations, the inability to attract the high the non-operation of the thermal power plant in I have for many years, in this Annual Report value tourism segment, the mushrooming of an Embilipitiya during the year and the disappointing and in my comments elsewhere, called for unregulated informal sector, uncontrolled access performance by the resorts in the Maldives, a level playing field for the private sector of hindering precious cultural and wildlife sites, and Oman and India. Sri Lanka – keeping in mind the role private weak infrastructure. companies played to keep the economy growing The Maritime and Logistics sector recorded even during the darkest days of terrorism. I am I am very happy to note the consistent growth a profit after tax growth of 69.7%, and I must extremely happy to note that there has been a in tourist arrivals year on year but wish to commend the maritime and port services remarkable improvement that offers us a more emphasise that the country must develop the segment’s performance in its overseas markets. level playing field amid greater liberalisation. infrastructure to support such numbers. I wish to The expertise we have built in port management There must now be greater focus on improving also call for the better monitoring of the informal overseas allows us to venture into new growth essential infrastructure throughout the country, sector, especially in terms of financial regulation territories with tremendous opportunities. We especially in the light of the growing number and taxation in order to ensure a level playing will continue to capitalise on the synergies of of tourists and businesses expanding into the our businesses to offer fully integrated cargo regions. We call for greater opportunities for logistics services, which is the future direction of public-private partnership, which is a sustainable the industry. model that can be taken forward for the benefit Net Assets Per Share as at 31st March of the country. Rs. The Printing business continued to perform well 90.26 86.27 and invested further in improving its technology We laud the government’s efforts to improve and efficiency. The Garments segment had a relations with the international community, 79.45 disappointing year but we are optimistic that next and the West in particular, which have already year would bring in new buyers to the industry. resulted in the much needed lifting of the ban Despite the many challenges, the Plantations on fishing exports to the European Union. We segment has performed well compared to many are hopeful that similar efforts to regain GSP+ of their counterparts mainly due to its strategy of benefits will bear fruit in the near future. The diversification. restoration of positive sentiment abroad should also see a shift in foreign direct investment With the conclusion of the ten year power over the next few years. With our long and purchase agreement of the Embilipitiya plant, substantial engagement with the leisure industry 2014 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 15 Chairman’s statement Managing Director’s Similarly, throughout our businesses, we are constantly evaluating growth opportunities in diverse sectors and geographies. Aitken Spence review is fortunate to own a land bank of valuable properties across the country which are available Inspired by our heritage and entrepreneurial journey, our priority for utilisation by the Group’s various businesses. is to be a sustainable and responsible business enterprise that delivers long term value to all stakeholders. Our experience in field. It is also important that there is a formal star 150 roomed property Al Falaj Hotel in Oman, create an efficient and lean business where chosen markets gives us the expertise and confidence to navigate process whereby hotels may be categorised a property for which we have been the managing sustainability and values matter. An ethos of and classified as the absence of a regulated agents since 2008. In the Maldives, we are sustainability is deeply entrenched in our vision through temporary setbacks, hence during the year we made classification has allowed any small property making steady headway in the two island resorts and strategy for the Group, and our operations several investments targeting long term growth. to deem itself even 5 Star or 6 Star, leading to we leased during last year. We have already and decision making will always reflect the online operators deciding rate levels. commenced construction on a 150 room five delicate balancing of the triple bottom line. star property on Aarah, which is due for launch in The lack of suitably trained and qualified staff to winter 2017. Aitken Spence traces its formal beginning to also adopting a leaner management style and Appreciations fill the rising capacity of the leisure sector must 1868 – we are thus approaching a momentous other measures to retain short term profitability. be noted with concern. Service levels have During the year under review the maritime Let me take this opportunity to thank the Board milestone of being in business for 150 years. Across the Group, driving efficiency and the dipped across the industry and it is important segment invested in a 20% equity stake of Fiji of Directors who have willingly contributed their We are extremely proud that through the prudent management of cost remain overarching that the country lures back its expatriate tourism Ports Corporation Ltd., (FPCL) in a strategic time, advice and support during the year. I also advancing years, the Group has always stayed themes. workers, particularly from the Middle East. In move that entails Board representation and a wish to thank Mr. V.M Fernando who retired relevant and has shown agility and foresight in response to the need to attract the right people role in decision making in a company that owns during the year having served on the Board Macro conditions such as the devaluation of transforming ourselves and the challenges of into the industry, Aitken Spence is exploring the ports infrastructure in Fiji and performs since 2008. My appreciations also go to the the rupee against the dollar had a mixed impact the macro environment into opportunities that setting up an internationally accredited and the role of the regulator in the maritime sector Managing Director and his management team on Group performance, with exports benefiting work in our favour. Our evolution has seen its fair certified hospitality school. while providing numerous port services. The for their leadership and to all “Spensonians” but the cost of dollar borrowings becoming a share of disappointments and failures too, but purchase is also significant as FPCL is the other whose contribution and commitment to all significant burden. The drop in global oil prices these have always been learning experiences Across the global business environment, shareholder in Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd (FPTL) Group initiatives are truly valued and I wish them has positively influenced overall spending power and we have been prudent but swift in exiting disruptive technologies are challenging traditional in which Aitken Spence PLC has a majority continued success in the years to come. which has been positive for the business climate, those businesses that no longer generate business models and forcing big businesses shareholding. as spending patterns have changed for the I thank you, our shareholders for the confidence positive value. Inspired by our heritage and to embrace innovation, to simplify operating better. you have shown and assure you that your entrepreneurial journey, our priority is to be a structures and fundamentally to take nothing for Similarly, throughout our businesses, we are Company will be driven to greater heights in the sustainable and responsible business enterprise granted. It is an exciting but ruthless future that constantly evaluating growth opportunities Group revenue was Rs. 26.0 billion, a dip of coming years. that delivers long term value to all stakeholders. awaits business – one that constantly pushes in diverse sectors and geographies. Aitken 26.4% over the previous year while operational boundaries and requires the dichotomy of Spence is fortunate to own a land bank of profit was 31.1% lower at Rs. 3.9 billion. Profit discipline and dexterity – the former for a long valuable properties across the country which are Performance before taxation amounted to Rs. 3.8 billion. term value-driven strategy and the latter, to make available for utilisation by the Group’s various The Group experienced a challenging year in rapid changes in direction where the environment businesses. As opportunities arise, these 2015/2016, mainly attributable to the impact Net profit attributable to equity holders was warrants it. properties including a swathe of beachfront of the end of the power purchase agreement Rs. 2.0 billion, resulting in earnings per share land in Trincomalee, our original offices within the at the Embilipitiya power plant, operational and of Rs. 4.99, compared with Rs. 8.82 last year. Galle Fort, vast plantations, and property in the D.H.S. Jayawardena exchange losses in the hotel investment in India Return on equity for the financial year stood Investing in the Future logistics hub of Welisara – will be employed once Chairman and the less than optimal performance of the at 5.7% while net assets per share was 4.6% As a Group, our expansion has historically been Total Assets evaluated for the best possible returns. Maldivian resorts due to certain negative political higher at Rs. 90.26. Aitken Spence PLC share ast at 31st March led by organic growth strategies while we have Colombo price reflects a price earnings ratio of 14.7 times Rs.Mn publicity received by the destination, resulting ventured into joint ventures and acquisitions 73,354 26th May 2016 in a dip in growth. Our experience in chosen as at 31st March 2016, and I remain of the view 65,391 where viable opportunities present themselves. Stewardship that the share price of Rs. 73.50 does not reflect 61,013 markets gives us the expertise and confidence As mentioned earlier, during the year we made At Aitken Spence, the Board and senior the true value of the Company. The Board has to navigate through such temporary setbacks, several significant strategic investments with a management take responsibility to cascade proposed a dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share. hence during the year, we made several view on long term results. a commitment to sustainable business and investments targeting long term growth while stewardship across the Group. We observe the I am delighted with the progress made with highest standards of corporate governance and 36.6 Bn 2.9 Bn our new investments in the Tourism sector– a robust risk management process in order to  B Heritance Negombo now in operation and RIU protect shareholder value. Transparency and Ahungalla, which will be launched in July 2016. During the year the Group also acquired a four accountability are deeply entrenched among our team, who share in the collective vision to Rs. Rs. Shareholder Funds Profits for the Year 2014 2015 2016 16 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 17 Human Resources Responsible Business Managing Director’s review page 44 page 217 Aitken Spence remains an employer Endorsing our commitment to social and of choice – a reputation built on the environmental responsibility, Aitken Spence credentials of creating successful career was one of the first corporates in Sri Lanka men and women who thrive in our learning to sign the United Nations Global Compact. environment with above-par benefits and good work life balance. “The Group’s iconic Spence has always pioneered the ethos of sustainable tourism – and this will continue to be The RIU and TUI partnership in their unique all-inclusive model and will once again introduce Sri Lankan resorts – a pillar on which our tourism offering is built. We European charter traffic to Sri Lanka. RIU Heritance Kandalama welcome the advance of disruptive technologies such as ‘Airbnb’ as it provides a healthy Ahungalla will be a landmark in the country’s tourism industry which has to date, not been and Heritance Tea competitive stimulus; however the government exposed to individual properties which offer such should ensure compliance and monitoring of a large number of rooms. Factory – helped sustain such technologies so that all regulations are the resort segment’s followed. The Maldives experienced numerous challenges arising from pressures in key markets such as performance while The sector achieved a 1.9% growth in revenue to China, Russia and Eastern Europe as well as beach properties remain record to Rs. 17.2 billion for a the year, however profit before tax was Rs. 2.8 billion down by negative publicity and political rivalry that spread to the international stage. Average spend and under pressure from 34.2% over last year. Its decline was mainly earnings of the larger operators were also intense competition, attributable to the poor performance of the Indian property, the negative impact on the conversion impacted by the growing informal sector on inhabited islands. Our experience in the Maldives especially from informal of the dollar borrowings held by the sector and has shown that negative conditions are short the less than stellar performance in the Maldives. lived on the islands, which always lure travellers operators. This year’s Healthy increases in profitability were seen in the back with their promise of warm beaches and highlight was the round trip Sri Lankan hotels and the destination pristine waters. Therefore we remain optimistic management segment. about the destination and have invested in two completion and launch new islands Aarah and Raafushi which will house of Heritance Negombo.” The Group’s iconic Sri Lankan resorts – Heritance Kandalama and Heritance Tea resorts due to open in winter 2017 and 2018 Factory – helped sustain the resort segment’s performance while beach properties remain under pressure from intense competition, Sector Performance Revenue especially from informal operators. This year’s for the year ended 31st March While a comprehensive analysis of strategy highlight was the completion and launch of Rs.Mn and performance is found in the management Heritance Negombo, which transforms the discussion section of this report, let me outline tourism offering of the vibrant coastal town. 35,059 35,319 a few key performance highlights and strategies We eagerly await the markets response to the 25,978 employed by each sector. hotel. Turyaa Kalutara saw 90 rooms added to its inventory while its 110 existing rooms were Tourism Sector refurbished to be on par. The overall strategy of the hotels segment during the year was to consolidate its present holdings The construction of the RIU Hotel in Ahungalla, while investing heavily to position the Group’s our joint venture with RIU Hotels and Resorts of exposure strategically towards the more lucrative Spain is nearing completion and the 500-roomed top end and second tier categories. Aitken property is on track for launch in July 2016. 2014 2015 2016 18 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 19 Managing Director’s review The business environment for the Maritime and Logistics sector has been unfriendly with oversupply leading to rock bottom freight rates and a squeeze on margins. In this context, we are indeed happy with the overall performance of our businesses which have performed well above industry averages – in fact, the sector surpassed the milestone of Rs one billion post-tax profit this year. respectively. During the year, we strategically in establishing its digital presence; this has been The freight segment, which faces intense supply especially during peak times, unlike the Mainly as a result of the expenditure continuing Heritage Grove, our luxury country home invested to upgrade the infrastructure and a key revenue stream during the year and will be market competition, has undertaken a business renewable sources which cannot be stored. throughout the year despite the non-operation project in Negombo has now moved into the to develop the soft skills of employees at our developed forthwith. re-engineering effort and has been on a strong Meanwhile, the power sector continues to look of the Embilipitiya power plant, the Strategic construction phase; marketing activities are Adaaran properties in order to enhance our sales drive. We have also invested in capacity at viable renewable energy projects such as wind Investments sector witnessed a notable dip in ongoing to complete bookings for the project. product offering. Such upgrades will continue, The Singapore Airlines GSA experienced expansion at the operations facility in order to and solar while also promoting waste to energy. performance recording a net loss of Rs. 510.1 At Heritage Grove, the discerning clientele sans closure, in the coming year. satisfactory volumes of cargo and passenger position the segment for future growth. The million for the year. will not only have a luxury home located in a movements. We welcome a decision by SIA segment’s operations in Bangladesh and the In a difficult year for the plantation industry of the beautiful open space, they will also be privileged For the first time, we ventured into an equity to enhance its operations to Colombo with Maldives were satisfactory and we will continue country, the Group’s plantations segment was Services Sector to the hospitality and service of Aitken Spence. investment in Oman’s tourism industry, 3 additional flights beginning April 2016, at to look for inroads into other regional markets as able to return a positive performance due to its Once completed, Heritage Grove Villas will be a Due to the diversity of the business segments purchasing the Al Falaj Hotel in Muscat, which favourable daytime schedules. The capacity a growth strategy. strategic diversification, both into non-traditional diverse community, where high net worth non-Sri in the Services sector, even though a few of has been in our portfolio of managed properties injection will allow us to sell better connections crops and into other businesses. We have made Lankans and Sri Lankans can own more than the segments performed below par, the overall for the past eight years. The hotel is a 150 room, to destinations such as Europe, Australia, Japan, The cargo GSA of Qatar Airways which further investments into our palm oil plantations just a home, indulging in a unique, and premium sector recorded a revenue growth of 5.5% to 4 star property on 5 acres of freehold land. China and Bangladesh. increased its capacity during the year with the while taking steps to further mechanise the living experience in the island’s one of the most achieve a revenue of Rs. 1.1 billion for the year, Oman is centrally positioned in the Middle East commencement of its second freighter, had an rubber and tea plantations in order to achieve sought after vistas. with profit after tax reaching Rs. 124.1 million, an for both leisure and business travel and our solid Maritime & Logistics excellent performance, securing healthy load efficiencies. The segment views fruit and increase of 50.4% over last year. management expertise in the country stands us The business environment for the Maritime factors throughout the year. This capacity growth vegetable cultivation and horticulture as areas of Aitken Spence Technologies which is in in good stead. and Logistics sector has been unfriendly with coupled with the expansion of the network with potential and has plans for expansion in these MMBL Money Transfer experienced a difficult its infancy has carried out several ERP oversupply leading to rock bottom freight rates the airline constantly increasing its destinations, areas. year for the money remittance business where implementations, acquiring expertise in certain India has been a disappointing experience as augur well for the future. industries such as vehicle dealerships. The and a squeeze on margins. In this context, we remittance volumes shrank and the market our recent investment in a hotel in Chennai The apparel manufacturing segment segment offers Oracle based implementations are indeed happy with the overall performance of expanded with a number of new players entering – has faced numerous delays in getting final The integrated logistics segment consolidated performance during the year saw an increase at present and will seek to offer education in our businesses which have performed well above the industry. While MMBL Money Transfer is the approvals and licenses in order to commence its operations and infrastructure during the in revenue and volumes. The segment other ERP products and specialised application industry averages – in fact, the sector surpassed leading cash to cash remittance player in the full operations. As a result of the delays the year, investing with a view to delivering its future commissioned a new manufacturing facility software in future. We are confident of the the milestone of Rs. one billion post tax profit this country, it is important that we position ourselves property has been unable to achieve the targeted strategies. The segment’s yard development at Koggala in 2015, expanding production prospects for the company both in Sri Lanka and year. The sector’s profit before tax was Rs. 1.3 for a digital future where direct to bank and revenues, and this combined with the debt work is almost completed while fleet and capacity by 20% with additional employment overseas. billion, with a profit after tax of Rs. 1.0 billion an mobile money transfers will dominate. servicing costs and the steep devaluation of the warehouse capacities are being optimised. I am opportunities of over 1,100. Although the increase of 69.7%. Sri Lankan rupee, which impacted the segments happy to note that the distribution segment, additional capacity was not fully utilised during The prospects for construction in Sri Lanka US dollar borrowings, resulted in a dismal More customers now demand end to end supply which faced the sudden loss of its furnace oil 2015/2016, a strong sales effort is underway positions our elevator segment for strong growth performance from India. We expect to receive chain solutions from customer-friendly, reliable transportation business, has been quick to adapt to attract new, profitable customers with its and in readiness we have bolstered the segment all pending approvals shortly and are hopeful of and accountable operators. Aitken Spence is to the new business of beverage distribution by proven reputation for on-time delivery and order with leadership talent from OTIS India. In the a better performance in the 2016/2017 financial upgrading and modifying its fleet. fulfilment as well as quality and compliance. Profit before Taxation well positioned to offer such one stop shop Maldives too, the segment has successfully for the year ended 31st March year. solutions, using the synergies of the sector. secured a contract for the largest infrastructure Rs.Mn Strategic Investments Sector We are pleased with the performance of Aitken 5,710 project in Male to date – an endorsement of the Our inbound travels segment, the largest In the highlights of the sector this year, the Spence Printing which continues to post strong 5,445 The power generation segment had an abysmal company’s capabilities. destination management company in Sri Lanka, maritime and port services segment acquired growth year on year. Further investments were 2015/2016 following the end of the operations has been consistently a good performer and a 20% equity stake in Fiji Ports Corporation made during the year to ensure the segment The insurance segment had a satisfactory this year too achieved a commendable growth of our only thermal power plant. However this maintains its leadership in terms of state of the 3,806 Ltd, a strategic investment that makes us a key 100MW thermal power plant in Embilipitiya, was performance this year too, with greater emphasis in profitability. Despite pressure on margins, stakeholder in the operations of all commercial art technology, greater value addition, shorter being placed on extending its investigation once again contracted by the Ceylon Electricity the company’s strategic market and product ports in Fiji. The segment’s port management lead-times and elevated service levels. We are services beyond its core activities of surveys Board in April 2016 to generate power. This was diversification have enabled the impressive operations continued their exceptional truly proud of the company’s green credentials and claim settlement. The company has in response to a power crisis that arose following performance. The way the travel industry works performance amid a strong focus on improving – Aitken Spence Printing is a carbon neutral also enhanced its capacity in recoveries, a a severe drought in catchment areas and the is changing with the popularity of digital platforms productivity and profitability through prudent operator and is on track to obtain FSC (Forest business segment with high potential for formal breakdowns at the coal power plant and aging that offer better choice, convenience and management processes. Stewardship Council) certification. professional involvement in Sri Lanka. distribution networks. The Embilipitiya plant flexibility and Aitken Spence has been proactive 2014 2015 2016 provides much needed stability to the southern 20 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 21 Managing Director’s review We are now experiencing the fourth industrial revolution; a revolution of networks, platforms, people, and digital technology that is Investing in the future “blurring the lines between physical, digital and biological spheres.” Across Aitken Spence’s chosen sectors, we have promoted this Expanding shift from the physical to the digital and we are keen to infuse the practices of the collaborative economy into our business model. our presence Human Resources keen to infuse the practices of the collaborative Appreciations Aitken Spence remains an employer of choice – economy into our business model. Let me end this message by expressing my a reputation built on the credentials of creating appreciation to the Chairman and my fellow We have commenced the use of latest successful career men and women who thrive in Board Directors for their guidance, wise counsel technologies such as cloud solutions, IOT our learning environment with above-par benefits and support to the management team. (Internet-of-Things), security mechanisms, and and good work life balance. The diversity of business intelligence tools which will increase My deep appreciation also goes to the our workforce has meant we face numerous productivity and bring competitive advantages. In Group Management Committee and Sector challenges in managing our talent; key among parallel, we have invested heavily in safeguarding Management Committees who have driven their these is how we engage the incoming young the security and integrity of stakeholders. In this respective businesses through a tough year. workforce of millennials. We have been open respect, we are also engaging the organisation minded and pragmatic in our HR management in a digital drive with ISO 27001:2013 standard I also take this opportunity to extend a warm approach and this continues to serve us well. in implementing a digitally secured organisation thank you to our many stakeholders, who have The dearth of HR talent continues to be felt culture, promoting innovations. inspired us with their confidence in our abilities. across many of our sectors as we note with The financial shared services centre, which And finally to the men and women of Aitken alarm the growing lack of suitably qualified and manages centralised accounting processing Spence: I am humbled by each and every one’s trained personnel to fill vacancies. The tourism and analytics for the Group, uses Oracle commitment and loyalty, and the dedication to sector is especially challenged in HR as the EBS as its ERP platform. During the year the achieving success for the Group. explosive growth of the industry has not been division established its firm footprint in Financial supported by similar efforts to create a cadre that Accounting Outsourcing (FAO) providing can cater to the rising needs. In this environment, services to Thai and Australian clients and groups such as ours with a well-trained and focusing on expanding to Europe. The division highly skilled workforce are also faced with also embarked on developing customised rising industry demand for our employees. BI (Business Intelligence) reports based on While our talent management strategies have a BI software tool to provide marketing and J.M.S. Brito been continuously improved to ensure high operational intelligence to Group companies. Managing and Finance Director levels of satisfaction and retention, we do feel that there must be a concerted national level effort by all stakeholders to uplift the quality and Responsible business Colombo employment-readiness of the country’s talent Endorsing our commitment to social and 26th May 2016 pool. environmental responsibility, Aitken Spence was one of the first corporates in Sri Lanka to sign Embracing Technology the United Nations Global Compact. Its ten universally accepted principles in the areas of Technology is the new frontier of business; human rights, labour, environment and antias noted by the head of the World Economic corruption have become the ethos by which we Forum, we are now experiencing the fourth live and thereby, continuously strive towards the industrial revolution; a revolution of networks, upliftment of sustainable business practices in platforms, people, and digital technology that is the country. Aitken Spence was also amongst “blurring the lines between physical, digital and the first businesses in the world to become biological spheres.” Across Aitken Spence’s signatories to the United Nation’s Women’s chosen sectors, we have promoted this shift Empowerment Principles. from the physical to the digital and we are Management Discussion & Analysis A detailed analysis of the Group triple bottomline performance, in our operations in Sri Lanka and overseas 22 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 23 About Aitken Spence The key strength of Aitken Spence lies in its diversification; over the years, our entrepreneurial and pioneering spirit has enabled us to explore new ground and establish our presence in vital sectors of the economy, both in Sri Lanka and overseas. Board of Directors Group Supervisory Board Group Management Committee Legal TOURISM MARITIME & LOGISTICS STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SERVICES Secretarial Corporate Finance port Services • Hotels • Maritime & Port • Power Generation • Inward Money Information Technology • Inbound & Services Transfer • Printing & Financial Shared Services Outbound Travel • Freight Forwarding Packaging • Elevator Agency Internal Audit & Risk Management • Airline GSA & Courier • Apparel • Insurance • Integrated Manufacture Business Development Sup • Property Logistics • Plantations Group Sustainability • Technology • Airline GSA (Cargo) Human Resources • Maritime Education Group Services Our Vision: To achieve excellence in all our activities, establish high growth businesses in Sri Lanka and across new frontiers, and become a globally competitive market leader in the region. 24 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 25 Board of Directors The diversity of our business sectors has been the cornerstone of the Groups’ success throughout the years. Investments that were strategically thought out and passionately executed have not only propelled the Group to greater heights but also enabled it to withstand the fluctuating fortunes of the global economy. Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Mr. J.M.S. Brito Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Mr. C.H. Gomez Appointed in April 2000 Appointed in April 2000 Appointed in April 1972 Appointed in May 2002 Dr. R.M. Fernando Dr. P. Dissanayake Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Appointed in April 2005 Appointed in September 2009 Appointed in December 2013 Appointed in September 2006 Appointed in September 2009 26 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 27 Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Federation of Ceylon and a former Director of Sri Shipbrokers, Past Chairman of the Chartered A graduate of St. James’ & Lucie Clayton Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Mr. Harry Jayawardena is one of Sri Lanka’s Lanka Insurance Corporation. Institute of Logistics and Transport (Sri Lanka College and Keele University in the United Mr. Niranjan Deva Aditya, who was appointed to Mr. Rajan Asirwatham was the Senior Partner most successful businessmen and heads many branch), a Past Chairman of the Central Advisory Kingdom. Ms. Jayawardena was the youngest the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in September and Country Head of KPMG from 2001 to 2008. Mr. Brito was appointed to the Board of Aitken Council of Sri Lanka Transport Board and a Past intern to work under US Senator Hilary Rodham successful enterprises in very diverse fields of 2006, is an Aeronautical Engineer, Scientist Further, he was the Chairman of the Steering Spence PLC., in April 2000. Chairman of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Clinton and the Former US President Bill Clinton activity. He is the Founder Director and current and Economist, is a Conservative Member Committee for the Sustainable Tourism Project Chairman/Managing Director of the Stassen Steering Committee on Ports, Shipping, Aviation in 2003. She is a member of EY Next Generation of the European Parliament elected from the funded by the World Bank for the Ministry Group of Companies – a diversified group in Dr. R.M. Fernando and Logistics, Jt. Managing Director of CINEC Club. SE England. He is the Vice President of the of Tourism and was also a member of the import and export trade, and the Chairman Dr. Rohan Fernando, who heads Plantations and Maritime Campus, Director of Fiji Ports Terminals Development Committee; ECR Co-ordinator, Presidential Commission on Taxation, appointed Ltd and Director Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. Ms. Jayawardena leads a team of young of Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC. He is also Business Development at Aitken Spence PLC., Chairman of the European Parliament’s by His Excellency the President of Sri Lanka. professionals that is endeavouring to develop a the Chairman of the Distilleries Company of holds a PhD and a MBA from the University of Delegation for Relations with the Korean Dr. Dissanayake a University of Oxford (UK) strategic development plan for future growth of Mr. Asirwatham is a Fellow member of the Sri Lanka PLC., Browns Beach Hotels PLC., Colombo and is also a Chartered Marketer and Peninsula and Conservative Spokesman for Business Alumni is a Fellow of Harvard Business Aitken Spence PLC. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. Balangoda Plantations PLC., and Madulsima a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, Overseas’ Development and Co-operation. School USA (EEP) on “Global Economy” and a He is also a Board member of the Post Graduate Plantations PLC. In addition to being the (CIM UK). He was the Co Leader of the Parliamentary Fellow of NORAD and JICA. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Institute of Medicine and a member of the Chairman of Lanka Bell Ltd., Melstacorp Limited, Delegation to the UN World Summit and General Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd., Ambewela He has extensive experience in the plantation Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe started his career in Assembly 2006, Chairman Working Group A council of the University of Colombo. He is also the Hon. Consul General for the Livestock Company Ltd., Ambewela Products industry both in the public and private sectors 1954 on an Aitken Spence managed plantation. of Development Committee overseeing Asia, Republic of Fiji Islands in Sri Lanka and He also serves on the Boards of Vallibel One (Pvt) Ltd., Lanka Dairies (Pvt) Ltd., Periceyl (Pvt) and played a key role in the plantation He has therefore, had an unbroken association Central Asia and Far East; Co Co-ordinator International Vice President of the Institute of Limited, Ceylon Tea Services PLC., Royal Ltd., Texpro Industries Ltd., Ceylon Garden Coir privatisation programme. of over 60 years with the Company. After over Assembly of 79 Parliaments of the EU-ACP Chartered Shipbrokers UK and Member of the Ceramics PLC., Dial Tex Industries (Pvt) Limited, (Pvt) Ltd., he is also the Chairman/Managing Maritime Advisory Council appointed by the a decade as a professional planter he moved to 2004 and the President EU India Chamber of He also leads the CSR and Sustainability Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Limited, CIC Holdings PLC., Director/Director of several other successful and Minister of Ports and Shipping. the Company’s head office in 1965 to take over Commerce from 2005. In 2012 he stood for and initiatives of the Group. He was awarded the Mercantile Merchant Bank, Yaal Hotels (Pvt) reputable companies. He is a former Director the Estate Agency Department. In the early 70’s, came runner up, beating the Liberal candidate Brand Leadership Award at the Asia Brand Limited, Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC., Ceylon Agro of Hatton National Bank PLC., the largest he also took charge of the Insurance Division, into 3rd place to be the President (Speaker) Congress 2008, held in Mumbai in September Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Industries Ltd., Colombo City Holdings PLC. and listed bank in Sri Lanka. Mr. Jayawardena was including the Lloyd’s Agency and the Singapore to the European Parliament. He was the first 2008. Ms. Stasshani Jayawardena is overall responsible Peninsular Properties (Pvt) Ltd. the former Chairman of Ceylon Petroleum Airlines Agency. When the Insurance Industry Asian to be elected as a Conservative Member Corporation and Sri Lankan Airlines. for the leisure sector of the Group that includes was liberalised in the late 80’s, he played an of British Parliament, first Asian MP to serve in He is the Chairman of United Nations Global Mr. Asirwatham was appointed to the Board of hotels, destination management and overseas active role in the formation of Union Assurance the British Government as PPS in the Scottish Compact Network, Ceylon and the former Aitken Spence PLC., in September 2009. Mr. Jayawardena is presently the Honorary travel. Ltd., and served a stint as its Chairman. Office and first Asian born MP to be elected to President of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Consul for Denmark and on 9th February 2010, the European Parliament. He was nominated Sri Lanka Region. She joined Aitken Spence PLC., in January was knighted by Her Majesty the Queen of Mr. Wickremasinghe was appointed to the Board as a candidate to succeed Kofi Annan as Denmark with the prestigious honour of “Knight 2010, gaining experience in several of its key of Aitken Spence PLC., in April 1972 and was He was recently appointed as a Member of the Secretary General to the UN in 2006. He is a Cross of Dannebrog”. strategic business units and across the parent Chairman from 1996 to 1997. He has therefore, Advisory Board of the Faculty of Business of Sri Hon. Ambassador without portfolio for Sri Lanka; and group companies. She was appointed to been a Director of the Company continuously Lanka Institute of Information Technology (SLIIT). the first Asian to be appointed as Her Majesty’s He has also been awarded in November 2005, the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in December for a period of 44 years. He has a wide and Deputy Lord Lieutenant for Greater London, the title, “Deshamanya” in recognition of his He was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence 2013 and to the Board of Aitken Spence Hotel varied experience in many business sectors. representing The Queen on official occasions services to the Motherland. PLC., in April 2005. Holdings PLC., in July 2014. In January 2016 Mr. Wickremasinghe has the distinction of being since 1985; awarded the honour “ViswaKirthi Sri she was appointed as Chairperson and on 1st responsible for the concept and construction of Mr. Jayawardena was appointed to the Board of Lanka Abhimani” by the Buddhist Clergy for his April 2016 as Joint Managing Director of Aitken the Group’s unique theme hotel The Heritance Aitken Spence PLC., on 1st April 2000 and has Dr. P. Dissanayake Services to Sri Lanka and given the Knighthood Spence Hotel Managements (Private) Limited. Tea Factory. been Chairman of the Company since 25th April with Merit of the Sacred Constantine Military Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake, is Chairman/ 2003. Ms. Jayawardena is a member of the Young Order of St. George for his global work on CEO of Aitken Spence Maritime and Logistics and Director Aitken Spence PLC. He was Leaders Steering Committee and the Banking, Mr. C.H. Gomez poverty eradication. He is a Fellow of the Royal Finance & Capital Markets Steering Committee Mr. Charles Gomez is a former Investment Society for Arts, Manufacture and Commerce Mr. J.M.S. Brito appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. She is Banker with over 30 years of experience in the (Est. 1765). in September 2009. Mr. Rajan Brito has a LLB (University of London) the Chairperson of Splendor Media, a leading finance industry. He has worked for several major and MBA (London City Business School) Dr. Dissanayake who commenced his career at advertising and communication company. financial institutions, and brings to the Company degrees and is a Fellow of both Institutes of the national carrier Ceylon Shipping Corporation a wealth of experience in regard to international Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and England is a former Chairman/CEO of Sri Lanka Ports She is also a Director at Stassen Exports (Pvt) financial markets. Mr. Gomez is a partner of a and Wales. Together with this multi-disciplined Authority and also a former Chairman of state Ltd., Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen financial services company based in Gibraltar knowledge, he also brings with him a wealth of owned Jaya Container Terminals and Sri Lanka Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd., Ceylon Garden Coir and serves on Boards of foreign investment 35 years of international experience working with Port Management Consultancy Services. (Pvt) Ltd., Milford Developers (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen companies. Mr. Gomez was appointed to the a number of international organisations. Presently Foods (Pvt) Ltd., C D B Exports (Pvt) Ltd., Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in May 2002. Mr. Brito is the Managing & Finance Director of Dr. Dissanayake who serves on the UN/UNCTAD Ecocorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Amethyst Leisure Ltd. Aitken Spence PLC. He is a former Chairman of Panel as an expert on Ports and Shipping is and Paradise Resort Passikuda (Pvt) Ltd. DFCC Bank, Sri Lankan Airlines, The Employers’ a Past Chairman of the Institute of Chartered 28 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 29 Group Management Committee Aitken Spence remains wholly committed to deliver profitable and sustainable growth and returns to all its stakeholders. Mr. J.M.S. Brito Dr. R.M. Fernando Dr. P. Dissanayake Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Mr. K.R.T. Peiris Mr. D.S. Mendis Mr. P. Karunathilake Mr. L. Wickremarachchi Ms. N. Sivapragasam Ms. N.W. De A. Guneratne Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera Mr. P.C.J. Fernando 30 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 31 Group Management Committee Mr. J.M.S. Brito American Chamber of Commerce in the years holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Law and is also an of the Association of Human Resource Thereafter, he migrated to the USA and on his was appointed as a Director. He was appointed See Board of Directors profile. 2009/2010. He is also affiliated with most of Attorney-at-Law. She is a visiting Lecturer and Professionals in Sri Lanka (HRP). return in 2010, rejoined the Company as the as Joint Managing Director of the company in the industry bodies. Presently he represents Examiner in Insurance Law at the Sri Lanka Law Managing Director of Aitken Spence Printing April 2008 and as Managing Director on 1st He was a visiting lecturer at the University of Dr. R.M. Fernando the company at the American Chamber of College, and is also a Lecturer and Examiner of (Pvt) Ltd. In September 2012, he was promoted February 2011. Colombo and University of Ruhuna. He won See Board of Directors profile. Commerce, Sri Lanka Singapore Business the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. She is a Past as a Director of the Aitken Spence Group. He is the Prestigious HR Leadership Award at the He has served various industry related bodies Council and Sri Lanka Germany Business President of the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. a Director of the INGRIN Institute of Printing & Asia Pacific Congress (APHRM) 2007/08. He i.e. as Treasurer of the Sri Lanka Association of Dr. P. Dissanayake Council. Graphics Sri Lanka and serves the Institute as a She currently serves on a subcommittee that was recognised under the global HR excellence Airline Representatives (SLAAR – an Association Lecturer as well. He is also a Lecturer of the Sri See Board of Directors profile. has been appointed by the Ministry of Justice in category, for the contribution made to HR for the of Airlines GSA’s) since June 2009, as a member Ms. N. Sivapragasam Lanka Institute of Printing. connection with the setting up of an International economic development of the country. of SKAL International Colombo (an International Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Ms. Nilanthi Sivapragasam who is the Chief Arbitration Centre in Sri Lanka. He is currently serving the Export Development Association of Travel and Tourism Professionals) See Board of Directors profile. Financial Officer of the Group is also a Director of Mr. D.S. Mendis Board in the capacity of Adviser for the Printing and is a Past President of SKAL Colombo as several subsidiaries and joint venture companies She is also a Director of the CINEC Maritime Mr. Dinesh Mendis heads the Financial and Packaging Industry in Sri Lanka and is also well as the current Treasurer and Board member Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty in the Group. Campus. Solutions segment. He is also involved in an Adviser on the Wages Board for the Printing for the SKAL Asian Area, in the Committee of Mr. Ranjan Casie Chetty is the Company She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered new business initiatives of the Group, Aitken Trade. Management of the Travel Trade Sports Club in Secretary of Aitken Spence PLC., and a Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama Accountants of Sri Lanka and a Fellow of the Spence Technologies and Aitken Spence C&T various capacities including a two-year term as Director of Aitken Spence Group Ltd., Aitken Mr. Susith Jayawickrama a Fellow member of the Mr. L. Wickremarachchi President in 2004 & 2005. Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Investments. He holds a Bachelor of Science Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., and various other Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of UK. Degree (Magna Cum Laude) in Business Mr. Leel Wickremarachchi is the Deputy He is a Fellow of the Chartered Management companies in the Aitken Spence Group. He is a UK, is the Joint Managing Director of Aitken Administration specialising in Marketing and Chairman/Managing Director of all power Institute of UK and was a member of the Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants She is currently a Board Member of the Sri Lanka Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd., the Economics from Slippery Rock University of sector subsidiaries of Aitken Spence PLC Executive Committee of the Local Branch and of Sri Lanka, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Accounting & Auditing Standards Monitoring company managing all the Group Hotels in Sri Pennsylvania, USA. During his final year he was and Director of Aitken Spence Group Ltd. Mr. held the post of President from 2010 to 2012. of Management Accountants of UK and a Fellow Board and is a Council Member of the Sri Lanka and overseas. He serves on the Boards chosen as the Outstanding Student in both Wickremarachchi has held senior positions both of the Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. She is also the Coof all the hotel companies in the Group. He has Marketing and Economics of the University. He in the public and the private sector organisations. Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera Lanka. He is also a Member of the Chartered Chairperson of the Taxation Steering Committee extensive experience at senior management also obtained a Master’s Degree in Business Immediately before joining Aitken Spence PLC., Management Institute of UK and has been and a member of the Accounting Standards & positions in the Group’s hotel sector for more Mr. Nalin Jayasundera is the Managing Director Administration from The University of Texas, Mr. Wickremarachchi worked as a Consultant awarded the Joint Diploma in Management Regulatory Reporting Steering Committee of the than two decades and has considerable of Aitken Spence Travels (ASTL) the leading USA. He worked in the Logistics sector of the in Liberia under a USAID funded project in the Accounting Services. He has over 40 years post Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. exposure in the tourism industry in Sri Lanka and destination management company in Sri Lanka a Group for 11 years from 1994 to 2005, the renewable energy sector for two years from 2011 qualifying experience. During this period he has overseas. He was also the Ex Vice President, joint venture between TUI Travel PLC the world’s Ms. Sivapragasam is the Chairperson of the last five of which was as a Subsidiary Director. to 2012. held very senior and responsible positions in Resort Hotels of the Tourist Hotels Association of largest integrated tourism company and Aitken Financial Reporting Faculty and serves as a During this period he also served two years many reputable private sector organisations. He Sri Lanka (THASL). He was Director General of the Public Spence PLC. committee member of the Taxation Faculty and in the Executive Committee of the Sri Lanka continues to be actively involved in committees Enterprises Reform Commission (PERC) the Financial Reporting Standards Implementation Freight Forwarders Association and a Director He is the Hon. Secretary of the Sri Lanka of Professional Institutes and Chambers of Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage from 2004 to 2006. During his tenure at & Interpretation Committee of the Institute of SLFFA Cargo Services Ltd. He served as a Association of Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO) Commerce. He served as a Member of the Mr. Rohan Pandithakorralage is the Director/ PERC he managed to resolve various post of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, and Director on the Board of The American Chamber and was an Executive Committee Member of the Advisory Commission constituted under the Chief Human Resources Officer of Aitken privatisation disputes of privatised State Owned previously served on the Statutory Accounting of Commerce in Sri Lanka from 2013 -2015. He PATA Sri Lanka Chapter. Companies Act No. 17 of 1982. He was a former Spence Group Ltd. At present he is a member Enterprises (SOEs) and restructured a defunct Standards Committee and the Statutory Auditing also has international experience working in the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Apparel Exporters of National Labour Advisory Council (NLAC), the SOE for recommencement of operation as Mr. Jayasundera counts 31 years of experience Standards Committee. retail industry in USA. Association. Board of Directors of CSR Lanka (Guarantee) Ltd a Public Private Partnership entity. He also in tourism and possesses a wide knowledge of She was also on the Board of Governance of The and a member of the Council of the Employers did a consultancy assignment for the Asian the travel industry. He played an important role Mr. P. Karunathilake Mr. K.R.T. Peiris Chartered Institute of Management Accountants – Federation of Ceylon (EFC) and a member of The Development Bank for evaluating the feasibility in the development of the tourism sector by Sri Lanka Division during the years 2010 to 2012. Mr. Prasanna Karunathilake joined the Printing of establishing a Public Private Infrastructure venturing into many new markets. Mr. Peiris joined the Group in 1979, promoted Board Governors of National Institute of Labour Department of Aitken Spence & Co. Ltd., as a Financing Facility for the Government of as Director in April 1991 and was appointed to She is presently on the Board of Women Studies (NILS). Trainee Production Executive in 1980. Whilst at Pakistan. He worked at USAID (Sri Lanka) as Mr. P. C.J. Fernando the Management Board in April 1993. On 1st and Media Collective, a non-governmental Aitken Spence he pursued his higher studies in He is a Business graduate of Victoria University Senior Project Management Specialist (Finance April 1997 was appointed as Managing Director organisation. Mr. Claude Jayantha Fernando is the Managing of Australia with an Executive training at NUS Printing, and obtained his Diploma in Printing and Infrastructure). of Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. Mr. Peiris currently Director of Aitken Spence Garment Limited. He She completed her Articles at Ernst & Young Business School in Singapore and has received Technology and Management at the prestigious heads the freight forwarding, express and airline He possesses an MSc in Engineering and started his carrier in the apparel Industry way Colombo and has 30 years of post qualifying extensive management training at Nippon Sri Lanka Institute of Printing, and is today a division. He is also responsible for freight and an MBA. He had attended many Executive back in the 1981 as a management trainee experience in industry. Keidanren International Cooperation Centre Fellow of the Institute. On completion of his airline operations of Bangladesh, Pakistan and Development Programmes including the attached to a reputed garment manufacturing (NICC) in Japan. Diploma, he was promoted as Senior Executive Maldives. He brings into the industry a depth of programmes conducted by the JFK School of Company in Sir Lanka. Ms. N.W. De A. Gunaratne and in the year 1988 as Production Manager. knowledge and valuable expertise and has been Mr. Pandithakorralage was a member of Government of Harvard University, USA and the In 1993 he left the company, but continued During his 35 years of successful carrier in the in serving the industry for over three decades. He Ms. Nimmi De A. Guneratne who is the Chief the subcommittee on Training Professional National University of Singapore. to serve the industry in a Senior Managerial industry, he has held many key positions. Prior to held the position of Chairman Sri Lanka Freight Legal Officer of the Group is also the Managing Development & Capacity Building at Sri Lanka capacity for a period of 17 years. During this joining Aitken Spence Garment Limited, he held Forwarders Association (SLFFA) for 3 years Director of Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd., Administrative Service (SLAS) reforms and a past Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera time he proceeded to the Netherlands where the position of executive vice president for over and currently functions as a Consultant on an and Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. President of the International Public Management he underwent advanced training in Printing Mr. Keethi Jayaweera joined Aset Airways Ltd., 16 years and has been responsible for the entire advisory capacity to SLFFA and is a Director of She is also the General Manager of the Lloyd’s Association for Human Resources -(IPMA-HR) Technology & Didactics at the Netherlands the General Sales Agency for Singapore Airlines operation of seven manufacturing plants of most SLFFA Cargo Services Ltd. He is a Member of Agency in Colombo and the Maldives. She is Sri Lanka Chapter and Executive Committee INGRIN Institute. in Colombo, in 1978 as a Junior Executive in the reputed US owned group of company based in the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport – a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Member of the IPMA-HR Asia Network. He is a Ticket Office. He climbed the ranks within the Sir Lanka. International and held the position as a Director UK, and a Chartered Insurance Practitioner and Founder/Fellow member and a past President company with regular promotions and in 1994 32 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 33 Tourism sector Senior Management Committee In alphabetical order. Mr. D.J. De Crusz Mr. S.N. De Silva Mr. S.T.B. Ellepola Mr. D.D. Perera Mr. P.L. Perera Mr. G.P.J. Goonewardene Mr. M.D.B.J. Gunatilake Mr. J.T.P. Gunawardena Mr. A.S. Hapugoda Mr. R.S. Rajaratne Mr. H.P.N. Rodrigo Mr. B.H.R. Sariffodeen Mr. D.L. Warawita Mr. M.H. Jayah Mr. A.A.H. Mohamed Ali Mr. J.C. Weerakone Ms. I. Wijegunawardane Mr. M.P. Wijesekera 34 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 35 Maritime & Logistics sector Strategic Investments sector Senior Management Committee Senior Management Committee In alphabetical order. In alphabetical order. Mr. A.M.M. Amir Mr. C.A.S. Anthony Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony Mr. B. Bulumulla Mr. A.L.W. Goonewardena Ms. R.I.D. Katipearachchi Mr. J.E. Brohier Mr. I.S. Cuttilan Mr. H. Dela Bandara Mr. M.A.M. Isfahan Mr. R.T.B. Navaratne Ms. R.D. Nicholas Mr. V.S. Premawardhana Mr. H.K.A. Rathnaweera Mr. A. Jayasekera Mr. L.I. Witanachchi Ms. W.A.D.L. Silva Mr. K.A.K. Wanniarachchi 36 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 37 Services sector Senior Management Committee Management discussion In alphabetical order. & analysis Drawing from a rich history spanning 150 years, with Wartsila of Finland. Aitken Spence also region’s only LEED Gold certified and carbon Aitken Spence PLC is a leading presence in has the proud accreditation of being the first neutral printing plant. the Sri Lankan commercial landscape; with Sri Lankan company to enter into a publicsignificant interests in hotels, travels, maritime private partnership in a foreign country with its Aitken Spence is the only company in Sri Lanka services, logistics, power generation, plantations, investment in Fiji. to be recognised for ten consecutive years as printing, apparel manufacture, kpo/bpo services, one of the best corporate citizens in Sri Lanka insurance, property development and information The Aitken Spence chain of hotels spans 21 by the country’s leading business chamber. The technology. hotels and resorts in four countries. It is the Company is also one of the first signatories of leading resort chain in Sri Lanka and the largest the United Nations’ Global Compact in Sri Lanka Listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange since international resort operator in the Maldives. Its and plays a leading role in the local network. 1983, the conglomerate operates in seven range of award-winning hotels and management countries with a presence in South Asia, the expertise has set industry benchmarks The Aitken Spence Brand is built on the core Middle East, Africa and the South Pacific. Aitken for service quality, culinary standards and essence of RELIABILITY. In striving towards Spence believes in leading strategic growth sustainable tourism. achieving excellence in all our activities, Mr. J.V.A. Corera Mr. T.D.S. Dasa businesses and possesses a credible record establishing high growth businesses, and aiming of working with global leaders across diverse Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s largest provider of towards becoming a globally competitive market sectors. logistics solutions, with an unrivalled gamut of leader in the region, we aspire to maintain our services that include maritime and port services, core strengths and deliver our brand promise. The Company acts as agents for Lloyd’s of cargo, express, container-related services, London in Sri Lanka since 1876 and represents warehousing, supply chain management and Singapore Airlines, TNT, and OTIS for several decades. Aitken Spence is also a principal agent specialised transport. Strengthening its maritime portfolio, the Company acquired a controlling Our Brand Values: in Sri Lanka for Western Union Money Transfer. stake in Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd to operate and • Reliable The Company acts as the general sales agent manage Suva and Lautoka ports, the largest for Sri Lankan Airlines in the Maldives and in Fiji; marking it the firstever public-private • Honest represents Qatar Airways Cargo in Sri Lanka. partnership by a Sri Lankan company overseas. The Company was appointed as agents for DB The presence in Fiji was further strengthened by • Warm Schenker in Sri Lanka and Maldives during the the acquisition of a 20% shareholding in Fiji Ports • Genuine financial year. Corporation Ltd, the maritime regulator in Fiji, during the financial year under consideration. • Inspiring Confidence Mr. S.D. De Silva Mr. A.E.A. Perera Mr. A.N. Seneviratne Another testament of the confidence placed in Aitken Spence by internationally renowned Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s leading print and corporates are the many partnerships the Group packaging service provider for over five decades. has entered into over the years. Aitken Spence Its modern facility outside Colombo is the in partnership with TUI Group AG, the world’s largest integrated tourism company, operate the largest destination management company in Sri Lanka, Aitken Spence Travels which represents over 200 leading tour operators. The Group is also in partnership with Hapag Lloyd one of the world’s largest shipping lines. RIU Hotels of Spain together with Aitken Spence are at present constructing a 500-room luxury hotel property in Ahungalla which is targeted to commence operations in July 2016. This is the first investment in the Asian region by RIU Hotels. The 100 MW thermal power plant at Embilipitiya was constructed in partnership with Caterpillar of USA, in which a shareholding was subsequently obtained by DEG of Germany. The Group’s investments in the two 20 MW thermal power plants were carried out in conjunction 38 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 39 Management discussion & analysis Our strategy Aitken Spence remains wholly committed to deliver profitable supported by our; and sustainable growth and returns to all its stakeholders through, • Wealth of experience • Positive economic value creation through geographical business • Professional management and product diversification. • Financial stability • Creation of employment and retention of excellent employees. • Reputation • Contribution to society through strategic corporate social responsibility initiatives. • Diverse business portfolio • Sustaining the business environment in which the Group operates. • Best talent in service The foundation of our strategy is strengthened by the following building blocks; The Group has identified inorganic growth as land in the capital city of Oman and was The investments are made with the vision of a further step to its expansion strategy due managed by Aitken Spence during the past long term sustainable growth where we strive to Stakeholders to the rapidly evolving environment which eight years. provide the best quality service or product to the • Engagement with key stakeholders as a component of impact continuously requires a dynamic and flexible client. The investments made today have a long assessment and identification of material aspects business model. A more effective approach • Acquired in a 20% equity stake in Fiji gestation periods as with any pioneering project. of adapting to this business model would be Ports Corporation Limited for a purchase In the long term the Company is confident that through the acquisitions of existing businesses. consideration of approximately US$ 16 the investments would bring in the anticipated Governance Risk Management Concentration was placed this financial year on million. This investment enables the Group returns over the future years. The projects the identification and acquisition of non-green to be a key stake holder in the maritime need to be self sustained as the projects are • Compliant with laws and • Risk management framework established across field projects and the Group will continue to economy of the south Pacific and provides mainly debt financed as we are not reliant on regulations the Group focus on this strategy in the years to come. impetus for further expansion in this region. shareholder funding for our investments. • Best practices maintained • Supported by management systems benchmarked above compliance requirements with international standards In addition with Sri Lanka embarking on a • Launched Heritance Negombo an exclusive Aitken Spence adopts an impact based National Programme on Food Production with a 139 room, five star property on the Negombo approach to ensure financial, social and Our people Management Systems & Operations view to attain self sufficiency in the country and beach consolidating the Group’s standing as environmental sustainability: The first step • Effective leadership • Strong cash flow generation to promote food security, the Group diversified the premier up market resort operator in the in the Group sustainability strategy is to • Investment in talent development • Investor profile outside the traditional base products and country. evaluate potential impact from the operation, • Talent management • Management systems and processes benchmarked to international best practices commenced a pilot project for fruit cultivation. task or policy decision. Resulting action is • Launched “Turyaa Kalutara” a 200 room • Channelling support for our communities • Economically, socially and environmentally sound operations The Group would focus on expanding this prioritised by considering the immediate resort, the first property in the “Turyaa” • Pioneering game-changing movements in key sectors segment and is looking forward to invest in social, environmental and financial impact portfolio in Sri Lanka. large scale fruit farming for the domestic and to the company, our communities and other the export markets with the support of the • Successfully secured the exclusive agency of key stakeholders. Frequency of occurrence, Government. DB Schenker for Sri Lanka and Maldives .DB key stakeholder perspective on the issues, The diversity of our business sectors has role by contributing to the overall growth standards. The Group also became the first legal/ compliance based requirements for the Schenker is one of the leading companies been the cornerstone of the Groups’ success and development of these sectors thereby Sri Lankan company to offer port efficiency Aitken Spence has always focused on building organisation are the remaining key criteria to in the freight forwarding and cargo handling throughout the years. Investments that were significantly influencing the economic growth of enhancement services overseas by venturing collaboration and partnerships with world decide sustainability priorities for Aitken Spence industry with extensive market share in strategically analysed and passionately executed the country. The foresight of the Group combined to the African continent. In the same spirit renowned corporates and brands. Throughout companies. The integrated sustainability policy Europe which would enable the Group to have not only propelled the Group to greater with business experience spanning close to Aitken Spence entered into the first public the years the Group has had partnerships with and implementation strategy of Aitken Spence further enhance its leading position within this heights but also enabled it to withstand the one and a half centuries enables it to identify private partnership by a Sri Lankan company some of the leading multinational companies PLC as well as the SBU specific sustainability sector. fluctuating fortunes of the global economy. and pursue opportunities with long term growth overseas when it acquired a 51% stake in Fiji and further emphasis will be placed this year in strategies and action plans are developed on potential. Ports Terminal Limited, thereby heralding its forging similar ventures with global brands. • Commenced a pilot project for fruit cultivation this basic principle. This model was explained in With the liberalisation of the Sri Lankan economy entry to the South Pacific region. The pioneering for export on 35 acres of prime land in detail in our 2014/2015 Annual Report which can in the late seventies Aitken Spence became a Encouraged by the success achieved in the Sri spirit of entrepreneurship which moulded the During the year the Group Dambulla. be perused online. pioneer and a game changer by venturing into Lanka, the Group initiated its expansion overseas Group to become what it is today drives us to the key growth sectors of the country. These by becoming the first Sri Lankan company to • Acquired Al Falaj Hotel, Oman for a purchase continuously expand our business activities in • Construction commenced on one of the sectors of Tourism, Maritime and Logistics, invest in a resort in the Maldives. Today Aitken consideration of approximately US$ 36 these core sectors in order to take advantage newly acquired Islands in Maldives with the Read more about our operations Strategic Investments and Services remain Spence is one of the largest resort operators million. This Hotel is a 150 room four star in the sector reviews. of the opportunities offered by the developing resort expected to commence operations in to date as identified priority sectors of the in the Maldives and is globally renowned for property situated on five acres of freehold global market winter 2017. country. The Group continues to play a leading its product offering and exceptional service 40 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 41 Management discussion & analysis Creating sustainable growth for key stakeholders Management systems, industry standards material aspects for Aitken Spence act as a gap use one-size-fits-all models when we implement and best practices adhered to by the Group assessment tool and devise the measurements this model. Building on the foundation set by Inputs Activities Outputs Outcomes develops the framework to identify the expected our companies need to monitor. The stipulated these guidelines and frameworks, the SBUs have financial, social and environmental performance performance indicators also provide guidelines developed sustainability strategies that best fit of the Group. For example, we adopt the on what else the organisation can do. Aligning the nature and scale of their operations. More • Equity funding • Tourism • Internally generated cash • Strong balance sheet Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 sustainability our reporting practices to the guidelines of details will be disclosed in the sector Reviews for • Debt funding • Maritime and Logistics • Dividends • Shareholder returns Financial reporting framework to disclose information the International Integrated Reporting Council each of our key sectors. • Internally generated funds • Strategic Investments • Debt servicing. • Financial stability Capital about our performance against key sustainability also influences the integrated thinking in the • Services • Business sustainability performance indicators. With this report, we Company. • State of the art manufacturing • Production and service deliverables • Internationally • Value addition to Sri Lanka’s continue to report “In Accordance – Core”. The Peruse the GRI Index to locate more One of the key strengths of Aitken Spence is information disclosed within this report. plants and machinery in Tourism, Maritime and Logistics, benchmarked products business environment performance indicators corresponding to the Manufactured • Sustainable architecture and our diversity: the disadvantage is that we cannot Services and Strategic Investments and services in Tourism, • Pioneering groundbreaking capital locations • Product responsibility Maritime & Logistics, niche segments Overview • Large base of logistic • Benchmarked to international best Services and Strategic • Customer satisfaction infrastructure and network of practices and standards Investments sectors Achievements related services • Enhancement, upgrades and routine • Management system standards maintenance • Aitken Spence PLC was adjudged as a Best Corporate Citizen of Sri Lanka for the 10th consecutive year in the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability and benchmarks controlling the Awards scheme conducted by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Aitken Spence is the only Company to have been selected as a Top Ten Best Corporate Citizen for 10 years consecutively. manufacturing process • Aitken Spence was also ranked amongst the Top 3 Companies in the STING Corporate Accountability Index 2015 which is the most comprehensive • People • Recruitment • Dependable and effective • Workforce aligned with index in the country on sustainability criteria. • Skills • Training and development workforce the Company’s strategic • Aitken Spence PLC won the Silver award at the ICASL Sustainability Reporting Awards 2015 for the Group’s integrated report of 2014/2015. Human • Experience • Talent management • Skilled employees objectives • Rs. 90.26 net assets per share. Capital • Knowledge • Performance management • Stable relationship with • Intellectual capital • Rs. 36.6 billion shareholder’s funds. • Education, training and • Occupational health and safety workforce • Increased productivity development • Labour standards • Safe workplace • Sustainable wealth creation Improvements • Employees • Sustainability strategy of Aitken Spence • Development of local • Strengthened relationship • Rs. 8.0 billion invested in acquiring property, plant and equipment including assets acquired from business combinations during the year. • Communities • Engaging with key stakeholders economy and quality of life with the community • 44% of the total water withdrawn was treated and reused or recycled for safe discharge. Social & • Aitken Spence benchmarks • Social and environmental governance • Contribution to national and relationship • 25% of the direct energy consumption of the Group in 2015/2016 was from renewable sources. on social and environmental evaluations global development goals capital • 76% total amount of energy generated from renewable resources. governance and ethical conduct • Sustainable value creation • Rs. 111.7 million total investment on sustainability processes and action plans. • Requirements of voluntary endorsements such as the Ten • Sustainability performance data management system moved online to increase efficiency and to facilitate better analysis of data. Principles of the UN Global Compact, and the Women’s Challenges/ Key influences Empowerment Principles • Impacts on environment, ecosystems and biodiversity. • Natural resources • Alignment of operating practices to • Performance against • Pioneering the movement • Retention and attraction of talent. Land, water, air environmental management systems, strategic sustainability for environmental Natural Forest cover other industry standards, benchmarks priorities of SBUs sustainability across the • Information systems security. capital Biodiversity and best practices across the Group • Reduction in resource region • Competition from new entrants in traditional businesses. • Inherent ecosystems and • Implementation of control processes consumption • Increasing energy cost and lack of incentives for renewable energy. environment • Routine evaluation of management • Eliminating waste • Unpredictable weather patterns due to climate change. • Aitken Spence benchmarks on systems • Protection of natural • Regulatory barriers and adverse macroeconomic trends locally and globally. environmental governance • Routine impact assessments ecosystems • Wealth of experience • Developing and maintaining operations, • Effective management of • Brand reputation Disappointments • Reputation management systems and best key economic social and • Evolution of niche market Intellectual • Inconsistent economic policy framework in relation to tax regime. • Brand value practices, environmental impacts in segments capital • Governance structures • Training and development order to achieve strategic • Adverse Balance of Payment position of the country. • Benchmarks of voluntary • Ongoing assessment and revision of objectives. • Embracing the sustainability performance management system took longer than expected as users required more time to adapt. standards / systems management systems and structures • Delivery on brand promise • Stakeholder engagement study is ongoing and will be completed in the first quarter of 2016/2017 due to unforeseen challenges. • Competitive advantage • 43.4% decline in earnings per share. 42 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 43 Our people from the senior team of Aitken Spence HR. This Aitken Spence continues to be a corporate partner of prestigious institutes such as the takes place in addition to the buddy systems Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the Institute of Chartered Accountants practiced at the subsidiary level in some sectors. Sri Lanka (ICASL) and Sri Lanka Institute of Directors (SLID); these have given us the The initiative has been immensely successful in opportunity to enrol our employees for numerous valuable training programmes during the year. enabling the new recruits to adjust and adapt to The Group focuses on attracting, developing and the culture of the Group. retaining individuals who embody the core values The Management Training Programme (MTP) at hotel sector, training programmes on leadership (SLID); these have given us the opportunity to skills development, team building, continuous enrol our employees for numerous valuable of the company and are capable of displaying these Aitken Spence has been instrumental over the years in honing the necessary competencies improvement & 7S productivity standards, training programmes during the year. values in their journey as a Spensonian. and confidence to fast track employees to business & telephone etiquette were conducted covering over 269 executives representing all the Going beyond the realm of training fellow leadership positions. The successful completion Group’s Maldivian resorts. of this programme is considered as a “License Types of Training to Manage’’ at Aitken Spence. With the firm Corporate HR also initiated numerous new Programmes Conducted conviction that improvement is a continuous training programmes for the Group during the 6% Employees have always been the cornerstone Aitken Spence also participated in a number of process, the MTP course was further improved Workforce Gender Breakdown year. A group of sales professionals were taken 25% of Aitken Spence and as such, it is a strategic outstation job fairs. by including an assignment to be submitted through one-on-one sales coaching sessions priority of the Group to invest in the human by the learning partners for the successful 35% which were focused on developing identified capital in order to create future value. The current 65% Talent Development completion of the programme. The assignment individual areas of improvements. “Chat & Learn” business environment necessitates strong, long is based on applying MTP learnings to find Employee development being one of the core an English training programme was conducted 69% term strategies designed to manage human solutions and overcome a prevailing business strategic objectives, the Group has executed for two subsidiaries focusing on improving the resources so that the right talent is available for challenge of the employees’ respective many initiatives to maximise learning and verbal communication skills of employees. “Write Individual Development the right job at the right time. Aitken Spence subsidiary. During the year under review, 192 development during the year under review. 875 Right” was another training programme aimed Organisational Development believes in delighting its customers with reliable, training hours have been dedicated to the Male programmes were conducted for over 16,000 to improve written English communication skills. Managerial Development quality service and in ensuring this, the Group MTP, covering 60 employees. MTP was also Female participants during the year, a 38% increase from In addition to this a four day training programme focuses on attracting, developing and retaining conducted in Maldives covering a multinational the previous year. covering the essential areas of finance, HR, individuals who embody the core values of the team of managers. recruitment portal which gives the Group access marketing and IT was conducted for a group Spensonians, the learning and development Company and are capable of displaying these The Group learning and development strategy to a broad pool of candidates with an even of managers. Another highlight was the “Train team explored and made use of its expertise to values in their journey as a Spensonian. is focused primarily on bridging the identified Corporate HR also organised learning broader skill set. the Trainer” programme that was conducted conduct a leadership development programme competency gaps and to address business interventions which were customised to address Our approach to managing human resources in collaboration with the British Council over a for a group of top foreign executives from an specific training needs. At a secondary level, industry specific business challenges facing is built on the belief that it must not be limited In a competitive market place, it is important that period of two days in August 2015. external corporate company. The success that and on a broader perspective, it also strives each subsidiary. Service excellence, motivation to “employee administration” but be geared we use our vacancy advertisements effectively was achieved with this project has paved the to sustain a highly competent talent pool for and productivity improvement programmes and Aitken Spence continues to be a corporate towards creating a transformational experience to both attract and impress a job seeker, and to way for more such programmes to be conducted leadership roles by ensuring that they are well management video sessions are among the partner of prestigious institutes such as the of growing personal and professional value for introduce them to the culture of an organisation. for external institutes in the future. equipped to face emerging challenges of regional many programmes delivered throughout the year Chartered Institute of Management Accountants each employee. With this in mind, the existing vacancy and global business. on business specific requirements. Addressing (CIMA), the Institute of Chartered Accountants Sri advertisement formats, which have been the training requests received from the Maldives Lanka (ICASL) and Sri Lanka Institute of Directors A key focus point of Group HR for the year used for a number of years, were dramatically changed in an effort to rebrand the online All new recruits are part of a structured 2015/2016 was to attract and retain the best recruitment process. orientation programme which in addition to talent through the further enhancement of the familiarising them with the Group, also seeks to Groups’ employee development strategies while The Company also enhanced its presence at instill the right focus and a positive mindset. The improving employee engagement. job fairs in an effort to attract more talent from Group orientation titled ‘Roots to Excellence’ was a diverse array of backgrounds and fields. In restructured during the year to better serve this Talent Attraction addition to job fairs organised within Colombo, purpose. Additionally, an initiative got underway At Aitken Spence, we place utmost importance to assign each new recruit with a mentor/buddy to ensuring that the right talent is recruited into the Company. With this in mind, a manifold initiative was successfully executed to attract and Age analysis of the total workforce select the most suitable candidates. 56 yrs and above The Group’s presence in extremely competitive 51 55 yrs and diverse industries means our talent 46 50 yrs 41 45 yrs requirements are extremely varied, which 36 40 yrs means we must have quick access to lucrative 31 35 yrs job banks and the ability to screen suitable 26 30 yrs candidates. In order to fulfil our needs, Aitken 25 yrs and below Spence partnered with an international online 0 500 1000 1500 2000 44 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 45 Our people Service Improvement in the organisation. Over 20 applications were participation with the managers of the Group We firmly believe that fostering an environment that promotes creativity and innovation is We firmly believe that fostering an environment In addition to the established operations of an received from subsidiaries for the Shape award attending the event. The conventions were met key to ensuring that employees remain engaged within the organisation. Aitken Spence has that promotes creativity and innovation is key to HR department, the Aitken Spence HR team also ample evidence of how successfully the with positive reviews, as industry leaders and always prided itself of being an employee driven organisation where people are the key to an ensuring that employees remain engaged within plays a pivotal role in assisting the subsidiaries concept has reached the subsidiaries across eminent guests graced the events and shared organisations’ success. the organisation. Aitken Spence ensures that to gauge and improve the effectiveness of the Group in such a short time. Further, over their views on a wide array of topics. employees feel their ideas are being accepted, their operational service delivery. In line with twenty applications were also received for the adopted and praised. Thus, the talent at Aitken “Shed” award which is a concept focussing Sharing knowledge and discussing opposing Spence is more engaged and continuously this objective a corporate client survey was also been introduced to increase the level of Badminton tournament, Table Tennis tournament on the elimination of waste. The contribution views have always been a priority at the developing. With the activities and new initiatives conducted, at the request of an Aitken Spence interaction with the employee. and the Spence Beach Bash were some events. of this competition to the Group over the years event. This also serves as an ideal forum for put forth this past financial year we hope to subsidiary, to measure the perceived quality The key event in the sports calendar was the has been immense in terms of improving the employees to voice their suggestions to the top The Athwela newsletter is a monthly Sinhala further enhance the quality of our employees of the service among the identified segment Spence Talent Show which attracted immense productivity through the implementation of the management, further cultivating an environment publication which also offers a comprehensive as well as the lives of prospective Spensonians. of clients. The survey was a key contributor in attention from Spensonians. The talent show, 7S concepts. of inclusiveness and improved communication. look at the Groups’ events. The featured articles Aitken Spence has always prided itself of being identifying the areas that require process and which included a panel of esteemed judges from delivery improvements. highlight individual achievements as well as the Sri Lankan entertainment industry, saw the an employee driven organisation's where people The staff convention held in July 2015 launched Internal Communication Group achievements both within and outside of participation of many employees from various are the key to an organisations’ success. With the Aitken Spence employee brand name Aitken Spence as an employer strives to Aitken Spence. subsidiaries. The talent on display proved that this belief firmly in place we will continue to Cultivating an environment of shared ‘Spensonian’ which was suggested by a fellow improve the quality of its HR processes and Spensonians are not just exceptional in terms of nurture, grow and elevate our employees to new communication has always been an integral part Spensonian after a Group-wide competition ensure that all employees are provided with heights. of the Aitken Spence Group. With over 7000 encouraging employees to send in their Special Programmes work but are true all-rounders. a Job Description when they join. To further Spensonians spread across the globe, the ability submissions. The competition saw an impressive The annual blood donation campaign has been strengthen this process, it was made mandatory Chillax evening is an initiative of Group HR that to share ideas and perspectives has always been number of suggestions from a wide array of a staple in the annual HR calendar for well over a to issue a job description along with the letter was successfully carried out during the last year a critical factor. With this in mind, Group HR has subsidiaries. The winning submission, ergo the decade. On the 4th of March 2016 the campaign of appointment. A special awareness session as well. Hosted once a month by a different continued many initiatives where all employees official Aitken Spence employee brand name, was held within Aitken Spence premises and was conducted to make the HR partners and subsidiary, the event enables employees to meet receive the most accurate and current was decided by the top management. saw the participation of over 120 Spensonians line managers more aware of this process and fellow Spensonians from other subsidiaries in an information about the Group, its operations and which was a significant increase from the also to enhance their skills in developing Job The Ace Magazine and Athwela newsletter informal setting. achievements regardless of their geographical previous year’s event. descriptions in accordance with the standards are two popular forums to communicate the location. Aitken Spence Toastmasters also completed set by Corporate HR. happenings, achievements and announcements Two mentoring programmes were conducted a very successful year with its members One of the highlights of the Aitken Spence of the Group. The Ace Magazine, a tri-annual for the Faculty of Civil Engineering and Faculty participating in area level and division level Productivity Improvements calendar is the staff convention which is held publication, has been published and distributed of Transport and Logistics of University of competitions representing the club. The speech Among the much-looked-forward-to events tri-annually. The event is organised to provide among employees and stakeholders since its Moratuwa. The programme involved twenty competitions were held under four categories, of the Group are the 7S and HR Excellence the senior management with an opportunity to inception, however with emerging technologies undergraduates who took part in specialised namely, “Humorous Speech”, “International Awards; the 11th instalment of the competition meet the business leaders of the Group as well and the globalisation of technology the move sessions that focused on presentation skills, Speech”, “Evaluation Speech” and “Impromptu for 2015/2016 was announced in July 2015 and as distinguished professionals in the business from print to digital was an important highlight social etiquette, business etiquette and other Speech.” 46 applications were received. A key feature of arena. this financial year. With a simple click, employees topics. These sessions were focused on this year’s competition is the introduction of the are now able to access the magazine from any exposing them to the corporate work culture and A special internship programme was offered Two staff conventions were held during the mobile device in any part of the world. With the also to develop soft skills that are essential to “Shape” award. “Shape” is a concept introduced to children of employees who completed the financial year, each one unique in terms of theme launch of the digital magazine new features have succeed in the modern business environment. at Aitken Spence to foster a culture of creativity Advanced Level examinations in 2015 to join and purpose; these also saw a much larger an Aitken Spence subsidiary and gain valuable Staff Welfare industry exposure. The programme which offers Aitken Spence Sports Club organises many a 3 month internship has been very successful events throughout the year that are aimed as employees value the opportunity given to their at providing employees with the necessary children. balance between their personal and professional lives. Sport-O-Rama, Spence Avurudu Asiriya, Service analysis of the total workforce Over 30 yrs 26-30 yrs 21-25 yrs 16-20 yrs 11-15 yrs 6-10 yrs Below 5 yrs 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 46 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 47 Financial review Group Performance management segment which recorded a 20% increase in arrivals handled, and Sri Lankan Operating Profit & The financial year 2015/2016, was a mixed year hotels with the two iconic properties Heritance Operating Profit Margin where the Group faced many challenges but was for the year ended 31st March also fortunate in successfully securing several Kandalama and Heritance Tea Factory recording increased average occupancies throughout the 5,504 5,657 Economic Environment the country experienced a 2.5% dip in import compliance and collection in order to shore up key investments in its core areas of operations. These investments are expected to further year. However the revenue from the Maldivian expenditure despite non-fuel imports growing revenues. In addition, strategies to restructure 16.0% Sri Lanka’s economy grew by 4.8% during the resorts recorded a marginal decline owing to calendar year 2015, marginally slower than the by nearly 9.6%. Earnings of the tourism industry loss making state owned enterprises, structural strengthen its portfolio and enhance the Group’s 3,897 pressure on certain key markets due to negative 15.7% increased by 22.6% to US$ 2.98 billion with reforms to reduce protectionism and promote future growth potential. 4.9% growth registered the year before. The 15.0% political publicity seen by the destination during agriculture sector which makes up 7.9% of tourist arrivals increasing 17.8% to 1.8 million trade and capacity building exercises that The review that follows provides the stakeholders the year. Maldives as a nation has always been the economy recorded 5.5% growth while the during the calendar year, while in the financial support economic growth are also being an insight on the financial impact of the Group’s conscious of the importance of tourism for its industry sector with a 26.2% contribution grew year 2015/2016 arrivals increased by 20.2%. pursued. In support of the government’s operations during the year, the challenges economy; hence any negativity impacting the by 3.0% and the services sector representing Worker remittances declined by 0.5% to US$ economic reforms agenda, the International confronted and an overview of the investments industry is thus short lived. The Maritime and 56.6% of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) grew 7.0 billion in 2015, mainly as a result of the Monetary Fund (IMF) in April 2016 entered into made during the year. Logistics sector benefitted by an improvement by 5.3%. The estimated per capita GDP in US economic downturn in the Middle East caused a staff level agreement to provide a three year, 2014 2015 2016 in the revenues from port management activities dollar terms increased by 1.8% to US$ 3,924 by low oil prices where majority of Sri Lankan extended fund facility of US$ 1.5 billion which is Operating Results and in the ship agency business, while enhanced Operating Profit (Rs.Mn) during this period while the total economy was labour is employed. However, there was a pickup expected to ease the pressure on the balance business secured by the elevator agency Operating Profit Margin (%) valued at US$ 82.3 billion. in remittances in the first quarter of 2016, which of payment position of the country. The Asian Group Revenue which continued to reap dividends from the was the last quarter of the financial year. Development Bank (ADB) and IMF have forecast The Group achieved a consolidated revenue infrastructure development in the country made Economic growth was mainly driven by GDP to grow by 5.3% and 5.0% respectively The Tourism sector recorded a decline of of Rs. 26.0 billion for the financial year under a positive impact on the revenue of the Services consumption expenditure at both government Export and Import Trade during 2016 while inflation is expected to rise 25.9% in operating profits for the year to Rs. review, which is a 26.4% year on year decline. sector. and private sector levels with disposable to 4.5%. An increased level of GDP resulting 2.9 billion. Although most of the Sri Lankan 19,417 The negative impact on the revenue was mainly incomes rising on the back of a public sector in higher disposable income would have a hotels achieved a higher average occupancy due to the significant decline in the top line of Sector wise Revenue salary increase, low policy rates and falling 18,935 beneficial impact on the Group’s operations. for the year ended 31st March throughout the year, the Maldivian operations 18,003 the Strategic Investments sector which was commodity prices which made goods and Rs.Mn recorded a lower profitability as a result of the affected by the cessation of the power purchase services more affordable. Inflation remained low Interest Rates Movement lower occupancies during the peak winter agreement of the 100MW thermal power plant at and ended the year at 2.8% up from 2.1% as at % 913 1,057 season stemming from adverse international Embilipitiya. 8,040 5,306 1,114 end of the previous year. publicity regarding the political uncertainty in the 11,130 9.90 16,132 15,110 country. The performance of the newly acquired Revenue Exchange Rates Movement 10,394 10,505 8.57 9.12 for the year ended 31st March property in India, Turyaa Chennai, was also 7.205 7,519 LKR Value 7.01 Rs.Mn affected during the financial year due to delays in 35,059 obtaining regulatory approvals. The translational 35,319 2013 2014 2015 180.59 7.05 6.80 loss resulting from the devaluation of the Sri 15,928 16,844 17,160 Exports US$ Mn Lankan rupee on the US dollar debt obtained Imports US$ Mn 25,978 for the acquisition of this property also adversely 159.99 2014 2015 2016 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16 affected the profitability of the sector. The Tourism The country recorded a balance of payments destination management segment reported an 143.96 12 Months Treasury Bill Rate Maritime & logistics 144.69 deficit of US$ 1.5 billion in 2015 compared to improvement in operating profit, whilst the airline Prime Lending Rate Srategic investments 133.32 a surplus in the previous year with the gross General Sales Agency (GSA) segment recorded 130.73 Services a reasonable performance. official reserves declining to US$ 7.3 billion. Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16 The resulting pressure on the Sri Lankan rupee While a more detailed discussion on the 2014 2015 2016 The Maritime and Logistics sector recorded EURO (Rs./Euro) saw the currency depreciating by 9.0% during respective businesses of the Aitken Spence a growth of 74.2% in operating profits to Rs. US$ (Rs./US$) the calendar year 2015 and by 8.5% during Group can be found in the pages that follow, Operating Profit 1.2 billion due to the noteworthy performance the period from April 2015 to March 2016. The it must be noted that the performance of the During the financial year the revenue of the During the financial year under review the from its port management operations and ship Central Bank tightened the monetary policy to Group is closely linked to key growth areas of Strategic Investments sector declined by 64.9%. operating profit of the Group declined by 31.1% The country’s export earnings fell by 5.6% in agencies, despite a reduced contribution from ease the pressure on the currency and to remedy the economy such as the tourism sector, import/ The other three sectors recorded increases to Rs. 3.9 billion and the operating profit margin 2015 due mainly to low commodity prices in the the freight forwarding, courier and integrated the negative balance of payment position by export trade and infrastructure projects which in revenue for the period under consideration recorded a decline from 16.0% to 15.0%. world market despite volumes growing by 4.6%. logistics segment. Further, the airline cargo increasing the Statutory Reserve Ratio of banks drives the maritime and logistics industries. The with the Tourism sector achieving a growth The Strategic Investments sector reported an Earnings from traditional exports, tea and rubber, GSA business achieved a marked growth in followed by an upward revision of policy rates. movement in exchange rates too has a close of 1.9%, and the Maritime and Logistics, and operating loss of Rs. 489.2 million mainly due to fell significantly by 17.7% and 14.5% respectively profitability during the year, due to the excellent link with revenue streams of the Group whilst Services sectors reporting growths of 6.9% the non-operation of the 100 MW thermal power while the lucrative textile and garments export The government’s economic reforms agenda performance of the Qatar and Sri Lankan airline the overall cost structure of the operation would and 5.5% respectively. The revenue growth plant during the year, although the printing and segment which makes up 45.9% of exports includes overhauling the current tax regime agencies. be determined by interest rates and inflationary in the Tourism sector was mainly driven by packaging segment recorded an encouraging of Sri Lanka also fell by 2.2%.On the imports by simplifying and broad-basing the tax factors. the improved performance of the destination improvement in profitability. side, the drop in global fuel prices meant that system, eliminating exemptions, and improving 48 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 49 Financial review The Services sector recorded an operating in additional costs to the corporate sector in due to the poor performance of the plantation income tax expenses for the financial year under and all such improvements were carried out in profit of Rs. 207.9 million which is a growth of terms of changes to processes and related segment as a result of the many unfavourable consideration. Total Assets & the resorts without any closures or disruptions 38.4%. The turnaround in the performance of IT software. We hope that the tax authorities factors that affected its more traditional crops. Asset Turnover to guests. ast at 31st March Aitken Spence Technologies and the improved would implement a coherent and consistent Further, in the hotel segment, pre-operating Profit attributable to noncontrolling interest for performances from the property management fiscal policy in the future in order to create the costs that were incurred during the construction the financial year was Rs. 917.2 million a decline Other substantial capital expenditure was 73,354 0.60 and elevator agency segments contributed stability required by the business community to phase of Heritance Negombo that could not be of 29.7% over the previous financial year. This 0.56 incurred by the integrated logistics segment 61,013 decline was mainly owing to the non-controlling which continued to improve on the yard hard 65,391 to the higher profitability of the sector, whilst focus on their core operations without having capitalised and the translation losses on the Euro the insurance segment maintained its steady to be unduly concerned about unexpected and borrowings obtained to fund RIU Ahungalla also interest portion held in the power generation surfacing at its Mabole premises and from the contribution. constant changes to the statutory and regulatory impacted the performance of the Group’s equity segment. printing and packaging segment which procured environment. accounted investees during the year. 0.37 a new state of the art six-colour Heidelberg Other income of the Group reflected a decrease Net Profit Attributable printing machine to expand capacity and cater to for the year ended 31st March of 65.6% due to the exceptional income The tax outflow of the Group during the year The Group acquired a 20% equity stake in Fiji high quality printing requirements. Rs.Mn of Rs. 351 million recorded in the previous increased substantially with the introduction and Ports Corporation Ltd., during the financial year year as insurance compensation received in implementation of super gain tax. All companies under review. The full benefit of this investment 3,672 3,579 Shareholder's Funds as at 31st March the Maldivian hotel sector. The Group had a in the Group incorporated in Sri Lanka paid a will be seen in the coming financial year as the 2014 2015 2016 Rs.Mn significant negative impact on the translation tax of 25% based on the taxable income of results of only a few months operation has been 36,646 35,025 of foreign currency long term borrowings, due 2013/2014 in each of the entities. The impact of consolidated in the financial year. Total Assets (Rs.Mn) 2,027 to the devaluation of the Sri Lankan rupee. the above tax on cash flow and reserves of the Asset Turnover (Times) 32,257 However this was mitigated to some extent due Group was Rs. 319.3 million. According to the Net Profit & to the Group’s US dollar denominated financial Finance Act, No. 10 of 2015, the super gain tax Net Profit Margin for the year ended 31st March The Group had an asset turnover ratio of 0.37 assets, and the sizable foreign currency revenue was deemed to be an expenditure in the financial times for the financial year under consideration streams, with the overall net impact on foreign statements relating to the year of assessment 4,884 compared with 0.56 times in the previous exchange being a gain of Rs. 117.3 million. which commenced on 1st April 2013. In 4,579 2014 2015 2016 comparative period. The decline in the asset accordance with the requirements of the Act and 13.8% Depreciation, amortisation and impairment turnover ratio can be attributed to the lower as recommended by the Statement of Alternative expenses decreased by 12.9%, with the 2,944 revenue recorded by the Group for the year as a Treatment (SoAT) on Accounting for super Financial Position and Resources 13.1% impairment provisions in Ace Power Embilipitiya result of the power plant in Embilipitya not being 2014 2015 2016 gain tax issued by the Institute of Chartered 11.3% operational this financial year as opposed to the being less by Rs. 664.0 million than in the Accountants of Sri Lanka the said amount was Total Assets previous year. plant recording a full year of operations in the adjusted to the equity statement of the Group. Total assets of the Group at the end of the Investments in Equity Accounted previous year. reporting period was Rs. 73.4 billion comprising Investees Profit before Taxation The Group’s provision for taxation for the year of non-current assets of Rs. 52.0 billion and for the year ended 31st March under review was Rs. 861.2 million which is an Capital Expenditure During the year, most of the construction of RIU Rs.Mn 2014 2015 2016 current assets of Rs. 21.4 billion. Non-current increase of Rs. 34.9 million with the effective tax The Group invested a total of Rs. 8.0 billion in Ahungalla, a 500 roomed luxury property built assets expanded by Rs. 12.2 billion primarily due 5,710 in partnership with RIU Hotels of Spain was 5,445 rate on consolidated profits increasing to 22.6% Net Profit (Rs.Mn) property, plant and equipment including assets to the growth in property, plant and equipment from 14.5% the previous year. This was the Net Profit margin (%) acquired from business combinations during the completed. This property which is adjacent to which represented 67.8% of non-current assets. result of negative contributions made by certain financial year. The major share was taken up by Heritance Ahungalla, is expected to commence The property, plant and equipment of the Group 3,806 the Tourism sector. operations in July 2016, and is projected to subsidiaries towards the Group profits. The increased mainly owing to the acquisition of Al income tax charge in the financial statements Earnings for the Year be a game changer in the tourism industry of Falaj hotel, Oman. The Group’s investments comprises Rs. 793.6 million as income tax, Rs. During the year the Group acquired Al Falaj the country. Investment in the construction of The consolidated profit after tax of the Group in equity accounted investees also increased 93.0 million as deferred tax reversal and Rs. Hotel in Oman for approximately US$ 36 million, Heritance Negombo was also completed during for the year was Rs. 2.9 billion, and is a decline during the year as a result of the 20% equity 126.0 million as witholding tax on dividends paid being the first investment in a hotel in Oman, the year with the hotel being launched at the of 39.7% over the previous year. This was investment in Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd., and the by subsidiaries. as opposed to the hotel management model end of the financial year. The hotel with its ideal primarily due to losses recorded in the Strategic investments made to RIU Ahungalla. followed in the past. Al Falaj hotel has been location and infrastructure is well poised to be a Investments sector as a result of the cessation of 2014 2015 2016 The deferred taxation of the Sri Lankan under the management of Aitken Spence for desired destination of a city hotel on the beach. operations of the 100MW thermal power plant. At the end of the financial year, the Tourism companies was prepared based on the enacted the past eight years and is a 150 room 4 star The net profit margin declined to 11.3% from sector continued to hold the largest asset base law in accordance with guidelines issued by the property located on 5 acres of free hold land in The Group successfully acquired a 20% Taxation 13.8% in the previous year. The Tourism sector by having 53.5% of total assets amounting to Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka the heart of Muscat, the capital city of Oman. equity stake in Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd., for contributed Rs. 2.3 billion to the net profit, a Rs. 39.2 billion. The Strategic Investments sector The year under review presented many since the Budget Proposals for 2016 have not The expansion and refurbishment of the Kalutara a purchase consideration of approximately decline of 37.8% from the previous year. The held 28.7% of total assets amounting to Rs. 21.0 challenges to Sri Lankan companies as a yet been legislated. property which was branded Turyaa Kalutara US$ 16 million in December 2015. Fiji Ports Maritime and Logistics, and the Services sectors billion. The Maritime & Logistics and Services result of the many tax policy changes that was completed and the hotel commenced Corporation Ltd., is the owner of ports in Fiji and contributed Rs. 1.0 billion and Rs. 124.1 million sectors held 12.6% and 3.9% of total assets were implemented on an ad-hoc basis by Equity Accounted Investee Profits operations during the third quarter of the financial provides port services whilst also functioning respectively increasing by 69.7% and 50.4% amounting to Rs. 9.2 billion and Rs. 2.9 billion the revenue authorities. Inconsistencies in tax year. Substantial capital expenditure was also as the maritime regulator of the country. It has The share of profits from equity accounted over last year, while the Strategic investments respectively. policies and introductions and withdrawals of tax incurred on the enhancement of the product a fully owned subsidiary engaged in ship repair investees declined by 29.8% to Rs. 232.2 million sector recorded a loss of Rs. 510.1 million. legislations within a short span of time through offering of the Maldivian resorts during the year and heavy industrial engineering works and also for the financial year. This decline was mainly The Group provided Rs. 861.2 million as the press releases created confusion and resulted holds a 49% equity stake in Fiji Ports Terminals 50 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 51 Financial review Ltd., whose major shareholder is Aitken Spence aims to achieve a sustainable ratio in order to billion of interest bearing liabilities during the year, 9.90% at the end of the financial year compared alternative options available to further mitigate PLC. This investment augurs well for Aitken maximise shareholder returns whilst ensuring a whilst repaying Rs. 3.6 billion. The additional debt to 6.80% a year ago, an increase of over any interest rate risks. Earnings Per Share for the year ended 31st March Spence in consolidating its position in the sphere manageable debt profile. funding was obtained to finance the investments 300bps. Three month and six month treasury bill Rs. of port management in international markets. made by the Group during the year. yields too have gone up significantly to record Foreign Exchange Management 9.04 8.82 Working Capital 8.30% and 9.29% respectively. The last quarter The Sri Lankan rupee remained under pressure Financial Management, Cost of Funding The working capital of the Group stood at Rs. Interest Expense & of the stretch was fuelled by a revision of the throughout the year as there were repatriations and Liquidity 5.7 billion compared to Rs. 13.0 billion at the end Interest Cover Statutory Reserve Ratio in December as well as by foreign investors from both equity and fixed for the year ended 31st March of the previous year, mainly due to the significant a policy rate hike in February. The Group treasury income markets and due to the repayments of 4.99 Financial Leverage 1,174 reduction in trade receivables. The Group’s only took part in limited trading of Government government debt. Foreign direct investments The total assets of the Group as at end of the cash and deposits in banks together with the securities as the secondary market showed also did not materialise as expected during the 30.47 financial year were Rs. 73.4 billion. The equity investments in government securities decreased no direction and proved to be biased towards year and added to the pressure on the currency. 873 portion of Rs. 44.2 billion was an increase by 11.2% compared to last year, to Rs. 12.2 806 impulse trading which increased the risk profile With the Central Bank tightening the monetary of 4.6% over the previous financial year. The billion. Overdraft and short term borrowings have of an active investor. The investment strategy policy through a gradual increase of interest liabilities consisted of Rs. 13.6 billion in nonreduced by 31.1% to Rs. 1.4 billion at the end 16.80 adopted by the Group treasury was to invest in rates, consumer driven credit growth slowed 2014 2015 2016 current liabilities and Rs. 15.5 billion in current of the financial year. Trade and other receivables 13.97 shorter tenor instruments in order to benefit from down resulting in a decline in imports. The liabilities. The financial leverage was 1.61 times, were at Rs. 4.8 billion, which is a decrease of rising interest rates until the market reached a Government’s decision to reach out to the IMF compared to 1.56 times in the previous year and 37.5%, arising mainly from the power segment, level of stability. to obtain assistance in the form of an Extended Shareholder Returns reflects increased debt funding of the Group’s while trade and other payables stood at Rs. 9.8 Fund Facility (EFF) is part of its plan to overcome 2014 2015 2016 Although rising interest rates improved interest Earnings Per Share (EPS) operations. billion recording an increase of 38.3% at the end some of the external challenges and drive the income of the Group, it also had a significant EPS declined by 43.4% to Rs. 4.99, in of the financial year under consideration. Interest Expense (Rs.Mn) economy smoothly on a sustainable growth Assets & Funding impact on interest cost which increased comparison to Rs. 8.82 recorded last year. Interest Cover (Times) mode. The rupee started the year at 133.33 and as at 31st March The Group’s current ratio was 1.37 times considerably. The AWPLR, which loosely reflects The total number of shares issued remained reached its peak of 148.53 on the 30th of March Rs.Bn compared to 2.04 times in the previous financial the aggregate of commercial lending rates unchanged from the previous year at 2016, but closed the year at 144.68. The Group year while the quick asset ratio was 1.29 times The interest cover of the Group decreased to offered by Banks to their preferred corporate 405,996,045 resulting in the EPS decline being 16 enjoys a natural currency hedge owing to its 12 in comparison with 1.92 times in the previous 16.80 times from 30.47 times in the previous clients, moved by more than 200 bps during identical to the decline in the profit attributable to foreign exchange denominated cash flows from 14 period. year mainly due to the decline in the Group’s the financial year 2015/2016. The immediate equity holders. 58 its major sectors of operations and has the ability 53 operating profit before interest for the year. impact of this development was felt in overdraft 47 to circumnavigate fluctuations in the foreign Net Working Capital However the interest cover of the Group remains and other short term borrowing costs adding Return on Equity exchange market. The Group treasury assists all as at 31st March 21 & Current Ratio at a healthy level and indicate the ability of the pressure on the part of cash flow management 25 26 subsidiaries with their foreign currency related as at 31st March Group to comfortably service its debt. of the Group. The Group treasury maintains % requirements and also provides guidance based a very close and attentive relationship with all 36 40 52 on market trends. 12.2% 12,957 10.6% Treasury Operations subsidiaries in order to avoid any preventable 11,472 2014 2015 2016 excesses or shortfalls. Several electronic banking The year ahead is likely to be challenging with 2.04 Interest Rate and Cash Management platforms offered by international banks are used Fixed Assets many concerns in both the local and geo-political 1.84 Accommodative monetary policy adopted during by the treasury as a tool for this purpose. 5.7% Current Assets & Others theatres. One of the key concerns of the market 1.37 the 2014/2015 financial year showed signs of is the direction which the Federal Reserve of Long Term Funding The entire long term loan facility granted to 5,695 coming to an end by the latter part of 2015/2016 USA is likely to take with regard to interest rates Short Term Funding financial year. The Group treasury was able the parent company by DEG of Germany and the outcome will have far reaching impacts to capitalise on its government securities amounting to US$ 20 million has been drawn on world economies. Additionally, global security trading activity during the first quarter of the down at the end of the financial year. These Non-current interest bearing borrowings concerns, movement in oil prices, continuing 2014 2015 2016 financial year as the market was active with a funds were primarily used by the Company to economic down turn in the EU and China, and The Group had non-current interest bearing 2014 2015 2016 considerable number of players taking part at acquire overseas investments. During the year the worsening impacts of climate change are Net Assets and Return on Equity borrowings amounting to Rs.12.2 billion which a given time. As the year progressed overall the Company also obtained a long term facility Net Working Capital (Rs. Mn) most likely to present challenges to corporates was an increase of 29.7% during the year. The investor activity started weakening and a number of US$ 10 million under the External Commercial The equity attributable to the shareholders of Current Ratio (Times) with a global reach in their operations. The increase was mainly the result of the borrowings of foreign investors exited the market with the Borrowing scheme for the purpose of making the parent company increased by 4.6% to Rs. domestic economy is likely to be impacted by the Tourism sector for expansion purposes impending interest rate hike in the United States. overseas investments. 36.6 billion and net assets per share increased to mostly by policy decisions on taxation, foreign and the long term loans taken by the holding The disposal of holdings by foreign investors Rs. 90.26 compared to Rs. 86.27 at the end of Finance Income and Finance Expenses The US Federal reserve’s dovish stance on investments, monetary policy and bilateral trade company to finance overseas acquisitions in the drove the interest rates up while becoming the previous financial year. The Group achieved The finance income of the Group recorded increasing policy rates in the coming year has agreements which could impact the demand Maritime and Logistics sector. a burden on the balance of payments of the a return on equity of 5.7% in comparison with an increase of 3.8% to Rs. 647.7 million. The provided additional breathing space for the and supply equation in the country. The Group country. Although the treasury bond market 10.6% achieved during the previous financial The debt to equity ratio of the Group was 0.28 finance expenses increased by 7.7% Rs. 970.9 LIBOR movement, however the Group treasury treasury will continue to monitor the volatile witnessed some volatility with the yields swaying year. times at the end of the financial year compared million for the year, attributable to the increase will continue to monitor trends and developments operating environment and implement strategies to either side, the treasury bill yield curve incline that would maximise the benefits to the Group. to 0.22 times in the previous year. The debt to in long term borrowing obtained by the Group in the global markets closely and evaluate was somewhat graceful up to the end of the equity is constantly monitored and the Group during the year. The Group obtained Rs. 6.8 year. The one year treasury bill yield reached 52 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 53 Financial review Compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Financial Value Creation Net Assets Per Share & Dividend Per Share Standards Market Value Per Share The value added statement reflects the total value creation. This was in comparison to value distribution to Government authorities & Dividend-Payout as at 31st March for the year ended 31st March The consolidated financial statements of the manner in which the Group has generated 35.8% of the total value creation distributed to increased from 8.4% to 8.9% while the Group Rs. Group and the separate financial statements of and distributed wealth among its various employees in the previous year. This increase allocated 4.7% (Rs. 609 million) of the total 2.00 2.00 99.50 the Company have been prepared in accordance stakeholders during a financial year. The was due to the lower value creation this year by value creation for the payment of dividends and 90.26 97.90 with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (herein value addition of the Group for the year under the Group, owing to the decline in its revenue 27.0% of the total value addition was retained 86.27 30% 79.45 review was Rs. 13.0 billion down 10.5% from generated during the year. The contribution to for the growth and development of the Group’s 1.50 referred to as SLFRSs/LKASs) effective from 73.50 the previous year’s Rs. 14.5 billion. The value lenders decreased marginally from 14.6% to operations. 22% 23% 1st January 2012, laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) distributed among the employees of the Group 13.8% (Rs. 1.8 billion) due to the lower profit amounted to Rs. 5.9 billion or 45.6% of the attributable to non controlling interest. The total and in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act Statement of Value Added No. 15 of 1995. 2015/2016 2014/2015 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Net Assets Per Share Dividend Per Share (Rs.) Revenue 25,977,795 35,318,891 Market Value Per Share Dividend-Payout (%) Purchase of goods and services (14,071,685) (22,294,865) 11,906,110 13,024,026 Price to Earnings Ratio and Price to Book Other operating and interest income 822,360 1,131,429 Market Price Per Share and Market Value Share of profits of equity-accounted investees 232,170 330,887 Capitalisation Total value added by the Group 12,960,640 14,486,342 The market price of the Company’s share The price to earnings (PE) multiple increased was Rs. 73.50 at the end of the financial to 14.72 times compared to 11.29 times in the Distributed as follows year 2015/2016 indicating a decrease of previous year. Market PE ratio was 15.29 times To governments (income tax and revenue tax) 8.9% 1,148,037 8.4% 1,214,721 26.1% compared to previous period’s closing making the Group’s PE stand at a discount of To employees (salaries and other costs) 45.6% 5,905,093 35.8% 5,183,101 of Rs. 99.50. The overall negative market 3.7%. Price to book value decreased to 0.81 To lenders of capital (interest on loan capital and non-controlling interest) 13.8% 1,791,013 14.6% 2,110,957 sentiments that prevailed during the year which times compared to 1.15 times the previous To shareholders (dividends) 4.7% 608,994 5.6% 811,992 resulted in the ASPI and the S&P SL20 index year. This was due to the substantial drop Retained for reinvestments and future growth (depreciation & retained profits) 27.0% 3,507,503 35.6% 5,165,571 dropping by 12.2% and 17.9% respectively witnessed in the share price of the company 12,960,640 14,486,342 contributed towards the dismal performance whilst net assets per share improved by 4.6% in of the Company’s share price. The total value comparison to the last financial year. of shares traded during the year amounted 2015/2016 Distribution of Wealth Created to Rs 2.7 billion with the share price reaching Price Earnings Ratio a high of Rs. 104.50 and a low of Rs. 67.10. as at 31st March Times Total Value distributed by the Group Rs.12,961 Mn Market capitalisation decreased compared to the previous year, to Rs. 29.8 billion which was 14.72 1.15% of the total market capitalisation of the To Governments Colombo Stock Exchange. 10.82 11.29 Rs.1,148 Mn To Employees Rs.5,905 Mn Dividends To Lenders of Capital The Board of Directors has recommended a Rs.1,791 Mn first and final dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share for To Shareholders the financial year 2015/2016 which is a 25% Rs.609 Mn decline compared to the dividend declared in Retained for Reinvestments the previous financial year, being mindful of the Rs.3,508 Mn 2014 2015 2016 decline in attributable profits.The payout portion in absolute terms amounted to Rs.609.0 million while the payout ratio increased to 30.0% from 22.7%, owing to the 43.4% decline in earnings. 54 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 55 Tourism sector A Rs.17.2 Bn  Rs.2.3 Bn Revenue for the year Profit for the year Rs. 39.2 Bn Total assets Aitken Spence has been closely linked to the 2.2 Bn 100% 970gCO Sri Lankan tourism industry and its growth and development over the past four decades, with Rs. 2e a growing footprint and reputation for quality, Total contribution to the of total waste water at the hotels Per guest night reduction in Governments in Sri Lanka and Maldives is emissions in the owned hotels in management expertise and sustainability. (by direct and indirect taxes) treated/reused Sri Lanka and Maldives • Hotels • Inbound & Outbound Travel • Airline GSA 56 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 57 Tourism sector Inputs Business Process Output Outcome Financial capital Corporate Vision Financial capital Financial capital • Equity funding • Debt funding Brand Values • Internally generated cash flows • Financial stability • Debt servicing • Share holder returns • Internally generated cash Strategy • Revenue generation flows Core Strengths Natural capital Natural capital Natural capital • Unique locations Business Model • Bio diversity and natural eco • Environmental sustainability • Water systems conservation • Pioneering eco tourism/ • Bio diversity and natural eco Key Stakeholders Key Activities Customer Segments • Sustainable resource consumption sustainable tourism systems • Tour operators • Providing accommodation • Tour operators • Environmental education and • Joint venture partners • Food & beverage • MICE segment advocacy • Principal airlines • Spa and Wellness holidays • Frequent independent travellers local and foreign • Internationally benchmarked • Local community • Excursions • Regular holiday makers from overseas practices • Hotel owners / partners • Diving and water sports experience • Ayurveda clients Manufactured capital • Employees • Organising of customer specialised itineraries with all • Destination weddings Manufactured capital Manufactured capital • Iconic properties • Shareholders ancillary services • Tour itineraries for international sports events • Star class accommodation • Unique and memorable • Luxury fleet of vehicles • Convenient and comfortable travel experience to customers Revenue Streams Cost Structure Channels • Income from Hotel rooms and functions • Accommodation, food & beverage cost • Web • Income from tour packages • Cost of construction and maintenance of Hotels • Travel fairs and exhibitions Intellectual capital • Commissions received on Airline GSAs • Cost of transport • Tour operators Intellectual capital Intellectual capital • Globally renowned brands • Food and Beverage • Staff cost • Direct personalised marketing Spa income Cost of technology Promotional campaigns • Meeting quality specifications • Delivery of brand promise and franchises • • • Event Management Finance cost • Efficiency improvement • Setting trends in the industry • Licenses • • • Proven systems and • Operational and marketing cost structures Human capital Key Resources Value Propositions Customer Relationship • Brand values – Aitken Spence / Heritance / Adaaran • Unique experience • Loyalty programmes “Diamond Club” Human capital Human capital • Specialised knowledge / Turyaa • Value for money • Interactive websites • Engaged workforce • Personal and professional and skills on hospitality and • Strategically positioned iconic properties • Premium segment • Continuous ongoing relationships with the tour • Brand ambassadors growth destination management • Exceptional service relationship with suppliers • Niche/wellness segment operators • Employee well being • International exposure • Training and development • Expertise of staff • Iconic architecture • Service excellence which results in repeat customers • Developing skills required for the • Developing the skill pool of the • Experienced and globally • Technology • Premium all inclusive offering • On brand service experience delivery industry with initiatives such as industry in the regions that we recognised staff • Selection of destinations from Sri Lanka, Oman • Customer loyalty cross cultural training operate Maldives and India Social and relationship capital Social and relationship  Social and relationship • Strategic partnerships capital capital • Community engagement • Enriching and improving local • Influencing and advocating • Shared values livelihoods and assisting the sustainable tourism in a local Corporate culture development of the local economy and global scale • Stakeholder Engagement Setting the benchmark for • Social and environmental • governance structures Risk Management sustainable social relationship frameworks Governance • Positioning Sri Lanka as a sustainable tourist destination Operating Environment 58 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 59 Tourism sector l 1972 The general sales agency of Singapore Airlines was obtained by the Group; which we have l 1992 Aitken Spence Hotels was listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange with an issued share l 2004 Aitken Spence Travels enters into a JV partnership with TUI of which the results are l 2013 The Group enters into a joint venture with RIU Hotels, Spain to build a 500 room five star Luxury The overall strategy of the hotels segment has been continuously retained to date. l 1974 The first resort hotel, ‘Neptune Hotel’ was capital of Rs. 150 million. l 1993 The first Sri Lankan hospitality company exceptional. l 2005 Launched ‘Adaaran Prestige Water Villa’ with resort hotel in Ahungalla. l 2014 Acquired a 143 roomed hotel property in to consolidate its present competitive position constructed in Beruwala designed by the renowned architect Geoffrey Bawa. Neptune is now re-branded to broaden its horizons and develop an overseas portfolio by entering into the Maldives tourism twenty exclusive luxury water villas at Meedhupparu Island; Maldives. Chennai, making it the first hotel property owned by the Group in India while making required investments to propel growth as ‘Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara’. sector with the acquisition of Bathala Island resort in l 2006 Entering the Indian hospitality industry by l 2015 Unveiling of the Turyaa brand with the newly for the future. The segment which represents l 1977 The Group obtains IATA membership and Maldives. securing the management of five hotel properties in acquired property in India being launched as Turyaa enters into inbound and outbound travel, with this l 1994 Commenced commercial operations of India. Chennai and the previously known ‘The Sands’ 53.5% of the Aitken Spence Group’s total assets, ‘Aitken Spence Travels Ltd’ was incorporated. l 1978 ‘Aitken Spence Travels’ enters into an agency ‘Heritance Kandalama’ one of the world’s defining ecologically conscious hotels to become the first l 2007 Obtains the management of four hotel properties in Oman, becoming Sri Lanka’s first refurbished and expanded, being launched as Turyaa Kalutara. has invested in a number of strategic new projects agreement with TUI which is a one of the world’s leading leisure travel companies. Asian hotel to receive the prestigious ‘Green Globe 21’ certification. hospitality company to enter the Middle East. l 2008 The Group opens ‘Adaaran Prestige Vadoo’ l 2016 Acquired Al Falaj, Oman a 150 room four star property in Muscat, the first hotel property owned by during the year under review which are expected to l 1981 The first five star resort ‘Triton’ was constructed in Ahungalla designed by the renowned l 1996 ‘The Tea Factory’ the first theme hotel in Sri Lanka commences operations. the fifth resort with fifty luxury villas in close proximity to the Male atoll. the Group in Oman l 2016 Launch of Heritance Negombo, a 139 roomed bring in contributions in the short to medium term. architect Geoffrey Bawa. Triton Hotel is now branded l 2010 The Group is appointed as the general sales luxury five star property on Negombo beach. as ‘Heritance Ahungalla’. agents for Sri Lankan Airlines in Maldives. Tourism sector markets. However, the commitment to superior the additional 90 rooms and the refurbishment destination markets, Asia and the Pacific grew global tourism. In this context, Sri Lanka stands that the considerable increase was in the number Aitken Spence has been closely linked to the service standards and by providing the guest a of the existing 110 rooms, The Sands resort 5% with sub-sector Oceania growing by over 7% to gain as one of the safest destinations in of “off the beaten track” travellers rather than Sri Lankan tourism industry and its growth and differentiated experience, the sector was able was re-launched as Turyaa Kalutara. It became and South-East Asia growing by 5% while South the world at present; the country’s improving conventional tourists. development over the past four decades, with to maintain its brand leadership. Although the the second hotel of the Group to come under Asia grew by 4%. Outbound growth was led relations with the West should also generate a growing footprint and reputation for quality, hotels segment saw a decline in profit before the Turyaa brand, the first being Turyaa Chennai once again by China while improving economies greater confidence leading to Western tour Hotels management expertise and sustainability. tax of 34.2% for the year under consideration, in India, which was launched during the year. in the US and UK led to growth in those markets. operators choosing the destination. The The overall strategy of the hotels segment has Tourism is the largest sector of the Aitken the returns from recent investments in new The Group also owns and/or operates four Russia and Brazil, which have posted strong depreciation of the rupee against major been to consolidate its present competitive Spence Group. The sector owns / manages a properties and refurbishments are expected to other properties in Bandarawela, Kandy and performances in the past, dropped significantly currencies has made the destination more position while making required investments portfolio of resorts in Sri Lanka, Maldives, Oman improve the profitability in coming years. Passikudah. In the Maldives, a global tourism amid severe economic constraints. The UNWTO affordable while the steep decline in oil prices to propel growth for the future. The segment and India while also owning Aitken Spence hotspot, Aitken Spence Group has stamped Confidence Index shows prospects for global should make global air travel cheaper. The destination management segment had a which represents 53.5% of the Aitken Spence Travels, the largest destination management its presence with five resorts under the brand tourism remain largely positive for 2016, with better year in terms of profitability and was able Sri Lanka reached its highest ever annual arrivals Group’s total assets, has invested in a number company in Sri Lanka that served 129,000 “Adaaran”. In the year under review the Group arrivals targeted to grow by 3.5% to 4.5% to improve the profit before tax by 7.0% and figure of 1,798,380 in 2015, growing 17.8% of strategic new projects during the year visitors to the country during the financial year. also invested US$ 36 million to acquire Al Falaj worldwide. consolidate the market leadership position in the from the previous year. Arrivals from China and under review which are expected to bring in Aitken Spence has also been representing Hotel in Muscat, one of the five resorts managed destination management industry. Demand for tourist destination, while strong India grew by 67.6% and 30.3% respectively contributions in the short to medium term. The Singapore Airlines as the General Sales Agent by the Group in Oman since 2008. overall, was mixed across individual destinations while the traditionally strong Western European existing product portfolio is also being enhanced (Passenger and Cargo) in Sri Lanka for over forty The Sri Lankan resorts sector owns and operates through improvements to the sector’s iconic Global tourism grew by 4.5% in 2015/2016 as due to the impact of exchange rates, drop markets such as UK and Germany grew by years. five iconic properties under the “Heritance” brand properties in order to offer unique value added Germany, USA, UK, China and France posted in oil prices, security concerns and changing 12%. With Eastern European socioeconomic –Heritance Kandalama, Heritance Tea Factory, healthy growth. 1,184 million people travelled disposable incomes. Security concerns in the concerns showing no signs of abating, Russia services, which will enable differentiation and The year in review was a challenging period Heritance Ahungalla, Heritance Ayurveda Maha to international destinations during the year, Middle East and the rising prospect of terrorism and Ukraine arrivals dipped by 11.3 % and premium pricing. for the sector with external factors affecting Gedara and the latest addition, Heritance 50 million more than the previous year. Among in Europe have posed multiple problems for 20.2% respectively. But it is important to note the operating environment in the overseas Negombo. Subsequent to the construction of 60 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 61 Tourism sector Sri Lanka 139 roomed Heritance Negombo is LEED Gold Heritance Ahungalla achieved an encouraging support for the new property by promoting the Tourism in Sri Lanka must evolve with a clear destination promotion strategy In Sri Lanka, Heritance Kandalama and Heritance certified, and is built on a platform of sustainable growth in profit before tax over the previous year. destination to its wide clientele. in order to reap higher value; the lack of centrally-led comprehensive Tea Factory were the main contributors to sector tourism. Turyaa Kalutara saw room inventory increase Tourism in Sri Lanka must evolve with a clear destination marketing is taking a toll on the market which faces tough profits, with their combination of service from the competition. In order to sustain high yield European markets, Aitken Spence At Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedera, efforts by 90 while the existing 110 rooms were destination promotion strategy in order to heart and uniqueness of concept and design, have continued to improve the product and upgraded and refurbished in order to command reap higher value; the lack of centrally-led has even contributed towards marketing campaigns undertaken by the tour attracting strong numbers to the resorts. Annual service levels in order to grow market share. a strong position in the 4 Star plus segment. comprehensive destination marketing is taking a operators and been successful in attracting a sizable number of high end average occupancy at both resorts was over Renovation of the resort as well as improving Aitken Spence is optimistic that the economies toll on the market which faces tough competition 80%. While both resorts have seen competition clients. the service skills of the employees have been of scale and synergies thus gained will drive from growing regional tourism markets such building up in their regional vicinities, they have undertaken during the year in order to improve future profit growth. This belief was further as Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia. With no been able to extend their leadership positions the offering. The wellness offer of the property strengthened by the property successfully state-led strategy in place, individual operators through best practices in customer service 8.2% after adjusting for the one-off insurance while plans are being finalised for a resort on has strong demand among German and securing a guaranteed production commitment have been compelled to offer tactical promotions and care. The Group will continue to invest in claim received last year. Raafushi. Japanese clientele; new growing markets include from a European operator. Hotel Hilltop in Kandy and other incentives, compromising on yields to the hardware and software of these flagship Britain and Sweden. The growth in revenue as which offers a value-for-money proposition saw attract volumes particularly for beach properties. In response to market pressures, the segment properties in order to keep upgrading the value Oman well as the profitability is a statement of the future the refurbishment of 50 out of 75 rooms being In order to sustain high yield European markets, undertook several sales strategies during proposition offered to customers, which have potential of Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedera completed during the year, with no closure of Aitken Spence has even contributed towards the summer which resulted in a year-end The Group has had a presence in Oman since large numbers of repeat guests who must be operations. The property achieved an average marketing campaigns undertaken by the tour rally in occupancies. As a result the average 2008, managing five properties in partnership given enhanced experiences. Both properties Heritance Ahungalla achieved an average occupancy exceeding 75% for the year, driven operators and been successful in attracting a occupancies in the resorts were above 70% for with the Oman Hotels & Tourism Company. The recorded an impressive growth in profit before occupancy of over 75% during the year, but by attractive offers which helped to compete sizable number of high end clients. the year. market knowledge thus acquired steered Aitken tax for the period under consideration. continued to face the challenges of increased with increased inventory in the region. Spence to acquire the 150 roomed, four star Al competition from the informal sector on the The Group plans to undertake strategic Falaj hotel with an investment of approximately Heritance Negombo,which was constructed in Maldives beach; all formal star class operators along the The tourism industry of the country is set to upgrades at all five of its properties without US$ 36 million. The property is spread on 5 the premises of former Browns Beach Hotel, The negative publicity on the political instability South-Western Coast have been under margin undergo a revolutionary transformation with any closure; the upgrades were planned after acres of free hold land in the heart of Muscat, the opened for business at the end of the financial and the sudden imposition of a state of pressure in the price competitive market. The the July 2016 launch of RIU Ahungalla, a careful consideration of consumer feedback and capital city of Oman. It has been managed by year and is well positioned to capture multiple emergency in Maldives had a negative impact on demand from the lower end tourist segment 500-roomed luxury property built by Aitken research and involved both hardware and service Aitken Spence for the past 8 years and was thus segments of the tourism market of the area. the entire destination in winter 2015/2016 with has resulted in a disproportionate supply of Spence in partnership with RIU Hotels of Spain. improvements. The sector will continue to target a natural choice for investment. The investment Negombo is in close proximity to the main airport reduced arrivals from lucrative markets such as low priced rooms on the beach front offering The 5 star property built on prime beach land the European markets and pay greater focus to allows the company to gain a strong foothold and under an hour away from Colombo city on China, Russia and the Western Europe. Presently a product which compromises on the quality owned by Aitken Spence will operate on a other regional markets, taking care to avoid over in the strategically positioned Oman market the airport expressway; the coastal town itself is the situation has subsided with arrivals once thereby eroding the margins of the formal sector. new model of charter tourism – its success will dependence on any single market segment. and the Middle East, which is slated for strong a vibrant and buzzing tourist locale. Its location again on the rise and Maldives being back on the Offering of sub-standard quality products by the augur well for the long term prospects of both future growth despite present reluctance among thus allows positioning Heritance Negombo as centre stage of the world tourism market. informal sector not only dilutes Sri Lanka’s image the Group and the tourism industry. RIU will In spite of setbacks, the tourism proposition European travellers given the security concerns a city hotel on the beach. In order to capitalise in the world tourism market but also makes it manage and market the property which is set to of the Maldives remains strong with its pristine in the Middle East. further on the opportunities of the tourist strip, The market dynamics in the Maldives have increasingly difficult to promote the country as a become a destination by itself, catering primarily tropical beaches and reef-surrounded islands the hotel will also operate a food and beverage undergone a change with the Maldivian higher end destination for discerning travellers. to charters from Europe. TUI of Germany, who is offering relaxation, excellent marine life and water cum entertainment complex under the name government allowing the operation of guest India Despite the challenging operating environment the partner of RIU will be providing the marketing based activities in high quality resorts. The Group ‘Banyan’ across the street from the property. The houses on habited islands at much lower rates India’s close proximity and its growing affluence thus remains bullish about the Maldives, where than resorts. The growing informal sector is offer potential for the other three destinations it is one of the largest resort operators. During thus taking a larger share of arrivals – which the sector operates in and therefore, a presence the previous financial year and the beginning grew marginally by 2.4% in 2015 to hit 1.23 in India is important in the long term. Turyaa of this financial year the Group invested on two million arrivals. Competition at the high end of Chennai, the property owned and managed by new islands Aarah and Raafushi. Construction the Maldives is also set to grow with 60 islands the Group reported results below expectations has begun on a 150-roomed five star property plus lagoons handed over to major developers during its initial year of operations. The delay in on Aarah, which is due for launch in winter 2017 and international operators during the past year. of obtaining necessary approvals and licenses However, despite these challenges the reputation of Maldives as an upmarket destination is continuing to attract high spending tourists to the Revenue Total Assets Profit after Tax for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March for the year ended 31st March archipelago. 39,219 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 3,724 3,678 16,844 17,160 33,709 15,928 Aitken Spence properties in Maldives had a 26,748 challenging year, amid the general industry downturn, the drop in Chinese arrivals, and stiff 2,288 competition in the segment. For the first time in many years the segment reported a decline in revenue and profit before tax of 3.6% and 18.2% respectively during the financial year. However the decline of the profit before tax would be 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 62 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 63 Tourism sector impacted the performance of the property. and the pulse of the business environment in tours. The company secured preferred partner Singapore Airlines has confirmed the services of 3 additional morning Management Approach to Sustainability The hotel is expected to record improved order to take timely precautionary measures. status on Via.com”, the largest online distributor flights to Colombo beginning April 2016, thereby increasing to 10 The sustainability strategy of each sector is performance in the years ahead. Benchmarking also allows the segment to stay in South India and the partnership with Italian dependent on the impacts of the sector on weekly operations – the first increase in 15 years. The new flights will ahead of the competition by differentiating its charter operator AlpiTours whose charters could economic growth, social progression and product offering to deliver unique experiences to bring in up to 500 visitors per month during the offer enhanced connectivity to routes such as China, Japan, Australia, Hotel Management environmental protection. The most effective guests. Focused customer satisfaction surveys winter season. Bangladesh and European points while an increase in corporate travel to The Hotel Management segment manages method to manage impacts of an operation is are also carried out at each property through the Singapore is also anticipated due to the favourable timings. to have a systematic approach: the sector’s the resorts coming under the Group’s portfolio The company was successful in obtaining the review management software, with customised approach begins by identifying impacts, studying in the four countries it operates, namely, Sri Official Travel Agent status in Sri Lanka for the survey questionnaires sent to each guest through the nature and frequency of impacts and the Lanka, Maldives, Oman and India. Presently the ICC World Twenty20 in India, which offered an automated system following check-out. With the entry of global hotel chains and the Spence Travels to offer Sri Lanka travel packages potential risks posed from the future action the segment manages 21 hotels of which 8 are not opportunities to promote and sell official match Comprehensive response management is also development of the right infrastructure and in Taiwan, Japan and Korea. company can take. Compliance requirements, owned by the Group, which is a testimony to tickets and packages. The company also undertaken for all reviews posted on leading boutique properties, Sri Lanka is expected to see public perception, and system standards, key the expertise and the management capability saw rapid sales to the Maldives during a joint Singapore Airlines has confirmed the services hotel review platforms. a significant increase in demand from the luxury stakeholder inputs, industry norms and trends, of our experienced staff. The Group has future promotion with Mihin Lanka and the Group’s of 3 additional morning flights to Colombo traveller. The segment sees opportunity in the local and global benchmarks and best practices. plans of increasing the size of its managed The segment’s operating results are expected to own resort, Adaaran Select Huduranfushi. The beginning April 2016, thereby increasing to luxury segment into Sri Lanka and will therefore management system requirements guide the hotels portfolio by offering its services to property be favourably impacted by the depreciation of company also undertook a joint promotion with 10 weekly operations – the first increase in fine tune its product offering within this segment. sector on the required action to be taken for owners needing the services of an experienced the rupee as a significant number of contracts Sri Lankan Airlines and Turyaa Chennai to attract 15 years. The new flights will offer enhanced management company. each impact to ensure the operation is taking with tour operators are denominated in US dollar the Sri Lankan travellers to Chennai. connectivity to routes such as China, Japan, Airline GSA proactive action to ensure the viability, profitability and other major foreign currencies. Even though Australia, Bangladesh and European points while In a strong endorsement of TUI’s faith in Sri The air travel industry in Sri Lanka experienced and integrity of the company in the long term. Future there is a negative impact on foreign currency an increase in corporate travel to Singapore is borrowings due to the depreciation of the rupee, Lanka, the leading integrated tourism group in a decline in official government travel during the also anticipated due to the favourable timings. The future for the hotels sector lies in Partner organisations, employees and regulators the natural hedge provided by the fact that most the world has committed to developing the Sri financial year while corporate travel was also Ahead of the capacity injection, a comprehensive strengthening its key competitive offering of are key stakeholders for Aitken Spence Aviation. of the segment’s revenue is in foreign currency Lankan market in the long term. Sri Lanka has sporadic during the first two quarters. The steep marketing communications campaign was unique concept and design, and exceptional Aitken Spence Hotels consider their employees, minimises any adverse impact. been featured in TUI’s main source markets. The decline in global fuel prices failed to have an launched on electronic media while an online customer service, combined with sustainable immediate community hotels operate in, guests, future strategy encapsulates consolidating Sri immediate impact on air travel, as airlines opted campaign will also be pursued to create tourism. In this context, it is critical that the regulators, partners, service providers and Lanka as a key destination within the TUI group to recoup past losses instead of lowering prices awareness and increase sales via the digital human resource is well trained, talent developed Destination Management suppliers as their key stakeholders. Employees, while securing enhanced charter movement from and surcharges. medium. and key personnel retained in order to offer Aitken Spence Travels recorded a 20% growth local and foreign partners, tour guides, chauffeur the Nordic region, UK and Eastern Europe. a consistent level of service. Furthermore, year on year in terms of arrivals mainly as a The General Sales Agency for Singapore Airlines guides and other service providers, and The strategic focus for 2016/2017 will be to the segment will also employ technology result of the diversity of its portfolio. While the On the technology front, the traditional tour in Sri Lanka recorded a satisfactory performance suppliers are key stakeholders for Aitken Spence increase the turnover in a bid to improve overall across platforms and applications in order to numbers have grown, margins remained under operator business model is transforming rapidly during the year, with passenger and cargo Travels. Ongoing engagement with these key profits; extra onus will be placed on achieving drive efficiency, service delivery, intelligence, pressure due to the competitive environment. with the advent of online platforms, which offer volumes delivering upto expectations. Australia stakeholders keeps channels of communication the internet penetration targets which would help sustainability and economies of scale. The company continued to reap high revenues enhanced products, real time availability and remains the key contributor to overall revenue open for the companies. garner incremental revenue every month. from the British and Australian markets, and the more flexible booking terms. Aitken Spence is followed by New Zealand, Philippines, Vietnam The Group undertakes extensive measures to For an overview of the stakeholder online segments showed impressive growth in reaping the rewards of embracing the online and Indonesia while the majority of cargo The Turkish Airline GSA agreement was engagement process of Aitken Spence enhance internal efficiencies and to manage PLC, refer to pages 26 to 29 in the both revenue and volume. The cruise segment space, by developing extensive links with online volumes are destined for the US. The company terminated in March 2016 following a review of costs, which include comprehensive central 2014/2015 Annual Report. also had notable growth. As a result of these operators to cater to the growing sector; in has engaged in a joint promotion with Aitken the long term profitability of the operation. purchasing in order to achieve volume-based http://aitkenspence.com/corporatepositive developments the segment reported an addition, the company’s own online booking governance/integrated-reporting-reports/ prices, collective bargains, a centralised improvement of 7.0% in profit before tax over the engine ‘Spencebeds’ has been growing steadily. marketing strategy as well as energy saving previous year. initiatives. Increased investment was also The company’s outlook is positive given the undertaken in technological solutions that During the year, Aitken Spence established growing interest in Sri Lanka and the competitive offer better operational enhancements and several new partnerships with tour operators attractiveness of the destination, especially in management information. which included Cox & Kings, a leader in terms of socio-political stability and security. outbound travel operations in United Kingdom The segments conducts comprehensive market Aitken Spence has benefited from its foresight and ‘Hi Tours’ of India for up-market incentive intelligence and analysis to gauge risks, trends to enter non-traditional markets in the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Far East and the Americas thereby securing first mover advantage. The On the technology front, the traditional tour operator business model country will continue to benefit from its close is transforming rapidly with the advent of online platforms, which offer proximity to India, where the growing urban enhanced products, real time availability and more flexible booking terms. middle class is set to generate increasing travel. Aitken Spence is reaping the rewards of embracing the online space, by The company plans to invest in advertising campaigns, representatives, sales calls, developing extensive links with online operators to cater to the growing familiarisation trips and special offers to drive sector; in addition, the company’s own online booking engine ‘Spencebeds’ growth from the Chinese and Indian markets. has been growing steadily. 64 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 65 Tourism sector Due to the nature of the tourism sector, Aitken Spence hotels have also implemented Energy Management Systems environmental protection (i.e. energy, water, (EnMS) in line with the ISO 50001:2011 standard to increase efficiency in biodiversity, emissions, effluents and solid energy use and in doing so to reduce GHG emissions. Heritance Ahungalla waste), health and safety, quality of service and social progression are important aspects was the first resort hotel in Sri Lanka and possibly the world to secure this to study when prioritising efforts to mitigate certification. The Heritance chain of hotels claims the honour of being the impacts. first hotel chain in Sri Lanka and among the first hotel chains in the world to achieve the certification for all hotel properties. Environmental Management Systems (EMS) aligned to ISO 14001: 2004 system standard have been implemented across the sector. all waste items to close the loop and convert plastic bottles of water kept in rooms to be Heritance Ahungalla, Heritance Tea Factory, it into a resource for a different purpose). All replaced with glass containers to reduce the Heritance Kandalama, Turyaa Kalutara and waste streams are segregated and separately generation of waste. Aitken Spence Travels have maintained the managed with the ultimate goal of reaching certification for their respective EMSs. All Aitken Spence hotels have also implemented ‘Zero Waste to Landfill’. Aitken Spence Travels companies within the sector practice the “Switch Energy Management Systems (EnMS) in line and Aitken Spence Aviation have opted to use Off” policy to use energy only when required with the ISO 50001:2011 standard to increase electronic processes for several tasks to reduce and to eliminate the waste of energy. “Closing efficiency in energy use and in doing so to the paper consumption in the operation. Aitken Tap” policy encourages good habits and reduce GHG emissions. Heritance Ahungalla was Spence Travels is among the first Destination housekeeping procedures to eliminate the waste the first resort hotel in Sri Lanka and possibly the of water. Some of the hotel properties have Management Companies (DMCs) in Sri Lanka to A testament to the effectiveness of the management systems maintained Sustainability performance overview offset GHG emissions. The company continues world to secure this certification. The Heritance extended this one step further to show the flow chain of hotels claims the honour of being within the sector is Travelife – Gold certification obtained last financial year A testament to the effectiveness of the to champion the cause of reducing emissions management systems maintained within the rates to the guests using information plaques the first hotel chain in Sri Lanka and among by the Heritance chain of hotels. Travelife programme provides companies with this practice. All hotels reclaim the effluents sector is Travelife – Gold certification obtained displayed next to the faucets and showerheads: and treat the waste water for reuse in the hotel the first hotel chains in the world to achieve an industry bench marked certification standard to evaluate, prove and the objective is to create awareness of the last financial year by the Heritance chain gardens: this reduces the amount of freshwater the certification for all hotel properties. Aitken communicate sustainability achievements by evaluating the appropriate volume of water used for each minute water is of hotels with the exception of Heritance withdrawn as the purpose is fulfilled by treated Spence Hotels maintain a local purchasing management procedures. allowed to flow thus, encouraging guests to save Negombo which was not operational at the time. waste water. The sludge collected from the policy advocating the use of produce and other water. Travelife programme provides companies an process is also treated and sold at a nominal required material and services to be sourced industry benchmarked certification standard to rate to community farmers as fertilizer. Heritance from suppliers within 30km – 40km radius of the Tea Factory and Heritance Kandalama hotels. processes. During the 2015-16 financial year The 7R concept is championed within this sector evaluate, prove and communicate sustainability Ayurveda Maha Gedara, Heritance Tea Factory hotel where and when possible. The objective Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara was the first Heritance Ahungalla, Heritance Kandalama, (Reject hazardous and non-biodegradable achievements by evaluating the appropriate use wet waste from the hotel to generate energy of this policy is twofold; to provide opportunities hotel in Sri Lanka to opt for net metering and is Heritance Tea Factory, Turyaa Kalutara, Adaaran items, Reduce the use of items that cannot be management procedures. Heritance Negombo (biogas). Heritance Ahungalla hotel composts the to local communities thereby enabling social a source of energy for the national grid through Club Rannalhi, Adaaran Prestige Vadoo, Adaaran rejected, Reuse to reduce consumption even and the properties in the Maldives are currently wet waste: effort taken to reduce the generation progression; and to reduce the miles travelled to the solar power Photo-Voltaic system installed at Select Huduranfushi, and Adaaran Select further, Reclaim what cannot be reused, Repair at stage 2 in the certification process (Stage 1: of waste had resulted in bringing down the reduce scope 3 emissions of the operation. The the hotel. Meedhupparu maintained their HACCP/ ISO broken/damaged items, Replace hazardous or Travelife engaged, Stage 2: Travelife Partner, average wet waste quantities from 250 kg to efforts of Aitken Spence Hotels to use renewable 22000:2005 food safety management system non-biodegradable items with environmentally Stage 3: Travelife Certified) and hope to obtain around 40-50kg. Heritance Ayurveda Maha energy where possible resulted in the biomass The team at Heritance Ahungalla has set up a certification. friendly alternatives or substitutes and Recycle ‘Travelife Certified’ status in the coming financial Gedara is evaluating the possibility of replacing gasifiers being implemented at the Heritance ‘Green Club’ to generate ideas to implement year. action for the aspects identified as priorities. Biodiversity is another significant aspect (material Each department is represented by a member aspect) for the sector due to the potential In August 2015, the Adaaran chain of hotels to give ideas to make the operation more impacts the industry could have on biodiversity. in the Maldives was among the first resort environmentally friendly. To include their guests in None of the sector’s operations are located in operators to sign the ‘Male 3R Declaration’ of their programmes for environmental protection, close proximity to national reserves or protected the government of Maldives, to manage waste, Heritance Ahungalla provides tree saplings for areas. The sector takes necessary precautions promote sustainable tourism and protect marine couples tying the knot at the hotel as a part of to ensure that areas of high biodiversity value and coastal ecosystems. their celebrations. Aitken Spence Aviation has are protected and preserved. More detailed also established a programme to encourage overviews have been shared in previous annual In addition to ongoing activities to preserve staff to give ideas to implement action towards reports which can be perused on the Group the environment in its natural condition as their identified sustainability priorities. This website. much as possible, Aitken Spence Hotels ‘Staff Ideas in Action’ programme lets staff worked with Group sustainability division to members contribute ideas and successful ideas For more details on how the sector develop an animal welfare policy in line with protects biodiversity, refer to; are rewarded to encourage more employees the fundamental standards proposed by the Pages 74 to 76 in the 2014/2015 Annual to come up with creative ideas to meet Report, Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism sustainability goals of the company. http://aitkenspence.com/corporatedeveloped by the Association of British Travel governance/integrated-reporting-reports/ Agents and endorsed by leading animal welfare or, refer to the report from 2011; All hotels have established procedures to ensure organisations. Aitken Spence Hotels are http://aitkenspence.com/wp-content/ safety and hygiene in the food and beverage uploads/2014/12/Case-Study-1.pdf committed to uphold recommended standards 66 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 67 Tourism sector The Eco Park at Heritance Kandalama became a healing centre for injured which are overseen by the Associates of 2014/2015 2015/2016 animals when the naturalists of the hotel started caring for sick and injured Heritance Kandalama and Heritance Ahungalla hotels respectively. Energy consumption and GHG emissions monitored animals brought to the Eco Park by villagers. The Eco Park also serves as Direct Energy Consumption 260,978 GJ 247,120 GJ an education centre on the biodiversity of the area and close to 3 million The sector’s total spending on community Diesel – 78.2% Diesel – 83 % visitors have joined educational tours since the inception. development in 2015/2016 was Rs. 13.2 Petrol – 11.5% Petrol – 6% million/Furnace oil – 3.2% Furnace oil – 3% LPG – 3.8% LPG – 4% of welfare for animals to ensure that all animals Each company has its own strategic initiatives To increase their activities towards product Biomass/ fuel wood Biomass/ fuelwood encountered and possibly impacted through the for local economic development and to enable responsibility, Heritance Ahungalla has started – 3.4% – 4% activities of Aitken Spence Hotels are treated employee volunteerism which have been adding meal types (i.e. vegetarian/ nonvegetarian / gluten free) to the menu labels Indirect Energy Consumption 38,616 GJ 43,918 GJ humanely and with respect, and to protect maintained during the last financial year as well. to allow the guests to make more informed Amount of energy saved 11,072 GJ 10,506 GJ animals from exploitation, neglect and cruelty. During recruitment, Group hotels give priority decisions about what they consume. This is also Total energy produced from non-renewable sources (GJ) 245,166 GJ 198,487 GJ Aitken Spence Hotels and Aitken Spence to local applicants with ‘local’ defined as the being considered by all other properties as a Total energy produced from renewable sources (GJ) 8,869 GJ 8,930 GJ Travels are currently collaborating strengths vicinity within a 40km radius of each hotel. Aitken best practice. Total water withdrawal 577,750 m3 1,020,686 m3 to develop a different experience for guests Spence Hotels have a policy for local purchasing Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water None None to interact with wild animals and learn about and accordingly, produce, services and other Aitken Spence Aviation has continued to focus Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organisation 310,766 m3 525,192 m3 animal welfare to encourage them to move away supplies available in the local community are on developing the skills of their employees to Quantified gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 16,737 tonnesCO2e 15,806 tonnesCO2e from seeking excursions that are harmful to the sourced from the local community. A significant provide the best service to the passengers. Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 7,938 tonnesCO2e 20,779 tonnesCO2e animals. Aitken Spence Travels also hopes to offer more excursions focusing on nature based proportion of the procurement budget at the Amount of GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset 6,390 tonnesCO2e 1,350 tonnesCO2e experiences. hotels is spent on local suppliers. Aitken Spence A socially responsible company; Waste Resource Management Travels also opts for local suppliers at most Compliant Paper recycled or sold for recycling 14,336 kg 12,927 kg The Eco Park at Heritance Kandalama became destinations to source products and services • Zero significant fines/ non-monetary Cardboard sold for recycling 24,829 kg 17,990 kg a healing centre for injured animals when the required for their operations. More than 75% of sanctions for non-compliance with laws Plastic sold for recycling and/ or disposed according to requirements 13,826 kg 12,069 kg naturalists of the hotel started caring for sick the procurement budget of the company is spent and regulations of the EPL and injured animals brought to the Eco Park on local suppliers of each destination. • Zero incidents of non-compliance with regulations/ voluntary codes on Polythene sold/ handed over for recycling and/ or disposed according 4,955 kg 4,800 kg by villagers. The Eco Park also serves as an marketing communications to requirements of the EPL education centre on the biodiversity of the Community engagement activities allow the local community in the vicinity of hotels to voice their • Zero substantiated complaints on CFL bulbs handed over for recycling, kept in storage to be recycled 1,345 bulbs 873 bulbs area and close to 3 million visitors have joined breaches of customer privacy concerns; many activities undertaken by hotels and/ or disposed according to requirements of the EPL educational tours since the inception. During the last financial year 8,945 visitors have been in 2015/2016 were based on needs identified Committed to sustainable operations Lead acid batteries handed over for recycling and/ or kept in storage 572 kg 572 kg educated at the Eco Park, not including the during these engagement activities. These • Committed to create positive impact in for later recycling 23 kg included the donation of equipment and required social progression, economic growth and Alkaline batteries handed over for recycling, kept in storage to be 485 units guests of the hotel. Aitken Spence Travels environmental protection has also contributed towards education items for community groups and differently recycled and/ or disposed according to requirements of the EPL 360 kg • Exemplary in maintaining management on biodiversity by facilitating programmes abled persons, educational scholarships, systems to mitigate adverse impacts Tyres reused and/ or sold for reuse 876 tyres conducted on diverse platforms. and assistance extended for infrastructure Scrap metal sold for reuse 15,207 kg 22,291 kg • LEED certified hotel properties development. Heritance Ahungalla, Heritance Glass handed over for recycling 30,453 kg 10,551 units • PATA award winning Destination As a first step to reduce chemical usage in the Ayurveda Maha Gedara and Turyaa Kalutara Management Company 31,041 kg housekeeping operation, Turyaa Kalutara hotel conducts a beach cleaning activity every month • Longest serving General Service Agent Soiled cotton handed over for recycling to a Central Environmental 620 kg 620 kg utilised a nanotechnology based specialised with hotel staff, guests, and other stakeholders. of Singapore Airlines Authority (CEA) approved vendor and/ or disposed according to surface protection system and application for • 1,350 tonnes CO2e GHG emissions requirements of the EPL different materials to coat the surfaces of 10 Doctors at the Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara reduced and/ or offset Food waste handed over for recycling, composted and/ or used in 2,118,127 kg 2,306,754 kg rooms. organise a health camp every Wednesday for • Reduction of 29MJ per guest night biogas generator Associates to consult for medical assistance. achieved in the energy consumption in the owned hotels in Sri Lanka and E – waste sold for recycling and/ or disposed according to 269 units 4 units Heritance Ahungalla, Heritance Ayurveda Maha The hotel is also working with the National Child Maldives requirements of the EPL 25 kg 268 kg Gedara and Heritance Kandalama are taking Protection Authority to create awareness on • Reduction of 5.4 litres per guest night Total investment on sustainability processes and action plans Rs. 5.4 mn Rs. 34.3 mn steps to seek OHSAS 18001 certification for their protecting children from exploitation for local achieved in the water consumption in the owned hotels in Sri Lanka and Maldives Note: occupational health and safety systems. The stakeholders. Reporting boundary for the KPIs material to the operation from the GRI G4 framework only include the owned operations in Sri Lanka team at Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara feels Empowering Sri Lanka First (ESLF flagship and Maldives the skills and experience of the staff is strength of the hotel which will assist in their forward plans initiative of Aitken Spence PLC to facilitate community development and sustainable value Read more about the activities carried out by the Tourism sector in our previous reports to expand Ayurveda into more diverse market creation by providing access to English language http://aitkenspence.com/about-us/ segments that show an interest in Ayurveda medicine. and computer skills education to economically challenged students in our communities.) has education centres in Dambulla and Ahungalla 68 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 69 Maritime & Logistics sector A Rs.8.0 Bn Revenue for the year  Rs.1.0 Bn Profit for the year Rs. 9.2Bn Total assets Aitken Spence’s foray into the sector was as a shipping 495 Mn 1,833 tonnes 155GJ agent in the heyday of British colonialism. Today, that maritime legacy remains as the Group’s Maritime and Rs. Logistics sector provides end to end integrated logistical Total contribution to the CO2e of GHG emissions Energy produced from Governments reduced and /or offset renewable sources support services from the manufacturer to the recipient. (by direct and indirect taxes) • Maritime and Port Services • Integrated Logistics • Maritime Education • Freight Forwarding & Courier • Airline GSA (Cargo) 70 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 71 Maritime & Logistics sector Inputs Business Process Output Outcome Financial capital Corporate Vision Financial capital Financial capital • Equity funding • Debt funding Brand Values • Internally generated cash flows • Financial stability • Debt servicing • Share holder returns • Internally generated cash Strategy • Revenue generation flows Core Strengths Natural capital Natural capital Natural capital • Natural resources Business Model • Bio diversity and natural eco • Environmental sustainability systems conservation Key Stakeholders Key Activities Customer Segments • Sustainable resource consumption • Principals • Transportation • Importers / exporters • Environmental education and • Overseas agents • Terminal and depot operations • Forwarders advocacy • Service providers • Freight station operations • Corporate clients • Internationally benchmarked • Carriers • Warehouse/storage operations • Financial Institutions practices • Component manufacturers • Port management services • Shipping lines and airlines Manufactured capital • Affiliated universities linked with CINEC • Contract and regulatory logistics • Knowledge seekers Manufactured capital Manufactured capital • Port terminals and • Regulatory authorities • Third party logistics • Labour unions • Domestics and international courier • Access to state of the art services • Innovative offerings to clients infrastructure • Employees • Cargo GSA operations • Efficient resource usage, Integrated • ‘One stop’ logistics solutions • Enabling technology • Shareholders • Project cargo solutions logistical solutions • Specialised equipment, vehicles and machinery • Students • Maritime education • Shipping agency services • Freight forwarding Channels • Customs House agency • Direct sales • Record management • Overseas agents Intellectual capital • Promotions / Advertisements Intellectual capital Intellectual capital • Globally renowned brands • Web Revenue Streams Cost Structure Meeting quality specifications Delivery of brand promise • Proprietary knowledge • Historical presence • • • Agency fees • Infrastructure cost • Effective systems and processes • Exceeding customer • Licenses • Freight income • Staff cost • Efficiency improvement expectations • Proven systems and • Terminal service income • Freight expenses • Leveraging Sri Lanka as a structures • Management / Technical service income • Network expenses preferred service provider for • Student fee income • Energy cost port management • Finance cost Human capital Customer Relationship • Brand reliability Human capital Human capital • Specialised knowledge and Key Resources Value Propositions • Providing customer specific total logistics solutions • Engaged workforce • Personal and professional skills • People • Service excellence • Continuous ongoing relationships with customers • Enriched knowledge base growth • Training and development • Infrastructure • Value for money • Customer loyalty • Brand ambassadors • Expanding horizons for Maritime • Experienced staff • Fleet of vehicles • Efficiency enhancement • Safe work place and Logistics sector talent pool • Financial strength • Value creation • Improved productivity and through local and International • Relationships • Integrated / “One Stop” solutions efficiency exposure • Expertise • Technology Social and relationship capital • Strategic location  Social and relationship  Social and relationship • Strategic partnerships capital capital • Community engagement • Effective stakeholder engagement • Sustainable wealth creation • Shared values that deliver mutual benefits • Establishing Maritime and • Corporate culture Stakeholder Engagement Improvement of local economy • Logistics industry as a preferred Risk Management • Conducive corporate culture that career path ensures smooth integration and Governance drives performance Operating Environment 72 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 73 Maritime & Logistics sector l 1873 Commencement of Aitken Spence & Co. in Colombo as the largest shipping agency. l 2009 Acquires ‘Loglink (Pvt) Ltd’ a container freight station operation with specialised solutions for develop the two major ports of Suva and Lautoka in Fiji. This is the first pubic-private partnership by a Sri During the year, Aitken Spence embarked on l 1980 Diversified the operations into international freight forwarding in Sri Lanka. warehousing and garments on hangers. 2009/10 Only Sri Lankan company to bid and receive Lankan company overseas. 2015 The Group acquired a 20% equity stake in Fiji a landmark strategic investment by acquiring a 20% equity stake in Fiji Ports Corporation l l l 1981 The Group was appointed as agents for the concession agreement from the Government of Ports Corporation Ltd (FPCL) for approximately US$ Sri Lanka to develop the Colombo South Container 16 million. FPCL is the commercial regulator of the TNT express, one of the world’s leading courier companies. Terminal. ports sector in Fiji and owns the infrastructure of all Ltd (FPCL) for approximately US$ 16 million. major ports in the country and provides dry-docking l 1985 Commenced container transportation services and a inland container terminal in Mattakkuliya. l 2011 The Group becomes the largest shareholder of CINEC which is the Sri Lanka’s largest private sector and ship repair services. FPCL is the commercial regulator of the ports l 1987/88 Established Ace Container Terminals (Pte) maritime and higher education campus. l 2015 Aitken Spence was appointed the exclusive partner of German logistics company DB Schenker in sector in Fiji and owns the infrastructure of all 2012 The Group is appointed as the general sales major ports in the country and provides dryl Ltd to handle the first free trade zone inland dry port Sri Lanka and the Maldives for air and sea freight as in the country. agents (Cargo) for Qatar Airways. well as project cargo. l 2007 The first Sri Lankan Company to venture into ‘Port Efficiency Management’ outside Sri Lanka. l 2013 The Group acquires a majority stake in Fiji Ports Terminal Limited., through a Public Private docking and ship repair services. Partnership to operate, manage, maintain and Aitken Spence’s foray into the sector was demand, overall sea and air freight rates have lower returns from the local freight forwarding growing amidst a strong focus on improving of navigations channels, berths, piers, commissions; pressurising ports and other as a shipping agent in the heyday of British dropped resulting in lower yields. Despite the and integrated logistics segments. The overseas productivity. The Group has implemented infrastructure and also ship building and ship service providers to reduce their tariff and colonialism. Today, that maritime legacy pressures faced by existing operators, the cargo businesses delivered better profits on effective procedures and processes which has repairs. charges, sometimes even avoiding calling ports remains as the Group’s Maritime and Logistics industry still attracted new entrants expanding the back of improved cargo volumes and the led to the better controls thereby capturing all where port charges are high, and reducing staff revenues with no leakages. The shipping industry is facing a major crisis due cadre thereby restricting the opportunities for sector provides end to end integrated logistical the already surplus capacity further and driving improved performance of their airline divisions. to the drop in cargo movement, over capacity cadets to join ships. support services from the manufacturer to prices downwards. As a result, from the three The sector recorded an 69.7% increase in During the year, Aitken Spence embarked on arising from a large number of ships being built the recipient. The sector operates in the three segments within the sector, the integrated profit after tax over the previous year whilst the a landmark strategic investment by acquiring a far outweighing demand, and a drop in freight The overriding depression in the shipping clusters: maritime, integrated logistics and freight logistics segment was affected the most during contribution from this sector to the Group profits 20% equity stake in Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd rates on all sectors severely hampering the industry meant that the maritime and port forwarding & courier, which work independently the year under consideration. In addition the was the highest ever recorded. (FPCL) for approximately US$ 16 million. The profitability of lines. All major shipping lines have services segment had to employ multiple and also together, reaping the synergies of freight forwarding and logistics businesses company has a 49% shareholding in Fiji Ports thus been under pressure and consequently, strategies to achieve growth and enhanced the various business lines to provide seamless were both impacted by the increasing trend for Maritime and Port Services Terminal Ltd (FPTL) in which Aitken Spence is the mergers and acquisitions are rife in the market profits; these included increasing export, integrated solutions. nominated service providers, both locally and The Maritime segment offers shipping agency major shareholder and has a technical services with stronger players buying over weaker lines import and transhipment volumes, targeting internationally. On a positive note, customer The performance of the logistics industry services, port management services in the South agreement for 15 years. FPCL is the commercial and other shipping lines opting to merge to new businesses such as casual callers and demand for end-to-end supply chain solutions is a barometer of a country’s trade and the Pacific and the African Continent, and maritime regulator of the ports sector in Fiji and owns the remain competitive. In Sri Lanka, lines and car carriers, and streamlining processes in the is growing, which augurs well for Aitken Spence downward trend noted in Sri Lankan exports education. The profits of the segment grew year infrastructure of all major ports in the country and agents were also affected by new regulations port management segment to ensure higher as it offers multiple services within the sector, in 2015/2016 was reflected in the challenges on year, with positive contributions from port provides dry-docking and ship repair services. introduced by the government abolishing the revenue, zero leakages and better service. The which includes integrated warehousing facilities, faced by the sector. Major shipping lines have management services, shipping agency activities Aitken Spence’s involvement in the operations Terminal Handling Charge (THC) and limiting external factors such as overcapacity, lower transportation and distribution. introduced bigger vessels with greater capacity and maritime education. of FPCL will also allow the maritime segment to the collection of document fees, as well as anti freight rates and stiffer competition did affect creating a huge surplus of space (supply). Investments made by the Group in the extend its services to marine and navigational competitive regulations. The bleak environment certain segments; notably, revenue per container Similarly, airlines too have introduced added management of port operations positively Port operation management services are offered services such as vessel traffic management and has resultantly put pressure on the businesses was lower than the previous year which affected capacity. As a result of the supply exceeding contributed toward the sector offsetting the in Mozambique and in Fiji. The port segment anchorage administration, pilotage services, of the maritime services sector with shipping agency income but this was mitigated by continued its strong performance, with volumes towage, mooring and unmooring, maintenance lines pushing agencies to reduce costs and increasing volumes. 74 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 75 Maritime & Logistics sector The shipping agency business has focused to manage other ports in those countries as well In order to strengthen the segment for the while delivery was expanded to Polonnaruwa, Key customers require higher levels of systems to be compatible with the new single on performance improvements and despite as ports in the South Pacific and African regions. future, the Group has invested in upgrading the Wennapuwa and Panadura through authorised service, therefore to gear itself to cater to window system. intense competition and deteriorating market The segment also plans to develop other related operational facility to increase capacity. During delivery agents. Its global mail operation, such customers, the segment has invested conditions, was able to increase export liftings business activities such as container depots and the forthcoming financial year, the segment will representing Quantium Solutions, a subsidiary in technology and IT systems which, upon Integrated Logistics and maintain profitability. The car carrier business warehousing in overseas markets. In the medium consolidate its activities into a single space with of Singapore Post, was also expanded to migration, will provide a strong foundation to brought in good revenue with a record number term, the Group is exploring opportunities a view to delivering greater customer centricity. Bangladesh. The rapid increase in e-commerce deliver greater productivity and capability. The The integrated logistics segment has built a of vessel calls while the segment also handled a to invest in public private partnerships in the The courier operation will also be strategically is a positive sign for both the international company is also focusing on talent retention reputation as the leading integrated logistics considerable number of casual callers including Sri Lankan ports sector while expanding its relocated to a spacious location which allows and domestic courier industry, creating new strategies, with operations hampered by high service provider in Sri Lanka offering specialised cruise vessels and petroleum tankers. With the presence in Asia and Africa to promote logistics for expanded activities and a greater focus on opportunities. The domestic service, operated staff turnover as cadres trained at Aitken Spence services in inland container terminal services, deployment of emergent strategies and strict related services. The Group’s knowledge and regional expansion. under the segment’s own brand, Ace Express attract heavy market demand. container repair, rigging and container discipline the shipping segment also contributed technical expertise have been key factors in has been contracted as exclusive delivery partner conversions, container freight stations, to the Group positively. securing business and in the long term too, The fiercely competitive local freight industry for several major online retailers and will continue Expansion overseas will primarily take the form of warehousing, 3PL /4PL logistics management, these will be factors driving the overall expansion has over 150 local and international players to pursue opportunities in this activity. linkages with established, strong players in new mobile storage solutions, distribution services The segment’s maritime education division is the of this segment. scrambling to claim their share of the business markets such as airlines, shipping lines, cargo and the handling of all types and sizes of major shareholder of the CINEC Campus, one of by compromising on margins. Within the The industry has been closely monitoring handlers and road feeders; the company is also cargo ranging from containerised to heavy and the largest private higher education institutions industry, a distinct advantage lies with forwarders the proposed acquisition of TNT by FedEx focusing on entering Indo-China via regional over dimensional. Aitken Spence Logistics Freight Forwarding and Courier owns / manages strategically located cargo in Sri Lanka. CINEC specialises in maritime who possess major nominated accounts with which will create a larger entity in the market. offices or joint venture partnerships. Africa is education but also offers undergraduate, post This was the first full year of operations a large volume base, which allows greater The acquisition, now awaiting final regulatory being looked at as the new frontier of business storage complexes in excess of 500,000 sqft graduate, and doctoral degrees as well as following the merger of the shipping division bargaining power with carriers. Industry players approval, is expected to be completed by June and the freight forwarding segment is seeking in Colombo, Wattala, Mabole and Katunayake vocational related courses in numerous other freight segment with the cargo division during who offer integrated services such as their own 2016 and integration of the two operators will opportunities to enter the market by exploiting Zone and boasts the most modern fleet of fields, with an annual intake of approximately the previous financial year. The merger has transport fleet and bonded warehouses are then take the course of several years. The TNT the existing links of the sector in the African handling equipment comprising of forklifts, 20,000 students. CINEC also manages the transformed the depth and breadth of the also at an advantage. The continuing trend for operation is expected to continue unchanged continent. In Bangladesh and the Maldives, the cranes, laden and empty container handlers, maritime academies in Fiji and Seychelles. In integrated solutions on offer and has enhanced shipping lines to merge with freight forwarders during the coming financial year. segment will continue to improve its competitive reach stackers, prime movers, tankers and the education sector, profits have been under market focus and cost management, while poses a challenge for sea freight operations while advantage and build on its reputation by looking specially designed trailers. The company has the pressure but the division has been able to widening the base of customers and partners. in an increasing trend, shipping lines have also Qatar Airways Cargo performed exceptionally for new airline representation agreements. capacity and capability to deliver professional maintain market share and profitability. Students begun to quote directly to exporters, at rates the well, mainly due to the increase in capacity and and comprehensive logistics solutions tailor are faced with limited opportunities for cadets’ Aitken Spence Group was officially appointed the freight industry cannot match. The performance ability to maintain a load factor of approximately The segment is also seeking investment made to customer requirements. The diversified onboard vessels and as a result, several courses exclusive partner of German logistics company of the air and sea freight segment were below 85%. Qatar Airways Cargo commenced opportunities to diversify into hitherto untapped operations of the segment allow it to offer which were expected to commence this financial DB Schenker in Sri Lanka and the Maldives for expectations with courier division experiencing operating a second freighter during the year, areas of the global supply chain, while customers onestopshop solutions to their year were deferred. However despite these air and sea freight as well as project cargo. The a drawback in performance due to the decline enabling an 8% increase in market share year on consolidating its interests in present activities. logistic needs. challenges the Maritime education segment also alliance, which is still in its first year, has shown in sender pays imports and mail revenue. The year despite heavy competition from competing The company’s new alliances with key partners contributed positively towards the growth of the great promise and potential with the division brokerage division experienced lower volumes airlines. The added freighter capacity allowed open opportunities for Aitken Spence to position The 2015/2016 financial year has been one of sector. superseding the overall budget for the period and margins across the business, leading to a the division to tactically move into heavy cargo itself at a new level of play, feeding off the consolidation combined with investing for the under review. Both air and sea freight in the drop in yields. operations on scheduled basis. partners’ best practices and penetrating new future. During the year, the segment enhanced The short term outlook for world trade seems export and import domains along with brokerage overseas markets. fleet capacity by re-fleeting. The ongoing bleak, with pessimism about the recovery of were the key revenue contributors. Overall, the global courier industry has seen In Bangladesh where the segment has operated development work at the yard is nearing cargo volumes and revenue. In this scenario, yields drop with increased competition, low for over two decades, sea freight operations The government has been accelerating the completion. The container freight station also the segment’s short term focus will be on The segment embarked on a business fuel prices and vulnerabilities in some markets. enjoyed a strong year recording the highest ever ‘single window’ concept which allows Sri Lanka faced capacity restrictions due to ongoing expanding activities in port management and reengineering initiative to keep pace with trends Locally, the courier division introduced a import containers on FOB (free on board) sales to better compete with regional countries, and infrastructure development to rehabilitate the efficiency enhancement in the ports where it and developments of the global supply chain document archiving service and a customer and achieving the highest monthly volume of which, once implemented should boost the facility while the warehousing division increased already operates; it will look to secure contracts with an overall emphasis on strong sales focus. portal for domestic customers during the year 120 tons during the year. Air freight operations country’s global logistic index. The concept capacity during the year and extended its value were impacted by an import restriction of requires all vital departments with responsibility addition capabilities. items to Australia by air freight as well as a for supply chain operations, including customs, cargo embargo to United Kingdom on direct to operate on a unified platform, and currently, it The distribution services segment which handled carriers due to security concerns. Excess air is estimated that 50% of the system integration the bulk of furnace oil transportation to the capacity thus resulted in low rates. The division is complete. Aitken Spence is also upgrading its Group’s power plants has seen a substantial also introduced a global mailing service in decrease in operations following the closure collaboration with the Sri Lanka courier mail division. Revenue Total Assets Profit after Tax for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March for the year ended 31st March In the Maldives where the sector offers airline, Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 9,246 freight and courier services, the freight division 1,042 8,040 was able to increase its FCL (full container 7,519 7,701 7,775 load) movement with the assistance of its 7,205 partner networks. The Sri Lankan Airlines GSA successfully maintained its 30% market share 568 614 despite increased competition with new airlines calling and existing airlines upgrading capacity. The division was able to maintain an average space utility factor of 75% or more per month through the year. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 76 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 77 Maritime & Logistics sector of the power plants. This loss was somewhat procedures that correspond to the nature and efforts on. Accordingly, continually improving the The team is also considering the economic and and hopes to source environmentally friendly A socially responsible company; offset by re-deploying the fleet for the island wide scale of each company have been established customer experience by focusing on the quality environmental feasibility of shifting the fuel pump material from suitable suppliers. The segment distribution business for a large player in the in line with the HIRAC (Hazard Identification Risk of service, increasing efficiency of resource from its existing location to a different location has observed positive trends in emerging Compliant beverage industry. Assessment and Control) approach. Company usage and energy consumption, reducing waste to increase productivity of the operation and markets such as Bangladesh, Vietnam, and • Zero significant fines/ non-monetary representatives have been trained on general generation from packing material and 100% efficiency in fuel use. The company is currently Pakistan and hopes to expand their services sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations The segment invested a further Rs 120 million in OHS guidelines, first-aid and fire safety. Aitken awareness on sustainability are priorities for the working on reducing noise levels at the periphery to these markets. Quality and dependability equipment and this investment drive will continue Spence Logistics has a documented policy segment. of the container operation as a priority identified of the service promised by the company are • Zero incidents of non-compliance with regulations/ voluntary codes on in the coming year, the returns of which would and OHS management system which guide the within the company’s EMS. The segment is attributes in the company’s favour in attracting marketing communications accrue to the Group in the medium term. sector’s sustainability team on required action. For an overview of the stakeholder also working to secure the ISO 14001:2004 business from these segments which are reliant • Zero substantiated complaints on engagement process of Aitken Spence certification for each site of operations. Another on the competency of the employees to deliver. breaches of customer privacy Going forward, the segment will seek PLC, refer to pages 26 to 29 in the The companies have trained internal auditors 2014/2015 Annual Report. short to medium term goal is to carry out This requires ongoing training and education opportunities to enter contract logistics with to monitor their sustainability performance. http://aitkenspence.com/corporatea work study to identify more opportunities as well as monitoring to evaluate consistency Committed to sustainable operations reputed organisations while looking to expand The sector has also trained one team member governance/integrated-reporting-reports/ to increase resource efficiency. To increase with the system requirements. The segment • Committed to maintain systems to its inland container terminal/dry port operations to be a Lead Auditor for ISO 14001:2004 and productivity of the operation, Aitken Spence maintain activities in line with the ISO 14001 identify and control aspects causing adverse environmental impacts in overseas markets. The segment will also ISO 9001: 2008 systems who has also shared Sustainability performance overview Logistics is exploring the possibility of investing in and ISO 9001 system requirements and have offer value added warehousing and 3PL/4PL expertise in assisting SBUs in other sectors in • Investment in solar energy is contributing One of the key performance indicators for upgraded warehouse management systems and conducted routine inspections, audits as well as to 43,060 kWh of energy per annum solutions while handling import FCL containers, their internal sustainability audits. sustainability within the sector is the maintenance technology. The economic and environmental educational sessions for employees on their roles sourced from clean energy sources offering delivery to clients. Overall, the segment’s of management systems implemented for feasibility of innovatively reusing refurbished old in maintaining and continually improving these reducing 40 tonsCO2e of GHG emissions performance has been challenged by the price The Human Rights Support Givers of the sector sustainability priorities. fuel bowsers as oil tanks in the refuelling station systems year on year. • ISO 14001:2004 certified cargo freight advantage offered by smaller players. In the short have received training on expected action of the forwarding operation is also being considered. Currently the company term, the segment will add capacity through Human Rights Matrix developed by the Business A testament to the effectiveness of the Quality refurbishes old containers to reuse them as office The sector continues to educate the next • ISO 9001:2008 certified cargo freight expansion and industry specific investments Leaders Initiative on Human Rights (BLIHR) for forwarding operation and maritime & Management Systems (QMS) of Aitken Spence spaces and cabins. generation of maritime and logistics professionals shipping operation while in the medium to long term, it is well human rights at the workplace, and the existing Maritime is their partners acknowledging the and provides internship and educational positioned to commit to major investments policies and procedures in place at Aitken • Educating the future generation of company for exemplary performance in their The sustainability team of Aitken Spence opportunities within the sector for graduates in maritime industry experts with local and foreign collaborations. Overseas Spence operations. The role of these Support manifestations year on year. The segment team Cargo has set a medium term goal to gauge maritime education. expansions are expected to be pursued in the Givers is to identify situations, possible incidents has experienced a change in the boundary of the polythene grades of packaging material medium to long term, especially into logistics and events that can be considered unacceptable their sustainability activities as certain segments operations on the African continent. The in line with this matrix and bring such situations, of the operation have been reallocated within 2014/2015 2015/2016 company will continue to focus on greater incidents and events to the attention of Human the sector. As such, the team is restructuring to efficiency and productivity by managing costs. Resource Partners or senior management of their accommodate this change. The SBU contains Energy consumption and GHG emissions monitored companies. Accordingly, OHS related concerns multiple operational boundaries within the Direct Energy Consumption 71,722 GJ 48,994 GJ Management Approach to Sustainability highlighted by employees were reviewed and operation which makes the process of certifying Diesel – 99% Diesel – 99% corrective action was implemented over the last their EMS complex. The SBU is working through The Maritime & Logistics sector also maintains Petrol – 1% Petrol – 1% financial year. this complexity in the hopes of seeking ISO the impact based approach to identify and Furnace oil – Not used Furnace oil – Not used 14001:2015 certification as a short to medium prioritise action for sustainable growth: the The key stakeholders of Aitken Spence LPG – Not used LPG – Not used term goal. companies utilise management systems to Maritime include the partners and agents, Biomass/ fuel wood – Biomass/ fuel wood – implement programmes to mitigate adverse customers and service providers: feedback Aitken Spence Logistics has automated several Not used Not used impacts. from these stakeholders as well as benchmarks processes during the year and implemented Indirect Energy Consumption 6,683 GJ 5,957 GJ established by the partners and agents guide the monitoring systems to measure progress Reductions achieved in energy consumption No reductions 23.454 GJ Environmental management systems sustainability action of the segment. Accordingly, towards achieving the goals and targets set achieved (EMS) aligned to ISO 14001: 2004 system a short to medium term goal of the segment is to for their sustainability priorities. The segment Total energy produced from renewable sources (GJ) Not quantified 155 GJ standard have been implemented to manage match their sustainability performance with the installed solar cells of 30kWp capacity at the Total water withdrawal 18,893 m3 63,559 m3 environmental priorities. Aitken Spence Cargo benchmarks of their principles as a part of their site in Mabole which has eliminated the need is among the first in the freight forwarding strategy. Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water None None for 43,060 kWh (155GJ) of energy that would industry in Sri Lanka to have obtained the ISO Total volume of water treated/ recycled by the organisation None Not quantified otherwise have been sourced from non14001:2004 certification for their EMS. Aitken Increasing efficiency in energy consumption, Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 5,207 tonnesCO2e 3,555 tonnesCO2e renewable sources, and is expected to offset Spence Logistics has implemented EMSs at improving waste resource management, Energy indirect (Scope 2)GHG emissions 1,374 tonnesCO2e 1,224 tonnesCO2e approximately 40 tonsCO2e of GHG emissions. each of the sites and aspires to certify the EMS strengthening occupational health and safety The investment of Rs. 5 mn on this effort has Amount of GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset 11 tonnesCO2e 1,833 tonnesCO2e of the container yard and office operation in and quality of service have been identified reduced the energy cost of the administrative Mabole. Several internal audits, educational as sustainability priorities for Aitken Spence Waste Resource Management office by close to Rs. 1mn in the first year. The sessions and process improvements have been Logistics. The strength of the segment is the Shredded waste paper, wood wool, polythene reused as packing material 100 kg 11.5 kg energy generated from the solar panels fulfils carried out towards that goal. experience of the staff as one of the biggest Cardboard packing material/ corrugated boxes reused 217 cartons 89 cartons the energy requirement during day time for the inland container yards in the country. The administrative office at the Mabole site. The Tires reused and/ or sold for reuse 20 nos. 490 nos Aitken Spence Cargo as well as Aitken Spence segment is equipped with the required skills to Shipping maintains certified Quality Management segment has expanded the investment to their Lead acid batteries handed over for reuse exchanged with 14 nos. 65 nos. manage its sustainability priorities. operations in Katunayake and Wattala at 25kWp Systems in line with ISO 9001:2008 standard vendors for new units to ensure the service is comparable with and 30kWp respectively. In addition the segment Total investment on sustainability processes and action plans Rs.9.5 million Rs. 50,000 Key stakeholders of Aitken Spence Cargo, international best practices. is also considering the possibility of installing namely customers, service providers, agents and more skylights within their container freight principles and regulators, play a significant role in Read more about the activities carried out by the Maritime & Logistics sector in our previous reports The nature of the operation makes occupational station, Logilink (Pvt) Ltd., to increase the use of the sustainability priorities the segment will focus http://aitkenspence.com/about-us/ health and safety (OHS) a priority for the sector; natural light and reduce energy consumption. 78 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 79 Strategic Investments sector A Rs.5.3 Bn Revenue for the year  Rs.(510) Mn Loss for the year Rs. 21.0Bn Total assets Aitken Spence has always been agile to 189 Mn 58.4Mn 19,100tonnes embrace opportunities presented in growth sectors of the economy. The Group ensures that Rs. Rs. such businesses are aligned with its core values Total contribution to the Total funds channelled for CO2e of GHG emissions Governments community development reduced and /or offset and are positioned to create long term value. (by direct and indirect taxes) • Power Generation • Apparel Manufacture • Printing & Packaging • Plantations 80 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 81 Strategic Investments sector Inputs Business Process Output Outcome Financial capital Corporate Vision Financial capital Financial capital • Equity funding • Debt funding Brand Values • Internally generated cash flows • Financial stability • Debt servicing • Share holder returns • Internally generated cash Strategy • Revenue generation flows Core Strengths Natural capital Natural capital Natural capital • Natural resources Power Generation Plantations • Bio diversity and natural eco • Environmental sustainability • Bio diversity and natural eco systems conservation systems Key Stakeholders Cost Structure Key Stakeholders Key Activities • Sustainable resource consumption • Commodity brokers • Managing plantations of Tea, Rubber, • Environmental education and • Ceylon Petroleum Corporation • Engine overhauls • Suppliers Oil Palm, Coconut and Cinnamon advocacy • Logistics service providers • Fuel • Regulatory bodies • Manufacturing of Tea, Rubber, Palm Oil • Internationally benchmarked • Government of Sri Lanka • Lubricant oil • Chamber of Commerce and Specialty Tea practices • Central Environment Authority • Spare parts • Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka • Staff costs • Employees • Sustainable forestry management Manufactured capital • Shareholders • Hydropower generation • Machinery spare part suppliers • Finance cost Manufactured capital Manufactured capital • Manufacturing facilities • Employees • Royalty payments • Community • Eco Tourism Shareholders • Partners • Access to state of the art quality • Innovative and diverse offerings • Enabling technology • products to clients • Specialised equipment and • Efficient resource usage • Product differentiation machinery Revenue Streams Key Activities Revenue Streams Cost Structure • Product responsibility • Developed land • Minimum guarantee payments as per terms of • Generation of power – Thermal, Wind and Hydro • Tea • Labour (Wages and Salaries) • Rainforest Alliance certified tea Power Purchase Agreement • Rubber • Material cost estates • Revenue as per energy generation • Palm Oil • Energy cost • Commercial Forestry • Finance cost Intellectual capital • Hydro Power • Cost of services • Other crops (Cinnamon/Coconut) • General overhead cost Intellectual capital Intellectual capital • Brands • Meeting quality specifications • Delivering brand promise • Proprietary knowledge beyond basic compliance • Licenses Key Resources Value Propositions Key Resources Value Propositions requirements • Internationally benchmarked • Fuel • Efficient and effective management of the power • Employees • Mass marketing • Effective systems and processes. systems and procedures • Wind plants in order to generate reliable and consistent • Fertile land • Niche marketing • Water power, as required by the Ceylon Electricity Board • Diversified businesses Customer Segments Channels Customer Segments Channels Human capital • Ceylon Electricity Board • Power Purchase Agreements • Exporters • Direct exports Human capital Human capital • Specialised knowledge and • Retail market • Auctions • Engaged workforce • Personal and professional skills • Overseas market • Web marketing • Enriched knowledge base growth • Training and development • Personal marketing • Brand ambassadors • Ethically manufactured products • Innovative management • Partnerships • Safe work place • Indirect support to employee procedures • Improved productivity and dependants • Experienced staff Customer Relationship Customer Relationship efficiency • Contractual agreements • Periodical visits to customers • Direct communication Social and relationship capital • Customer reviews/ feedback  Social and relationship  Social and relationship • Strategic partnerships capital capital • Community engagement • Enriching and improving local • Sustainable wealth creation • Shared values livelihoods and assisting the • Corporate culture Stakeholder Engagement development of the local economy Risk Management • Conducive corporate culture that ensures smooth integration and Governance drives performance Operating Environment 82 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 83 Strategic Investments sector l 1955 Started ‘Aitken Spence Printing division’ which provides printing and packaging services to the local l 2002 The first 20 MW thermal power plant of the Group commences commercial operations in Matara. l 2013 The Group commissions the first wind power project at Ambewela and the Hydro power project in The segment is also keen to promote waste-to-energy market. 1977 Established ‘Aitken Spence Garments’ even l 2003 The second 20 MW thermal power plant commences commercial operations in Horana. Matale. 2014 Commenced operations of a state-of-the-art conversion which is of immense value to protect the environment whilst providing a solution to the waste l l before the birth of an open economy; with the aim l 2004 Entered into a joint venture to build and manufacturing facility at Koggala at an investment of of manufacturing and exporting garments to apparel approximately US$ 3 million. importers in the USA and EU. l operate a 100 MW power plant in Embilipitiya. 2008 Elpitiya Plantations’ installed and disposal problem affecting the Western Province. l 1985 Aitken Spence Printing (Pvt) Ltd was incorporated to provide printing and packaging commissioned a mini hydropower plant at its Sheen estate in Nuwara Eliya. The conversion of waste to energy must take place in services which was initially successfully operated as a division of Aitken Spence & Co. l 2012 Aitken Spence Printing relocates to a state-ofan environmentally and socially safe manner, which l 1997 Aitken Spence Plantation’s purchased a the-art printing facility which is the first LEED certified printing facility in Sri Lanka. requires a high level of investment and technical majority stake in ‘Elpitiya Plantations’ which owns 15 tea and rubber estates. know-how as well as an adequate extent of land. Aitken Spence has always been agile to embrace Embilipitiya power plant which ended in April proved to be a difficult one with the Strategic financial year saw the temporary renewal of the profit before tax with the hydro plant improving including the governmental authorities about the opportunities presented in specific growth 2015 was not renewed by the Ceylon Electricity Investments sector recording a loss of Rs. 510.1 PPA of the Embilipitiya power plant following on efficiencies exceptionally well. In the short dynamics of such business models. sectors of the economy, an astute strategy that Board and the plant remained non-operational million. inconsistent weather patterns, breakdowns of term, the segment will continue to improve the has served well. The Group’s current strategic during the reporting period. Albeit both wind the CEB’s own coal power plant and its ageing operational efficiencies of the existing renewable The state is focusing on expanding its own interests lie in plantations, power generation, power and hydro power investments were transmission stations, which led to a power power projects, while over the medium term, the assets in both thermal and renewable power Power Generation apparel manufacture and printing and packaging. profitable, the power generation segment crisis in March and April 2016. The Embilipitiya segment is pursuing plans to add further to its generation and on the cards are two 500 MW The power generation segment, one of the coal power plants, one in Sampur as a joint The Group ensures that such businesses are recorded a negative performance for the year plant has been designed to offer stability to the renewable energy capacity. largest independent power producers in the venture with an Indian party, and the other in aligned with the Aitken Spence core values and due to the costs relating to the Embilipitiya electricity supply in the southern area of the country which significantly contributed to the The segment is also keen to promote waste-toTrincomalee with Japanese funds. A 100 MW are well positioned to create long term value for power plant. The Group’s investments in the national power grid and as such, is of utmost profitability of the Group in the past, had a energy conversion which is of immense value wind plant has also been mooted in Mannar stakeholders. This has encouraged the Group to manufacturing segment are in printing and importance to maintain an uninterrupted power dismal year following the expiration of the power to protect the environment whilst providing a while the CEB’s long term strategy includes constantly seek new strategic investments with packaging and apparel manufacture. The former supply to the country. purchase agreement for its 100MW thermal solution to the waste disposal problem affecting developing a wind park in the Mannar region future potential and also to prudently evaluate showed a significant growth in profit before power plant in Embilipitiya in April 2015. This was The power generation segment also operates the Western Province. The conversion of waste where the estimated wind potential is around the viability of current investments with a view to tax but the latter was affected by the global the last of the segment’s three thermal power hydro and wind power plants which contribute to energy must take place in an environmentally 375 MW. Construction of the proposed coal divest when necessary. economic slowdown which transformed in to a purchase agreements to expire. to the national grid. The 2.5 MW hydro power and socially safe manner, which requires a high power plants has been delayed and an electricity decline in profits. Aitken Spence has ventured in New opportunities were hard to come by as to owning and managing plantations in order to plant and the 3 MW wind power plant which level of investment and technical know-how as crisis has been forecast for 2018 due to the The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) has been the economy was faced with severe challenges have a sustainable diversified business portfolio. are currently in operation do not contribute well as an adequate extent of land. While the demand growth far exceeding the growth in expanding its own thermal power generation and the existing businesses had to perform The plantations segment comprising of both substantially to the performance of the segment power generation segment has been pursuing generation capacity. It is imperative that the capacity and therefore has not encouraged with many constraints and burdens. The power traditional and non-traditional economic crops due to their smaller scale. On a positive note, business opportunities in this field for several relevant authorities take appropriate action to private sector participation in this area in the generation segment was adversely affected as went through its fair share of hardship during with restructuring of the borrowings of the years, none have come to fruition mainly due to avoid such a situation which would have negative recent past. In a post-script to the year under the power purchase agreement (PPA) for the the year. Overall the 2015/2016 financial year two companies both plants recorded a higher a lack of awareness among key stakeholders consequences on the economy of the country. review however, the beginning of the 2016/2017 84 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 85 Strategic Investments sector In this scenario, the overall outlook for private Apparel Manufacture the cost of production and development costs of brands that would be attracted to its track record A clear competitive advantage for Aitken Spence lies in its green printing sector participation in thermal power generation Apparel manufacture segment manufactures new products. of on-time delivery and order-fulfillment. credentials. With growing awareness of sustainable practices, the market is very bleak as no private party is permitted to apparel for export, and has specialised in a niche The increase in the cost of production has Demand for apparel made in Sri Lanka is has begun demanding rigid compliance and minimal environmental impact apply for a license to generate above 25 MW. segment of children’s apparels. The segment Although under the Sri Lanka Electricity Act fortunately been negated to some extent expected to remain strong with the industry from printers. This trend holds Aitken Spence in good stead as it has while exporting primarily to the US market ships the private sector may participate in renewable by the devaluation of the Sri Lankan rupee turnover billed to reach of US$ 20 Billion by taken the lead in becoming a sustainable, environmentally friendly printer apparel to China, UK and Hong Kong. Its main power projects of less than 10 MW, the CEB against the US dollar. The segment will focus 2020. The strong emphasis on compliance and with globally accepted processes and best practices, and recognised clients include major clothing companies such as does not process new applications for solar on making process improvements to enhance ethical manufacturing will continue to attract GAP Inc., Next PLC., Fruit of the Loom Inc., and certifications. and wind power plants due to its grid capacity productivity and efficiency to manage the clients who are increasingly seeking social and Dimensions Corporate Wear PLC. limitations. It must also be noted with concern cost of production of the business. Further ethically conscious platforms. It is also hoped the that the practice of issuing licenses to “first come The new environmentally friendly production investments in machinery are also earmarked reintroduction of GSP+ duty free benefits in the decreased due to order patterns, thereby leading Institute of Packaging; highlighting its dominant first served” applicants creates a secondary facility in Koggala, completed in 2015 at an with a view to increasing production efficiency near future, will materialise and would enable the to a greater number of setups which impacted position in the industry. market for licenses for actual investors with no investment of US$ 3 million, has enabled the and improvement. Rising interest rates, and the industry to attract new clientele. effective utilisation of machines. economic benefits to the CEB. The segment expansion of production capacity by 20% and significant state-encouraged wage and utility A clear competitive advantage for Aitken Spence has consistently maintained that it would be in permits the segment to attract new high end increases may negatively affect the growth of the Printing and Packaging The packaging volumes, mainly for tea, were lies in its green printing credentials. With growing the CEB’s best interest to adopt a transparent customers. However this year, the segment was segment in the ensuing year. affected by the downturn in key markets such awareness of sustainable practices, the market Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging is one competitive tender process when awarding unable to fully utilise the additional capacity due of the country’s leading printers, with a portfolio as Russia and the Middle East in the beginning has begun demanding rigid compliance and Aitken Spence Apparels continues to be licenses to potential investors for renewable to the continuing downturn in the European and of products that includes packaging, books of the year. However, towards the latter part minimal environmental impact from printers. This recognised by customers as a stable supplier energy projects. The segment is pleased to note the US markets. Fulfilling production capacity by and magazine publications, tags and labels, of the year positive growth and opportunities trend holds Aitken Spence in good stead as it reputed for on-time delivery, quality and that CEB has offered two 10 MW wind projects attracting new, profitable customers is a priority and seasonal products, using both offset and were witnessed in several markets in Africa has taken the lead in becoming a sustainable, compliance. The segment serves a niche in Jaffna on a competitive tender basis. It is for the coming year. The segment’s competitive digital printing technologies. The segment and Europe as well as in Japan. While the environmentally friendly printer with globally market and is therefore fairly insulated from expected that CEB would continue to offer such advantage lies in its proven product quality maintained its stalwart performance highlighting depreciation of the Sri Lankan rupee increased accepted processes and best practices, and local competition and major competitors projects on transparent competitive tenders to assurance and compliance, and its reputation the sustainable development over the past few costs due to rising prices of imported material recognised certifications. Aitken Spence will which include vendors from Bangladesh, India, potential developers. for on-time delivery, prompt response and order years. Segmental revenue grew by 5.9% with a including paper and inks, the negative impact continue to invest further in its green offering Cambodia and Vietnam. The company has fulfillment. Revenue of the segment grew by healthy increase in profit before tax as well. was mitigated somewhat due to higher export cascading environmentally friendly practices Aitken Spence has proven its credentials as successfully obtained Vendor Compliance 12.9% during the financial year, with production proceeds. across the integrated supply chain in order an efficient operator of renewable and nonCertifications, Worldwide Responsible Accredited volumes rising by 7.9% year on year. This was The local printing industry, estimated to be to deliver true carbon neutral, zero-impact renewable energy projects with the know-how Production Certification, ISO and Compliance+ The growing trend in low-volume contracts a creditable performance in the context of the over Rs 50 billion per annum in value, has seen products. Aitken Spence now enjoys fully and expertise to implement and manage viable certification. continued, expanding by 30% during the year. export value of the Sri Lankan textile and apparel capacity explode over the past few years, leading accredited ‘Carbon Neutral Green Printer’ status power businesses. Given the inherent strengths industry declining by 2.2% in 2015 compared to heavy price competition especially at the The company’s focus on output quality and by becoming a carbon neutral operator and is Economic strains in the US and Europe as well within, and in the absence of opportunities to the previous year, mainly due to European lower end of the market. As one of the country’s positive customer engagement also resulted ISO 14001, 9001 and 18001 certified. During the as rising competition from other Asian markets locally, the segment is pursuing overseas economic woes. Although the segment showed leading offset printers, Aitken Spence has been in high levels of customer satisfaction with a year, the company introduced a new CO2 free have led to price pressure from customers opportunities for thermal power generation, and a revenue growth, profits declined due to lower able to maintain its leadership by offering state of notable decrease in complaints. In a highlight for six-colour machine (Heidelberg XL 75) which will – a major challenge that must be managed is examining the feasibility of several proposals. margins as a result of the substantial increase in the art technology, greater value addition, shorter the year, Aitken Spence was the proud winner help further expand its green printing operations. effectively. While continuing to focus on its woven lead-times and elevated service levels, leading of National Business Excellence Gold Awards The segment is also currently pursuing FSC product range, the segment seeks high end to over 70% of business being based on the in the printing and related service sector, while (Forest Stewardship Council) Certification as well recurring revenue model. The segment has also the company received two Excellence, two as BRC-IOP certification in line with the existing acquired a high degree of agility on its product Distinction and three Merit awards at the “Collate IMS framework. mix which allows it to offer a large variety at low 2016” organised by the Sri Lanka Association of volumes. Printers. In addition the company was awarded 3 As always, innovation will be a thrust of the gold, 2 silver and 3 bronze awards at Lanka Star Aitken Spence offering the partnership The printing and packaging segment acquired Awards ceremony organised by the Sri Lanka approach taken to innovation, by working new state of the art machinery during the year and established new product lines, including a dedicated one for apparel tags. Operational efficiency remained steady while achieving a high Revenue Total Assets Profit after Tax for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March for the year ended 31st March average capacity utilisation during the year and Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 22,769 notably reaching full capacity during the third 16,132 20,253 21,037 509 15,110 quarter. The segment successfully maintained its order to dispatch cycle of 7 days, through effective manufacturing design, planning and 115 control practices as well as strong shop floor control. The revenue per impression increased 5,306 marginally despite the number of impressions not increasing significantly year on year. However, (510) the average run length in each machine was 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 86 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 87 Strategic Investments sector Inputs Business Process Output Outcome Financial capital Corporate Vision Financial capital Financial capital • Equity funding • Debt funding Brand Values • Internally generated cash flows • Financial stability • Debt servicing • Share holder returns • Internally generated cash Strategy • Revenue generation flows Core Strengths Natural capital Natural capital Natural capital • Natural resources Printing & Packaging Apparel Manufacture • Bio diversity and natural eco • Environmental sustainability systems conservation Key Stakeholders Value Propositions Key Stakeholders Cost Structure • Sustainable resource consumption • Suppliers & service providers • Raw material cost • Environmental education and • Suppliers of material • High quality & reliability • Government of Sri Lanka and • Embellishment cost advocacy • Service providers • Short lead time government institutions • Staff cost • Internationally benchmarked • Advertising agencies • Innovative and value added printing solutions • Logistics service providers • Transportation cost practices • Waste buyers (Geo cycle) • Creative value added high end product • Employees • Carbon neutral supplier • Employees • Finance cost Manufactured capital • Shareholders • Utility cost • Shareholders • Personalised products Manufactured capital Manufactured capital • Manufacturing facilities • Regulatory authorities • Sustainable initiatives • Access to state of the art quality • Innovative and diverse offerings • Enabling technology products to clients • specialised equipment and Revenue Streams Cost Structure Key Resources Value Propositions • Efficient resource usage • Product differentiation machinery • Basic packaging • Material cost • Employees • ISO WRAP certified garment • Product responsibility • Value added packaging • Staff cost • State of the art machinery manufacturing operations • LEED certified printing facility • Periodic publications • Plant and machinery cost • Raw material • On time reject free delivery of high • Financial reports • Energy cost • Embellishment and other service quality garments • Coffee table books • Finance Cost providers Intellectual capital • Labels and apparel packaging • Service related cost Intellectual capital Intellectual capital • Brands Key Resources Key Activities Key Activities Revenue Streams • Meeting quality specifications • Delivering brand promise • Proprietary knowledge Employees Offset printing Manufacturing garments Manufacturing and export of garments beyond basic compliance • Licenses • • • • State-of-the-art machinery Digital printing Ensuring legal and infrastructure requirements • Internationally benchmarked • • • Brand compliance • Projects delivered on time systems and procedures • • Customer specific materials • Effective systems and processes. • LEED Gold certified printing facility Customer Segments Channels Customer Segments Channels Human capital Direct relationship with buyers • Tea exporters • Direct Marketing • Middle and high end customers through • Human capital Human capital • Specialised knowledge and • FMCG market • Social networks different brands • Buying offices • Teleconferencing • Engaged workforce • Personal and professional skills • Creative agencies • Web marketing • Different products for different • Enriched knowledge base growth • Training and development • Beverage packaging markets • Creative agencies demographic segments • Brand ambassadors • Ethically manufactured products • Innovative management • Apparel packaging markets • Collaborations • Safe work place • Indirect support to employee procedures • Overseas print buyers • Improved productivity and dependants • Experienced staff efficiency Customer Relationship Customer Relationship • Personalised services • JIT delivery • Frequent communication with key clients through periodic meetings, visits and Social and relationship capital • Confidentiality • Brand reliability teleconferences.  Social and relationship  Social and relationship • Strategic partnerships capital capital • Community engagement • Enriching and improving local • Sustainable wealth creation • Shared values livelihoods and assisting the • Corporate culture Stakeholder Engagement development of the local economy Risk Management • Conducive corporate culture that ensures smooth integration and Governance drives performance Operating Environment 88 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 89 Strategic Investments sector closely with both suppliers and customers to inconsistent weather patterns on the other. Malaysian origin, which makes harvesting easier The plantations segment aspires to be the role model for an economically, base is a key strength of the segment and the add value by developing new products. An Although the effects on global warming continue thereby increasing productivity. Mechanisation socially and environmentally sustainable plantation company. The segment quality standards expected by buyers guide approach which has enabled Aitken Spence to to hinder production volumes, this has not had has been embraced across the oil palm the segment on the benchmarks to achieve. had set an ambitious vision to be the plantation company with the highest become recognised for its creativity and craft. a consequent effect on prices, which have plantations to mitigate labour constraints and The nature of the industry make environmental In December 2015, the segment established a remained in the doldrums. Spiralling costs of further investments in machinery are planned profit per hectare and performed exceptionally well in achieving this goal in sustainability a priority for this segment: new product development centre which will be production and the resultant cash flow pressures to increase labour productivity. Cultivation of oil the last two consecutive financial years. strategies and benchmarks of the segment upgraded and expanded to a training hub in the have compounded the difficult conditions under palm will be extended in the low country region, thus include extensive measures to mitigate if ensuing year. which plantation companies operate. On the while factory development is being earmarked in not eliminate adverse environmental impacts. macro-economic front, major markets for tea stages to enhance processing capacity. the product mix in order to drive the segment and procedures to meet the requirements of Similarly, the segment has taken efforts to adapt Going forward, the overall strategy of the such as the Middle East, Russia and Europe performance. environmental management systems (EMS) in to the possible effects of climate change as segment will focus on both market development and for rubber such as China and India have The current inventory of mini hydro power plants line with the ISO 14001:2004 system standard. changes in critical environmental conditions and product development thereby expanding its also been suffering economic complexities. This is being expanded with two new projects adding All companies have occupational health and and weather patterns have a direct effect on Management Approach to Sustainability presence on two frontiers. By offering ‘product combination of unfavourable factors has resulted 1.5 MW leading to a total generation capacity of safety procedures in place in line with the Hazard crop planning and production in plantations. diversity in the same technology’ Aitken Spence 3.5 MW. Meanwhile the joint venture to produce Aitken Spence companies adopt an impact in one of the worst years yet for the traditional Identification, Risk Assessment and Control Issues stemming from water shortage also have will further enhance its leadership in high end specialty teas for the Chinese market continued based approach to identify sustainability crops. (HIRAC) framework. adverse impacts on productivity as well as on periodicals, coffee table books, magazines and to post strong results. priorities: each company has a specified method the welfare of the estate community. Proactive apparel tags segments. As per the current five Aitken Spence has been fortunate to have to study their activities and identify the economic, The plantations segment aspires to be the efforts to mitigate and adapt to these changes year plan, manufacturing strategy will be focused had the foresight to envision the risk of the The company is pursuing the further social and environmental impact of the operation. role model for an economically, socially and are priorities in the environmental action plan of on improving operational efficiency, effective commodities trap, by diversifying its portfolio of diversification of its base of agriculture, and The impacts are then ranked according to environmentally sustainable plantation company. the segment. utilisation, and cost optimisation throughout businesses in order to mitigate the risks. That has already begun large scale passion fruit and importance based on the nature and scale The segment had set an ambitious vision to be the production process from estimation to strategy has stood the company in good stead king coconut cultivation for export. Sri Lanka of the impact, the frequency of occurrence, the plantation company with the highest profit Employees, suppliers and customers are delivery. The segment will continue to focus on this year, when key contributions from palm has embarked on a national food production risks involved, legal/ regulatory requirements, per hectare and performed exceptionally well in key stakeholders of the printing & packaging the adoption of Lean-Six Sigma tools to drive oil, hydropower and commercial forestry have drive under presidential aegis, and in line with requirements of voluntary standards and systems achieving this goal in the last two consecutive segment and many of the activities initiated by productivity improvements. ensured that the business remains profitable, this the segment commenced a pilot project endorsed and implemented by each company, financial years. Continuing this performance the segment are results of feedback voiced albeit at lower levels. Overall as a segment, for fruit cultivation on 35 acres of prime land in best practices maintained and public perception has been identified as a priority and the team by these stakeholders. Such feedback from Further investment is earmarked to increase plantations witnessed a decline of approximately Dambulla. This will be a key thrust for the future in relevance to activities of the operation. Once is revising their strategies and benchmarks clients and other key stakeholders is studied the publication and bindery capacities while the 40% in profit before tax. However given the and the company is seeking state support the impacts have been identified and ranked towards this goal. Diversification, as discussed and integrated into the operational strategy. company may undertake space expansion to challenges posed the segment has fared better to invest in large scale fruit farming for local according to importance, the corresponding above, is one of the main activities in the action Aitken Spence Printing aspires to be the best improve material flow. Special equipment will than most counterparts in the industry. consumption and export. Medicinal herbs are activities that cause the impacts are evaluated to plan. A challenge for the sector is the declining green printing facility in Sri Lanka and it is the also be commissioned to improve throughput also being cultivated to supply to a leading plan programmes that can manage the activities skilled manpower; and traditional procedures first carbon neutral, LEED Gold certified printing rates and reduce queuing time. While embracing High grown teas recorded greater losses in local manufacturer of herbal products while the to reduce if not eliminate the adverse impacts. and systems that are still observed have been facility in South Asia. The team hopes to improve newer technologies available in the offset and 2015/2016 while the mid-grown varieties pepper, cinnamon and coffee acreage will also analysed with the aim of increasing productivity their production practices and benchmark digital printing businesses, Aitken Spence will remained profitable, although at lower levels, due be gradually expanded. The most effective method of managing in the most practicable way possible. Key performance against global best practices to also look for the right opportunities to offer other to high productivity. During the year, the drying activities to control impacts is to implement stakeholders of the plantations segment maintain best in class in green printing. As part printing methods. facility at New Peacock estate was upgraded During the year, the company embarked on management systems. As mandated across the include their employees (who also form their of the action plan to achieve that ambitious goal, while at Nayapana Estate, the sorting of teas was further diversification with plans to build boutique Group, companies in the strategic investments immediate community), buyers, suppliers, the segment focused all action on ‘putting the The present forays into the overseas market upgraded by installing a new colour separator, chalets in panoramic locations at the Group’s sector have established general practices regulators and shareholders. The loyal client house in order’ during the last several years. show the vast potential available and Aitken both with a view to improving the quality of the breathtaking tea estates in order to tap into the Spence will seek global engagement and end product. All factories were also provided high value tourism market. partnerships in order to expand its export with standby power generators to ensure a revenues while managing its exposure in the The future strategy for the segment will be continuous power supply. On rubber properties, local market. focused towards seeking more sustainable and improvements were made to machinery to productive businesses which are not subject to increase quality and productivity. the vagaries of the commodities market. This Plantations The oil palm base is being continuously will encompass consolidating the tea and rubber Tea and rubber industries in the island segments, and focusing on value addition and expanded and the company is at present in the experienced a challenging year in 2015/2016, new markets as means of improving profitability. process of introducing a new long stalk variety of being affected by low prices on one hand and Oil palm will be expanded with productivity driven improvements in both planting and processing. Aitken Spence has been fortunate to have had the foresight to envision the The segment has a rich land base which is risk of the commodities trap, by diversifying its portfolio of businesses in available for utilisation as we pursue our strategy order to mitigate the risks. That strategy has stood the company in good of diversification into non-traditional crops as well as new businesses. Focus will be on expanding stead this year, when key contributions from palm oil, hydropower and commercial forestry, fruit and vegetable commercial forestry have ensured that the business remains profitable, agriculture, and the constant innovation of albeit at lower levels. 90 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 91 Strategic Investments sector Accordingly, the operation has established their priorities. The team’s focus remains on Sustainability performance overview chemicals and the correct quantities to use. The team’s efforts have focused on disseminating education and skills an ISO certified integrated management improving energy efficiency and reducing energy Shortage of skilled labour in the plantation Spraying equipment, chemicals, protective gear to employees. Productivity improvement methodologies such as the 7S system for environmental protection (in line consumption. The apparel factories use skylights segment is a challenge for the industry in supplied to the employees have proper storage principle (Sort, Set, Shine, Standardise, Sustain, Shed, and Shape) practiced with the ISO 14001:2004 system standard), and solar panels to reduce dependence on grid general as employable youth are moving away locations allocated and demarcated to prevent occupational health and safety (in line with the electricity and fuel. Sustainability of the operation contamination and separate washing bays have at the workplace have been cascaded to the households of employees with from agriculture and an ageing population is OHSAS 18001:2007 system standard) and is a priority for their key stakeholders and efforts been set at each estate to let the employees education on how to achieve those frameworks at home. Employees who maintaining the industry. Gradual mechanisation quality (in line with the ISO 9001:2008 system of the team will primarily focus on ensuring of processes is a practicable option being clean the chemical residue after use. All water have excelled at embracing these practices at home have been rewarded by standard). The segment's priority, is to ensure the systems meet international benchmarks. adopted within the segment to overcome from washing bays is separately collected and the company. the sustainability of their supply chain and ensure The EMS of the segment is aligned to the ISO this situation. Another challenge posed by treated. One of the main difficulties faced by the an integrated supply chain for the operation. The 14001:2004 system standard and the SBU’s mechanisation is that, the quality of the plucked plantations team in establishing good practices team aspires to use internationally recognised quality management system was recently ISO tea could be compromised by mechanisation. in line with the RA certification is the language social challenges in their community. Counselling team has achieved significant energy saving from frameworks to source sustainable material, work 9001:2008 certified. The team hopes to secure Effects of climate change are likely to affect the barrier: the estate workers speak a different support has been facilitated for employees to specifically designed skylights that let in natural with certified suppliers screened on social and the ISO 14001:2015 system certification as a plantations segment more prominently than language and education on the RA requirements discuss problems they may face and many light without compromising the print quality by environmental governance guidelines and ensure medium term goal and also aspires to certify other sectors due to the nature of the operation. had to be disseminated to all estate workers efforts have been implemented by the company blocking UV rays. Rainwater is harvested at the the sustainability of the products to the end their occupational health and safety practices Diversifying the operation to new areas is one including children so that the estate environment to assist employees to continue work, and hence printing facility in Mawaramandiya and waste consumer. It is a matter of pride for the segment and procedures against the OHSAS 18001:2007 method being explored by the company to will be protected by all stakeholders alike. maintain their financial independence, while water is collected and treated. The printing to have already achieved some of the targets in system standard. adapt to climate change. To mitigate climate Having achieved that target almost 100% is managing personal restrictions. The apparels facility handed over 4.33tonnes of sludge from this action plan. change, the segment focuses on reforestation, a testament to the commitment of the team team is hoping to work with Group sustainability the effluent treatment plant to a certified service Aitken Spence Power Generation has always to ensure sustainability of the operation. The forestry management, conservation of division and plan programmes to collaborate provider. Energy management efforts of the Aitken Spence Apparels maintains management maintained management systems to ensure certification is evidence to the company’s efforts biodiversity, converting plots of cultivation to with community leaders and educate employees team included inspection of the air conditioning systems above regulatory requirements, productivity of the operation. Management to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable organic fertilizer, composting biodegradable on social progression. Another challenge for system resulting from monitoring consumption exceeding the expectations of their key systems in line with ISO 14001:2004 (EMS), livelihoods by transforming land-use practices, waste, and renewable energy generation. The the segment is the water shortage faced by patterns: this effort identified a fault in the stakeholders namely the customer, suppliers, ISO 9001:2008 (QMS) and OHSAS 18001:2007 business practices and consumable behaviour. Rainforest Alliance (RA) certification secured by the factory at certain times. Many efforts have system that was immediately corrected saving regulators and certifying organisations. The (OHS) have been implemented at the Branford Similar to the upcountry cluster of estates that the segment for the upcountry cluster of estates been taken to reduce water consumption and an excess consumption of 2kg per month of apparel segment continues to face a scarcity mini hydropower plant as well as the wind power has established procedures and practices to has established specific procedures to manage to educate employees on efficient use of water refrigerants and will eliminate 42 tonnes CO2e of skilled manpower and is focusing on plant in Ambewela. meet benchmarks set by the RA certification, in the cultivation process such that the adverse which have resulted in reduced need for water of scope 1 fugitive emissions in the facility improving efficiency and adopting technology the low country cluster of estates, the Forestry The holding company is a service provider to all social and environmental impacts are minimised during such times. The team hopes to establish due to the competency of the monitoring where possible to manage the challenge. Stewardship Council (FSC) certification process companies and as such the internal customer and positive impacts are enhanced. The RA rainwater harvesting and water treatment practices of the team. A short term goal of the The segment, which employs a majority of its plays a key role in setting sustainability priorities is a key stakeholder. Regulators, investors, certification specifies recommended action on mechanisms so that freshwater can be used company is to source more material that is workforce from within a 20km radius locality of and required action. Where there may be employees, service providers and community 10 key areas: including economic standards for necessities and treated/ grey water can be FSC/ PEFC certified, especially as the demand the production facility, also hopes to continue conflicting requirements between two standards, members are also key stakeholders of the and impacts, social standards and impacts and used for other requirements to further assist for sustainable printing and packaging material its efforts to develop the skills of employees and the team has advised employees to comply with holding company. Feedback, requirements and environmental standards and impacts: and over water conservation efforts at the production is growing with increasing awareness. The enhance the dignity of labour in the industry. the higher requirement. The team engages with ideas shared by key stakeholders shape the 100 action points under those key areas. All facility. Energy conservation efforts at the factory challenge is in sourcing cost effective material Another aspiration of the company is to the CEO/ Director and/ or Managing Director of activities of the company. employees working with chemicals have been are maintained by the employees and senior from reliable suppliers to match requirements develop a marketing strategy that will highlight the company routinely to discuss management educated on the correct method of handling management of the company plays a key role of clients. The printing industry has one of the practices and strategies and many key decisions in decisions made to ensure sustainability of longest product cycles to manage and hence a on sustainability are discussed at this level. the operation. For example, skylights that are medium to long term goal of the company is to installed at the factory resulted from discussion cascade sustainability leadership in more areas Retention of talent is a key challenge faced with senior management to increase the within this product lifecycle. The main objective by the apparel segment as well. Available sustainability of the operation. The team secured of the team is to maintain their leadership as human resource is limited. The team’s efforts the ISO 9001:2008 certification and the platinum sustainability champions in the industry and the have focused on disseminating education and certificate of compliance from the Worldwide ongoing efforts to maintain their management skills to employees. Productivity improvement Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) as systems certainly contribute towards that methodologies such as the 7S principle (Sort, a result of management support to mainstream objective. Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging Set, Shine, Standardise, Sustain, Shed, and sustainability as an operational priority. The team has maintained GHG emissions per impression Shape) practiced at the workplace have been also obtained the Compliance+ certification from at 17.5gCO2e. The company recently purchased cascaded to the households of employees with the Employers Federation of Ceylon for meeting a carbon neutral print machine to reduce carbon education on how to achieve those frameworks and surpassing established standards through emissions in the printing process even further. at home. Employees who have excelled at management practices maintained at the These efforts are results of routine discussions embracing these practices at home have been Mathugama and Koggala production facilities. with the senior management of the company rewarded by the company. Aitken Spence to mainstream sustainability priorities with their Apparels has been commended by Aitken A challenge for Aitken Spence Printing & operational strategies. Spence PLC at the Group’s 7S Competition for Packaging is the lack of feasible options to this effort. The team also focuses on building source renewable energy due to the significant All maintenance activities at the Aitken awareness to empower the employees, investment involved. The team is studying Spence power plants are carried out by the especially the female employees who face many options to install solar panels at the factory. The plant engineers and systems maintained are 92 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 93 Strategic Investments sector Empowering Sri Lanka First (ESLF): the Group’s collective effort to facilitate of the operation’s reporting boundary. One 2014/2015 2015/2016 social progression and empowerment by providing access to soft skills on one discussions were conducted with the companies sustainability teams throughout the Energy consumption and GHG emissions monitored development, English language and computer skills education to children year to understand the sustainability priorities of Direct Energy Consumption 3,724TJ 101,878 GJ* from low income families. The programme has educated 160 students and the companies and to provide support where Diesel – 0.2% Diesel – 3.9% also facilitated training and education on new teaching techniques to 11 necessary. Companies were also brought Petrol – 0.02 Petrol – 0.8% English teachers through the British Council and 6 computer skills teachers together in sector clusters to discuss new ideas Furnace oil – 95% Furnace oil – 0% through the Foundation of Goodness. and collaborate on sustainability efforts. The LPG – 0.01% LPG – 0.5% Group sustainability division is currently focusing Biomass/ fuel wood – Biomass/ fuelwood – 94.7% on revising the Group’s sustainability strategy to 5.03% complemented by the initiatives taken by approved recycling service providers and the allow companies to take leadership roles in their Indirect Energy Consumption 87,053 GJ 18,392 GJ employees to improve the systems. The team holding company plays a central role in screening sectors and align with changing sustainability Amount of energy saved 5,456 GJ 95,990 GJ** hopes to secure certification for the management acceptable suppliers and coordinating the efforts. priorities of the world. The stakeholder Total energy produced from non-renewable sources (GJ) 1,379 TJ 2,972 GJ* systems maintained in the operations as well. Empowering Sri Lanka First (ESLF): the Group’s engagement study currently being completed Total energy produced from renewable sources (GJ) 52,806 GJ 143,454 GJ The systems in place to manage sustainability collective effort to facilitate social progression by a third party consultant and the online based Total water withdrawal 83,891 m3 97,621 m3 priorities and monitor consumption patterns and empowerment by providing access to state of the art sustainability performance Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organisation 1,188 m3 1,680 m3 are evident in the efficiency improvements soft skills development: is managed by Aitken management system is contributing towards this Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water None None achieved year on year at the power plants. Spence Corporate Finance. The programme’s effort by streamlining the priorities and efforts of Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 257,145 tonnesCO2e 385 tonnesCO2e* Ongoing monitoring and system improvements pilot project was launched in 2013 to provide the Group. Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 17,894 tonnesCO2 3,781 tonnesCO2 have helped achieve 22.5% increase in power English language and computer skills education Amount of GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset 2,372 tonnesCO2e 19,100 tonnesCO2e generation at the Brandford hydropower plant to children from low income families in 3 of our A socially responsible company; due to efficiency improvement contributing to locations. The computer skills syllabus is for one Note: national development strategies. Suppliers, year and proving the capacity to learn new skills Compliant * Reduction in energy production is due to Embilipitiya power plant not being in operation during the last financial year. ** Reduction in energy consumption is calculated for the operations excluding power generation segment for the 2014/2015 and 2015/2016 financial years. regulators and employees are key stakeholders if the opportunity is present, most of the students • Zero significant fines/ non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws of the company. Employees have been educated learnt computer skills in less than a year. The and regulations Waste Resource Management on the sustainability strategy of the company and English language syllabus spanned 3 years to • Zero incidents of non-compliance have been allocated specific roles to maintain allow students to practice what they learn for with regulations/ voluntary codes on Paper and cardboard sold for recycling or handed over to be discarded 2,232 tonnes 1,093 tonnes marketing communications Plastic containers/ scrap sold for recycling and/ or disposed according to 1,250 items and160 kg 8 items and compliance to required regulations and best a longer period of time and gradually inculcate practices embraced by the segment. skills to continue learning by themselves. Most • Zero substantiated complaints on requirements of the EPL 6.3 tonnes breaches of customer privacy of these students had never been exposed Polythene sold/ handed over for recycling and/ or disposed according to 2,265tonnes The holding company provides central services to English language before. The pilot project Committed to sustainable operations requirements of the EPL to the Group’s sustainability initiatives. For is nearing completion now and many of the • Committed to create positive impact in Bulbs handed over for recycling and/ or disposed according to CFL bulbs 21 units example, a requirement in the Company’s students are able to comprehend English and social progression, economic growth and requirements of the EPL Fluorescent bulbs – 903 environmental protection procedures on human rights at the workplace carry on a small conversation with others as well. units is to educate the security personnel who are • Exemplary in maintaining management Batteries handed over for recycling, kept in storage to be recycled and/ or 8 units Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging, Heritance systems to mitigate adverse impacts most often the first point of contact for many Ahungalla hotel and Heritance Kandalama hotel disposed according to requirements of the EPL • 19,100 tonnes CO2e GHG emissions stakeholders. During the last financial year, all partnered Aitken Spence PLC in this effort. The reduced and/ or offset Foiling reels handed over to be discarded in line with CEA requirements About 16.5 tonnes 16.7 tonnes externally sourced security personnel employed programme has educated 160 students and • Biodiversity surveys conducted across Scrap metal sold for reuse 375 items 215 kg 378 kg at the corporate head office participated in a also facilitated training and education on new 8,862.71ha Renewable packaging material used in the factory process Not quantified Corrugated boxes reused – refresher educational session on human rights teaching techniques to 11 English teachers • 58.4mn funds channelled towards efforts 5,681 kg and how it applies to their role in the operation. aimed at community development and through the British Council and 6 computer skills social progression Paper sacks – 95,550 units The Group sustainability division is currently teachers through the Foundation of Goodness. Soiled cotton handed over for recycling to a CEA approved vendor and/ or 42,780 kg 18.02 tonnes • 22.5% increase in power generation at working with the Group security division to Inspection and evaluating the programmes of the Brandford hydropower plant due to disposed according to requirements of the EPL develop the next stage of this educational efficiency improvement contributing to Aitken Spence companies based on the social national development strategies Food waste/ wet waste handed over for recycling, composted and/ or 42,408 kg 12,116 kg programme to develop guidelines on the and environmental governance benchmarks set handed over to be disposed according to municipal standards • 77.4mn funds utilised towards expected behaviour in potential situations and by the Company is another service provided by sustainability processes and action plans HFO sludge disposed in line with CEA requirements 597,300 litres Plant not operational during to also expand the training to the Group’s the holding company. During the last financial • Over 80% of the total workforce in the the year operations outside Colombo. Electronic waste year onsite inspections were carried out across sector from the local community Effluent treatment plant (ETP) sludge disposed in line with CEA Not quantified in the last 4.33 tonnes and used paper are handed over to CEA all companies covering approximately 90% requirements year Used lubricant oil disposed in line with CEA requirements 9,900 litres 714 litres Total investment on sustainability processes and action plans Rs. 100 mn Rs. 77.3 mn Read more about the activities carried out by the Services sector in our previous reports http://aitkenspence.com/about-us/ 94 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 95 Services sector A Rs.1.1 Bn Revenue for the year  Rs.124 Mn Profit for the year Rs. 2.9 Bn Total assets The services sector of Aitken Spence represents 161Mn 265 tonnes 11.7 tonnes the Group’s interests in financial services, insurance, elevators, information technology, Rs. nano-coating products, property management and Total contribution to the CO2e of GHG emissions of paper recycled or sold Governments reduced and/or offset for reuse/recycling development businesses. (by direct and indirect taxes) • Inward Money Transfer • Property • Elevator Agency • Technology • Insurance 96 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 97 Services sector Inputs Business Process Output Outcome Financial capital Corporate Vision Financial capital Financial capital • Equity funding • Debt funding Brand Values • Internally generated cash flows • Financial stability • Debt servicing • Shareholder returns • Internally generated cash Strategy • Revenue generation flows Core Strengths Natural capital Natural capital Natural capital • Land Business Model • Sustainable resource consumption • Environmental sustainability • Water resources • Conservation of natural eco • Biodiversity Key Stakeholders Key Activities Customer Segments systems • Principals • Provision and facilitation of services on behalf of the • Manufacturers • Joint Venture Partners principals • Exporters • Agents • Ownership and management of real estate • Importers • Employees • Construction industry • Shareholders • Institutions Manufactured capital • Individuals / retail customers Manufactured capital Manufactured capital • Office complex • Inward remittances • Innovative offerings to clients • Enabling technology • Access to state of the art products • Specialised equipment and and services machinery • Effective and efficient services • Efficient resource usage Channels • Financial institutions • Direct marketing Intellectual capital • Business to business Intellectual capital Intellectual capital • Globally renowned Brands • Business to customer Revenue Streams Cost Structure Meeting quality specifications Delivery of brand promise • Proprietary knowledge • Promotional campaigns • • • Agency income • Finance cost • Projects delivered on time • Licenses • Commission • Technology cost • Effective systems and processes • Rent income • Staff cost • Fees • Cost of tools & equipment • Installation service income • Cost of infrastructure Human capital Customer Relationship • Personalised service Human capital Human capital • Specialised knowledge and Key Resources Value Propositions • Service excellence • Engaged workforce • Personal and professional skills • In-house expertise • Reliability • Direct communication • Enriched knowledge base growth • Training and development • Technology • Convenience • Brand ambassadors • Experienced staff • Local coverage • Efficiency enhancement • Safe workplace • Infrastructure • Unique experience • Globally renowned brands • On-time delivery Social and relationship capital  Social and relationship  Social and relationship • Strategic partnerships capital capital • Community engagement • Effective stakeholder engagement • Sustainable wealth creation • Shared values that deliver mutual benefits • Corporate culture Stakeholder Engagement • Improvement of local economy and Risk Management life style • Conducive corporate culture that Governance ensures smooth integration and drives performance Operating Environment 98 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 99 Services sector l 1876 The Group was appointed as agents for Lloyds of London: position which the company holds l 2006 Entering into the financial services market by becoming a principal agent for Western Union Money l 2014 Invested as a joint venture partner in Ecocorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd., a provider of nanotechnology based MMBL will continue to enhance its competitive value proposition of to this date by providing survey and claim settling agents for reputed insurance companies. Transfer Services in Sri Lanka. 2008 Aitken Spence Corporate office is relocated to surface-protection coating manufactured under license in Germany. being the largest Western Union network in Sri Lanka with a team dedicated to Western Union services, operating in strict compliance l l 1989 Aitken Spence acquires a majority stake ‘Aitken Spence Tower II’, with the completion of the in Elevators (Pvt) Ltd, which provides marketing, construction of a modern office complex. installing and maintaining services of OTIS lifts, l 2013 The Group enter into a joint venture with US with local and global regulatory frameworks. During the year, MMBL escalators and other equipment. l 1995 Construction and operation of “Aitken Spence partners to build and operate luxury villas in a gated community in Negombo branded as “ Heritage obtained approval from the Central Bank of Sri Lanka for its Direct Tower” at Vauxhall Street. Grove”. to Bank product, which is due to be launched in 2016/2017. The services sector of Aitken Spence represents segment was able to achieve a turn-around in its year, with the Middle East generating the majority cost efficient options for sourcing incremental compliance with local and global regulatory The insurance segment revenue remained the Group’s interests in financial services, business. Both property development and nano of remittances 54.8% in 2015, compared business. Overcoming adverse developments frameworks while offering cutting edge, innovative flat during the year with its profit before tax insurance, elevators, information technology, coating segments are still in the infancy stage of with 55.6% in 2014. Any volatility in the Middle in the operating environment the segment products. Investments in key send corridors such witnessing a marginal drop of 1.3%. The nano-coating products, property management operations and has the promise of developing Eastern job market, especially the current successfully obtained Green Flag status from as Canada, Western Europe, the Middle East and segment has laid greater emphasis on extending and development businesses. The sector enjoys into profitable businesses in the years to come. continued slump in oil prices, can thus impact Western Union International, which is the highest others, will also continue to generate volumes its engagement in investigations beyond the enduring partnerships with world renowned the inflows to Sri Lanka. Contribution from the level for compliance and monitoring of anti while countering intense competition. core offering of surveys and claims settlement, brands including Lloyds of London, OTIS Inward Money Transfer European region also reduced to 21.9% from money laundering initiatives showcasing MMBL’s exploring wider opportunities on the non-marine Elevators, Western Union and Oracle. previous years’ 22.9%. commitment to corporate sustainability and Insurance side of the business. The segment has been a principal agent in Sri ethical operations. The financial year 2015/2016 was a testing Lanka for Western Union Money transfer services Although the overall remittances into Sri Lanka The insurance segment has the distinction of It must be noted as a positive that the insurance period for the services sector as a result of since 2006 and operates a network of over 2800 remained stagnant at US$ 7 billion in 2015 Western Union is the leading cash to cash serving as an associate of Lloyds of London since environments of both countries are now the challenges faced by the economy of Sri locations throughout the country. compared with 2014, there was a drop of 3% player in the country; however, the cash to cash 1876, representing the insurance giant as survey becoming more regularised – with the Insurance Lanka. The slow pace of growth achieved by in the latter half of 2015, which was reflected product has reached maturity and the future and claims settlement agents in Sri Lanka and Board of Sri Lanka guidelines in Sri Lanka and the the domestic economy had an impact on the The Sri Lankan inward remittance market was in segment’s declining volumes. Adding to of the remittance industry is skewed towards the Maldives. The segment’s association with establishment of the Maldives Monetary Authority, performance of the sector. The insurance, valued at approximately US$ 7 billion during the list of challenges the gains on foreign direct to bank and mobile money transfers, Lloyds together with its reputation for reporting which oversees activities of foreign service property and elevator segments reported less the year, with cash to cash money transfers exchange conversions thinned following Western which are tipped to grow exponentially over the quality, reliability and efficiency has enabled Aitken providers. Regulation that promotes a levelthan optimal performances mainly as a result accounting for 10% of that market. Western Union’s decision to change the methodology next decade. During the year, MMBL obtained Spence to become the gold standard in its field in playing field is important given the mushrooming of the slowing down of the economy whilst the Union accounts for 6% of the total remittances, of used to determine the daily foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank of Sri Lanka for the two markets. Over the years, Aitken Spence of small, often informal, operators who function inward money transfer segment was negatively which around 60% is channelled through MMBL conversion rate. Revenue per transaction its Direct to Bank product, which is due to be has also been appointed agent by several other with minimal overheads. impacted by the decline in the remittances into Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd (MMBL). was also on a downward trend, on the back launched in 2016/2017. The company has also global insurance leaders. The segment’s key the country. of lower volumes from the European corridor entered into a memorandum of understanding clients include shipping lines as well as importers The segment continued its longstanding During the year, the remittance market saw and exporters of air and sea cargo in both association with the World Food Programme as well as a downward revision in fees in a with a leading mobile operator, to develop a Despite these challenges the overall sector the entry of a number of new players including Sri Lanka and the Maldives for whom it offers (WFP) as superintendents for all aid and number of key markets to counter competition. mobile wallet product. performance was commendable. Profits before banks and financial institutions in an environment services ranging from marine cargo surveys, assistance cargo channelled through the United As a cumulative result the segment witnessed tax grew by 41.4% year on year as property where the total market size reduced due to MMBL will continue to enhance its competitive claims settlement and adjustment, as well as Nations to the north and east of Sri Lanka. a drop of 21.3% in profit before tax for the management and elevator segments recorded the slow global economic growth and low value proposition of being the largest Western ancillary services to the insurance industry, Over the years of its involvement in the WFP air financial year 2015/2016. The company thus growth in terms of profit before tax over the crude oil prices. The geographic distribution of Union network in Sri Lanka with a team dedicated broking and risk management. programme, the segment has successfully built a undertook several cost reduction measures to previous year while the information technology remittances remained similar to the previous to Western Union services, operating in strict network of outsourced personnel in the northern manage profitability, including seeking more 100 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 101 Services sector and eastern regions; this outreach provides a companies entering the fray with new products, forefront of developing these technologies which Towers have been built with the perfect blend of The sector also has a group of human rights For an overview of the stakeholder clear value addition to the end product. new strategies, and new technology. The will no doubt drive volumes for the OTIS business modern architecture and advanced environmental support givers who have received training on engagement process of Aitken Spence PLC, refer to pages 26 to 29 in the market remains price conscious and therefore in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. management systems thus placing them among the expected action in line with the human rights 2014/2015 Annual Report. Going forward, the segment has invested in the segment’s strategy has been to focus on the preferred office spaces available in the heart matrix developed by the Business Leaders strengthening its capacity in recoveries, which is the high quality and branded segment, where of Colombo. Initiative on Human Rights to maintain human http://aitkenspence.com/corporateProperty Development governance/integrated-reporting-reports/ a nascent business that offers vast potential for its core offering of quality, reliability, safety, rights at the workplace and the action in place professional involvement in Sri Lanka. While the energy efficiency and green philosophy offer a Heritage Grove by Aiken Spence Residencies, at Aitken Spence operations. The role of these Technologies Aitken Spence Insurance also maintains activities segment has engaged in intermittent recoveries competitive advantage. the Group’s foray into property development, support givers is to identify situations, possible in line with the company’s environmental work in the past, it now notes the importance of envisions a gated community of luxury high end Aitken Spence Technologies is an Oracle Gold incidents and events that can be considered management system and occupational health establishing a formal recoveries mechanism in the The segment has reported a growing market villas, with all amenities and conveniences. The Level partner and a member of the IBM world unacceptable in line with this matrix and bring and safety procedures: main areas of focus country in order to standardise risk assessments trend over the past five years with potential in venture is positioning itself as a luxury country Level Program, offering IT services to implement such situations, incidents and events to the include reduction in paper consumption, and help stabilise premiums. both Sri Lanka and Maldives where several home project to target a discerning up market Enterprise Content Management and Enterprise human resource partners of their SBUs. management of electronic waste, and reduction high value contracts have been obtained. This clientele and is well on its way towards the Resource Management systems. of energy consumption. The company’s key The segment is also hopeful that with the year too, the segment posted a growth in sales mobilisation of its first phase. Aitken Spence Property Development (ASPDL) stakeholders are customers, regulators and country's improved the relations with the while winning bids for several premier projects. The young company has successfully undertaken considers energy consumption, water suppliers and the work is influenced by the international community, insurance activity will During the year, the segment returned a strong Heritage Grove targets high net worth individuals and delivered several system implementations consumption, generation of waste and resource standards expected by these key stakeholders. pick up on the back of increased projects, performance in the Maldives, where it secured from overseas who wish to make Sri Lanka their and has gained expertise in several industries efficiency as priorities for the sustainability development activities, and aid/investment the largest housing project in Malé to date. second home and Sri Lankans who could afford a including the car dealership segment. The of their operation. A state-of-the-art building The business model of MMBL Money Transfer inflows to the country. The segment secured a year on year growth in holiday residence and/or investment; the villas are segment will continue to establish itself and earn management system (BMS) is used to monitor Ltd. (MMBL) makes it possible for the company revenue and was able to convert this positive an ideal alternative for those who want to avoid a good reputation for its services in order to and measure performance of Aitken Spence to provide, and facilitate access to remittance performance to a growth of 6.3% in profit before the boxed in living style offered by apartments. enhance its performance levels. Tower II and to maintain records for these key Elevators services at any location across Sri Lanka. tax over the previous financial year. Heritage Grove Villas offer home owners all the aspects material to the operation. Activities of The company has set sustainability priorities The elevators segment represents OTIS, the benefits of a premium gated community, with During the year, the segment focused on the company are influenced by the performance to manage resource consumption, quality world’s leading manufacturer of people-moving The segment invested in the improvement of close proximity to the Negombo beach and building its human resources to bolster its patterns observed as well as the needs and and occupational health and safety for their products in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. This its on-field presence in order to achieve wider its many leisure attractions, while maintaining capabilities in the Oracle-related service space. requirements of the company’s key stakeholders, operation. The company also plays a key role partnership built over 25 years, has enabled the market coverage while investing in specialised easy access to the airport and Colombo via the The segment, while continuing to focus on the namely; regulators, tenants, suppliers and in empowering the migrant workers who seek segment to retain its position of strength amid tools and staff training to handle high-rise Katunayake expressway. Construction of the Oracle E-business installation market, will seek contractors. remittance services by equipping them with the intense competition by leveraging on the skills elevator installations. The intense competition first phase of the project which constitutes 48 to diversify its product range into other ERP correct knowledge to management their finances and experience of its workforce and the technical also necessitated competitive pricing strategies villas along with the common areas is due to get solutions and specialised applications software The sustainability priorities for Aitken Spence more effectively. know-how, high quality products and parts and and the offer of attractive features in order underway during the second quarter of financial to offer education and implementation to a wider Elevators segment include product and service management expertise imparted by OTIS. to complement the segment’s high levels of year 2016/2017. range of clients. The segment is also pursuing quality, environmental impact management and response time, follow up and interaction with opportunities to work with agents overseas, occupational health & safety. Key stakeholders of Sustainability Performance Overview The construction industry in Sri Lanka witnessed which hold vast potential for growth. stakeholders. Property Management the company are employees, customers, users The strengths of the sector stem from the rapid development in the recent past, including and suppliers and the action plan identified for experience of the staff members and the the launch of several new high rise office/ The future of the elevator industry lies in greater The property management segment manages Management Approach to Sustainability the year ahead is significantly shaped by the relationships maintained with stakeholders. The hotel buildings, residential apartments, and user friendliness delivered through high tech the Aitken Spence Towers at Vauxhall needs of the customers and industry standards brands associated with the companies in the infrastructure development projects. Many of the Street, Colombo which houses the Group’s The Services sector maintains the impact based intelligence and advanced technology, resulting in that drive competition in the sector. Benchmarks Services sector provide international benchmarks top end projects require high speed elevators, headquarters and in addition, has several approach to prioritise action for sustainable improvements in safety, energy efficiency, riding maintained by the partner also guide the and guidelines for operational sustainability. machine room less type elevators and escalators. corporate tenants. The rentable space under the growth and has set specific priorities for their comfort, low maintenance and efficient service company on required action. The safety engineer In parallel with the growing opportunities, the segment’s management is 195,784 square feet respective operations. support. OTIS as the global leader, is at the of Aitken Spence Elevators segment conducts Another complexity faced by the Property market has witnessed a plethora of elevator of which nearly 100% is presently occupied. The Management segment in implementing activities The companies in the Services sector maintain routine safety education programmes and inspections to assess compliance. towards these priorities is in maintaining environmental management systems aligned to consistency with the stand-alone activities of ISO 14001: 2004 to manage their environmental their tenants with the available facilities of the priorities. Occupational health and safety (OHS) existing systems for the same sustainability procedures have been established across the sector according to the nature and scale of each company following the HIRAC (Hazard Identification Risk Assessment and Control) and Revenue Total Assets Profit after Tax officers from each company have been trained on for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March for the year ended 31st March Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn general OHS guidelines, first-aid and fire safety. 1,114 3,098 1,057 2,878 2,928 172 The companies have trained internal auditors for 913 environmental and quality systems, to assist in 124 their sustainability priorities and cross functional teams from across Aitken Spence collaborate to 83 share expertise in managing sustainability driven programmes. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 102 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 103 Services sector priorities. As such, the company has set a short term goal to collaborate with tenants to implement the nature of the operation, MMBL Money Transfer will also focus on increasing effort to management and the importance of using proper channels for remittance in the hopes of Investing in the future measures to increase efficiency in energy, water curb electricity and fuel consumption. Sales empowering them to make their own financial and resource consumption and reduce generation managers of MMBL Money Transfer are working decisions. Defining of waste. The company also hopes to work with with the business development officers to plan suppliers to increase the effectiveness of the routes and increase efficiency in their transport A socially responsible company; building management system and to source more patterns to increase efficiency in energy use. The sustainable material for the maintenance of Aitken team at MMBL Money Transfer is also working Compliant Spence Towers. on installing signboards with reflective surfaces • Zero significant fines/ non-monetary instead of signs that require separate lighting to sanctions for non-compliance with laws our While the people moving equipment promoted and regulations curb energy consumption. Strengthening the by Aitken Spence Elevators segment are ISO relationship with clients is another priority for • Zero incidents of non-compliance 14001: 2004 and ISO 9001: 2008 certified, with regulations/ voluntary codes on MMBL Money Transfer and the work-plan for the marketing communications the management systems of the operation year ahead will include increased communication • Zero substantiated complaints on (office activities, installation, maintenance) of the with clients as well as education and training breaches of customer privacy company is yet to be certified. The company for the business development officers on the principles aspires to certify the operation for exemplary company’s sustainability priorities to provide Committed to sustainable operations quality management and environmental their best services. The company also hopes to • Committed to maintain systems to management. The elevators segment is working identify and control aspects causing make their service more ubiquitous to increase adverse environmental impacts: Efforts to restructure and streamline processes accessibility as a convenience to their clients. to reduce energy consumption saved accordingly. 1,184GJ of energy and reduced and/ or One of the main stakeholders of MMBL Money offset 265 tonnesCO2e GHG emissions Transfer is the migrant worker community. MMBL An ongoing goal of MMBL Money Transfer • Committed to reduce if not eliminate Money Transfer conducts educational sessions generation of waste: waste management is to maintain activities to reduce resource at the Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau for activities have resulted in 11.7 tonnes consumption and generation of waste. Given paper recycled migrant workers to educate them on financial 2014/2015 2015/2016 Energy consumption and GHG emissions monitored Direct Energy Consumption 1,312 GJ 1,651 GJ Diesel – 4% Diesel 24 % Petrol – 96% Petrol 76 % Furnace oil – Not used Furnace oil – Not used Biomass/ fuel wood – Biomass/ fuel wood – Not used Not used LPG – Not used LPG – Not used Indirect Energy Consumption 10,831 GJ 9,477 GJ Total energy produced from non-renewable energy sources 3,051 GJ 394 GJ Reductions achieved in energy consumption 173 GJ 1,184 GJ Total water withdrawal 28,504 m3 29,054 m3 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water None None Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organisation None None Quantified Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 91 tonnesCO2e 116 tonnesCO2e Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2,226 tonnesCO2 1,948 tonnesCO2 Amount of emissions reduced and/ or offset 49 tonnesCO2e 265 tonnesCO2e Waste Resource Management Paper sold for recycling to a certified vendor 11,746 kg 11,701 kg Cardboard sold for reuse Plastic sold for reuse/ recycling 334 cans 310 cans Bulbs handed over for recycling to a certified vendor 36 CFL bulbs, 231 CFL bulbs, 105 TFL bulbs 123 units of 4ft fluorescent bulbs 155 units of 2ft fluorescent bulbs Lead acid batteries sold to a certified vendor 394 batteries Food waste handed over to municipal waste collectors ~30kg per day ~25 – 30kg per day Governance & Risk Management (8,101 kg) (7,285 kg) Find out more about our stringent and comprehensive Read more about the activities carried out by the Services sector in our previous reports Governance framework http://aitkenspence.com/about-us/ 104 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 105 Corporate governance report Corporate Governance at Aitken Spence concepts carefully and will implement them, Aitken Spence Code of Ethics is acknowledged Corporate governance is the framework if they are deemed to be in the Company’s by all employees which enables optimum of rules and practices by which a Board of best interests. Further, the Board continues to standards of integrity and ethics. We also give Directors ensures accountability, fairness, and review and benchmark the Group’s governance attention to strengthening the risk management transparency in a company’s relationship with structures and processes to ensure they framework; our internal audit division closely all its stakeholders. This provides the structure support effective and ethical leadership, good monitors all factors in this regard along with the through which the objectives both financial corporate citizenship and sustainability. These Audit Committee (see pages 119 to 125 for the and non-financial are set, accomplished structures, frameworks and processes are comprehensive risk management strategy of the and measured. A commitment to corporate reviewed regularly and adapted to accommodate Group). While the group sustainability division governance is the foundation of responsible internal developments and mirror national and works directly with the different sectors and corporate citizenship and sustainable business international best practices. Group Companies ensuring strict adherence practices of Aitken Spence PLC. The Board to all voluntary compliance. The sector review Our formal governance structure provides and on pages 56 to 104 reflect the sustainability provides strategic guidance and sets the tone facilitates empowerment and a comprehensive initiatives of the Group. to ensure that the development of the Company policy framework. This policy framework goes is based on sound values. The Board considers beyond legal requirements encompassing Being a leading conglomerate in Sri Lanka, we corporate governance to be precedent and voluntary frameworks, international best at Aitken Spence are committed to ensure best endeavours to go beyond minimum compliance practices and stakeholder engagement, ensuring practices in the area of corporate governance. where applicable. Therefore, the Board will high standards of ethics and professionalism. Our governance structure, depicted below is consider all non-statutory corporate governance formed based on the mechanism that ensures Shareholders External Auditors Mandatory Compliance Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 Nomination Committee Board Sub Committees Company's Articles of Association Chairman & Board Remuneration Committee of Directors CSE Listing Rules Audit Committee Related Party Transactions The Code of Best Practice on Review Committee Corporate Governance ICASL & SEC Internal Governance Aitken Spence Code of Ethics Voluntary Compliance Aitken Spence Integrated Sustainability Policy Group Supervisory Board G4 Reporting / International Integrated Reporting Framework Group Management Committee United Nations Global Compact Sector Management Committees Codes of Regulatory Authorities, Professional Institutions and Trade Associations Employees 106 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 107 Corporate governance report significant values to our stakeholders scattered The Board of Directors, both individually and additional information and clarification to assist • approving quarterly unaudited and audited Principle A.1.4: Access to advice from the measures are taken for the implementation and around the globe. collectively, strive to comply with best practices them to formulate independent views. annual financial statements and financial Company Secretary execution of the decisions so made. on environmental, health, safety and ethical statements for special purposes, Complied This report on Corporate Governance indicates standards whilst ensuring that the interest of all Minutes of the board meetings are accurately In addition to ensuring that their duties and strict adherence to mandatory compliance recorded and circulated among the Directors • recommending the appointment or removal of All Directors have access to advice and the responsibilities are satisfactorily discharged, stakeholder groups are considered when taking of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock for confirmation at the next meeting. Where the external auditors subject to the approval services of Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, who is individual Directors are members of various Sub decisions. Exchange [Listing Rule 7.10(a)] and the voluntary applicable, any conflicts and/or concerns that of the shareholders at the Annual General the Company Secretary. He is responsible in Committees of the Board. Further, the Board is compliance of The Code of Best Practice of cannot be unanimously resolved are recorded Meeting, ensuring the Board procedures are followed aware of commitments of its Directors in other Corporate Governance issued jointly by the Principle A.1.1: Board Meetings appropriately in the board minutes. In instances and that applicable rules and regulations are companies/organisations and is satisfied that • appointing Directors to the Audit, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Complied where decisions are made by way of circular complied with strictly. His responsibilities include; these neither conflict nor impair performance of Remuneration, Nomination and Related (ICASL) and the Securities and Exchange resolutions, all relevant information pertaining Party Transactions Review Committees who • assisting the Chairman in ensuring that the their duties at the optimal level as Directors of the Commission (SEC) of Sri Lanka. The Board convened six times during the to the resolution is sent with such resolution Company. Each Director is expected to report possess the experience and expertise to add Board members have full and timely access financial year and the meetings were presided by to enable the Directors to clearly understand all intentions in joining the boards of any other value to the said Committees to which they to all relevant information and documentation the Chairman. the purpose for which a resolution is being companies/organisations outside the Group as SECTION 1: COMPANY are appointed, whilst making sure that appropriate facilities circulated. are available for the proper conduct of and when they occur. PRINCIPLE A: DIRECTORS An annual calendar of board meetings is • conducting self performance evaluation of the prepared at the beginning of each financial year meetings and effective decision making, Board and its Committees, Principle A.1/Listing Rule 7.10.3(c): The Board and it is circulated among the Directors enabling Principle A.1.2: Role and Responsibility of the Principle A.1.7: Training of Directors Board • coordinating with the Chairman in the Complied them to prepare their work schedules and • reviewing and approving the operational Complied Complied organisation of initial formal induction and facilitate effective participation. In an instance and financial budgets and monitoring the The Board currently consists of a Chairman, subsequent periodic training programmes for The Board identifies with the need for continuous of a Director’s unavailability at the meetings due performance of the individual Strategic a Managing and Finance Director and seven The Board is responsible for the formulation and the Directors, training and development of Directors. to personal commitments or illness he/she is Business Units of the Group, whilst seeking other Directors, four of whom are Non-Executive implementation of sound business strategies complete information to form views, critique Recognising such, appropriate meetings with the provided with briefing material for discussion • ensuring that Board procedures are Independent Directors. within the Group and is responsible to ensure management and take strategic decisions, management of each subsidiary, visiting sites/ with the Chairman or the Managing and Finance complied and providing advice of corporate that Group adheres to relevant laws/regulations factories/hotels and participating in meetings Director on a suitable date. governance and regulatory compliances, The Board considers the long term interest of of the country, international laws, regulatory • identification of principle financial and with key investors, suppliers, customers, service all stakeholders of our Group in their continuous authorities, professional institutes and trade operational risks and ensuring the • ensuring the compliance of the Companies providers and other key stakeholders are The notices of board meetings are provided with efforts to ensure good governance and the associations. The Board is responsible for; implementation of suitable systems to Act, Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock few methods of periodic training used where the agenda sufficiently ahead of the scheduled effective functioning of our Company. The names manage and mitigate risks, Exchange and other relevant regulations. applicable. meeting. The board papers are circulated among • ensuring that the Managing and Finance and profiles of each of the Directors are on the Directors in advance of the meeting providing Director, the Group Supervisory Board • reviewing the appropriateness and reliability pages 26 to 29 of this Annual Report. All Directors are encouraged to attend adequate time to review and request for any and the Group Management Committee of the Company’s internal control, risk and Principle A.1.5: Independent Judgment Complied appropriate seminars and training programmes demonstrate the right balance of management information systems to secure in enhancing their business insight and independence, knowledge, skill, background the integrity of all that encompass various Each Director exercises independent judgement professionalism in carrying out their duties. Name of Director Board Meetings and experience to discuss, initiate and aspects of the businesses, in all matters considered by the Board and acts Directors are further encouraged to participate implement new business strategies, 02.04.2015 22.05.2015 30.06.2015 27.08.2015 19.11.2015 11.02.2016 • evaluating and approving mergers, free from undue influence and bias from other in forums, workshops and/or seminars in their • overseeing that those delegated with the acquisitions and divestures that results in parties. Matters considered include participating capacity as speakers, moderators or panellists in responsibility to conduct the operations of corporate re-structuring or re-engineering. in decisions on issues relating to strategies, their respective areas of proficiency. the Company are adhering to the policies implementation of such strategies, performance Chairman and procedures of the Group effectively and review, resource allocation and standards of Principle A.1.3: Compliance with laws and Principle A.2-A.3: Chairman and Chief Executive Deshamanya D.H.S Jayawardena P P P P P P efficiently, access to independent advice conduct and business ethics. Officer Managing and Finance Director Complied • effective implementation of senior Complied Mr. J.M.S. Brito P P P P P P management succession strategy, Principle A.1.6: Board Commitment Executive Directors The Board acknowledges that there may be Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena is the Complied Dr. R.M. Fernando P P P P P P • reviewing the reports of the Board Sub circumstances which arise when one or more of Chairman and Mr. J.M.S. Brito is the Managing Dr. P. Dissanayake P P P P P P Committees and where applicable the Directors may feel it is essential, whether as a The Directors allocate adequate time for the and Finance Director and is the Chief Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena P P P P P P implementing their recommendations, full Board or in their individual capacities, to seek fulfilment of their responsibilities as Directors, Executive Officer. The clear demarcation of the Non-Executive Directors impartial professional guidance at the Company’s ensuring that their duties and responsibilities responsibilities between the Chairman and the • ensuring that the Company’s values and expense. The formal procedure agreed upon Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe P P P * P P are satisfactorily discharged. They dedicate Managing and Finance Director is apparent as principles are aligned with the adoption and enables that such advice is managed by the Mr. C.H. Gomez * * P * P P sufficient time before such meetings to review the functions performed by them are distinct compliance of appropriate and applicable Company Secretary and is also extended to Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya P P P P P P respective documentation relating to the meeting and separate, ensuring the balance of power statutes, accounting and financial regulations, all relevant Board Committees to enable the Mr. R.N. Asirwatham P P P P P P and seeking additional information for any and authority within the organisation, so that environmental and ethical standards, and implementation of duties in respect of matters Mr. V.M. Fernando (retired w.e.f 30.06.2015) P P P further clarifications. Further the Directors pay no person has unfettered powers of decision compliance with regulatory and stakeholder being deliberated. Company Secretary due attention to the documentation and the making and implementation. requirements with satisfactory framework for Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty P P P P P P information so provided and make appropriate reporting, decisions. They also ensure that adequate The Chairman, Deshamanya D.H.S. P Present * Excused Jayawardena is responsible for: 108 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 109 Corporate governance report • ensuring a balance of power between the Principle A.4: Financial Acumen • contribution with their experience and skill, unbiased judgment. This enables them to act substantially in advance of the meeting in order investor relations and Board administration and Executive and Non-Executive Directors is Complied the provision of unbiased independent critically and independently in the best interest to facilitate effective conduct of the meeting. processes are rectified. maintained, judgment on issues related to strategy, of the Company. They refrain in partaking in As apparent from the profiles of the Board financial and operational performance, decision making in any instance where they have • encouraging effective participation of of Directors, the Board of Directors with their Principle A.7: Appointments to the Board Principle A.10/Listing Rule 7.10.3: Disclosure of key appointments, standards of business any material business interest. Executive and Non-Executive Directors at academic and/or entrepreneurial financial skills, Information in respect of Directors conduct, ethics and all matters pertaining to Principle A.7.1/A.7.2: Presence of the Board and Sub Committee meetings, business acumen and wide practical wisdom Complied the Board, Nomination Committee/Assessment of the Principle A.5.4/Listing Rule 7.10.2(b): Annual composition of the Board • ensuring that the Board adheres to contribute substantial value, knowledge and • offering constructive criticism of strategies Declaration of Non-Executive Directors The profiles of the Directors are set out on pages procedures, relevant statutes and complying independent judgement to decision making on Complied discussed by the Board, Complied 28 and 29. to various stakeholder and regulatory matters concerning operational and financial investment. A formal and transparent procedure is followed requirements of bodies whilst being in • scrutinising and challenging performance Annually each Non-Executive Director Directors’ interest in contracts are indicated when appointing any new Directors to the Board. complete control of the affairs of the across the Group’s business sectors, declares his independence/non-independence in note 46 of the Financial Statements of this Company, Principle A.5: Board Balance in compliance with the relevant statutory The Nomination Committee Report is on page Annual Report. • assessing the risk and the integrity of financial regulations. 115 which includes the names of the members • ensuring that all Directors are adequately Principle A.5.1/Listing Rule 7.10.1(a), 7.10.2(a), and operational controls, The number of board meetings attended by briefed on issues arising at board meetings of the committee. 7.10.3(a)/: Board Composition each Director is given on page 108 of this Annual • determining the Company’s policy for Principle A.5.7/A.5.8: Appointment of Senior and they effectively contribute with their Complied Report. executive remuneration and the remuneration Independent Director respective capabilities towards the best Principle A.7.3/Listing Rule 7.10.3(d): Disclosure The Aitken Spence Board currently consists of packages. Not Applicable interest of the Company, of Appointment of a New Director Names of the Chairmen and the members of the a Chairman, a Managing and Finance Director Complied Board Committees are provided in the respective • ensuring that shareholders are given This principle is not applicable to Aitken Spence and seven other Directors, four of whom are Principle A.5.2: Number of Independent Nonreports and in the Corporate Information on page adequate opportunity to make observations, Executive Directors PLC as the roles of the Chairman and the On an appointment of a Director a suitable Non-Executive Independent Directors. The 10 of this Annual Report. express their views and seek clarifications at Complied Managing and Finance Director are distinct. disclosure is made to the Colombo Stock composition of the Board thus eliminates the meetings of shareholders. preference of an individual or a small group Exchange which contains a brief resume of The Board currently consists of four Independent Principle A.5.9: Chairman meeting with the Nonthe Director. The disclosure is published in Principle A.11: Appraisal of Chief Executive Officer Managing and Finance Director, Mr. J.M.S. Brito dominating the process of decision making. Non-Executive Directors. (see table titled Executive Directors the Colombo Stock Exchange website and is Complied is responsible for: Although the Chairman, Deshamanya D.H.S. Independence of Non-Executive Directors) Complied accessible to the shareholders. • day-to-day management of the Group’s The appraisal of the Managing and Finance Jayawardena and Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena are business operations, with the support of Chairman, Deshamanya D. H. S. Jayawardena Director who is our Chief Executive Officer is related to each other, they act independently Principle A.5.3/A.5.5/Listing Rule 7.10.2(a): meets with the Non-Executive Directors as and Principle A.8: Re-election done annually on a self-appraisal basis. It is the Executive Directors, Group Supervisory in the best interest of the Company in spirit, Independence of Non-Executive Directors when necessary. Complied done in line with the financial and non-financial Board, Group Management Committee and intention, purpose, attitude and their discharge Complied the Sector Management Committees, objectives set out in consultation with the Board of duties. In accordance with the Companies Act and The Independent Directors remain independent at the commencement of every financial year. Principle A.5.10: Recording of unresolved the Articles of Association of the Company, the • effective implementation of the Company’s The responsibilities and duties of the from day-to-day management decision, activities matters strategies and policies, relevant retiring Directors submit themselves for PRINCIPLE B: DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION Independent Directors include: and are free from any business and/or other Complied re-election at each Annual General Meeting. The • maintaining a close working relationship with relationship which may hinder their exercise of Principle B.1: Remuneration Procedure Nomination Committee declares to the Board the Chairman, and being a sounding board The Company Secretary ensures that all that the contributions made by the Directors for the Chairman as and when necessary, concerns are accurately recorded at board Principle B.1.1-B.1.3/Listing Rule 7.10.5(a), Independence of Non-Executive Directors offering themselves for re-election at the Annual 7.10.5(b): Remuneration Committee and its meetings and Sub Committee meetings. • guaranteeing that the correct Board General Meeting are effective and affirms the Composition procedures are followed, and that the Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Company’s support of their re-election. Complied applicable rules and regulations are regularly The Board having considered the circumstances and the criterion of independence in relation to Principle A.6: Supply of Information Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe, has construed Mr. Wickremasinghe to be independent due to his regular Aitken Spence PLC has a formal and transparent reviewed and complied, Principle A.6.1: Appropriate and timely Principle A.9: Appraisal of Board Performance overseas travels and the fact that he refrains from any involvement in the day-to-day management of procedure for developing policy on executive information Complied • advising the Board on corporate governance the Company or any of its subsidiaries. remuneration and for deciding the remuneration Complied matters and acting as the interface between packages for individual Directors. Mr. C.H. Gomez Assessment of the performance of the Board, the management and regulatory authorities as The Group has a comprehensive management The Board construed Mr. C.H. Gomez as an Independent Director as he resides overseas and its Committees and individual Directors forms and when necessary, The Remuneration Committee is headed by refrains from any involvement in the day-to-day management of the Company or any of its information system to process and monitor the an integral part and carried out annually on a subsidiaries. a Non-Executive Independent Director of the • ensuring that the Company and the Group performance of the Group. Appropriate and self-appraisal basis within the terms of reference Company. The respective Report including the achieves the approved budgets and targets, timely information is made available to the Board, to its/their key responsibilities outlined in the Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya members of the said Committee can be found who make further inquiries when necessary. Nomination Committee Report of this Annual • providing the Board explanations for Although a Director of an institution that holds over 15% of the shares of the Company, on page 118 of this Annual Report. Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya is determined as an Independent Director after taking into Report. This provides an avenue to highlight variances in budgets and targets and consideration all the relevant circumstances, including the fact that he resides overseas. Furthermore, Principle A.6.2: Adequate time in circulating improvement areas and remedial actions on the recommending any corrective action that neither he nor the Institution in which he is a Director, directly or indirectly get involved in the day-torelevant documents Board’s administration processes with evaluation needs to be adopted. day management of either the Company or its subsidiaries. Complied of the progress of such areas identified whilst ensuring that any deficiencies pertaining to Mr. R.N. Asirwatham The Company Secretary ensures that the Appointed to the Board as an Independent Director. Board receives all relevant board documents 110 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 111 Corporate governance report Principle B.1.4/B.1.5/B.2.9: Remuneration of Principle B.2.7/B.2.8: Early Termination in Principle C.1.4: Notice and Procedure of PRINCIPLE D: ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Principle D.1.6: Serious Loss of Capital the period and have taken appropriate remedial Non-Executive Directors and Consultation with Directorate Meetings Complied steps where necessary. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Complied Complied Principle D.1: Financial Reporting Complied In the unlikely event that the net assets of the An overview of the Group’s framework for The Remuneration Committee determines the The notice and the agenda of the Annual Principle D.1.1/D1.2: Board Responsibility in Financial Reporting and their Declarations Company fall below half of shareholders’ funds, identifying and managing risk at an operational Non-Executive Directors are remunerated in remuneration of Directors in the event of early General Meeting together with the Annual Report Complied the shareholders of the Company would be and strategic level is set out on pages 119 to accordance with the Articles of Association termination. containing relevant documents are sent to the notified and an Extraordinary General Meeting 125 of this Annual Report. of the Company. Their fees and reimbursable shareholders 15 working days prior to the date of The Board recognises its responsibility to present would be called to propose the way forward. expenses are paid in consideration of the basis the Annual General Meeting of the Company. Principle B.3: Disclosure of Remuneration a balanced and understandable assessment of Principle D.3/Listing Rule 7.10.6(a-c): Audit of contribution and services performed at the Complied the Group’s financial position, performance and Principle D.1.7: Disclosure of Related Party Committee Board and Committee meetings. Principle C.1.5: Procedures Governing Voting prospects in accordance with the requirements Transactions Complied The Remuneration Committee consults the The report of the Remuneration Committee is Complied of the Companies Act. The Financial Statements Complied Chairman and the Managing and Finance given on page 118 along with the names of the included in this Annual Report are prepared and The Audit Committee supports the Board in members of the Committee which could also be In the event the appropriate numbers of presented in accordance with the Companies A Related Party Transactions Review ensuring the integrity of the Company’s Financial Director regarding the remuneration proposals found in the Corporate Information of this Annual shareholders give their intimation in writing and Act and the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Committee was set up during this financial Statements as well as internal controls and and revision of salary packages as and when Report. Refer note 9 to the Financial Statements request for a poll the procedures involved in Aitken Spence also continues to report its year in compliance with the Listing Rules of compliance keeping under review the scope and necessary to Executive Directors and the Senior for the details of remuneration paid to the Board voting would be circulated. In the absence of performance In Accordance – Core with the Colombo Stock Exchange. A formalised results of the audits and its effectiveness, and the Management, taking into consideration the of Directors. such intimation all issues at the general meeting the Global Reporting Initiative’s (see pages process is in place for related party transactions independence and objectivity of the Auditors. internal and external socio-economic factors. will be passed by show of hands. 219) G4 Reporting framework while following including identification of related parties, types No Director in the Board of Aitken Spence PRINCIPLE C: RELATIONS WITH the guidelines of the International Integrated of transactions and avoidance of conflict of The Audit Committee of Aitken Spence PLC PLC is involved in determining his/her own SHAREHOLDERS Reporting Council’s Framework. interests. Directors individually declare their is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive remuneration. Principle C.2: Communication with Shareholders transactions with the Company on an as and Director and has three other Independent Principle C.1: Constructive use of Annual General The Annual Report of the Directors is on pages Non-Executive Directors as members of the Principle C.2.1-C.2.7: Shareholder Engagement when basis and make disclosures of their Principle B.2: The Level and Make Up of Meeting and conduct of General Meetings 126 to 129 of this Annual Report. committee who carry out their duties and Complied interest in compliance with the requirements of Remuneration See Principle E.1 the Companies Act and other relevant statutory responsibilities as set out in the Listing Rules of Aitken Spence strives to engage with its requirements. The Company maintains an the Colombo Stock Exchange. Principle B.2.1-B.2.4: Standards for Determining Principle C.1.1: Use of Proxy Principle D.1.3: Statement by the Directors and Remuneration of Executive Directors shareholders in a continuous, transparent and Auditors interest register as stipulated in the Companies Complied The Audit Committee Report set out on pages Complied effective manner. The Annual General Meeting Complied Act. All related party transactions as defined is the main forum for engagement and is well by the applicable accounting standards are 116 and 117 in this Annual Report includes the All proxy votes are counted and the quantum of The Remuneration Committee targets to provide attended. The Statements of the Directors and Auditors disclosed on note 48 of the Financial Statements names of the members and the duties carried proxies lodged on each resolution is tabulated attractive packages to Executive Directors are on pages 133 and 134 respectively of this on pages 135 to 231 of this Annual Report. out by the said Committee. and given to the Chairman and Managing and in order to motivate and retain them. The Communication with shareholders is facilitated Annual Report. Finance Director prior to the Annual General remuneration of other companies in similar through the Company’s website, press releases, Principle D.4: Code of Business Conduct Meeting. Principle D.2: Internal Control industries and trades remuneration is used as a social media platforms and announcements to and Ethics the Colombo Stock Exchange. Principle D.1.4: Management Discussion and Complied benchmark. Analysis Complied Principle C.1.2: Separate Resolution on each issue The Annual Report provides comprehensive Complied The Board of Directors of Aitken Spence PLC A portion of the remuneration is in the form of Aitken Spence believes that the strong set Complied information which enables the shareholders has overall responsibility for the Company’s a performance bonus which is based upon the The management discussion and analysis of the of core values which underlie the Code, is to be suitably informed of the activities of the system of internal control and for reviewing its achievement of both individual and company Company and its subsidiaries are on pages 39 to the main source of its competitive advantage A separate resolution on each issue is proposed Company. The shareholders are encouraged efficiency and effectiveness. It is established that goals and targets. 43 in this Annual Report. which is rewarded by the trust placed in it by its at the Annual General Meeting of the Company. to carry out adequate analysis and obtain achieving a sound internal control environment stakeholders. It is further ensured that Directors independent advice regarding their investment in is a key priority and has made appropriate Principle B.2.5: Executive Share Option and key personnel strictly comply with the Code Principle C.1.3: Chairmen of the Board the Company. Principle D.1.5: Going Concern allocation of resources to maintain the right Complied of Ethics of the Company in their duties so as not Committees Complied standards. to adversely affect the brand of Aitken Spence in Complied Meanwhile, the company secretarial division As at date, the Company has no share options The Board of Aitken Spence PLC is satisfied that Aitken Spence has created an environment any manner. Violation of this is an offence that is and/or communication teams act as the point available to its Directors or employees. the Company and the Group have adequate through application of the acceptable business subject to disciplinary action. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, of contact for clarifications, suggestions or Nomination and Related Party Transactions complaints raised by shareholders. resources to continue the operations without any principles and good corporate governance. We The Chairman of the Board affirms that there Principle B.2.6: Designing Schemes of Review Committees are present at the Annual disruption in the foreseeable future. Further the have a fully equipped Internal Audit Division to has not been any material violation of any of the Remuneration General Meeting to answer any questions of the Company’s Financial Statements are prepared assist the maintenance of our sound system Principle C.3: Major and Material Transactions provisions of the code of conduct. Complied shareholders directed to them by the Chairman. on a going concern basis. This declaration is of internal control for purposes of protecting Complied made on the Annual Report of the Board of stakeholder investment and assets. The Remuneration Committee Report of this Directors of this Annual Report. The shareholders are advised of any instance Annual Report sets out the procedure followed in The Board and the Audit Committee have where the contemplated value of a transaction designing the remuneration schemes. reviewed the effectiveness of the financial, would be in excess of half of the net assets of operational, compliance controls and internal the Company. There were no major transactions control systems, including risk management for during the financial year under review. 112 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 113 Corporate governance report Nomination committee Principle D.5: Corporate Governance Disclosures Complied Principal E above, the shareholders of the Company are encouraged to be present and report exercise their right to vote at meetings. The Board of Directors has taken all reasonable steps to ensure that the Company and its PRINCIPLE G: SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING subsidiaries are fully compliant with all the Principles G.1: Principles of Sustainability Nomination Committee Members mandatory and voluntary rules and regulations. Reporting Chairman Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe1 The Board gives due consideration in compliance Complied Members Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena2 of the regulations set out in the Listing Rules of Mr. J.M.S. Brito3 Sustainability is a business approach that creates the Colombo Stock Exchange, the Code of Best Mr. V.M. Fernando1 (retired w.e.f. 30.06.2015) long term stakeholder value. It also enables a Practice on Corporate Governance jointly issued Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1 company to embrace opportunities and manage by the Securities Exchange Commission of Sri risks derived from economic, environmental Secretary Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Lanka and the Institute of Chartered Accountants and social developments while assessing of Sri Lanka, the Companies Act No. 7 of their potential implications and impacts on the Composition of the Committee • Review the structure, size and composition of providing them fair and equal opportunities for 2007 and other Codes issued by Chambers of business activities of the company. Therefore The Committee is composed of Mr. G.C. the Boards of Group Companies, promotion within the Group. Commerce, Professional Institutions and Industry sustainability reporting at Aitken Spence is Wickremasinghe, Chairman of the committee Associations. • Oversee the performance of the Board, its undertaken as a practice of being accountable to along with two executive Directors, namely Annual General Meeting 2016 Group Committees and Individual Directors SECTION 2: SHAREHOLDERS internal and external stakeholders in terms of the the Chairman and the Managing and Finance and evaluate their performance, In terms of Section 210(2) of the Companies Company’s performance. Director of Aitken Spence PLC and an PRINCIPLE E: INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS Act No.7 of 2007 Deshamanya D.H.S. Independent Non-Executive Director. They • Ensure the Boards consist of persons Aitken Spence reports its performance “In Jayawardena, Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe and served as members throughout the year under possessing a large reservoir of knowledge, Principle E.1: Shareholder Voting Accordance – Core” with the Global Reporting Mr. R.N. Asirwatham retire from the Board at the review. Mr. V.M. Fernando served as a member experience and entrepreneurial skills to Complied Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Reporting Framework. The conclusion of the forthcoming AGM. Further, Mr. of the committee until his retirement from the advance the effectiveness of the Boards. Company also follows the guidelines of the C.H. Gomez retires by rotation in terms of Article The shareholders are encouraged to be Board of Directors on 30th June 2015. • Review the Charter for the appointment 84 of the Articles of Association. International Integrated Reporting Council. present, participate and vote at the Annual and the re-appointment of Directors to the The GRI Index indicates where specific The Chairman of the Committee is an General Meeting of the Company. The holders Boards of the group companies and suggest The Committee is of the opinion that the said information regarding policies and procedures Independent Non-Executive Director. The of ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per amendments wherever necessary. Directors are eligible for re-election and continue of the Company on economic performance, members of the Committee possess wide individual present at meetings of shareholders their commitment as Directors of the Company. environmental sustainability, labour standards, experience, financial and business acumen. or one vote per share in case of a poll. Such product responsibility and stakeholder Key functions performed during the year meetings of shareholders provide an opportunity engagement in developing a sustainable The Committee formally met once during the under review to comment, discuss and seek clarifications on business environment. year under review where all members were any relevant issues with the Chairman and the During the year under review the Committee present. The attendance of the Nomination ensured the consideration and promotion of Board of Directors. Further shareholders are Aitken Spence is a signatory of the United Committee meeting held during the year under diversity and effectiveness in the boards of the free to informally meet with the Directors at the Nations Global Compact and a member of review was as follows; Group Companies. The Nomination Committee conclusion of such meetings. the Global Compact Network Sri Lanka Board reviewed and recommended changes to and the steering committee. Aitken Spence is Name of Member Meeting the Boards of the Group Companies where G.C. Wickremasinghe Principle E.2: Evaluation of Governance Disclosure also among the first Companies in the world 29.06.2015 necessary. Further, the committee evaluated Chairman Complied to become signatory to the UN Women’s and recommended suitable internal and external Nomination Committee Empowerment Principles. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe ü candidates to higher levels of management. The Annual Report gives the shareholders Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena ü sufficient information on the Company’s board Colombo Mr. J.M.S. Brito ü 25th April 2016 structure and composition which allow them to Methodology of the Committee Mr. V.M. Fernando ü evaluate company’s governance arrangements. The Committee worked closely with the Mr. R.N. Asirwatham ü Boards of Group Companies and made PRINCIPLE F: OTHER INVESTORS recommendations on matters that are referred to Terms of Reference of the Committee it for consideration. Principle F.1: Investing and Divesting Decision • Broaden, balance and diversify the Principal F.2: Shareholder Voting effectiveness and composition of the Boards Complied The year ahead of Aitken Spence and its Group Companies, The Committee will continue to review and make The present and potential shareholders of • Identify and recommend suitable candidates recommendations that are fair, free from any bias the Company, investing directly in shares are as Directors to the Boards of Aitken Spence 1 Independent Non-Executive Director and not influenced by personal and business encouraged to carry out adequate analysis or and its Group Companies considering the 2 Chairman of Aitken Spence PLC relationships. This enables the Committee 3 Managing and Finance Director of Aitken Spence PLC seek independent advice in their decisions of succession plan and requirements of the to make sound and measured judgments in P Present investing and divesting. As mentioned under Board and the Group, attracting the best talent to the Group while retaining the services of talented employees by 114 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 115 Audit committee report A comprehensive description of the Audit Committee’s activities during the year under review is set out in the table below: Responsibility Activity Risk Management • Scrutinised the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and risk management Aitken Spence PLC, through its subsidiaries and associate companies operates in diverse sectors and and Internal Control activities and suggested recommendations to the Board. has a broad geographic spread, which signifies the necessity of achieving best practices in financial reporting, internal control and risk management in the Group. • Ensured that the Group adheres and complies with all relevant laws, rules and regulations of the country, international laws, codes of ethics and standards of conduct required by regulatory In its exertion, the Audit Committee has sought to balance independent oversight of the Group’s authorities, professional bodies and trade associations. businesses with the support and guidance to the Board of Directors to fulfil their obligations and Financial Reporting • Reviewed the Group’s quarterly and annual Financial Statements, adequacy of disclosures, responsibilities in relation to financial reporting processes, adequacy and effectiveness of internal and Financial Control uniformity and appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted, major judgemental areas and control systems, external audit, and the Group’s process for monitoring compliance with laws and ensured that they were in compliance with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, applicable Sri Lanka regulations. The Committee believes that there are many reasons for the Audit Committee to be Accounting Standards and requirements of other regulatory bodies as applicable for the Group,and confident that it has carried out its duties successfully and to a high standard during the year, thereby suggested recommendations in line with those requirements. helping to enrich the value of the Group. • Reviewed the operational and other management information reports submitted by the Group’s management to the Audit Committee and made recommendations for improvements. Composition of the Committee and Meetings External Audit • Assessed the performance and effectiveness of the external auditors, their independence and The Audit Committee is composed of four Independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by an professional capabilities and made recommendations to the Board. Independent Non-Executive Director. Their profiles are given on pages 28 and 29 of this report. • Reviewed the audit plan presented by the external auditors, provided advice and support regarding the execution of the plan. Audit Committee Members • Discussed the audited financial statements with external auditors and ensured that they were in conformity with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and other regulatory requirements. Chairman Mr. R.N. Asirwatham • Reviewed and discussed the management letter of the external auditors for the Group and Members Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe instructed the management to take appropriate and follow up action on matters highlighted therein. Mr. C.H. Gomez Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya/ Mr. A.L. Gooneratne • Reviewed the fees & out of pocket expenses proposed by external auditors and suggested (Alternate Director for Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) recommendations to the Board. Internal Audit • Reviewed and evaluated the independence and effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit Secretary Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Department, their resource requirements and made recommendations for any required changes. The Audit Committee functioned throughout the financial year and held six formal meetings. The • Reviewed and approved the Annual Internal Audit Plan together with the Information Technology attendance of the audit committee meetings held during the year under review was as follows. (IT) Security Plan and Strategic Risk Plan and made appropriate recommendations for improvements. Name of the Member Meetings • Reviewed and discussed the periodic reports submitted by the internal audit department with management responses, on financial and operational audits, IT Security and risk assessments 11.05.2015 29.06.2015 11.08.2015 20.11.2015 12.02.2016 30.03.2016 carried out in line with approved annual internal audit plan. • The Audit Committee continued to ensure the co-ordination between Group internal audit and external auditors. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham ü ü ü ü ü ü Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe ü ü * ü ü ü Re-Appointment of Auditors Mr. C.H. Gomez * ü * ü ü * The Audit Committee having evaluated the performance of the external auditors, decided to recommend to the Board the Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya/ Mr. A.L. Gooneratne ü ü ü ü * ü re-appointment of Messes KPMG, Chartered Accountants as the auditors of the Company for the current year, subject to (Alternate Director for Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. ü Present * Excused Attendance by Invitation The Managing and Finance Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Corporate Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, other Senior Officers of the Group and the Partner of KPMG responsible for the Groups' audit attended the meetings by invitation as and when required. R.N. Asirwatham Chairman Audit Committee Colombo 18th April 2016 116 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 117 Remuneration Risk management committee report Remuneration Committee Members Chairman Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe1 Members Mr. V.M. Fernando1 (retired w.e.f. 30.06.2015) Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1 Secretary Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty By Invitation Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena 2 Mr. J.M.S. Brito 3 Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 4 Composition of the Committee Management and suggesting recommendations Strategic Business Unit. Cost of living, inflation The Committee is currently composed of two to the Board. and comparative industry norms are also Independent Non-Executive Directors and is given due consideration in determining the remuneration packages. Risk management at Aitken Spence chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Responsibilities Director. Mr. V.M. Fernando who was a The Group believes that managing risk is dealing with risks. The Group has made risk The committee is responsible to the Board for; No Director was involved in deciding his/ her Independent Non-Executive Director served as crucial for growth and success. Therefore management a key element of its corporate • Determining the policy of the remuneration remuneration package. it has embedded risk management into its governance. It strives to maintain a balance a member of the Remuneration Committee until package of the Directors and the organisational culture, making the employees between entrepreneurial attitude and the level of his retirement from the Board of Directors on The Remuneration Committee’s decisions management team. the core of the risk management process. This risk associated with business opportunities. 30th June 2015. The members of the Committee were made adhering to the above policies have wide experience and knowledge of finance, • Evaluating performance of the Managing makes the Group more adaptable enabling it to and practices, which ensured that sound and The Group operates in multiple industries, business and industry. Directors, Executive Directors, and the successfully mitigate any risks arising from the measured judgements, were adopted at all spanning many regions locally and internationally. individual and collective performance of current dynamic environment. times. Whilst this diversification provides a hedge The Committee formally met once during the Directors and Senior Management of the year under review where all members were Risks cannot be eliminated, but can only be against the positive correlation of business risks, Strategic Business Units. present. The attendance of the Remuneration minimised through proper mitigation. The it also exposes the Group to a wider spectrum of Committee meeting held during the year under • Deciding on overall individual packages, Group recognises the importance of adopting risks. These risks have been broadly categorised review was as follows; including compensation on termination of a proactive and systematic approach when as follows. employment. Name of Member Meeting • Ensuring that duties are executed within the 27.06.2015 recognised principles of good governance. G.C. Wickremasinghe Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe ü Strategic risk Financial risk Operational risk Key Functions of the Committee Chairman Mr. V.M. Fernando ü Remuneration Committee Mr. R.N. Asirwatham ü The Group remuneration policy which was • Competitor risk • Interest rate risk • Employee risk By Invitation reviewed by the committee remained unchanged • Reputation risk • Exchange rate risk • Legal risk Colombo Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena ü during the year under review. 25th April 2016 • Environmental risk • Credit risk • Operations risk Mr. J.M.S. Brito ü The Remuneration Committee operates with • Regulatory risk • Technology risk Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena ü the key objective of attracting the most suitable • Principal risk • Occupational health talent and retaining them in the group in order and safety risk Independence of the Committee to enhance the performance of the Strategic The members of the Committee are independent Business Units. Performance of employees is of management and are completely free from evaluated using a well-structured performance any business, personal or other relationships evaluation mechanism that is accepted Risk management model that may interfere with the exercise of their by all employees which also ensures that independent judgment. equity is maintained among employees. The The Group has a comprehensive system in place to manage risks. Both a “top – down” approach and a “bottom – up” approach are adopted to facilitate Remuneration Committee approved promotions the identification of all risks across a broad spectrum. The risks thus identified are analysed, evaluated and prioritised. Thereafter, appropriate risk mitigation 1 Independent Non-Executive Director strategies (such as acceptance, avoidance, reduction, transfer or a combination) are formulated and applied to all levels of the organisation, in both strategic and the revision of individual remuneration Key Objective 2 Chairman of Aitken Spence PLC and operational context. Finally, the management reviews the effectiveness and the adequacy of the treatment of risk and ascertains the residual risk (if any). packages after evaluating performance of 3 Managing and Finance Director of Aitken Spence PLC Reviewing the current policy on Remuneration the Group, Strategic Business Units and the 4 Director of Aitken Spence PLC Packages of the individual Directors and Senior contribution of employees to their respective ü Present 118 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 119 Risk management The key responsibility of managing risk lies responsibilities. In addition, the Strategic Risk The SRD, also plays a pivotal role in assisting Risk Reporting with the Board of Directors, who are actively Division (SRD) of the Group performs routine risk the SBUs by providing technical guidance on supported by the Audit Committee, the Group assessments on critical aspects of the Group’s risk management architecture, so as to ensure Establishing Supervisory Board, the Group Management businesses, which would highlight potential accurate identification of risks and adequate Risk Identification Risk Analysis Risk Evaluation Risk Mitigation Context Committee, and Managers with key functional threats and opportunities arising from the market. mitigation of same. Monitor and Review How the Group manages its key risks. The following section outlines a broad synopsis of the key risks and their mitigation strategies pertinent to the Group for the year 2015/2016. Risks are documented at the sector level and periodically updated to ensure all internal and external risks are identified together with their mitigations strategies, and the effectiveness of the mitigation strategies are continuously monitored and recorded. Group’s Risk Heat Map Risk management structure Reputation risk Competitor risk Board of Directors Occupational health and safety risk Employee risk Approves the risk governance structure and high level risk HIGH Principal risk parameters for individual SBUs and the Group. Reviews reports from the Audit Committee on risk related matters. Operations risk Environmental risk Legal risk Technology risk MEDIUM Group Supervisory Board IMPACT Focuses on policy and strategic matters in an operational and Credit risk administrative context. Regulatory risk Group Management Committee Audit Committee Interest rate risk Designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control Reviews adequacy of the risk management framework. Receives and Exchange rate risk reviews risk management reports submitted by the risk management LOW processes at SBU and Group level. Ensuring that strategies adopted by SBUs are in line with the risk parameters of the Group and addresses unit. Receives and reviews reports from internal and external auditors. stake holder concerns including the negation of possible adverse actions of stakeholders. Internal Audit Department LOW MEDIUM HIGH The internal audit department maintains strict independence in all the work it performs from the management of individual SBUs. The PROBABILITY department has three specialised sub units covering key areas of the risk management process. Risk Owners Group Treasury Integrated and Managers Sustainability Team Finance and Strategic Information Evaluating the status of Monitoring movements The sustainability Operational Audit Risk Security risk and effectiveness of in foreign exchange team is a group of Performs audits to Responsible Responsible for risk mitigation. Day to and interest rates with cross functional and verify compliance with for sector-wise reviewing the day oversight of risks and the objective of timely diverse executive level the internal control financial, strategic adequacy of controls risk mitigation actions. hedging activities such representatives from framework and and operational risk of both existing and Improving risk mitigation as forwards and swaps all strategic business reviews its adequacy. assessments on new IT infrastructure, strategies where possible. that could eliminate or units of the Group. a micro as well as information assets minimise financial losses. This team spearheads macro level. and software the implementation applications. of the Aitken Spence integrated sustainability policy framework within their operations. Each SBU has a sustainability sub-committee led by those representatives who handle the different responsibilities of the implementation process. 120 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 121 Risk management Interest rate risk Competitor risk Risk rating for 2015/2016 LOW Risk rating for 2015/2016 HIGH Mitigation strategies The Group’s treasury management function is centralised to corroborate uniformity. The Group treasury department performs Mitigation strategies • A systematic competitor analysis is performed by each sector frequently, and adequate measures are taken to ensure adopted the following activities: adopted the Group’s competitiveness is sustained. In addition the strategic risk division ensures that all sectors comply with the • Constantly monitoring and forecasting market interest rates, in order to ensure that appropriate and timely measures are integrated sustainability policy and its integral implementation framework in order to maintain the long term competitiveness taken to maximise the return on financial investments and to minimise the cost of borrowings. of the Group. • Negotiating with banks and financial institutions frequently to obtain the best possible interest rates for the Group’s • The Group continuously seeks strategic diversification and adding value to its existing portfolio by methods such as, borrowings and investments. investing in research and development, process improvements and obtaining ISO certifications. This helps the Group to obtain a competitive advantage and stay ahead of its competitors. • Mitigating the adverse impact of movements in interest rates on long term borrowings by interest rate swaps and other hedging mechanisms depending on their availability in the market. • Branding is utilised as a tool to create sustainable competitive advantage. To maintain the Group’s brand image, the Group business development division monitors and helps subsidiaries to maintain graphic and visual standards, of the brand. • Regularly carrying out interest rate sensitivity analysis to measure the potential impacts of rate variations. Legal risk Exchange rate risk Risk rating for 2015/2016 LOW Risk rating for 2015/2016 LOW Mitigation strategies The Group has a dedicated centralised in-house legal division that assists and advices SBUs on legal matters. Mitigation strategies • Carrying out exchange rate forecasts to ensure that timely and appropriate hedging mechanisms could be adopted to adopted adopted mitigate foreign exchange (FOREX) risks. • Periodic reviews are performed by the internal audit division in collaboration with the legal division to ensure that all business • Guiding the SBUs on strategies to minimise costs and maximise revenue in SLR, when dealing with foreign currency. units conform to legal, regulatory and statutory requirements. • Matching foreign currency liabilities against foreign currency denominated assets to minimise the adverse effect of exposure • As a public quoted company, the Group recognises and accepts its responsibilities towards all stakeholders. Therefore, all to such liabilities due to sudden currency devaluation. statutory and legal requirements are met in all transactions. • Mitigating the adverse movements in exchange rates on import and export transactions by forward booking of currencies • The Group obtains the assistance of external professional counsel as and when required. and by matching of foreign currency inflows and out flows wherever possible. • Mitigating the risks associated with future repayments of foreign currency liabilities by ensuring such outflows are matched Credit risk by foreign currency inflows wherever possible. Risk rating for 2015/2016 MEDIUM Mitigation strategies • The Group’s trade receivables are constantly monitored to identify the composition of the debtors, aging and concentrations adopted of debtors by each sector and SBU. Employee risk Risk rating for 2015/2016 HIGH • The Group legal division takes swift action to recover overdue debts. Mitigation strategies The Group recognises the importance of attracting and retaining high calibre employees. The Group Human Resource Division • The subsidiaries have in place, strong credit policies, to ensure prompt collection of trade receivables, with credit being adopted uses the following strategies to mitigate Employee Risk. extended only after a proper credit assessment is made of the customer. • Recommending attractive financial and non-financial remuneration. • The Group’s internal audit division reviews the credit approval processes followed by SBUs when performing operational audits, and highlights any deviations and recommends changes, if warranted. • Attending job fairs and working with universities and professional institutes to build a pool of potential candidates for hire when vacancies arise. Operations risk • Collaborating with international educational bodies through Aitken Spence School of Management to provide employees Risk rating for 2015/2016 LOW with more focused and meaningful training to perform their jobs and anticipated roles. Mitigation strategies • A well structured and uniform set of internal controls have been implemented and is being adhered to throughout the Group, • Succession planning for all departments and business units is in place. The staff are well groomed via a vibrant Management adopted on which frequent compliance audits are carried out by the Group internal audit department to ensure conformity towards Training Programme (MTP), which is recognised as a license to manage at Aitken Spence. internal controls. In addition, Oracle EBS application software is used to enforce adherence with the required internal • Facilitating an open door policy where any employee can speak to the Chief Human Resource Officer of the Group and controls through automation. senior management regarding any concern. • The Group has established formal policies and procedures for various aspects of business conduct. • Providing job rotations and overseas assignments in order to develop managerial capacity of employees. • Business continuity plans are formulated for all sectors of the Group to ensure smooth operations even at a time of disaster. • Maintaining an internal transfer policy to facilitate internal mobility. This provides employees an opportunity to gain experience As a part of this process, all natural and man-made disasters that can have an adverse impact on each of the sectors are in any industry of their choice within the Group. being identified, and preventive and mitigation strategies are formulated based on the potential loss and probabilities of • Composing and revising policies to accommodate the changing market environment and employee needs. occurrences. • Organising employee engagement activities throughout the year, together with the sports club. • The Group’s integrated sustainability policy is supported by an implementation framework, categorised into tiers for implementation. Those tiers look at action points considered essential, expected and exemplary for the successful and • Introducing new and innovative communication channels to improve transparency of organisational events and decisions. sustainable operation of the Group. Tier one action points are classified as essential and aim at bringing all subsidiaries into • Sponsoring occupation related studies which employees pursue on a personal basis. one platform in all focus areas such as occupational health and safety, talent management and supply chain management • Employing the services of a professional counsellor for the benefit of the staff where necessary. etc. 122 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 123 Risk management Regulatory risk Principal risk Risk rating for 2015/2016 MEDIUM Risk rating for 2015/2016 HIGH Mitigation strategies • The strategic risk unit of the Group closely monitors the domestic and global economic environments, for adverse changes Mitigation strategies • The Group always seeks to maintain sound relationships with principals and business partners. adopted in the regulatory framework, which are promptly intimated to the management. adopted • Frequent assessments on service levels are conducted to ensure that the required service standards of principal are met. • The unit also carries out industry studies that include recent trends and developments. Technology risk Reputation risk Risk rating for 2015/2016 MEDIUM Risk rating for 2015/2016 HIGH Mitigation strategies • The Group’s centralised Information Technology (IT) division was awarded the Information Security Management Systems Mitigation strategies • All media communications are channelled through the corporate communication unit, to ensure consistency in adopted (ISMS) ISO 27001:2005 in 2014. This was upgraded to ISO 27001:2013 in 2015 which the division continues to maintain. adopted communications. This would be the governing practice for the entire Group for IT services. • The Group maintains a high standard of ethics while conducting all forms of business activities. The Group has its own code • As a part of the IT governance, the Group continues to carry out risk assessments based on environmental changes while of ethics and regularly conducts workshops on ethical behaviour and procedures on anti-corruption for its staff. A copy of mitigating associated risks and implementing corrective action plans against risks which are identified as high risk. the code of ethics is given to all new recruits. • The Group has a comprehensive IT policy in place, on par with the above standards to ensure that adequate system • The growth of social media has resulted in a free expression of customer reviews and complaints. The corporate controls are being adhered to. communication unit, manages the corporate social media accounts and monitors them constantly. • The Group IT division; • An on-going brand monitoring and approval process is in place to mitigate potential brand threats and is monitored across -continuously scans for PESTEL (Political Economic Social Technological Legal Environmental) changes and trends, media sources. and advises the SBUs on necessary updates, while maintaining a 5 year rolling forward roadmap. • All SBUs performs continuous assessment on customer satisfaction. In addition, prompt follow up actions are carried out on -continues to ensure up-to-date prevention of risks against the growing trends of threats against the information assets complaints and suggestions made by customers. of the organisation. • The Group seeks strict adherence to statutory requirements and environmental regulations to the extent of enhancing the -continues to train and guide the employees towards best practices in addressing vulnerabilities and risk mitigations environment in some instances, if desirable. towards Information Security Management Systems (ISMS). • Corporate reporting is in line with GRI standards and integrated reporting guidelines. -governs the business continuity practices and disaster recovery process for the organisation. • The Group facilitates priority focus on positive interactions with key stakeholders to improve stakeholders experiences. Independent stakeholder engagement studies are being carried out across the Group. Occupational health and safety risk • Strong corporate values are embedded, supported by appropriate performance incentives. Risk rating for 2015/2016 HIGH • The Group maintains positive culture towards compliance with laws and regulations. Mitigation strategies • Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) officers are appointed throughout the Group and are provided with the necessary adopted training and education (such as first aid and fire safety training) to handle this responsibility. Environmental risk • All appointed OHS officers in the Group are expected to carry out hazard identification inspection measures, allocate risk Risk rating for 2015/2016 MEDIUM levels and implement required control measures to ensure the workplace is safe and healthy for all stakeholders. Mitigation strategies • The Group has an integrated approach to sustainability and a key element of that strategy is the commitment to protect the • As a new initiative to the capacity building efforts, peer forums for OHS officers were launched enabling them to interact and adopted environment, especially the ecosystems the Group operates in. share their knowledge with other OHS officers across the Group. • All SBUs are expected to identify activities that have adverse impacts on the environment and establish necessary control • OHS practices of the plantations segment is certified under the rainforest alliance certification. The apparel manufacture measures to mitigate if not eliminate the impact to the environment. segment also maintains the above compliance standards that are platinum certified for compliance with the Worldwide • The company maintains over forty Environmental Management Systems (EMS’s), aligned to ISO 1440:2004 standards, Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) system and the compliance+ certification of the Employers’ Federation of ten of which are certified EMS. In the plantation segment Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) certification standards are Ceylon (EFC). The printing segment certified their OHS practices in the SBUs integrated management system (for EMS, maintained by fourteen estates, while the upcountry cluster estates are rainforest alliance certified. The printing segment and QMS and OHS). The hotels and plantations segments also maintain food safety practices in line with the HACCP/ ISO the inbound travel segment offset their carbon emissions year on year. 22000 certification and collectively maintain thirteen certified food safety management systems. • Sustainability committees of the SBUs ensure adequate number of responsible personnel are trained as internal EMS auditors to monitor and maintain the above systems. • The Heritance chain of hotels obtained the ISO 50001 certification for energy management systems and also monitors carbon emissions. It has the honour of being the first organisation to obtain this certification in Sri Lanka. The Group is working towards implementing systems to monitor greenhouse gas emission data and improve the disclosure of such data across the Group in the near future. • The Group continues to ensure that its products, services or activities have minimum impact on areas of high biodiverse value outside protected areas. • The Group maintains compliance with applicable laws, regulations and industry best practice standards on environmental concerns where applicable. 124 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 125 Annual report of the Board of Directors Group and a reconciliation of the accounting profits with the taxable profits are given in dividends received by the Company where 10% withholding tax on dividends has been deducted. Holiday Homes Private Limited which were revalued during the financial year 2012/2013. note 12 to the Financial Statements. The Directors are confident that the Company Revaluation of these lands is performed with would meet the solvency test requirement under sufficient regularity so that the carrying values As per the provisions of part III of the Finance Act Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 7 of the lands do not differ materially to its The details set out herein provide the pertinent 2. Review of Operations 4. Synopsis of the Income Statement of No. 10 of 2015, the Company and Group paid of 2007 immediately after the payment of the market value. Revaluation was performed by information required by the Companies Act No. A review of operational and financial the Company and the Group super gain tax of Rs. 33.8 million and dividend. professionally qualified independent valuers 7 of 2007, Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock performance, the future plans of the Company Rs. 319.3 million respectively. According to the 4.1. Group Revenue and Profits having appropriate experience in valuing Exchange and the best accounting practices. and the Group are described in greater detail in Act, the super gain tax shall be deemed to be an Revenue generated by the Company during 5. Synopsis of the Statement of properties in the locality of the land being The Board of Directors of Aitken Spence PLC., the Chairman’s Message, Managing Director’s expenditure in the financial statements relating the year amounted to Rs. 624.9 million (2015 – Financial Position of the Company revalued. In the event the fair value of land does has pleasure in presenting the Annual Report Review, Management Discussion and Analysis to the year of assessment which commenced Rs.593.2 million). The Group revenue was and the Group not change other than by an insignificant amount and the audited financial statements for the year and the Group Performance Review of this on 1st April 2013. The Act supersedes the Rs. 26.0 billion (2015 – Rs. 35.3 billion). An at each reporting date the Group revalues such ended 31st March 2016 which were approved Annual Report. These reports together with the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting 5.1 Stated Capital and Reserves analysis of Group revenue based on business land every five years. on 28th May 2016. Audited Financial Statements of the Company Standards. Hence the expense of super and geographical segments is disclosed in As at 31st March 2016 the Company had issued and the Group reflect the respective state of gain tax is accounted in accordance with the 405,996,045 ordinary shares and the stated Details of the revalued land, revaluation surplus note 6 to the financial statements. The profit after 1. Principal Activities affairs of the Company and the Group. requirements of the said Act as recommended capital of the Company was Rs. 2.1 billion. The and the original cost are given in note 15.3.1 to tax of the Group was Rs. 2.9 billion (2015 Aitken Spence PLC is the holding Company by the Statement of Alternative Treatment Company’s reserves as at 31st March 2016 were the Financial Statements. Group records all other Rs. 4.9 billion).The Group’s profit attributable to that directly or indirectly owns investments 3. Accounting policies and changes (SoAT) on Accounting for super gain tax issued Rs.11.2 billion (2015Rs.10.6 billion) whereas assets at cost and checks for any impairment the equity shareholders of the parent company in companies which form the Aitken Spence during the year by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants the total Group’s reserves as at 31st March 2016 of these assets when the Group identifies any for the year was Rs.2.0 billion (2015 Rs.3.6 Group. In addition to the above, the Company of Sri Lanka dated 24th November 2015. As were Rs. 34.5 billion (2015-Rs. 32.9 billion). The trigger for impairment. The Company and the Group prepared the billion). The segmental profits are disclosed in provides management and related services to recommended by the SoAT, this expenditure has movement in these reserves is shown in the Financial Statements in accordance with the Sri note 6 to the Financial Statements. the Group companies. During the year there been recorded as an adjustment to the opening Statement of Changes in Equity – Company and 5.5 Contingent Liabilities Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs). were no significant changes in the principal retained earnings reported in the Statement of Group on pages 139 and 138. The details of contingent liabilities are disclosed The Board of Directors wish to confirm that there 4.2. Donations activities of the Company and the Group. Changes in Equity as at 1st April 2015. in note 44 to the Financial Statements. were no changes to the accounting policies During the year donations amounting to used by the Company and the Group during the 5.2. Property, Plant and Equipment The activities of the Group are categorised into Rs.750,000/were made by the Company, while It is the policy of the Group to provide for year. A detailed note of the accounting policies the donations made by the other Group entities deferred taxation on all known timing differences The carrying value of property plant and 6. Events occurring after the Reporting four main sectors namely Tourism, Maritime & adopted in the preparation of the Financial during the year amounted to Rs.1,373,169/-. on the liability method. The deferred tax balances equipment for the Company and the Group Date Logistics, Strategic Investments and Services. Statements of the Company and the Group are of the Group are given in notes 24 and 33 to as at 31st March 2016 amounted to Rs.119 No event of material significance that requires Companies within each sector and their principal given on pages 142 to 157. 4.3 Taxation the Financial Statements. As per the notice million and Rs.35.3 billion respectively. The total adjustments to the Financial Statements has activities are described on pages 232 to 240 of published in the website of the Department of expenditure incurred on acquisition of property, arisen other than that disclosed in note 49 to the this Annual Report. A detailed statement of the income tax rates Inland Revenue on the 8th April 2016, regarding plant and equipment including assets acquired Financial Statements. applicable to the individual companies in the “Implementation of Proposals on Economic from business combinations during the year Service Charge and Income Tax on the by the Company and the Group amounted to 7. Going Concern Instruction of the Ministry of Finance”, it has been Rs.13.7 million and Rs.8.0 billion respectively. The Board of Directors is satisfied that the proposed to introduced a standard corporate tax Group Group 5.3. Investment Property Company and the Group have adequate rate of 17.5% other than for specified business For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 resources to continue their operations without segments which would be taxed at a higher rate The carrying value of land and buildings classified Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 any disruption in the foreseeable future. The and tax exempt companies. The law is to be as investment property of the Company and the Company’s Financial Statements are prepared Net profit before tax 3,805,508 5,709,923 made effective from 1st April 2016. As per the Group as at 31st March 2016 amounted to Rs. on a going concern basis. Provision for taxation including deferred tax (861,229) (826,323) guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered 3.4 billion and Rs.1.6 billion respectively. Net profit after tax 2,944,279 4,883,600 Accountants of Sri Lanka “On Application of Other comprehensive income 916,978 11,799 Tax Rates in Measurement of Deferred Tax”, as 5.4 Market Value of Freehold Properties 8. Information on the Board of Directors Total comprehensive income for the year 3,861,257 4,895,399 of the reporting date the deferred tax assets and the Board Sub Committees Land recognised as property, plant and Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests (1,188,549) (1,317,358) and liabilities are not measured at the proposed equipment in the Financial Statements in the 8.1 Board of Directors Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders 2,672,708 3,578,041 rate as it has not been substantially enacted/ Group is recorded at either fair value or revalued The Board of Directors of the Company Transactions directly recognised in the equity statement (240,234) 1,729 legislated amounts. The land carried at revalued amounts comprised of : Balance brought forward from the previous year 32,889,997 30,122,219 of the Group was revalued by professionally Amount available for appropriations 35,322,471 33,701,989 4.4 Dividends Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman) qualified independent valuers during the financial Final Dividend for 2014/2015 (2013/2014) (811,992) (811,992) year 2013/2014, with the exception of those Mr. J.M.S. Brito (Managing and Finance Director) The Directors recommended a first and final Total reserves and earnings 34,510,479 32,889,997 owned by Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, Dr. R.M. Fernando dividend payment of Rs. 1.50 per share for Stated Capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 Golden Sun Resorts (Private) Limited and PR the year. The total dividend is paid out of Dr. P. Dissanayake Balance Attributable to Equity holders of the Company at the end of the period 36,645,619 35,025,137 126 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 127 Annual report of the Board of Directors Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 8.3 Re-election of Directors 2007. The share ownership of the Directors is it operates and ensures strict adherence to all 14. Corporate Sustainability auditors of the Company are also the auditors Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Mr. C.H. Gomez who retires in terms of Article indicated on pages 227 to 228 of this Annual environment laws and practices. The Board of Directors guides and supports of certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company Report. the Group’s sustainability strategy. It welcomes associate companies of the Group. The list of Mr. C.H. Gomez The Company has no restrictions with regard to as a Director offers himself for re-election at the the implementation of the structured and the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya 8.6 Directors’ Remuneration shareholders carrying out appropriate analysis companies audited by them are included on forthcoming Annual General Meeting. dynamic integrated sustainability framework. Mr. V.M. Fernando (retired w.e.f. 30.06.2015) or obtaining independent advice regarding their pages 232 to 240 of this Annual Report. The Directors’ remuneration and fees in respect Awards and recognition received during the year Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena attained investment in the Company and has made all Mr. R.N. Asirwatham of the Company and the Group for the financial are a testament to the Group’s commitment the age of 70 years on 17th August 2012 endeavours to ensure the equitable treatment The amount payable by the Group to Messrs year ended 31st March 2016 are disclosed on as it continues to benchmark its practices All the above Directors of the Company with the and in accordance with Section 210(2) of the of shareholders. The Company’s corporate KPMG Chartered Accountants as audit fees page 160 of the Financial Statements. against global standards and best practices exception of Mr. V.M. Fernando held office during Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, vacates office governance practices are set out on pages 107 was Rs. 12.35 million while a further Rs. 2.16 in a myriad of aspects that affect or potentially the entire year. The profiles of the Directors are at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. A to 114 of this Annual Report. million was payable for permitted audit and non 8.7 Related Party Transactions affect delivery of growth. More details of the given on pages 28 to 29 of this Annual Report. notice of a resolution has been received from a audit related services. In addition to the above Related party transactions of the Group are Group’s sustainability efforts are included in shareholder that the age limit of 70 years referred 11. Risk Management Rs 6.35 million was payable to other auditors for disclosed in note 46 to the Financial Statements. the Management Discussion and Analysis of 8.2 Board Sub Committees to in Section 210(1) of the said Companies carrying out audits of the subsidiaries conducted These interests have been duly declared by the The Directors have established and adhere to a this report and at www.aitkenspence.com/ Act shall not apply to Deshamanya D.H.S. by them. The amount payable to such other The following Directors served as members Directors. comprehensive risk management framework at sustainability. Jayawardena who has attained the age of 73 auditors for permitted audit and non audit related of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration both Strategic Business Units and Group levels years and that he be re-elected as a Director at services was Rs. 6.63 million. As far as the Committee, the Nomination Committee and the 8.8 Subsidiary Board of Directors to ensure the achievements of their corporate 15. Shareholder Information the Annual General Meeting. Directors are aware the auditors neither have Related Party Transactions Review Committee. objectives. The categories of risks faced by The names of Directors of the subsidiaries and There were 4,415 shareholders as at 31st March any other relationship with the Company nor the Group are identified, the significance they Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe attained the age of 70 joint venture companies who held office as at 2016. The distribution schedule of the number any of its subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity Audit Committee pose are evaluated and mitigating strategies are years on 15th August 2003 and in accordance 31st March 2016 and Directors who ceased of shareholders and their share holdings are accounted investees that would have an impact Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Chairman) adopted by the Group. The Board of Directors with Section 210(2) of the Companies Act No. to hold office during the accounting period are detailed on page 226 of this Annual Report. on their independence. reviews the risk management process through Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7 of 2007, vacates office at the forthcoming indicated on pages 232 to 240 of this Annual The names of the twenty largest shareholders, the Audit Committee. The Risk Management Mr. C.H. Gomez Annual General Meeting. A notice of a resolution Report. together with their shareholdings as at 31st Report of the Group is on pages 119 to 125 of has been received from a shareholder that the March 2016 are given on page 227 of this Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya / Mr. A.L. this report. age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210(1) 9. Human Resources Annual Report. The percentage of the shares Gooneratne (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de of the said Companies Act shall not apply to held by the public as at 31st March 2016 was Silva Deva Aditya) The Human Resources strategies applied and 12. Internal Controls Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who has attained the 36.48%. practised by the Group have translated into the age of 82 years and that he be re-elected as a The Board of Directors ensures that the Group D.H.S. Jayawardena Remuneration Committee creation of a dynamic and competent human Information relating to earnings per share and Director at the Annual General Meeting. has an effective internal control system which Chairman Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) resource team with sound succession planning ensures that the assets of the Company and the the net assets per share for the Company and Mr. R.N. Asirwatham attained the age of 70 years and a remarkably low attrition rate. The Group’s Mr. V.M. Fernando (retired w.e.f 30.06.2015) Group are safeguarded and appropriate systems Group, the dividend per share and the market on 26th August 2012 and in accordance with employment strategies are reviewed periodically are in place to minimise and detect fraud, errors price per share are given on pages 229 to 231 of Mr. R.N. Asirwatham by the relevant committees and the Board of Section 210(2) of the Companies Act No. 7 of and other irregularities. The system ensures this Annual Report. 2007, vacates office at the forthcoming Annual Directors. The Human Resource Report is set Nomination Committee that the Group adopts procedures which result General Meeting. A notice of a resolution has out on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) in financial and operational effectiveness and 16. Auditors J.M.S Brito been received from a shareholder that the age efficiency. The independent auditors’ report on the Managing & Finance Director Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210(1) of 10. Governance Financial Statements is given on page 134 of Mr. J.M.S. Brito the said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. The Group has not engaged in any activity which The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on the Annual Report. The retiring auditors Messrs R.N. Asirwatham who has attained the age of 73 contravenes national and international laws. page 133 and the Audit Committee Report set Mr. V.M. Fernando (retired w.e.f 30.06.2015) KPMG Chartered Accountants have stated years and that he be re-elected as a Director at The Group rigidly adheres to relevant national out on pages 116 and 117 of this report provide Mr. R.N. Asirwatham their willingness to continue in office and a the Annual General Meeting. and international rules, regulations and codes further information in respect of the above. resolution to re-appoint them as auditors and of Professional Institutes and Associations, Related Party Transactions Review grant authority to the Board to determine their R.E.V. Casie Chetty 8.4 Directors’ Shareholding and their Industrial Associations, Chambers of Commerce 13. Statutory Payments Committee remuneration will be proposed at the Annual Company Secretary Interests and Regulatory Bodies. The Group complies The Directors to the best of their knowledge General Meeting. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Chairman) with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock The Directors’ shareholdings and their interests and belief are satisfied that all statutory Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Exchange and the Code of Best Practice on Colombo are provided in the Investor section on pages financial obligations to the Government and to The audit fees payable for the year to the Corporate Governance issued jointly by the 28th May 2016 Mr. C.H. Gomez 227 to 228 of this Annual Report. the employees have been either duly paid or Company auditors Messrs KPMG Chartered Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka adequately provided in the Financial Statements. Accountants was Rs. 1.13 million. Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya / Mr. A.L. 8.5 Interest Register and the Securities and Exchange Commission of A confirmation of same is included in the Gooneratne (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de Sri Lanka. The Group applies very high standards In addition to the above Rs. 920,000/was Silva Deva Aditya) An Interest Register is maintained by the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page to protect and nurture the environment in which payable by the Company for permitted Company as per the Companies Act No. 7 of 133 of this Annual Report. audit related and non audit related services. Messrs KPMG Chartered Accountants the 128 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 129 Investing in the future Taking the long term perspective Financial Information An account of the Group’s results for the year under review Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 131 Statement of Directors' responsibilities The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 requires the The Directors having considered the Group’s The Directors confirm that to the best of Directors of the Company to be responsible for business plans, and a review of its current their knowledge all payments to employees, the preparation and presentation of the Financial and future operations, are of the view that regulatory and statutory authorities due and Statements and other statutory reports. The the Company and the Group have adequate payable by the Company and its and the responsibilities of the Directors, in relation to the resources to continue in operation. The Directors Companies within the Group have been either Financial Statements of Aitken Spence PLC and have adopted the going concern basis in duly paid or adequately provided for in the the Consolidated Financial Statements of the preparing the Financial Statements. Financial Statements. The Directors further Group are set out in this report. confirm that they promote the highest ethical, The Financial Statements presented in this environmental and safety standards within The Directors confirm that the Financial Annual Report for the year ended 31st March the Group. The Directors also ensure that the Statements and other statutory reports of the 2016, have been prepared based on the Sri relevant national laws, international laws and Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKASs) codes of regulatory authorities, professional 31st March 2016 incorporated in this report which came into effect from 1st January 2012. institutes and trade associations have been have been prepared in accordance with the The Directors have selected the appropriate complied with by the Group. Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Sri Lanka accounting policies and such policies adopted Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. 15 by the Group are disclosed and explained in the of 1995 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Financial Statements. Stock Exchange. By order of the Board, The Board of Directors confirm that the The Directors have taken appropriate steps to Company and the Group’s Consolidated ensure that the Companies within the Group Statements of Financial Position as at 31st maintain adequate and accurate records which March 2016 and the Comprehensive Income reflect the true financial position of each such Statements for the Company and the Group for Company and hence the Group. The Directors the financial year ended 31st March 2016 reflect have taken appropriate and reasonable steps to a true and fair view of the Company and the safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group. Group. The Directors have instituted appropriate R.E.V. Casie Chetty systems of internal control in order to minimise The Directors have provided the Auditors with Company Secretary and detect fraud, errors and other irregularities. every opportunity to carry out any reviews The Directors in maintaining a sound system and tests that they consider appropriate Colombo of internal control and in protecting the assets and necessary for the performance of their 28th May 2016 of the Company, have further adopted risk responsibilities. The responsibility of the management strategies to identify and evaluate Independent Auditors in relation to the Financial the risks which the Company could be exposed Statements is set out in the Independent and its impact to the Company. Auditors Report. Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 133 Independent auditors’ report Income statements GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 7 25,977,795 35,318,891 624,946 593,174 Revenue taxes (286,807) (388,398) (11,120) (10,990) Net revenue 25,690,988 34,930,493 613,826 582,184 Other operating income 8 174,645 507,572 1,553,228 847,437 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (20,850) 58,757 TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Raw materials and consumables used (1,825,981) (9,023,459) AITKEN SPENCE PLC the financial statements are free from material Requirements Employee benefits expense (5,905,093) (5,183,101) (454,769) (412,093) misstatement. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-financial assets 9 (2,089,386) (2,398,707) (102,961) (78,946) As required by section 163 (2) of the Report on the Financial Statements Other operating expenses direct 10 (7,483,985) (7,712,699) Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the We have audited the accompanying An audit involves performing procedures to Other operating expenses indirect (4,643,836) (5,522,147) (265,755) (319,036) following: financial statements of Aitken Spence PLC, obtain audit evidence about the amounts and Profit from operations 9 3,896,502 5,656,709 1,343,569 619,546 (“the Company”), and the consolidated disclosures in the financial statements. The a) The basis of opinion and scope and financial statements of the Company and its procedures selected depend on the auditors’ limitations of the audit are as stated above Finance income 11 647,715 623,857 538,546 449,815 subsidiaries (“Group”), which comprise the judgment, including the assessment of the Finance expenses 11 (970,879) (901,530) (524,028) (394,123) statement of financial position as at March 31, risks of material misstatement of the financial b) In our opinion: Net finance income / (expense) (323,164) (277,673) 14,518 55,692 2016, and the income statement, statements statements, whether due to fraud or error. In • we have obtained all the information of profit or loss and other comprehensive making those risk assessments, the auditor and explanations that were required for Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 23 232,170 330,887 income, changes in equity and cash flows for considers internal control relevant to the the audit and, as far as appears from the year then ended, and notes, comprising a entity’s preparation of the financial statements our examination, proper accounting Profit before tax 3,805,508 5,709,923 1,358,087 675,238 summary of significant accounting policies and that give a true and fair view in order to design records have been kept by the Income tax expense 12 (861,229) (826,323) 42,097 (52,050) other explanatory information set out on pages audit procedures that are appropriate in the Company, Profit for the year 2,944,279 4,883,600 1,400,184 623,188 135 to 213 of the annual report. circumstances, but not for the purpose of • The financial statements of the expressing an opinion on the effectiveness Company give a true and fair view of its Attributable to: of the entity’s internal control. An audit also Board’s Responsibility for the Financial includes evaluating the appropriateness financial position as at March 31, 2016, Equity holders of the company 2,027,112 3,579,008 1,400,184 623,188 Statements of accounting policies used and the and of its financial performance and Non-controlling interests 917,167 1,304,592 The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible cash flows for the year then ended in Profit for the year 2,944,279 4,883,600 1,400,184 623,188 reasonableness of accounting estimates made for the preparation of these financial accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting by Board, as well as evaluating the overall statements that give a true and fair view Standards. Earnings per share basic/diluted (Rs.) 13 4.99 8.82 3.45 1.53 presentation of the financial statements. in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting • The financial statements of the We believe that the audit evidence we have The notes on pages 142 through 213 form an integral part of these financial statements. Standards, and for such internal control as Company, and the Group comply with Board determines is necessary to enable the obtained is sufficient and appropriate to the requirements of sections 151 and Figures in brackets indicate deductions. preparation of financial statements that are free provide a basis for our audit opinion. 153 of the Companies Act No. 07 of from material misstatement, whether due to 2007. fraud or error. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial Auditors’ Responsibility statements give a true and fair view of the Our responsibility is to express an opinion financial position of the Group as at March on these financial statements based on our 31, 2016, and of its financial performance audit. We conducted our audit in accordance and cash flows for the year then ended CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting standards require that we comply with ethical Standards. Colombo requirements and plan and perform the audit May 28, 2016 134 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 135 Statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income Statements of financial position GROUP COMPANY GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 As at 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 01.04.2014 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Restated) (Restated) Profit for the year 2,944,279 4,883,600 1,400,184 623,188 ASSETS Other comprehensive income Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 15 35,278,046 28,696,631 24,799,321 118,702 143,187 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Investment properties 16 1,630,801 1,648,301 1,648,301 3,434,441 3,437,195 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 90,961 Intangible assets 17 867,223 558,040 651,796 21,876 30,862 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations 34 17,821 (48,207) 4,210 (6,915) Biological assets 18 25,838 Leasehold properties 19 2,006,728 1,906,527 1,461,100 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 23 19,452 (15,912) Pre-paid operating leases 20 1,828,797 1,072,370 1,010,199 Income tax on other comprehensive income 12 (3,941) 7,478 (1,179) Finance lease receivable 21 2,245,884 33,332 34,320 3,031 (6,915) Investments in subsidiaries 22 7,287,194 7,740,483 Investments in equity-accounted investees 23 9,771,984 5,403,518 3,367,589 2,850,235 498,980 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Deferred tax assets 24 328,140 215,907 224,495 78,385 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 826,893 (103,062) Other financial assets 25 257,799 279,346 339,540 43,779 89,733 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 22,477 71,109 (1,868) 2,404 51,995,356 39,780,640 35,748,225 13,834,612 11,940,440 Current assets Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit (56) 9,432 (56) (6,212) Inventories 26 1,195,831 1,484,504 1,723,718 2,322 1,999 or loss Pre-paid operating leases 20 32,795 930 50 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 23 34,332 Finance lease receivable 21 1,333,200 146,948 Trade and other receivables 27 4,800,506 7,677,448 8,947,612 3,189,439 2,849,860 883,646 (22,521) (1,924) (3,808) Current tax receivable 224,257 229,366 243,779 206,746 204,687 Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) 916,978 11,799 1,107 (10,723) Deposits and prepayments 1,165,943 799,353 867,318 38,349 34,350 Other current assets 28 9,136,630 10,947,256 10,514,376 5,130,226 4,863,453 Cash and short-term deposits 29 4,653,788 2,911,135 2,672,100 1,397,670 185,561 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,861,257 4,895,399 1,401,291 612,465 21,209,750 25,383,192 25,115,901 9,964,752 8,139,910 Assets classified as held for sale 30 149,125 226,923 149,125 57,237 135,035 Attributable to: Total assets 73,354,231 65,390,755 61,013,251 23,856,601 20,215,385 Equity holders of the parent 2,672,708 3,578,041 1,401,291 612,465 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-controlling interests 1,188,549 1,317,358 Equity Total comprehensive income for the year 3,861,257 4,895,399 1,401,291 612,465 Stated capital 31 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Reserves 31 15,248,423 13,867,687 13,883,457 7,259,908 6,507,996 The notes on pages 142 through 213 form an integral part of these financial statements. Retained earnings 19,262,056 19,022,310 16,238,762 3,890,346 4,086,727 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 36,645,619 35,025,137 32,257,359 13,285,394 12,729,863 Non-controlling interests 7,554,724 7,211,980 6,617,863 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Total Equity 44,200,343 42,237,117 38,875,222 13,285,394 12,729,863 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 32 12,242,494 9,436,495 7,312,336 3,684,817 2,690,920 Deferred tax liabilities 33 678,010 655,224 635,979 Employee benefits 34 718,654 635,684 545,527 100,414 98,240 13,639,158 10,727,403 8,493,842 3,785,231 2,789,160 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 32 3,736,594 2,723,741 1,626,693 1,770,729 1,161,334 Provisions 35 457,751 Trade and other payables 36 9,783,515 7,074,023 6,402,722 4,831,831 3,279,879 Current tax payable 554,937 538,103 594,741 Other current liabilities 37 639 530 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 29 1,439,684 2,089,729 4,562,280 183,416 254,619 15,514,730 12,426,235 13,644,187 6,785,976 4,696,362 Total equity and liabilities 73,354,231 65,390,755 61,013,251 23,856,601 20,215,385 The above statements of financial position are to be read in conjunction with the notes to the financial statements on pages 142 to 213. I certify that the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2016 are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Ms. N. Sivapragasam Chief Financial Officer The Board of Directors is responsible for preparation and presentation of these financial statements. For and on behalf of the Board: D.H.S. Jayawardena J.M.S. Brito Chairman Managing and Finance Director 28th May 2016 Colombo, Sri Lanka 136 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 137 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Company statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31st March 2016 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonTotal For the year ended 31st March 2016 Stated capital General Available for Retained Total Stated Revaluation Other General Exchange Available Retained Total controlling equity reserves sale reserve earnings capital reserve Capital reserves fluctuation for sale earnings interests Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 reserves reserve reserve Balance as at 01st April 2014 2,135,140 6,363,478 (6,374) 4,437,146 12,929,390 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the year 623,188 623,188 Balance as at 01st April 2014 (re-stated) 2,135,140 6,541,269 127,521 6,390,190 817,683 6,794 16,238,762 32,257,359 6,617,863 38,875,222 Other comprehensive income for the year (note 31.3.2) (3,808) (6,915) (10,723) Profit for the year 3,579,008 3,579,008 1,304,592 4,883,600 Total comprehensive income for the period (3,808) 616,273 612,465 Other comprehensive income for the year 67,757 (85,207) 68,106 (51,623) (967) 12,766 11,799 Transfer to general reserve 154,700 (154,700) (note 31.3.1) Dividends for 2013/2014 (811,992) (811,992) Total comprehensive income for the year 67,757 (85,207) 68,106 3,527,385 3,578,041 1,317,358 4,895,399 Total contributions and distributions recognised directly in equity 154,700 (966,692) (811,992) Share of net assets of equity-accounted (1,827) (1,827) (625) (2,452) Balance as at 31st March 2015 2,135,140 6,518,178 (10,182) 4,086,727 12,729,863 investees Super gain tax (note 12.4) (33,768) (33,768) Effect of acquisitions, disposals and change 3,556 3,556 (133,675) (130,119) Adjusted balance as at 01st April 2015 2,135,140 6,518,178 (10,182) 4,052,959 12,696,095 in percentage holdings in subsidiaries Transfer of revaluation reserve on disposal (221,126) 221,126 Profit for the year 1,400,184 1,400,184 Transfer to general reserve 154,700 (154,700) Other comprehensive income for the year (note 31.3.2) (1,924) 3,031 1,107 Dividends for 2013/2014 (811,992) (811,992) (811,992) Total comprehensive income for the period (1,924) 1,403,215 1,401,291 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (588,941) (588,941) Transfer to general reserve 753,836 (753,836) Total contributions and distributions (221,126) 154,700 (743,837) (810,263) (723,241) (1,533,504) Dividends for 2014/2015 (note 14) (811,992) (811,992) recognised directly in equity Total contributions and distributions recognised directly in equity 753,836 (1,565,828) (811,992) Balance as at 31st March 2015 2,135,140 6,387,900 127,521 6,544,890 732,476 74,900 19,022,310 35,025,137 7,211,980 42,237,117 Balance as at 31st March 2016 2,135,140 7,272,014 (12,106) 3,890,346 13,285,394 Super gain tax (note 12.4) (274,277) (274,277) (45,009) (319,286) Adjusted balance as at 01st April 2015 2,135,140 6,387,900 127,521 6,544,890 732,476 74,900 18,748,033 34,750,860 7,166,971 41,917,831 The notes on pages 142 through 213 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Profit for the year 2,027,112 2,027,112 917,167 2,944,279 Other comprehensive income for the year 593,835 19,532 32,229 645,596 271,382 916,978 (note 31.3.1) Total comprehensive income for the year 593,835 19,532 2,059,341 2,672,708 1,188,549 3,861,257 Share of net assets of equity-accounted (30) (30) (10) (40) investees Acquisition of non-controlling interest 20,919 (7,386) 37,829 51,362 (51,362) Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling 17,096 17,096 interest Effect of capital reduction by subsidiary (246,223) (246,223) Transfer to general reserve 753,836 (753,836) Transaction costs on subsidiary share issue (17,289) (17,289) (2,585) (19,874) Dividends for 2014/2015 (note 14) (811,992) (811,992) (811,992) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (517,712) (517,712) Total contributions and distributions 20,919 753,836 (7,386) (1,545,318) (777,949) (800,796) (1,578,745) recognised directly in equity Balance as at 31st March 2016 2,135,140 6,387,900 148,440 7,298,726 1,318,925 94,432 19,262,056 36,645,619 7,554,724 44,200,343 The notes on pages 142 through 213 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 138 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 139 Cash flow statements GROUP COMPANY GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash flows from operating activities (brought forward from previous page) Profit before tax 3,805,508 5,709,923 1,358,087 675,238 Adjustments for Cash flows from financing activities Depreciation and amortisation 1,746,018 1,391,376 52,988 64,627 Proceeds from interest-bearing liabilities 6,843,802 5,825,248 2,340,250 394,560 Impairment of intangible assets and finance lease receivables 50,000 1,007,179 Repayment of interest-bearing liabilities (3,647,621) (2,729,268) (1,000,680) (382,500) Interest expense 873,846 806,365 515,532 384,516 Issue of shares by subsidiaries 17,094 2,382 (Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (22,697) (16,100) (805) (8,011) (Gain)/loss on disposal of group investments (6,724) 128,974 Transaction costs on subsidiary share issue (19,874) (Gain)/loss on disposal of equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets (53) 9,315 (53) (6,212) Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (941,651) (675,796) (941,651) (675,796) Interest income (647,715) (623,857) (538,546) (449,815) Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities 2,251,750 2,422,566 397,919 (663,736) Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) (232,170) (330,887) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 50,000 14,292 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,395,595 2,714,597 1,288,325 180,691 Impairment losses/(reversals) of inventories 293,368 152 (27) 27 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 821,406 (1,890,180) (69,058) (249,906) Impairment losses/(reversals) and write offs of trade and other receivables and deposits 34,204 (20,051) (926) 3,635 Effect of movements in exchange rates (2,897) (3,011) (5,013) 157 Recognition of assets held for sale (77,798) Net foreign exchange (gain) / loss 876,496 (147,614) 259,235 31,141 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note 29) 3,214,104 821,406 1,214,254 (69,058) Provision for retirement benefit obligations 122,437 127,216 18,655 18,669 3,093,734 2,118,572 356,053 181,843 Notes to the cash flow statements Operating profit before working capital changes 6,899,242 7,828,495 1,714,140 857,081 A. Business combination (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 2,855,488 988,728 (338,653) (84,744) (Increase)/decrease in inventories 11,489 116,210 (296) 141 During the period under review the Group invested in a 70% stake in a newly incorporated company in Oman, Aitken Spence Resorts (Middle East) LLC., (Increase)/decrease in deposits and prepayments (379,340) 65,417 (3,999) 9,801 which acquired the business of Al Falaj Hotel in Muscat, Oman. The fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of this business combination are Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 2,683,335 927,200 1,681,610 819,245 included below ; Increase/(decrease) in provisions (457,751) 5,170,972 1,639,804 1,338,662 744,443 Rs.’000 Cash generated from operations 12,070,214 9,468,299 3,052,802 1,601,524 Interest paid (863,778) (795,702) (506,085) (373,853) Property, plant and equipment (5,154,662) Income tax paid (1,300,080) (841,593) (73,294) (41,177) Inventories (16,184) Retirement benefit obligations paid (91,737) (81,785) (12,271) (13,770) Employee benefits 70,361 (2,255,595) (1,719,080) (591,650) (428,800) Total identifiable net assets acquired at fair value (5,100,485) Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 9,814,619 7,749,219 2,461,152 1,172,724 Goodwill on acquisition (376,190) Cash flows from investing activities Net cash outflow on acquisition of companies (5,476,675) Interest received from deposits 640,025 635,116 540,301 462,106 Assets/ liabilities acquired on business combination (5,476,675) The notes on pages 142 through 213 form an integral part of these financial statements. Investment in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees (4,404,787) (1,013,638) (2,648,755) (270,540) Investment in equity and debt securities (466) (5,000) (5,000) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary 289,587 17,252 Capital reduction by subsidiary (246,223) 700,789 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (2,837,892) (6,477,417) (13,706) (42,601) Acquisition of intangible assets (11,914) (7,541) (6,991) (332) Acquisition of biological assets (25,838) Acquisition of leasehold rights (464,842) Operating leases pre-paid (734,516) (44,003) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 191,921 191,565 4,738 12,044 Proceeds from disposal of investment property 17,500 Receipts on finance lease receivables 147,725 Proceeds from sale of equity and debt securities 45,801 144,684 45,857 60,346 Proceeds/(purchase) of other financial assets and liabilities (net) 3,289,970 (450,742) (270,777) (561,572) Proceeds on retirement of assets held for sale 77,798 77,798 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (517,712) (588,941) Dividends received from equity accounted investees 322,234 186,259 Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (9,670,774) (7,457,188) (1,570,746) (328,297) (carried forward to next page) The notes on pages 142 through 213 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 140 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 141 Notes to the financial statements 1 Reporting Entity Directors' Responsibilities for Financial If inputs used to measure the fair value apparent from other sources. Actual 2.7.2 Useful lives of depreciable assets of the Group’s future taxable income Aitken Spence PLC., (the “Company”) Statements and the certification on of an asset or liability fall into different results may differ from these estimates. Management reviews its estimation against which the deferred tax assets is a public limited liability company the Statement of Financial Position . levels of the fair value hierarchy, of the useful lives of depreciable can be utilised. In addition, significant then the fair value measurement is Estimates and underlying assumptions judgment is required in assessing the incorporated and domiciled in Sri assets at each reporting date based categorised in its entirety in the same are reviewed on an ongoing basis. impact of any legal or economic limits Lanka. The ordinary shares of the 2.3 Approval of financial statements on the expected utility of the assets. level of the fair value hierarchy as the Revisions to accounting estimates are or uncertainties in various future tax Company are listed on the Colombo by Directors Uncertainties in these estimates lowest level input that is significant to recognised in the period in which the jurisdictions. Stock Exchange. The Company’s The financial statements of the Group relate to technical obsolescence that the entire measurement. estimates are revised and in any future registered office and the principal and the Company for the year ended may change the useful life of certain periods affected. place of business is located at “Aitken 31st March 2016 were authorised for property, plant and equipment. 2.8 Going concern Spence Tower II”, 315 Vauxhall Street, issue by the Board of Directors on the 2.5 Functional and presentation Information about significant areas The Directors have made an Colombo 02. 28th of May 2016. currency of estimation, uncertainty and critical 2.7.3 Business combinations assessment of the Group’s ability to The financial statements are presented judgments in applying accounting Management uses valuation continue as a going concern, and being The consolidated financial statements 2.4 Basis of measurement in Sri Lankan rupees, which is the policies that have the most significant techniques in determining the fair satisfied that it has the resources to of the Company as at, and for the year Group’s functional currency. All financial effect on the amounts recognised in the values of the various elements of a continue in business for the foreseeable ended 31st March 2016 comprise the The consolidated financial statements information presented in rupees has financial statements, is provided below: business combination. The fair value of future, confirm that they do not financial statements of Company and have been prepared on the historical been rounded to the nearest thousand contingent consideration is dependent intend either to liquidate or to cease its subsidiaries (together referred to as cost basis, except that land, financial unless otherwise indicated. 2.7.1 Fair value of non-financial assets on the outcome of many variables that operations of any business unit of the the “Group” and individually as “Group assets classified as available-forThe fair value used by the Group in the affect future profitability. Group other than those disclosed in the entities”) and the Group’s interest in sale and financial assets classified 2.6 Use of materiality and offsetting measurement of non-financial assets notes to the financial statements. equity-accounted investees. as fair value through profit or loss is based on the presumption that the 2.7.4 Defined benefit obligation are measured at fair value and the Materiality and aggregation The principal activities of the Company retirement benefit obligations are transaction to sell the asset or transfer Management’s estimate of the defined Each material class of similar items is 3 Summary of Significant and the other entities consolidated with measured at the present value of the the liability takes place either in the benefit obligation is based on a number presented separately in the Financial Accounting Policies it are disclosed in pages 126, 232 to defined benefit obligation as explained principal market for the asset or liability, of critical underlying assumptions such 240 of this report. Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or in the absence of a principal market, as standard rates of inflation, mortality, The accounting policies set out below in the respective notes to the financial or function are presented separately in the most advantageous market that discount rate and anticipation of future have been applied consistently for statements. Aitken Spence PLC does not have an unless they are immaterial. is accessible by the Group for the asset salary increases. Variation in these all periods presented in the financial identifiable parent. Fair value is the price that would or liability. assumptions may significantly impact statements by the Group and the be received to sell an asset or Offsetting the defined benefit obligation amount Company. paid to transfer a liability in an Assets and liabilities and income and The fair value of an asset or a liability is and the annual defined benefit expense. 2 Basis of Preparation measured using the assumptions that orderly transaction between market expenses in the Financial Statements 3.1 Basis of consolidation participants at the measurement date. are not set off unless required or market participants would act in their 2.7.5 Fair value of financial instruments 2.1 Statement of compliance 3.1.1 Business combinations and Goodwill permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting economic best interest when pricing the The consolidated financial statements Management applies valuation When measuring fair value of an asset Standards. asset or liability. Business combinations are accounted of the Group and the separate financial techniques to determine the fair value or liability, the Group uses observable for using the acquisition method as at statements of the Company have been A fair value measurement of a nonof financial instruments where active market data as far as possible. Fair the acquisition date, which is the date prepared in accordance with the Sri 2.7 Use of estimates and judgements financial asset takes into account a market quotes are not available. This values are categorised into different on which control is transferred to the Lanka Accounting Standards (herein The preparation of financial statements market participant's ability to generate requires management to develop levels in a fair value hierarchy based Group. referred to as SLFRSs/LKASs) effective of the Group and the Company in economic benefits by using the asset estimates and assumptions based on on the inputs used in the valuation from 1st January 2012, laid down by conformity with Sri Lanka Accounting in its highest and best use or by selling market inputs, using observable data The Group measures goodwill at techniques. The Institute of Chartered Accountants Standards requires the management it to another market participant that that market participants would use in the acquisition date, as excess of of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and in compliance Level 1 inputs are unadjusted quoted to make judgments, estimates and would use the asset in its highest and pricing the instrument. Where such data the aggregate of the fair value of with the requirements of the Companies prices in active markets for identical assumptions that affect the application best use. is not observable, management uses its the consideration transferred; the Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Sri Lanka assets or liabilities. of policies and reported values of best estimate. Estimated fair values of recognised amount of any nonAccounting and Auditing Standards Act assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The Group uses valuation techniques financial instruments may vary from the controlling interests in the acquiree; No. 15 of 1995. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than The estimates and associated that are appropriate in the actual prices that would be achieved the fair value of the pre-existing quoted prices included within Level assumptions are based on historical circumstances and for which sufficient in an arm’s length transaction at the interest in the acquiree if the business 1 that are observable for the asset or experience and various other factors data are available to measure fair reporting date. combination is achieved in stages; and 2.2 Responsibility for financial liability either directly (i.e. as prices) or that are believed to be reasonable value, maximising the use of relevant the net recognised amount (generally statements indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). under the circumstances, the results observable inputs and minimising the 2.7.6 Recognition of deferred tax assets fair value) of the identifiable assets The Board of Directors of the Company use of unobservable inputs. of which form the basis of making a Management applies significant acquired and liabilities assumed; acknowledges their responsibility Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not judgment about the carrying values of judgment to the extent the deferred measured at the acquisition date. for the Financial Statements, as set based on observable market data assets and liabilities that are not readily tax assets can be recognised based out in the Annual Report of the (unobservable inputs). Transaction costs, other than those on an assessment of the probability Board of Directors , Statement of associated with the issue of debt 142 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 143 Notes to the financial statements or equity securities, that the Group determining the gain or loss on disposal The financial statements of subsidiaries If the Group retains any interest in the against the equity value of the Group’s 3.1.6 Reporting date incurs in connection with a business of the operation. Goodwill disposed of are included in the consolidated previous subsidiary, then such interest investment. All the Group’s subsidiaries, and equity combination are expensed as incurred. in this circumstance is measured based financial statements from the date of is measured at fair value at the date accounted investees have the same on the relative values of the operation acquisition, being the date on which the that control is lost. Subsequently, it is The income statement reflects reporting period as the parent company The consideration transferred does disposed of and the portion of the cash Group obtains control, and continues accounted for as an equity-accounted the Group’s share of the results of other than the companies mentioned not include amounts related to the generating unit retained. to be consolidated until the date when investee or as an available–for-sale operations of the equity accounted below. settlement of pre-existing relationships. such control ceases. financial asset depending on the level of investees. When there is a change Such amounts are generally recognised 3.1.2 Subsidiaries influence retained. recognised directly in the equity of the Fiji Ports Terminal Limited, a subsidiary in profit or loss. The accounting policies of subsidiaries entity, the Group recognises its share company, whose financial year ends on Subsidiaries are those entities have been changed when necessary to A change in the ownership interest of a of any changes, when applicable, in 31st of December. Any contingent consideration payable is controlled by the Group. The Group align them with the policies adopted by subsidiary, without a loss of control, is the statement of changes in equity. measured at fair value at the acquisition controls an investee if, and only if, the the Group accounted for as an equity transaction. Unrealised gains and losses resulting Fiji Ports Corporation Limited, an date. If the contingent consideration Group has: from transactions between the Group associate company, whose financial is classified as equity, then it is not • Power over the investee (i.e. existing 3.1.3 Non-controlling interest 3.1.5 Equity accounted investees and the equity-accounted investees are year ends on 31st of December. re-measured and settlement is rights that give it the current ability (investments in associates and joint eliminated to the extent of the interest in The proportion of the profits or accounted within equity. Otherwise, to direct the relevant activities of the ventures) the equity-accounted investees. Interlifts International (Private) Limited, losses after taxation applicable to subsequent changes in the fair value investee) a subsidiary company, whose financial outside shareholders of subsidiary Associates are those entities in which of the contingent consideration are • Exposure, or rights to variable The Group’s share of profit or loss of year ends on 30th of April. companies is included under the the Group has significant influence, but recognised in the income statement. returns from its involvement with the equity accounted investees is shown heading “Non – controlling interests “in does not have control, over the financial investee on the face of the income statement 3.1.7 Intra-group transactions The goodwill arising on acquisition the Consolidated Income Statement. and operating policies. Significant net of tax. Transfer prices between Group entities of subsidiaries is presented as an • The ability to use its power over the Losses applicable to the non-controlling influence is presumed to exist when the investee to affect its returns interests in a subsidiary is allocated to Group holds between 20% 50% of are set on an arms-length basis in a intangible asset. Adjustments are made if necessary, to the non-controlling interest even if doing the voting rights of another entity. manner similar to transactions with third the financial statements of the equity After initial recognition, goodwill is The Group considers all relevant so causes the non-controlling interests parties. accounted investees to bring the measured at cost less any accumulated facts and circumstances in assessing to have a deficit balance. Joint ventures are arrangements in accounting policies in line with those impairment losses. Goodwill is tested whether it has power over an investee which the Group has joint control 3.1.8 Transactions eliminated on of the Group. After application of the for impairment annually as at 31 March which includes; the contractual The interest of the minority shareholders and have rights to the net assets of consolidation equity method, the Group determines and when circumstances indicate that arrangement with the other vote holders in the net assets employed of these the arrangement. The group has joint Intra-group balances and transactions, whether it is necessary to recognise on the carrying value may be impaired. of the investee, rights arising from companies are reflected under the control in a venture when there is and any unrealised gains and losses impairment loss on its investment in its For the purpose of impairment testing, other contractual arrangements and heading “Non-controlling interests” in contractually agreed sharing of control or income and expenses arising from equity accounted investee. The Group goodwill acquired in a business the Group’s voting rights and potential the Consolidated Statement of Financial of the venture and the decisions about intra-group transactions, are eliminated determines at each reporting date combination is, from the acquisition voting rights over the investee. Position. the relevant activities of the venture in preparing the consolidated financial whether there is any objective evidence date, allocated to each of the Group’s require the unanimous consent of the statements. Unrealised gains arising The Group re-assesses whether or Acquisitions of non-controlling interests that the investment in the equity cash-generating units that are expected parties sharing control. from transactions with equity accounted not it controls an investee if facts and are accounted for as transactions accounted investee is impaired. If this to benefit from the combination, is the case, the Group calculates the investees are eliminated to the extent circumstances indicate that there are with the equity holders in their Associates and joint ventures are irrespective of whether other assets or amount of impairment as the difference of the Group’s interest in the investee. changes to one or more of the three capacity as owners and therefore no treated as equity accounted investees liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to between the recoverable amount of Unrealised losses are eliminated in the elements of control. Consolidation of goodwill is recognised as a result of and are accounted for using the equity those units. the equity-accounted investees and same way as unrealised gains, but only a subsidiary begins when the Group such transactions. Adjustments by method. its carrying value and recognises the to the extent that there is no evidence If the Group’s interest in the net fair obtains control over the subsidiary and non-controlling interests arising from Under the equity method Investments amount in ‘share of losses of an equity of impairment. value of the identifiable assets, liabilities ceases when the Group loses control of transactions that do not involve the loss the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income of control are based on a proportionate in equity-accounted investees are accounted investee’ in the income and contingent liabilities of the entity and expenses of a subsidiary acquired amount of the net assets of the recognised initially at cost, which statement. 3.2 Foreign currencies acquired exceed the cost of the or disposed of during the year are subsidiary. includes transaction costs. The carrying acquisition of the entity, the surplus, Upon loss of significant influence over 3.2.1 Foreign currency transactions included in the consolidated financial amount of the investment is adjusted which is a gain on bargain purchase the associate or the joint control over Transactions in foreign currencies are statements from the date the Group 3.1.4 Loss of control at each reporting date to recognise is recognised immediately in the the joint venture , the Group measures initially recorded by the Group’s entities gains control until the date the Group changes in the Group’s share of consolidated income statement. On the loss of control, the Group and recognises any retained investment at their respective functional currency ceases to control the subsidiary. net assets of the equity-accounted immediately derecognises the assets at its fair value. Any difference between spot rates at the date the transaction Where goodwill has been allocated to investees arising since the acquisition including goodwill and liabilities of the carrying amount of the equity first qualifies for recognition. a cash-generating unit and part of the Entities that are subsidiaries of date. Goodwill relating to the equitythe subsidiary, any non-controlling accounted investee disposed and the operation within that unit is disposed another entity which is a subsidiary accounted investees is included in the interests and the other components fair value of the retaining investment Monetary assets and liabilities of, the goodwill associated with the of the company are also treated as carrying amount of the investment. of equity related to the subsidiary. Any and the proceeds from disposal is denominated in foreign currencies are operation disposed of is included in the subsidiaries of the company. Dividends declared by the equitysurplus or deficit arising on the loss of recognised in the income statement. translated at the functional currency carrying amount of the operation when accounted investees are recognised control is recognised in profit or loss. 144 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 145 Notes to the financial statements spot rates of exchange at the reporting controlling interest. When a foreign The Group initially recognises loans Loans and receivables comprise cash to needs for liquidity or in response to debt provision account and the amount date. operation is disposed of in a manner and receivables and deposits on and cash equivalents, trade and other changes in market conditions. of the loss is recognised in the income that control, significant influence or joint the date that they are originated. All receivables. statement. If there is no realistic Non-monetary assets and liabilities control is lost, the cumulative amount other financial assets including assets Interest income on available-for-sale prospect of future recovery of a debt, denominated in foreign currencies that in the translation reserve related to designated at fair value through profit or 3.3.1.1.3 Held-to-maturity financial assets debt securities calculated using the the amount is written off. are measured based on historical cost that foreign operation is reclassified to loss are recognised initially on the trade effective interest method and dividend If the Group has the positive intent in a foreign currency are translated the income statement as part of the date at which the Group becomes a income on available-for-sale quoted An impairment loss in respect of other and ability to hold debt securities until using the exchange rate at the date gain or loss on disposal. If the Group party to the contractual provisions of and unquoted equity investments are financial assets measured at amortised maturity, then such financial assets of transaction. Non-monetary assets disposes of only part of its interest the instrument. The Group determines recognised in the income statement. cost is calculated as the difference are classified as held-to–maturity. and liabilities denominated in foreign in the subsidiary but retains control, the classification of its financial assets between its carrying amount and the Held-to-maturity financial assets are currencies that are measured at fair the relevant portion of the translation at initial recognition. 3.3.1.2 Impairment of financial assets present value of the estimated future recognised initially at fair value plus any value are retranslated to the reporting reserve is transferred to non-controlling A financial asset not carried at fair cash flows discounted at the current directly attributable transaction costs currency at the exchange rate that interest. When the Group disposes 3.3.1.1.1 Financial assets at fair value through value through profit or loss is assessed market rate of return for a similar if the transaction costs are significant. prevailed at the date the fair value was of only part of its interest in an equity profit or loss at each reporting date to determine financial asset. When a subsequent Subsequent to initial recognition determined. accounted investee that includes whether there is objective evidence event causes the amount of impairment A financial asset is recognised at held-to-maturity financial assets are a foreign operation while retaining that is impaired. A financial asset is loss to decrease, the decrease in Foreign currency differences arising fair value through profit or loss, if it measured at amortised cost using significant influence or joint-control, the impaired if, there is objective evidence impairment loss is reversed through the on retranslation are recognised in is classified as held for trading or the effective interest method, less any relevant proportion of the cumulative as a result of one or more events that income statement to the extent that the the income statement, except for is designated as such upon initial impairment losses. amount of the translation reserve is has occurred after the initial recognition carrying amount of the financial asset differences arising on the retranslation recognition. Financial assets are reclassified to the income statement. During the financial year the Group has of the financial asset (an incurred ‘loss at the date the impairment is occurred, of available-for-sale equity investments, classified as held for trading if they are not designated any financial assets as event’) and the estimated future cash and it does not exceed what the a financial liability designated as a acquired for the purpose of trading held-to-maturity investments. flows of the investment have been amortised cost would have been had hedge of the net investment in a foreign 3.3 Financial instruments in the near term. Financial assets affected. the impairment not been recognised. operation, or qualifying cash flow Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and any 3.3.1.1.4 Available-for-sale financial assets hedges, which are recognised in other are recognised when a Group company 3.3.1.2.2 Available-for-sale finacial assets changes therein, are recognised in the Available-for-sale financial assets are 3.3.1.2.1 Loans and receivables comprehensive income. becomes a party to the contractual income statement. non-derivative financial assets that are The objective evidence of impairment For equity instruments classified as provisions of the instrument. Foreign currency gains and losses are designated as available-for-sale or are could include significant financial available-for-sale financial assets a reported on a net basis in the income The classification of financial Attributable transaction costs of fair not classified in any of the previous difficulty of the issuer or counter party, significant or prolonged decline in the statement. instruments at initial recognition is value through profit or loss financial categories of financial assets. Available breach of contract such as default in fair value of the investment below its dependent on their purpose and assets are recognised in the income for-sale financial assets are recognised interest or principal payments, or it cost is considered to be objective 3.2.2 Foreign operations characteristics and the management’s statement when incurred. initially at fair value plus any directly becomes probable that the borrower evidence of impairment. Subsidiaries incorporated outside intention in acquiring them. attributable transaction costs, if the will enter bankruptcy or financial Financial assets at fair value through Impairment losses of an available-forSri Lanka are treated as foreign transaction costs are significant. reorganisation. Financial instruments are initially profit or loss comprise of its portfolio sale security investment are recognised operations. The assets and liabilities of investments in treasury bills and by transferring the cumulative loss measured at fair value. Transaction Subsequent to initial recognition, they The Group considers impairment of of foreign operations, including treasury bonds. The Group has not that has been recognised in other costs that are directly attributable to the are measured at fair value and any trade receivables at both a specific goodwill and fair value adjustments designated any equity instruments in comprehensive income to the income acquisition or issue of financial assets changes therein, other than impairment significant individual debtor level and arising on acquisition, are translated this category. statement as a reclassification or financial liabilities other than financial losses and foreign currency differences also collectively. Any Group company to the reporting currency at the rate of adjustment. The cumulative loss that is instruments recognised as fair value on available-for-sale debt instruments, which has any individually significant exchange prevailing on the reporting 3.3.1.1.2 Loans and receivables reclassified from other comprehensive through profit and loss, are added to are recognised in other comprehensive debtors assesses them for specific date. Income and expenses of the income to the income statement is the or deducted from the fair value of the Loans and receivables are financial income and presented in the fair value impairment. All individually insignificant foreign entities are translated at the difference between the acquisition cost, financial instruments. Transaction costs, assets with fixed or determinable reserve in equity. When an investment debtors that are not specifically rate of exchange approximating to net of any principal repayment and which are insignificant are expensed payments that are not quoted in is derecognised the gain or loss impaired are then collectively assessed the actual rate at the dates of the amortisation, and the current fair value, immediately to the income statement. an active market. Such assets are accumulated in equity is reclassified to for any impairment that has been transactions. For practical purposes less any impairment loss previously recognised initially at fair value plus any the income statement. incurred but not yet identified by this is presumed to be the average rate recognised in the income statement. 3.3.1 Non-derivative financial assets directly attributable transaction costs, grouping them together based on during each month. The Group designates listed and Changes in impairment provisions if the transaction costs are significant. similar risk characteristics. In assessing 3.3.1.1 Initial recognition and measurement unlisted equity investments that are not attributable to time value are reflected Foreign currency differences are Subsequent to initial recognition collective impairment the Group uses Financial assets are classified as loans and receivables are measured held for trading purposes as availablehistorical trends of the probability as a component of interest income. recognised in other comprehensive financial assets at fair value through at amortised cost using the effective for-sale financial instruments. Debt of default, the timing of recoveries, income and presented in the foreign If, in a subsequent period, the fair value profit or loss, loans and receivables, interest rate method (EIR) less any securities in this category are those the amount of loss incurred and the currency translation reserve in equity of an impaired available-for-sale debt held-to-maturity financial assets and impairment losses. which are intended to be held for an management’s judgment. The carrying except to the extent the translation security increases and the increase available-for-sale financial assets. indefinite period of time and which amount of the trade receivables is difference is allocated to the noncan be objectively related to an event may be sold or redeemed in response reduced through the use of the bad 146 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 147 Notes to the financial statements occurring after the impairment loss was to the contractual provisions of the 3.3.4 Derivative financial instruments The Group recognises land owned by equipment the cost of replacing a depreciated as above are depreciated recognised in the income statement, instrument. The Group enters into a variety of it in the statement of financial position part of an item, when it is probable on the unit of production basis. the impairment loss is reversed, with derivative financial instruments to at the revalued amount. Revaluations that the future economic benefits the amount of the reversal recognised 3.3.2.1.1 Financial liabilities at fair value through are performed with sufficient regularity embodied in the item will flow to the The depreciation methods, useful lives manage its exposure to interest rate in the income statement. However, profit or loss such that the carrying amount does not Group and the cost of the item can and residual values are reviewed at and foreign exchange risks, including any subsequent recovery in the fair differ materially from that which would be measured reliably. The carrying each reporting date and adjusted if Financial liabilities at fair value through foreign exchange forward contracts, value of an impaired available-for-sale be determined using fair values at the amounts of the parts that are replaced appropriate. profit or loss include financial liabilities interest rate swaps and cross currency equity security is recognised in other held for trading and financial liabilities swaps. end of each reporting period. If the fair are derecognised from the cost of the The cost of replacement of comprehensive income. designated upon initial recognition at values of land does not change other asset. The cost of day-to-day servicing components of assets recognised in fair value through profit loss. Derivatives are initially recognised at than by an insignificant amount at each of property, plant and equipment are the carrying amount of property, plant 3.3.1.3 Derecognition of financial assets fair value on the date the derivative reporting period the Group will revalue recognised in the income statement as and equipment is depreciated over the The Group derecognises a financial Gains or losses on liabilities held for contracts are entered into and are such land every 5 years. and when incurred. balance useful life of the asset. asset when; trading are recognised in the income subsequently remeasured to their fair statement. value at the end of each reporting Any revaluation increase arising on the 3.4.4 Depreciation • The right to receive cash flows from The cost of major planned overhauls period. revaluation of such land is recognised the asset have expired, or the entity Depreciation is based on the cost of an capitalised are depreciated over The Group has not designated any in other comprehensive income and has transferred its rights to receive asset less its residual value. the period until the next planned financial liabilities upon initial recognition Changes therein are recognised in the accumulated in equity, except to the cash flows from the asset, or has maintenance. at fair value through profit or loss. Income Statement. extent that it reverses a revaluation Depreciation is recognised in the assumed an obligation to pay the decrease for the same asset previously income statement on a straight line received cash flows in full without 3.3.2.1.2 Other financial Liabilities 3.3.5 Share capital recognised in the income statement, in 3.5 Investment properties basis over the estimated useful lives of material delay to a third party under which case the increase is credited to All financial liabilities other than those Ordinary shares are classified as equity. each component of an item of property, 3.5.1 Recognition and measurement a pass-through arrangement; and the income statement to the extent of at fair value through profit and loss are Incremental costs directly attributable plant and equipment. Depreciation of A property that is held to earn rentals either the decrease previously expensed. A classified as other financial liabilities to the issue of ordinary shares are an asset begins when it is available or for capital appreciation or both • The entity has transferred recognised as a deduction from equity. decrease in the carrying amount arising for use and ceases at the earlier of rather than for use in the production substantially all the risks and All other financial liabilities are on a revaluation of land is recognised the date that the asset is classified as or supply of goods or services or for rewards of the asset, or recognised initially at fair value plus in the income statement to the extent held for sale or on the date that the 3.4. Property, plant and equipment administrative purposes; or sale in the • The entity has neither transferred directly attributable transaction costs. that it exceeds the balance, if any, held asset is disposed of. Leased assets ordinary course of business, by the nor retained substantially all the risks Subsequent to initial recognition these 3.4.1 Recognition and measurement in the property’s revaluation reserve are depreciated over the shorter of the Group are accounted for as investment and rewards of the asset, but has financial liabilities are measured at Items of property, plant and equipment relating to a previous revaluation of the lease term and their useful lives unless properties. transferred control of the asset. amortised cost using the effective other than land, are measured at cost same land. it is reasonably certain that the Group interest rate method. The financial less accumulated depreciation and will obtain ownership by the end of the An investment property is measured On derecognition of a financial asset, liabilities include trade and other Upon disposal, any related revaluation accumulated impairment losses. lease term. initially at its cost. The cost of a the difference between the carrying payables, bank overdrafts, loans and reserve is transferred from the purchased investment property amount of the asset or the carrying borrowings and financial guarantee The cost of an item of property, plant revaluation reserve to retained earnings The estimated useful lives are as comprises of its purchase price and any amount allocated to the portion of the contracts. and equipment comprises its purchase and is not taken into account in follows: directly attributable expenditure. The asset transferred and the sum of the price and any directly attributable arriving at the gain or loss on disposal. Leased assets Over the periods cost of a self-constructed investment consideration received or receivable 3.3.2.2 Derecognition of financial liabilities costs of bringing the asset to working The details of revaluation of land are of the lease property is measured at its cost at and any cumulative gain or loss condition for its intended use. The cost disclosed in note 15.3.1 to the financial The Group derecognises a financial Buildings 20 50 years the date when the construction or that had been recognised in other of self-constructed assets includes statements. liability when its contractual obligations Plant and Machinery 10 20 years development is complete. comprehensive income, is recognised are discharged, cancelled or expired. the cost of materials, direct labour and 3.4.2 Significant components of property, Equipment 04 05 years in the income statement. any other costs directly attributable The Group applies the cost model for to bringing the asset to the working plant and equipment Power Generation Plants 10 20 years investment properties in accordance 3.3.3 Offsetting of financial instruments 3.3.2 Non–derivative financial liabilities condition for its intended use, and When parts of an item of property, plant Motor Vehicles 04 10 years with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard Financial assets and financial liabilities borrowing costs if the recognition and equipment have different useful Furniture and Fittings 10 years (LKAS 40) -“Investment Property”. 3.3.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement are offset and the net amount reported criteria are met. This also includes cost lives than the underlying asset, they are Computer Equipment 3-5 years Accordingly, land classified as The Group initially recognises debt in the consolidated statement of of dismantling and removing the items identified and accounted separately Crockery, Cutlery and investment properties are stated at securities issued and subordinated financial position if, and only if, there is a and restoring them in the site on which as major components of property, Glassware 3-5 years cost less any accumulated impairment liabilities on the date that they are currently enforceable legal right to offset they are located. plant and equipment and depreciated losses and buildings classified as the recognised amounts and there is Speed Boats 5 years originated. All other financial liabilities separately based on their useful life. investment properties are stated at cost (including liabilities designated at an intention to settle on a net basis, All items of property, plant and Soft Furnishing 5-10 years less any accumulated depreciation and fair value through profit or loss) are or to realise the assets and settle the equipment are recognised initially at 3.4.3 Subsequent cost Power generation plants of some any accumulated impairment losses. recognised initially on the trade date liabilities simultaneously. cost. The Group recognises in the carrying of the Group companies in the at which the Group becomes a party amount of property, plant and renewable energy segment that are not 148 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 149 Notes to the financial statements 3.5.2 Depreciation are classified as operating leases. 3.7 Intangible assets The useful economic life of an intangible 3.7.4.2 Website Costs rubber, oil palm, coconut and cinnamon No depreciation is provided on land Payments under operating leases asset is assessed to be either finite or Costs incurred on development of plantations managed by them as 3.7.1 Initial Recognition and measurement treated as investment property. are recognised as an expense in the indefinite. websites are capitalised as intangible biological assets in their financial income statement on a straight-line The Group recognises intangible assets statements assets when the entity is satisfied that Depreciation of other investment basis over the term of the lease or any if it is probable that the expected future Intangible assets with finite lives are the web site will generate probable property of the Group is provided for other basis more representative of the economic benefits that are attributable amortised over the useful economic life Biological assets are classified in economic benefits in the future. on a consistent basis, over the period time pattern of the benefits derived from to the asset will flow to the entity and of the asset. The amortisation period to mature biological assets and appropriate to the estimated useful lives the lease. the cost of the asset can be measured and the amortisation method for an In accordance with 3.7.3 above, the immature biological assets. Mature of the assets on a straight-line method. reliably. intangible asset with a finite useful Group companies assess the useful biological assets are those that have The initial cost of acquiring a leasehold life is reviewed at least at the end of life of website costs that has a finite attained harvestable specifications or Leased assets Over the periods Separately acquired intangible assets property treated as an operating lease each reporting date. Changes in the useful life. Based on this assessment are able to sustain regular harvests. of the lease are measured on initial recognition is recognised as a non-current asset expected useful life or the expected the Group companies amortise website Immature biological assets are those Buildings 20 50 years and is amortised over the period of the at cost. The cost of such separately pattern of consumption of future that have not yet attained harvestable costs over approximately 3 to 5 years. lease in accordance with the pattern acquired intangible assets include the economic benefits embodied in the specifications. In the consolidated financial statements, purchase price, import duties, nonof benefits expected to be derived asset is accounted for by changing 3.7.4.3 Goodwill properties which are occupied by refundable purchase taxes and any Biological assets are further classified from the lease. The carrying amount the amortisation period or method, companies within the Group for the directly attributable cost of preparing Goodwill that arises upon the as bearer biological assets and of leasehold property is tested for as appropriate, and are treated as production or supply of goods and the asset for its intended use. acquisition of subsidiaries is included consumable biological assets. Bearer impairment annually. changes in accounting estimates. The services or for administrative purposes in intangible assets. The policy on biological assets include tea, rubber, amortisation expense on intangible is treated as property, plant and The cost of intangible assets acquired measurement of goodwill at initial fruit and other trees, that are not 3.6.3 Determining whether an arrangement assets with finite lives is recognised in equipment, while these properties are in a business combination is the recognition is given in note 3.1.1. intended to be sold or harvested, but contains a lease the income statement treated as investment property in the fair value of the asset at the date of grown for harvesting of agricultural financial statements of the company At the inception of an arrangement, acquisition. Goodwill is subsequently measured Intangible assets with indefinite produce from such biological assets. owning the asset. the Group determines whether such at cost less accumulated impairment useful lives are not amortised, but are Consumable biological assets include an arrangement is a lease or contains The cost of an internally generated losses. In respect of equity accounted tested for impairment annually, either managed timber trees that are to be a lease. This will be apparent if the intangible asset arising from the investees, the carrying amount of 3.6 Leases individually or at the cash-generating harvested as agricultural produce or following two criteria are met: development phase of an internal goodwill is included in the carrying unit level. The assessment of indefinite sold as biological assets. 3.6.1 Finance leases • the fulfilment of the arrangement is project which is capitalised includes all amount of the investment, and an life is reviewed annually to determine Leases in terms of which the Group dependent on the use of a specific directly attributable costs necessary impairment loss on such an investment The entity recognises the biological whether the indefinite life continues assumes substantially all the risks and asset or assets; and to create, produce, and prepare the is allocated to the carrying amount of assets when, and only when, the to be supportable. If not, the change rewards of ownership are classified as asset to be capable of operating in the the equity accounted investee. entity controls the assets as a result of • the arrangement contains a right to in useful life from indefinite to finite is finance leases. On initial recognition, manner intended by the management. past events, it is probable that future use the asset(s). made on a prospective basis. the leased assets under property, plant Other development expenditure and 3.8 Plantations economic benefits associated with the and equipment, is measured at an At the inception or on reassessment of expenditure on research activities, assets will flow to the entity and the 3.7.4 Intangible assets recognised by the The plantation companies in the Group amount equal to the lower of its fair the arrangement, the Group separates undertaken with the prospect of fair value or cost of the assets can be Group. adopt certain accounting policies,which value and the present value of minimum payments and other consideration gaining new technical knowledge measured reliably. differ from that of the rest of the Group, lease payments. Subsequent to initial required by such an arrangement into and understanding is expensed in 3.7.4.1 Computer software since their nature of operations is recognition, the asset is accounted those in respect of the lease and those the income statement as and when All computer software costs incurred 3.8.1.1 Immature plantations significantly different from that of the for in accordance with the accounting for other elements, on the basis of incurred. and licensed for use by the Group, rest of the Group. The accounting The Group measures immature policy applicable to that asset. their relative fair values. In respect of a which do not form an integral part of policies adopted are in accordance with plantations at cost. The cost of land finance lease, if the Group concludes 3.7.2 Subsequent costs related hardware, and can be clearly LKAS 41 Agriculture and the guideline preparation, rehabilitation, new planting, Minimum lease payments under finance that it is impractical to separate the Subsequent expenditure on intangible identified and reliably measured with the issued by the Institute of Chartered replanting, crop diversification, inter leases are apportioned between the payments reliably, then an asset and assets is capitalised only when it probability of leading to future economic Accountants of Sri Lanka on bearer planting and fertilizing, etc., incurred finance expense and the reduction of a liability are recognised at an amount increases the future economic benefits benefits, are capitalised under intangible biological assets. between the time of planting and the outstanding liability. The finance equal to the fair value of the underlying embodied in the specific asset to which assets harvesting ie: when the planted area expense is allocated to each period asset. Subsequently as payments it relates. 3.8.1 Biological assets attains maturity, are classified as during the lease term so as to produce are made the liability is reduced and In accordance with 3.7.3 above, the The Group manages the biological immature plantations. These immature a constant periodic rate of interest on imputed finance cost on the liability 3.7.3 Subsequent measurement Group companies assess the useful transformation of certain fruit plants plantations are shown at direct the remaining balance of the liability. is recognised using the Group’s life of each computer software that After initial recognition an intangible for harvesting of agricultural produce costs plus attributable overheads. incremental borrowing rate. has a finite useful life. Based on this asset is stated at its costs less any from such plants and includes those The expenditure incurred on such 3.6.2 Operating leases assessment the Group companies accumulated amortisation and any and the respective nursery plants plantations are transferred to mature Leases where the lessor effectively amortise computer software over accumulated impairment losses. under biological assets. In addition, plantations when it attains maturity. retains substantially all the risks and approximately 3 to 5 years. Elpitiya Plantations Plc., an equity rewards of ownership over the assets accounted investee recognises tea, 150 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 151 Notes to the financial statements The cost of land preparation, 3.9 Inventories equityaccounted investee is not longer of other assets, impairment losses contribution into a separate entity and 3.13.3 Defined benefit plan rehabilitation, new planting, replanting, Inventories are measured at the lower of accounted. recognised in prior periods are will have no further legal or constructive A defined benefit plan is a postcrop diversification, inter planting and cost and net realisable value. The cost assessed at each reporting date for any obligations to pay any additional employment benefit plan other than a fertilising, etc., incurred between the of inventories is based on a weighted 3.11 Impairment – Non-financial assets indications that the loss has decreased amounts. Obligations for contributions defined contribution plan. time of planting and harvesting ie: average cost. The cost includes or no longer exists. An impairment loss to a defined contribution plan are The carrying amounts of the Group’s when the planted area attains maturity, expenditure incurred in acquiring the is reversed if there has been a change recognised as an employee benefit 3.13.3.1 Retiring Gratuity Sri Lanka non-financial assets, other than are classified as immature plantations. inventories and bringing them to their in the estimates used to determine the expense in the income statement in inventories and deferred tax assets The liability recognised in the statement These immature plantations are existing location and condition. In the recoverable amount. the periods during which services are are reviewed at each reporting date of financial position in respect of defined shown at direct costs plus attributable case of manufactured inventories, cost rendered by employees. to determine whether there is any An impairment loss is reversed benefit plans is the present value of overheads. The expenditure incurred includes an appropriate share of factory indication of impairment. If any such only to the extent that the asset’s the defined benefit obligation at the on bearer biological assets which overheads 3.13.2.1 Employee provident fund and indication exists, the recoverable carrying amount does not exceed reporting date. The defined benefit comes into bearing during the year, is Employee trust fund amounts of such assets are estimated. the carrying amount that would have obligation is calculated annually using transferred to mature plantations. Net realisable value is the estimated The Group contributes a sum not less been determined, net of depreciation the projected unit credit method. The selling price in the ordinary course of The recoverable amount of goodwill is than 12% of the gross emoluments of or amortisation, if no impairment loss present value of the defined benefit 3.8.1.2 Nursery plants business, less the estimated costs of estimated at each reporting date, or as employees employed in Sri Lanka as had been recognised. Reversals of obligation is determined by discounting Nursery cost includes the cost of completion and selling expenses based and when an indication of impairment provident fund benefits and 3% as trust impairment losses are recognised in the the estimated future cash flows using direct materials, direct labour and on normal operating capacity. is identified. fund benefits. income statement. interest rates that are denominated an appropriate proportion of directly in the currency in which the benefits attributable overheads, less provision 3.10 Non-current assets held for sale An impairment loss is recognised if the 3.13.2.2 Employees pension scheme – will be paid, and that have terms of for overgrown plants. carrying amount of an asset or its cash3.12 Liabilities and provisions Maldives Non-current assets that are expected maturity approximating to the terms of generating unit exceeds its recoverable Liabilities classified as current liabilities to be recovered primarily through a All Maldivian employees of the Group the liability. 3.8.1.3 Depreciation and amortisation amount. A cash-generating unit is in the statement of financial position disposal rather than through continuing are members of the retirement pension the smallest identifiable asset group are those which fall due for payment Provision has been made in the financial Depreciation is recognised in the use are classified as held for sale. scheme established in the Maldives. that generates cash flows that are on demand of the creditor or within statements for retiring gratuities income statement on a straightImmediately before classification as held The Group contributes 7% of the largely independent from other assets. one year of the reporting date. Nonfrom the first year of service for all line basis over the estimated useful for sale, these assets (or components pensionable wage of such employees Impairment losses are recognised in the current liabilities are those balances that employees. economic lives of each component of of a disposal group) are re-measured to this scheme income statement. become repayable after one year from biological assets. in accordance with the Group’s the reporting date. However, according to the Payment of accounting policies. Thereafter the Impairment losses recognised in 3.13.2.3 Employee provident fund – South Mature plantations (Group) Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability assets (or disposal group) are measured respect of cash-generating units on India All known liabilities have been for payment to an employee arises Passion fruit 5 years at the lower of their carrying amount acquisition of subsidiaries are allocated Group companies in South India accounted for in preparing the financial only after the completion of 5 years Pineapple 5 years and fair value less cost to sell. Any first to reduce the carrying amount of contribute a sum of 12% of the basic statements. continued service. impairment loss on the above assets is any goodwill allocated to the unit, and salaries of for local employees and 12% Papaya 4 years first allocated to goodwill and then to then to reduce the carrying amount of of gross salary for foreign employees as The liability is not externally funded. Sour sop 50 years the remaining assets and liabilities on 3.13 Employee benefits the other assets in the unit (or group of provident fund benefits to the Employee a pro rata basis, except that no loss units) on a pro rata basis. 3.13.1 Short-term employee benefits Provident Organisation of India. Group recognises all actuarial gains and Mature plantations is allocated to inventories, financial losses arising from defined benefit plans – (Elpitiya Plantations PLC) Short-term employee benefit obligations assets, deferred tax assets, employee 3.11.1 Calculation of recoverable amount 3.13.2.4 Employee provident fund – Fiji immediately in the other comprehensive Tea 33 1/3 Years are measured on an undiscounted benefit assets and investment property, income as they occur. The recoverable amount of an asset basis and are expensed as the Group companies in Fiji contribute a Rubber 20 Years which are continued to be measured or cash-generating unit is the greater related service is provided. A liability is sum of 10% of the basic salaries of all Oil Palm 20 Years in accordance with the Group’s 3.13.3.2 Retiring Gratuity – Oman of its value in use and its fair value less recognised for the amount expected employees as provident fund benefits to accounting policies. Impairment losses Gratuity is provised as per the labour Coconut 50 Years costs to sell. In assessing value in use, to be paid in cash as ex-gratia in the Fiji National Provident Fund. on initial classification as held-for-sale law of Oman due to expatriate Cinnamon 20 Years the estimated future cash flows are short term, if the Group has a present and subsequent gains or losses on employees upon termination of discounted to their present value using legal or constructive obligation to pay 3.13.2.5 Defined Contribution Fund – Oman re-measurement are recognised in employment which is computed based Depreciation methods, useful lives a pre-tax discount rate that reflects this amount as a result of past service Group companies in Oman contribute the income statement. Gains are not on half month’s basic salary for each and residual values are reassessed current market assessments of the time rendered by the employee, and the a sum of 10.5% of the gross salary + recognised in excess of any cumulative year during the first three years of at the reporting date and adjusted value of money and the risks specific to obligation can be measured reliably. 1% in respect of work related injuries impairment loss. employment and a full month’s basic prospectively, if appropriate. Mature the asset or cash-generating unit. and illness for Omani employees plantations are depreciated over their 3.13.2 Defined contribution plan salary for each year of employment Once classified as held for sale, in accordance with Social Security useful lives or unexpired lease period of 3.11.2 Reversal of impairment thereafter. An employee who has been intangible assets and property, A defined contribution plan is a postInsurance Law. the farm land, whichever is lower. in employment for less than one year is plant and equipment are no longer An impairment loss in respect of employment benefit plan under which not entitled to receive gratuity. amortised or depreciated, and any goodwill is not reversed. In respect an entity pays a fixed employee benefit 152 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 153 Notes to the financial statements 3.14 Provisions in order to determine if it is acting as reduction of the outstanding receivable. established, which is generally when attached conditions will be complied 3.19.1 Current tax A provision is recognised if, as a result principal or agent. The finance income is allocated to each the dividend is declared. with. The current tax is the expected tax of past events, the Group has a present period during the lease term so as to payable on the taxable income for 3.15.2 Sale of goods produce a constant periodic rate of 3.15.4.3 Rental income When the grant relates to an expense legal or constructive obligation that can the year, using tax rates enacted or interest on the remaining balance of the item, it is recognised as income on be estimated reliably, and it is probable Revenue from the sale of goods is Rental income arising from renting of substantially enacted at the reporting financial asset. a systematic basis over the periods that an outflow of economic benefits recognised on accrual basis when property, plant and equipment and date, and any adjustment to tax that the costs, which it is intended to will be required to settle the obligation. the significant risks and rewards of investment properties is recognised as payable in respect of previous years. 3.15.3.4 Installation of elevators compensate, are expensed. ownership of the goods have been revenue on a straight-line basis over the Provisions are determined by transferred to the buyer. Revenue on installation of elevators is term of the lease. Taxation for the current and previous Grants and subsidies which intend to discounting the expected future cash recognised in the income statement by periods to the extent unpaid is compensate an expense or loss already flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects 3.15.3 Rendering of services reference to the stage of completion of recognised as a liability in the financial 3.16 Expenditure incurred or received for the purpose current market assessments of the time the transaction at the reporting date. statements. When the amount of Revenue from rendering of services is All expenditure incurred in the running of immediate financial support with no value of money and the risks specific Stage of completion is measured by taxation already paid in respect of recognised by reference to the stage of of the business and in maintaining the future related costs, are recognised in to the liability. The unwinding of the reference to cost incurred to date as a current and prior periods exceeds the completion of the transaction at the end capital assets in a state of efficiency has the income statement in the period in discount is recognised as finance cost. percentage of estimated total cost for amount due for those periods, the of the reporting period. been charged to revenue in arriving at which the grant becomes receivable. each installation. excess is recognised as an asset in the 3.14.1 Provision for major overhauls the profit for the year. financial statements. 3.15.3.1 Hotel operation Grants and subsidies related to assets Provision is made on a monthly basis 3.15.3.5 Commission income are immediately recognised in the In respect of the Group’s hotel 3.17 Finance income /(expenses) 3.19.1.1 Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka for major overhaul costs based on the When the Group acts in the capacity of statement of financial position as operations, apartment revenue is estimated overhauls to be carried out an agent rather than the principal in a Finance income comprises interest deferred income, and recognised in the Provision for current tax for companies recognised on the rooms occupied on within the estimated interval between transaction, the revenue recognition is income on funds invested, net changes income statement on a systematic and incorporated in Sri Lanka has been a daily basis, and food and beverage two major overhauls. The cost of the the net amount of commission earned in fair value of financial assets classified rational basis over the useful life of the computed in accordance with the sales are accounted for at the time of actual overhaul carried out is set off by the Group. as fair value through profit or loss , asset. Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and sale. against the provision. The adequacy and gains on the disposal of interest its amendments thereto. of the provision balance is reviewed at generating investments whether When the Group receives non3.15.3.2 Loyalty points programme of hotel 3.15.4 Use by others of entity assets a consistent frequency, and any under classified under fair value through profit monetary grants, the asset and the 3.19.1.2 Companies incorporated outside Sri companies 3.15.4.1 Interest income grant are recorded gross at nominal / over provision which arises due to or loss or available-for-sale financial Lanka ‘Diamond Club” a loyalty programme, Interest income is recognised as it assets amounts and recognised in the income a change in estimate and the timing Provision for current tax for companies allows customers to accumulate points accrues in the income statement. For statement over the expected useful of the major overhauls, is adjusted in incorporated outside Sri Lanka have when they patronise the Group’s hotels all financial instruments measured at Finance expenses comprise interest life in a pattern of consumption of the the income statement for the period in been computed in accordance to the in Sri Lanka which could be redeemed amortised cost and interest bearing expense on borrowings and leases, benefit of the underlying asset. which such under / over provision is relevant tax statutes as disclosed in for future hotel accommodation, subject financial assets classified as availableand impairment losses recognised identified. note 12.3 to the financial statements. to a minimum number of points being on financial assets. Borrowing costs When loans or similar assistance are for-sale the interest income is recorded obtained. Consideration received on that are not directly attributable provided by governments or related 3.15 Revenue using the effective interest rate (EIR). 3.19.2 Deferred taxation hotel rooms occupied is allocated to the acquisition, construction or institutions with an interest rate below EIR is the rate that exactly discounts Group revenue represents sales to between the current sales and the production of a qualifying asset are the applicable market rate, the effect of Deferred tax is recognised in respect the estimated future cash payments customers outside the Group and points issued, with the consideration recognised in the income statement this favourable interest is regarded as a of temporary differences between or receipts through the expected life excludes value added tax. allocated to the points equal to their using the effective interest method. government grant. the carrying amounts of assets of the financial instrument or a shorter fair value. Fair value of the points is However, borrowing costs that are and liabilities for financial reporting period where appropriate, to the net 3.15.1 Revenue recognition determined by applying a statistical directly attributable to the acquisition, 3.19 Income tax expense purposes and the amounts used for carrying amount of the financial asset Revenue is recognised to the extent analysis. The fair value of the points construction or production of a taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not or liability. For interest bearing financial Income tax expense comprises of that it is probable that the economic issued is deferred and recognised as qualifying asset that takes a substantial recognised for temporary differences assets carried at fair value, interest is current and deferred tax. The income benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue when the points are redeemed. period of time to get ready for its arising on initial recognition of goodwill, recognised on discounted cash flow tax expense is recognised in the revenue can be reliably measured, The Group has not included extensive intended use or sale, are capitalised the initial recognition of assets or method. Interest income is included income statement except to the extent regardless of when the payment is disclosure regarding the loyalty as part of the asset. Borrowing costs liabilities in a transaction that is not under finance income in the income that it relates to the items recognised being received. Revenue is measured programme as the amounts are not capitalised are disclosed in note 11 to a business combination and that statement. directly in the statement of other at the fair value of the consideration significant. the financial statements. affects neither accounting nor taxable comprehensive income or statement received or receivable, taking into profit, and the differences relating to 3.15.4.2 Dividend income of changes in equity, in which case it account contractually defined terms of 3.15.3.3 Lease income investments in subsidiaries and jointly Dividend income is recognised in the 3.18 Government grants and subsidies is recognised directly in the respective payment. controlled entities to the extent that Minimum lease payments receivable income statement on the date that the Government grants are recognised statements. they probably will not reverse in the under a finance lease are apportioned Group’s right to receive payment is where there is reasonable assurance The Group also assesses its revenue foreseeable future. between the finance income and the that the grant will be received and all arrangements against specific criteria 154 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 155 Notes to the financial statements Deferred tax is measured at the tax The performance of the Group is 3.25 Events occurring after the 4.3 Investment property 4.7 Contingent consideration Amendments to SLFRS 10, SLFRS rates that are expected to be applied evaluated based on the performance reporting date Investment property is valued for The fair value of contingent 12 and LKAS 28 – Investment Entities: to temporary differences when they of these four main segments by the All material events after the reporting disclosure purposes by the Directors consideration arising in a business Applying the Consolidation Exception reverse, based on the laws that have Group’s Managing Director (chief date have been considered, disclosed based on market value, this is the combination is calculated based on the effective for annual periods beginning been enacted or substantively enacted operating decision maker). The internal and adjusted where applicable. price that would be received to sell an expected payment amount and their on or after 1st of January 2016 by the reporting date. management reports prepared on these asset or paid to transfer a liability in an associated probabilities discounted to segments are reviewed by the Group’s Amendments to LKAS 27 – Equity orderly transaction between market present value when appropriate. A deferred tax asset is recognised Managing Director on a monthly 4 Determination of fair values Method in Separate Financial participants at the measurement date. for unused tax losses and deductible basis. Details of the Group companies Statements effective for annual A number of the Group’s accounting temporary differences, to the extent that operating under each segment and the 5 New and amended standards periods beginning on or after 1st of policies and disclosures require the 4.4 Equity securities it is probable that future taxable profits products and services offered under issued but not effective as at the January 2016 determination of fair values, for both will be available against which they each segment are provided under The fair value of the equity securities reporting date financial and non-financial assets Amendments to SLFRS 10 and LKAS can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are Group Companies in pages 232 to 240. is determined by reference to their and liabilities. Fair values have been The Institute of Chartered Accountants 28 – Sale or Contribution of Assets reviewed at each reporting date and are quoted share price at the reporting determined for measurement and of Sri Lanka has issued the following between an Investor and its Associate reduced to the extent that it is no longer date if quoted; or if unquoted either 3.21 Movement of reserves disclosure purposes based on the standards which become effective or Joint Venture effective for annual probable that the related tax benefit will using discounted cash flow analysis Movements of reserves are disclosed in following methods. Where applicable for annual periods beginning after periods beginning on or after 1st of be realised. using expected future cash flows and the statement of changes in equity. further information about the the current financial year. Accordingly January 2016 a market related discounted rate, or Deferred tax assets and liabilities assumptions made in determining fair these standards have not been based on the net assets of the investee recognised by individual companies value is disclosed in the notes specific applied in preparing theses financial Amendments to SLFRS 11 – 3.22 Cash flow company. within the Group are disclosed to that asset or liability statements. The Group is currently in Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests The statement of cash flows is reported the process of evaluating the potential in Joint Operations effective for annual separately as assets and liabilities in the based on the “indirect method”. 4.5 Financial instruments other than effect of adoption of these standards periods beginning on or after 1st of Group statement of financial position 4.1 Property, plant and equipment equity securities carried at fair and amendments on its financial January 2016 and are not offset against each other. acquired in business 3.23 Commitments and contingencies value through profit or loss and statements. Such impact has not been combinations available-for-sale investments quantified as at the balance sheet 3.19.3 Economic service charge Contingencies are possible assets The fair value of property, plant and or obligations that arise from a past Fair value of these financial instruments date. The Group will be adopting these As per the provisions of the Economic equipment recognised as a result of a event and would be confirmed only is estimated by discounting the standards as and when they become Service Charge Act No 13 of 2006, business combination is the estimated on the occurrence or non-occurrence difference between the contractual effective. economic service charge is payable on amount for which a property could be of uncertain future events, which are price of the instrument and the current the liable turnover at specified rates. exchanged on the date of acquisition SLFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – beyond the Group’s control. price of the instrument for the residual Economic service charge is deductible between a willing buyer and a willing effective for annual periods beginning maturity of the contract based on from the income tax liability. Any seller in an arm’s length transaction. on or after 1st of January 2018 Commitments and Contingent liabilities quoted price, or obtained from brokers unclaimed liability is carried forward and The fair value of items of plant, are disclosed in Note 42 and 44 to the if not quoted, using a credit adjusted set off against the income tax payable equipment fixtures and fittings is based SLFRS 14 – Regulatory Deferral financial statements. risk free interest rate. as per the relevant provisions in the Act. on market prices for similar items when Accounts– effective for annual periods available and depreciated replacement beginning on or after 1st of January 3.24 Earnings per share cost when appropriate. 4.6 Defined benefit plan – retirement 2016 3.20 Operating segments The Group presents basic and diluted benefit obligations An operating segment is a SLFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts earnings per share (EPS) for its ordinary 4.2 Property, plant and equipment The define benefit plan is valued by a distinguishable component of the with Customers– effective for annual shares. Basic EPS is calculated by owned by the Group professionally qualified external actuary Group that engages in business periods beginning on or after 1st of dividing the profit or loss attributable to using the projected unit credit method activities from which it earns revenue External, independent qualified valuers January 2018 ordinary shareholders of the Company using the standard rate of inflation, and incurs expenses, including revenue having appropriate experience in valuing by the weighted average number of an appropriate discount rate and and expenses that relate to transactions properties in locations of properties Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to ordinary shares outstanding during the anticipation of future salary increases. with the Group’s other segments. being valued, value the land owned by LKAS 1) effective for annual periods period. Diluted EPS is determined by the Group based on market values,this beginning on or after 1st January 2016 The operations of the Group are adjusting the profit or loss attributable is the price that would be received to categorised under four segments to ordinary shareholders and the sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability based on the nature of the products weighted average number of ordinary in an orderly transaction between or services provided by each segment shares outstanding for the effects of all market participants at the measurement and the risks and rewards associated dilutive potential ordinary shares. date. with the economic environment in which these segments operate. 156 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 157 Notes to the financial statements 6 Operating segments 6.2 Geographical information 6.1 Business segments Geographical analysis of the Group’s revenue and non-current assets is stated based on the country where the sale occurred or the service was rendered. 6.1.1 Business segment analysis of group revenue and profit 6.2.1 Geographical information revenue Tourism Maritime & logistics Strategic investments Services Total Total revenue generated Revenue from external sector sector sector customers 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Total revenue generated 18,249,643 17,829,450 8,278,653 7,738,781 5,941,562 15,165,970 1,181,395 1,086,303 33,651,253 41,820,504 Sri Lanka 20,283,613 28,617,345 13,153,314 22,611,478 Intra-segmental revenue (1,089,915) (985,772) (239,067) (219,414) (635,952) (56,365) (67,083) (29,619) (2,032,017) (1,291,170) Maldives 10,720,663 11,210,295 10,177,504 10,749,979 Total revenue with inter segmental revenue 17,159,728 16,843,678 8,039,586 7,519,367 5,305,610 15,109,605 1,114,312 1,056,684 31,619,236 40,529,334 Other countries 2,646,977 1,992,864 2,646,977 1,957,434 Inter segmental revenue (14,652) (23,496) (93,315) (290,652) (246,843) (213,041) (203,003) (178,086) (557,813) (705,275) 33,651,253 41,820,504 25,977,795 35,318,891 Total revenue with equity-accounted investees 17,145,076 16,820,182 7,946,271 7,228,715 5,058,767 14,896,564 911,309 878,598 31,061,423 39,824,059 Share of equity-accounted investees’ revenue (3,424,568) (3,006,134) (681,850) (482,162) (969,216) (1,015,408) (7,994) (1,464) (5,083,628) (4,505,168) 6.2.2 Geographical information non-current assets Revenue from external customers 13,720,508 13,814,048 7,264,421 6,746,553 4,089,551 13,881,156 903,315 877,134 25,977,795 35,318,891 Non current assets 2015/2016 2014/2015 Profit from operations 2,946,956 3,974,501 1,230,874 706,411 (489,206) 825,635 207,878 150,162 3,896,502 5,656,709 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Finance income 166,525 265,989 47,726 44,839 415,838 297,811 17,626 15,218 647,715 623,857 Finance expenses (417,200) (237,587) (66,116) (60,596) (478,298) (595,628) (9,265) (7,719) (970,879) (901,530) Sri Lanka 23,522,586 20,264,515 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees 86,771 227,326 118,519 44,830 57,012 84,772 (30,132) (26,041) 232,170 330,887 Maldives 10,200,354 8,971,134 (net of tax) Other countries 7,675,552 4,642,783 Profit before tax 2,783,052 4,230,229 1,331,003 735,484 (494,654) 612,590 186,107 131,620 3,805,508 5,709,923 41,398,492 33,878,432 Income tax expense (494,607) (551,968) (289,162) (121,611) (15,494) (103,644) (61,966) (49,100) (861,229) (826,323) Investments in equity-accounted investees 9,771,984 5,403,518 Profit for the year 2,288,445 3,678,261 1,041,841 613,873 (510,148) 508,946 124,141 82,520 2,944,279 4,883,600 Goodwill on consolidation 824,880 498,690 51,995,356 39,780,640 Depreciation and amortisation 1,076,823 837,755 249,505 235,882 334,320 238,543 85,370 79,196 1,746,018 1,391,376 Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs 7,959 (6,283) 6,684 6,662 356,124 974,974 6,805 11,927 377,572 987,280 7 Revenue Other non-cash expenses 34,307 30,850 36,186 42,482 41,296 43,129 10,648 10,755 122,437 127,216 GROUP COMPANY There were no impairment losses or any reversals of impairment losses recognised directly in equity during the year. 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 6.1.2 Business segment analysis of group assets and liabilities Rendering of services 22,309,589 31,011,252 566,147 528,080 Tourism Maritime & logistics Strategic investments Services Total Sale of goods 3,668,206 3,852,346 sector sector sector Lease interest income 455,293 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Royalty income 58,799 65,094 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 25,977,795 35,318,891 624,946 593,174 Segment assets 33,606,894 29,979,653 6,133,432 7,141,924 20,173,527 19,426,671 2,694,389 2,713,376 62,608,242 59,261,624 8 Other operating income Investments in equity-accounted investees 5,612,048 3,729,241 3,112,779 633,300 863,137 826,780 184,020 214,197 9,771,984 5,403,518 Goodwill on consolidation 824,880 498,690 GROUP COMPANY Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 226,923 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Total assets 39,218,942 33,708,894 9,246,211 7,775,224 21,036,664 20,253,451 2,878,409 2,927,573 73,354,231 65,390,755 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Segment liabilities 14,723,017 11,044,120 2,780,973 2,072,735 10,943,258 9,339,114 636,175 627,204 29,083,423 23,083,173 Eliminations / adjustments 70,465 70,465 Dividends from Group subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees 1,578,368 966,551 Total liabilities 14,723,017 11,044,120 2,780,973 2,072,735 10,943,258 9,339,114 636,175 627,204 29,153,888 23,153,638 Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets 3,017 2,742 213 142 Additions to non-current assets 2,802,037 5,870,907 373,788 576,077 360,260 486,620 48,237 60,199 3,584,322 6,993,803 Gain / (loss) on disposal of subsidiaries 6,724 (128,974) Gain / (loss) on disposal of equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets 53 (9,315) 53 6,212 Gain / (loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 22,697 16,100 805 8,011 Insurance income 7,256 350,967 Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) 117,281 125,268 (26,263) (5,913) Sundry income 24,341 15,086 52 1,408 174,645 507,572 1,553,228 847,437 158 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 159 Notes to the financial statements 9 Profit from operations Borrowing costs capitalised by the Group on qualifying assets during the financial year amounted to Rs. 81.5 million.(2014/2015 119.5 million). (CompanyProfit from operations is stated after charging the following: nil). The average rate of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation for the Indian rupee denominated borrowing is 11%, the US dollar denominated borrowing is 2.92% and the Sri Lankan rupee denominated borrowing is 4.38% GROUP COMPANY 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 12 Income tax expense Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The income tax provision of Aitken Spence PLC., its subsidiaries and equity accounted investees which are resident in Sri Lanka have been calculated on Cost of inventories and services 15,522,716 22,248,900 452,362 397,077 their adjusted profits at 28% in terms of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto (other than in respect of companies set out in Directors’ remuneration and fees 472,689 353,389 108,548 84,493 notes 12.1, 12.2 and 12.3 below). Auditors’ remuneration Tax status of companies in the Group which are; KPMG 12,349 11,517 1,130 1,050 • Enjoying income tax exemptions/concessionary tax rates are given in note 12.1 Other auditors 6,348 5,028 • Incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.2 Fees paid to auditors for non-audit services KPMG 2,163 2,986 920 2,047 • Incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.3 Other auditors 6,628 6,248 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-financial assets 12.1 Companies exempt from income tax /liable to tax at concessionary rates Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property 1,648,283 1,286,496 37,011 42,098 Companies exempt from tax Amortisation of intangible assets and operating leases 97,735 104,880 15,977 22,529 Impairment of intangible assets 50,000 50,000 Company Statute Period Impairment of finance lease receivables 957,179 Impairment losses / (reversals) of inventories 293,368 152 (27) 27 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 50,000 14,292 Aitken Spence Hotels (International) (Pvt) Ltd Section 13(b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Total of depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-financial assets 2,089,386 2,398,707 102,961 78,946 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 12 Years* Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs of trade & other receivables and deposits 34,204 (20,051) (926) 3,635 Negombo Beach Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 12 Years* Operating lease payments 523,993 505,838 Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 10 Years* Legal Expenses 9,570 8,720 3,180 1,181 Turyaa Resorts (Pvt) Ltd (formally Aitken Spence Section 17A of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 10 Years* Defined contribution plan cost EPF & ETF 388,969 333,808 46,693 40,388 Resorts (Pvt) Ltd) Defined contribution plan cost Overseas (Maldives, South India, Fiji and Oman) 72,044 57,858 Ace Apparels (Pvt) Ltd Section 16C of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 08 of 2012 5 Years* Defined benefit plan cost Retirement benefits 122,437 127,216 18,655 18,669 Ace Wind Power (Pvt) Limited Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 years ending 2018/2019 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 years ending 2018/2019 10 Other operating expenses-direct * Income tax exemption would commence either from the first year the company makes profits or not later than two years from the commencement of Direct operating expenses as disclosed in the income statement refers to the cost of services other than staff costs which are directly related to revenue. commercial operations. Since most of the companies in the Group operate in service industries, other direct operating expenses represents a substantial portion of the total operating costs. Companies liable to tax at concessionary rates Company Tax Rate and Statute 11 Finance income and finance expenses Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 GROUP COMPANY Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 52 & 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd 12% under section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Finance income Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Interest income on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 102,087 123,575 102,087 123,575 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Interest income on loans and receivables 535,652 499,250 424,116 314,427 Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Dividend income on preference shares 11,813 11,813 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC 12% under section 46 of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 9,976 1,032 530 Elpitiya Plantations PLC Agricultural profits liable for tax at 10% under section 48A of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 647,715 623,857 538,546 449,815 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Hethersett Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Finance expenses Kandalama Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (873,223) (804,836) (515,532) (384,516) MPS Hotels Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss (623) (1,529) (530) Paradise Resorts Pasikudah (Pvt) Ltd 12% under section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Other finance charges (97,033) (95,165) (8,496) (9,077) Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd 20% under section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 (970,879) (901,530) (524,028) (394,123) Logilink (Pvt) Ltd 10% for 2 years ending 2016/2017 and 20% thereafter under section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd 2% of turnover under section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 for 15 years ending 2018/2019 160 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 161 Notes to the financial statements In addition to the above, the following income tax exemptions / concessions are available to companies operating in the Group in terms of the Inland 12.5 Measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto; As per the notice published in the website of the Department of Inland Revenue on 8th April 2016, regarding “Implementation of Proposals on Economic • Profits and income earned in foreign currency (other than any commission, discount or similar receipt) from services rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to Service Charge and Income Tax on the Instruction of the Ministry of Finance”, it has been proposed to reduce the corporate income tax rate from 28% to a party outside Sri Lanka for which payments received in foreign currency are exempt from income tax in terms of section 13 (ddd). 17.5% from 01st April 2016. • Profits and income from transhipment agency fees are liable for tax at the rate of 12% in terms of section 59. However as of the reporting date, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not measured at the proposed rate, since the proposals have not been substantially • Profits and income earned in foreign currency from the supply of any services by an agent of a ship operator to such agent's foreign principal are liable enacted/legislated as per the “Guideline on Application of Tax Rates in Measurement of Deferred Tax” issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri for tax at the rate of 12% in terms of section 58. Lanka. • Profits and income from any undertaking for the operation and maintenance of facilities for storage, development of software and educational services carried out in Sri Lanka are liable for tax at the rate of 10%. 12.6 Tax recognised in income statements • Maximum of 25% qualifying payment deduction under section 34 (2)(s), for expansion purposes with investments in fixed assets of not less than Rs. 50 GROUP COMPANY million made by any undertaking on or after 1st April 2011 but prior to 1st April 2014 on investments specified in section 16C or section 17A. 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 12.2 Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka Current tax expense Company Countries Operated Tax Status Tax on current year profits (note 12.8) 793,576 705,440 6,160 4,008 Aitken Spence Hotel Maldives, Oman Business profits are liable to tax at 12% in Oman and income derived from Maldives is subject to Under / (over) provision in respect of previous years 34,585 (1,624) 31,307 48,042 Managements Asia (Pvt) withholding tax*. Such profits and income are exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) Withholding tax on dividends paid by subsidiaries 126,031 83,711 Ltd of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 954,192 787,527 37,467 52,050 Aitken Spence Ports Mozambique, Fiji Profits and income derived from Mozambique and Fiji are subject to withholding tax* and exempt Deferred tax expense / (income) International Ltd from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006. Deferred tax expense / (income) (note 12.9) (92,963) 38,796 (79,564) 861,229 826,323 (42,097) 52,050 *P rofits and income derived from the provision of services to non-resident companies operating in Maldives, Fiji and Mozambique are subject to withholding tax at 10%, 15% and 20% respectively. Income tax expense excludes, the Group's share of tax expense of the equity-accounted investees recognised in profit/(loss) of Rs. 86.5 million (2014/2015 Rs. 59.1 million) which is included in 'share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax)'. 12.3 Companies incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka 12.7 Tax recognised in other comprehensive income Company Country Tax Status 12.7.1 Group Crest Star (BVI) Ltd British Virgin Islands Not liable 2015/2016 2014/2015 Crest Star Ltd Hong Kong Not liable Before Tax (expense) / Net of tax Before Tax (expense) / Net of tax Aitken Spence Resorts (Middle East) LLC Oman Liable at 12% as per Oman tax law tax income tax income Ace Aviation Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 90,961 90,961 Interlifts International (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations 17,821 (3,941) 13,880 (48,207) 7,478 (40,729) Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 826,893 826,893 (103,062) (103,062) Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 22,477 22,477 71,109 71,109 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (56) (56) 9,432 9,432 Ace Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives tax law reclassified to profit or loss Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd (Ports Terminal Ltd) Fiji Liable at 20% as per Fiji tax law Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted 53,784 53,784 (15,912) (15,912) Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. Fiji Liable at 20% as per Fiji tax law investees (net of tax) Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian tax law 920,919 (3,941) 916,978 4,321 7,478 11,799 P.R.Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian tax law Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Pvt Ltd India Liable at 34.61% as per Indian tax law Tax recognised in other comprehensive income excludes, the Group's share of tax expense of the equity-accounted investees recognised in the other Ace Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Liable at 37.5% as per Bangladesh tax law comprehensive income of Rs. 3.6 million tax expense (2014/2015 Rs. 3.0 million tax income) which has been included in 'share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax)'. 12.4 Super gain tax As per the provisions of part III of the Finance Act No. 10 of 2015, the Group and the Company paid super gain tax of Rs. 319.3 million and Rs. 33.8 million respectively. According to the Act, the super gain tax shall be deemed to be an expenditure in the financial statements relating to the year of assessment which commenced on 1st April 2013. The Act supersedes the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, hence the expense of super gain tax is accounted in accordance with the requirements of the said Act as recommended by the Statement of Alternative Treatment (SoAT) on Accounting for super gain tax issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, dated 24th November 2015. As recommended by the SoAT, this expenditure has been recorded as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings reported in the Statement of Changes in Equity as at 1st April 2015. 162 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 163 Notes to the financial statements 12.7.2 Company 12.10 Tax losses carried forward 2015/2016 2014/2015 GROUP COMPANY Before Tax (expense) / Net of tax Before Tax (expense) / Net of tax 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 tax income tax income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Tax losses brought forward 4,113,770 5,014,324 83,242 132,995 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations 4,210 (1,179) 3,031 (6,915) (6,915) Adjustments to tax loss brought forward and tax losses arising during the year (164,808) (802,980) 170,639 (49,753) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (1,868) (1,868) 2,404 2,404 Utilisation of tax losses (132,019) (97,575) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (56) (56) (6,212) (6,212) 3,816,943 4,113,770 253,882 83,242 reclassified to profit or loss 2,286 (1,179) 1,107 (10,723) (10,723) As specified above, some companies in the Group have carried forward tax losses which are available to be set off against the future tax profits of those companies. Deferred tax assets not accounted in respect of these losses amounted to Rs. 136.3 million (2014/2015 Rs. 587.0 million). For the Company, 12.8 Reconciliation of the accounting profits and current year tax there were no deferred tax assets unaccounted on losses as at 31.03.2016 (2014/2015 23.3 million). GROUP COMPANY 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 13 Earnings per share Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the company, by the weighted average number Profit before tax 3,805,508 5,709,923 1,358,087 675,238 of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Consolidation adjustments (231,244) (434,639) The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations. Profit after adjustments 3,574,264 5,275,284 1,358,087 675,238 Income not liable for income tax (826,872) (1,110,301) (83,396) (24,766) GROUP COMPANY Effect of revenue subject to tax at source 757,723 784,173 61,604 40,076 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Adjusted profit 3,505,115 4,949,156 1,336,295 690,548 Non taxable receipts / gains (86,157) (49,230) (1,578,368) (966,551) Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent (Rs.) 2,027,112,354 3,579,007,541 1,400,183,997 623,187,932 Aggregate disallowed expenses 3,485,478 2,208,904 466,803 397,665 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 Capital allowances (2,453,380) (1,772,103) (29,358) (37,974) Earnings per share (Rs.) 4.99 8.82 3.45 1.53 Aggregate allowable deductions (899,718) (984,117) (312,972) (87,119) Utilisation of tax losses (132,019) (97,575) There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding at any time during the year, hence diluted earnings per share is equal to the basic earnings per Qualifying payment deductions (83,176) (83,176) share. Current year tax losses not utilised 1,726,941 427,711 179,204 43,507 Taxable income 5,063,084 4,599,570 61,604 40,076 14 Dividends per share Income tax charged at; 2015/2016 2014/2015 Standard rate of 28% 101,403 92,647 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Concessionary rate of 10% or 12% 119,035 97,640 Final ordinary dividend recommended Rs.1.50 per share (2014/2015 Rs.2.00 per share) 608,994 811,992 Other rates 917 837 608,994 811,992 Varying rates on off shore profits 572,221 514,316 6,160 4,008 793,576 705,440 6,160 4,008 The Directors have recommended a final dividend payment of Rs. 1.50 per share for the year ended 31st March 2016 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting on 30th June 2016. 12.9 Deferred tax expense/ (income) In compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 10 Events after the reporting period, the final dividend recommended is not recognised as a GROUP COMPANY liability in the financial statements as at 31st March 2016. 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax expense / (income) arising from ; Property, plant and equipment 111,849 77,860 20,818 Defined benefit obligations (36,749) (4,339) (29,295) Tax losses carried forward (166,898) (25,191) (71,087) Undistributed profits of consolidated entities (8,707) Other items (1,165) (827) (92,963) 38,796 (79,564) 164 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 165 Notes to the financial statements 15 Property, plant and equipment 15.2 Company 15.1 Group Plant Motor Furniture Total machinery vehicles and fittings Freehold Freehold Plant Motor Leasehold Furniture Capital Total and Land buildings machinery vehicles motor and fittings work-inequipment and vehicles progress Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or revaluation Balance as at 01st April 2015 145,130 136,346 92,422 373,898 Cost or revaluation Additions 9,592 4,114 13,706 Balance as at 01st April 2015 8,246,241 14,253,621 8,488,077 2,707,219 29,834 1,643,392 4,898,638 40,267,022 Disposals / write-offs (14,073) (13,600) (13,982) (41,655) Assets acquired from business combination 2,528,039 2,496,700 117,170 2,333 10,421 5,154,663 Balance as at 31st March 2016 140,649 122,746 82,554 345,949 Exchange difference (13,973) 615,920 176,047 128,331 11,023 36,818 38,311 992,477 Additions 456,661 1,228,090 310,323 9,817 130,264 702,737 2,837,892 Accumulated depreciation / impairment Capitalisation of lease amortised (note 19 & 20) 24,299 24,299 Balance as at 01st April 2015 121,878 59,249 49,584 230,711 Transfer to other current assets (note 28) (304,769) (1,481,939) (37,108) (4,647) (1,828,463) Charge for the year 9,829 16,328 8,100 34,257 Other transfers 42,385 3,780,401 2,208,282 4,840 99,727 110,749 (4,916,843) 1,329,541 Disposals / write-offs (13,869) (9,870) (13,982) (37,721) Disposals / write-offs (891,991) (108,259) (5,747) (21,265) (1,732) (1,028,994) Balance as at 31st March 2016 117,838 65,707 43,702 227,247 Balance as at 31st March 2016 10,802,692 21,298,534 9,843,736 3,007,679 144,654 1,905,732 745,410 47,748,437 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2016 22,811 57,039 38,852 118,702 Accumulated depreciation / impairment Carrying amount as at 31st March 2015 23,252 77,097 42,838 143,187 Balance as at 01st April 2015 4,177,573 4,471,125 1,791,285 15,816 1,114,592 11,570,391 Exchange difference 230,155 119,031 85,230 8,179 26,776 469,371 There were no property plant and equipment pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from banks. Charge for the year 548,728 746,566 214,260 13,451 125,278 1,648,283 Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2016 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 99.6 million that are still Transfer to other current assets (133,848) (188,508) (28,596) (3,282) (354,234) in use (2014/2015 Rs.110.7 million). Transfers 794 (76,132) (1,925) 79,720 (6,107) (3,650) Disposals / write-offs (745,765) (88,436) (5,747) (19,822) (859,770) Balance as at 31st March 2016 4,823,402 4,326,317 1,971,818 111,419 1,237,435 12,470,391 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2016 10,802,692 16,475,132 5,517,419 1,035,861 33,235 668,297 745,410 35,278,046 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2015 8,246,241 10,076,048 4,016,952 915,934 14,018 528,800 4,898,638 28,696,631 The value of property, plant and equipment pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs. 5,774.2 million (2014/2015Rs. 651.7 million). Capital work-in-progress represents the amount of expenditure recognised under property plant and equipment during the construction of a capital asset. The exchange difference has arisen as a result of the translation of property, plant and equipment of foreign operations which are accounted for in foreign currencies and translated to the reporting currency at the closing date. In compliance with the accounting policy, land owned by Group companies are revalued by independent professional valuers at least once in every five years unless there is an indication of a significant change in the market rates. Details of the revalued land are given in the note 15.3.1 to the financial statements. There were no tax implications or tax liabilities arising due to the revaluation of land. On re-assessment of the fair value of the Group’s assets, it has been identified that there is no permanent impairment of property plant and equipment which requires provision in the financial statements. Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2016 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 2,195.6 million that are still in use (2014/2015 Rs. 1,735.1 million). 166 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 167 Notes to the financial statements 15.3 Freehold land 15.3.2 Land carried at cost (fair value) 15.3.1 Land carried at revalued amount Company Location Acquisition Extent Carrying date amount as at Company Location Last Extent Carrying Revaluation Carrying 31.03.2016 revaluation amount as at surplus and amount date 31.03.2016 exchange at cost Rs.’000 difference Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. “Heritance Ahungalla”, Galle Road, Ahungalla 05.06.2013 0 A 0 R 39.26 P 5,207 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. No.377, Negombo Road, Welisara, Ragama 18.07.2013 1 A 1 R 17.80 P 87,065 Aitken Spence PLC. ª 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2014 1 A 0 R 12.78 P 907,095 905,938 1,157 Perumbalam Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Cochin Kerala, India 30.04.2012 4 A 0 R 9.00 P 9,060 Aitken Spence PLC. b 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 14.06.2013 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 402,570 397,579 4,991 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Ltd.144/7, Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Kottivakkam, OMR, 09.06 2014 0 A 3 R 15.14 P 513,759 Aitken Spence PLC. a 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 27.01.2014 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 313,000 270,039 42,961 Chennai, India Aitken Spence PLC. a Moragalla, Beruwala 21.01.2014 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 540,750 539,796 954 Aitken Spence Resorts (Middle East) LLC. Muscat, Oman 11.02.2016 5 A 0 R 8.00 P 2,528,039 Aitken Spence PLC. a 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 15.03.2014 0 A 1 R 4.95 P 14,500 14,500 3,143,130 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 775/5, Negombo Road, Wattala 24.01.2014 22 A 0 R 24.88 P 1,329,300 1,233,909 95,391 Above land which were acquired within the last five years have not been revalued since the acquisition cost represent the fair value. Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 385, Colombo Road, Welisara 24.01.2014 8 A 3 R 12.23 P 458,975 372,302 86,673 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. a 80, Negombo Road, Wattala 24.01.2014 2 A 2 R 17.03 P 417,000 47,438 369,562 15.3.3 Total carrying amount of land Meeraladuwa (Pvt) Ltd. a Meeraladuwa Island, Ahungalla 23.01.2014 29 A 2 R 9.00 P 450,830 350,568 100,262 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd.a 222, Agalawatte Road, Matugama 08.02.2014 2A3R0P 25,300 20,140 5,160 Carrying Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC.a “Heritance Ahungalla”, 31.03.2012 11 A 3 R 34.02 P 565,000 547,559 17,441 amount as at 31.03.2016 Galle Road, Ahungalla Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Property 90, St.Rita's Estate, Mawaramandiya 06.02.2014 3 A 0 R 25.08 P 50,500 26,072 24,428 Developments Ltd. a Land carried at revalued amount 7,659,562 Turyaa Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. a Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 21.01.2014 1 A 3 R 23.20 P 86,000 34,022 51,978 Land carried at cost / fair value 3,143,130 Turyaa Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. a Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 21.01.2014 0 A 1 R 34.30 P 16,700 2,725 13,975 10,802,692 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. a No 225, Gangabada Road, 14.03.2014 2 A 0 R 14.00 P 13,350 2,817 10,533 Kaludawela, Matale Clark Spence and Co., Ltd. a 24-24/1, Church Street, Galle 04.03.2014 0 A 1 R 27.90 P 169,750 169,715 35 16 Investment properties Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. a 418, Parallel Road, Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 20.10.2012 5 A 1R 37.90 P 280,500 260,727 19,773 16.1 Movement during the year Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. a 49, Sea Beach Road, Kalutara 20.10.2012 0 A 1R 30.32 P 21,000 19,520 1,480 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. a Moragalla, Beruwala 23.01.2014 5 A 3 R 6.80 P 278,000 266,920 11,080 GROUP COMPANY Kandalama Hotels Ltd. a Kandalama, Dambulla 23.01.2014 169 A 2 R 22.00 P 9,000 1,616 7,384 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd. a 309/4 a, Negombo Road, Welisara 24.01.2014 2 A 1 R 9.50 P 129,325 46,834 82,491 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 M.P.S. Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. a 200/21, Peradeniya Road, Kandy 29.01.2014 3 A 3 R 1.52 P 300,500 59,324 241,176 Cost or revaluation Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. a Ayurvedic village Moragalla, Beruwala 23.01.2014 0 A 0 R 19.30 P 4,425 362 4,063 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,648,301 1,648,301 3,494,039 3,494,039 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. c Cochin Kerala 31.03.2012 14 A 0 R 7.52 P 188,930 44,790 144,140 Disposals / write-offs (17,500) Vauxhall Investments Ltd. b 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 14.06.2013 0 A 1 R 21.08 P 137,430 115,591 21,839 Balance at the end of the period 1,630,801 1,648,301 3,494,039 3,494,039 Vauxhall Property Developments Ltd. a 305, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2014 0 A 2 R 24.73 P 549,832 535,101 14,731 Accumulated depreciation / impairment 7,659,562 6,285,904 1,373,658 Balance at the beginning of the period 56,844 54,094 The above lands have been revalued by independent, qualified valuers on the basis of current market value. Charge for the year 2,754 2,750 a Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. K.C.B Condegama, A.I.V (Sri Lanka) Balance at the end of the period 59,598 56,844 b Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,630,801 1,648,301 3,434,441 3,437,195 c Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. T.T. Kripananda Singh, B.S.C.(Engg.) Civil, MICA, FIE, FIV, C.(Engg.) of Messers N. Raj Kumar and Associates, India. 16.2 Details of investment properties Location Extent Carrying value of Number of investment property buildings Group Company Rs.’000 Rs.’000 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 1 A 0 R 12.78 P 900,000 2 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 223,650 3 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 192,650 8 Moragalla, Beruwala 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 546,620 9 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 0 A 1 R 4.95 P 12,700 1 Irakkakandi Village, VC Road, Nilaweli 113 A 1 R 1.00 P 1,630,801 1,558,801 1,630,801 3,434,441 168 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 169 Notes to the financial statements Properties which are occupied by companies within the Group for the production or supply of goods and services or for administration purposes are treated 17.2 Company as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated financial statements at revalued amounts. These properties are treated as investment property in the relevant company’s statement of financial position at cost, if such company has rented out the property to other Group companies. Software 2015/2016 2014/2015 16.3 Market value Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Investment properties in the Group are accounted for on the cost model. The open market value of the above properties based on the directors' valuation as Cost or valuation at 31st March 2016 for the Group was Rs. 1,631 million (2014/2015 Rs.1,648 million)., and for the company as at 31st March 2016 was Rs. 3,789 million Balance at the beginning of the period 160,244 159,912 (2014/2015 Rs. 3,792 million). Additions 6,991 332 Balance at the end of the period 167,235 160,244 16.4 Income earned from investment properties Total rent income earned by the company from the investment properties during the year was Rs. 17.6 million (2014/2015 Rs. 18.1 million) (Group-nil). Accumulated amortisation / impairment There were no direct operating expenses arising on any of the above investment properties. Balance at the beginning of the period 129,382 106,853 There were no restrictions on the realisability of any investment property or on the remittance of income or proceeds of disposal. Charge for the year 15,977 22,529 Balance at the end of the period 145,359 129,382 Carrying amount as at 31st March 21,876 30,862 17 Intangible assets 17.1 Group There were no intangible assets pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from the banks (2014/2015 nil). Intangible assets as at 31st March 2016 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 100.3 million that are still in use Goodwill Software Other Total (2014/2015 Rs. 113.2 million). intangibles Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 18 Biological assets Cost or valuation Balance as at 01.04.2015-restated 647,459 329,326 2,262 979,047 18.1 Immature biological assets Assets acquired from business combination 376,190 376,190 GROUP Exchange difference 2,544 814 3,358 2015/2016 2014/2015 Additions 11,757 157 11,914 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Transfers (261) 261 Balance as at 31.03.2016 1,023,649 343,366 3,494 1,370,509 Balance at the beginning of the period Additions during the period 25,838 Accumulated amortisation / impairment Balance at the end of the period 25,838 Balance as at 01.04.2015 148,769 271,015 1,223 421,007 Exchange difference 2,482 796 3,278 Amortisation for the year 28,458 552 29,010 19 Leasehold properties Impairment during the year 50,000 50,000 GROUP Transfers from property, plant and equipment (243) 234 (9) 2015/2016 2014/2015 Balance as at 31.03.2016 198,769 301,712 2,805 503,286 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2016 824,880 41,654 689 867,223 Cost Carrying amount as at 31.03.2015 498,690 58,311 1,039 558,040 Balance at the beginning of the period 2,336,433 1,830,220 Exchange difference 199,259 41,371 There were no intangible assets pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from banks (2014/2015nil). Additions 464,842 Intangible assets as at 31st March 2016 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 179.9 million that are still in use. Balance at the end of the period 2,535,692 2,336,433 The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering five year periods. The key assumptions used are given below; Accumulated amortisation Balance at the beginning of the period 429,906 369,120 Business growth – Based on the long term average growth rate for each business unit. Exchange difference 39,097 8,128 The weighted average growth rate used is consistent with the forecast included in industry reports. Amortisation for the period 50,132 52,658 Inflation – Based on current inflation rate. Capitalisation of lease amortised 9,829 Discount rate – Risk free rate adjusted for the specific risk relating to the industry. Balance at the end of the period 528,964 429,906 Margin – Based on past performance and budgeted expectations. Carrying amount as at 31st March 2,006,728 1,906,527 Leasehold properties represent the acquisition cost of leasehold rights of some of the hotel properties in the Maldives. 170 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 171 Notes to the financial statements 20 Operating leases 21 Finance lease receivables 20.1 Pre-paid operating leases 21.1 Movement during the year GROUP GROUP 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,073,300 1,010,249 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,333,200 2,392,832 Additions during the period 734,516 44,003 Less: settlements during the period (147,725) Less: amortisation for the period (18,593) (895) Less: impairment for the year (957,179) Less: capitalisation of lease amortised (14,470) Transfer to Property, plant and equipment* (1,333,200) Exchange difference 86,839 19,943 Exchange difference 45,272 Balance at the end of the period 1,861,592 1,073,300 Balance at the end of the period 1,333,200 Current portion of pre-paid operating leases 32,795 930 Current portion of finance lease receivables 1,333,200 Non-current portion of pre-paid operating leases 1,828,797 1,072,370 Non-current portion of finance lease receivables Prepaid lease rentals for the properties marked * in note 20.3 are recognised under pre-paid operating leases. * The power plant owned by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., which was operated in accordance with a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) dated Amortisation for properties marked ** in note 20.3 will commence on or after financial year 2016/2017. 9th May 2003 entered into with the Ceylon Electricity Board, and recognised under IFRIC 4, was transferred to property plant and equipment upon the expiry of the above PPA during the year. 20.2 Operating lease commitments 21.2 Ageing of gross finance lease receivables and present value of lease receivables Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases of the Group are as follows; 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 GROUP Gross Unearned Present Gross Unearned Present 2015/2016 2014/2015 investment income value investment income value Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Lease rentals payable within one year 549,520 504,152 Not Later than one year 1,333,200 1,333,200 Lease rentals payable between one and five years 2,618,749 2,354,880 One to five years Lease rentals payable after five years 7,269,357 7,312,789 Over five years 10,437,626 10,171,821 1,333,200 1,333,200 20.3 Details of leases under operating lease 22 Investments in subsidiaries Company Location of the leased properties Unexpired lease periods 22.1 Investments in subsidiaries unquoted Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. Dambulla 26 years Hethersett Hotels Ltd. Nuwara Eliya 78 years Country of Number of Company Group Non31.03.2016 31.03.2015 incorporation shares holding holding controlling Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 25 years holding Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 32 years % % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 49 years a) Ordinary Shares ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 10 years Ace Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 13,100,000 100.00 100.00 131,000 131,000 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * ** Maldives 29 years Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 990,000 100.00 100.00 245,173 245,173 Ace Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * Maldives 49 years Ace Container Repairs (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 2,250,000 100.00 100.00 22,500 22,500 Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. * Biyagama 71 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 1,550,002 100.00 100.00 15,500 15,500 Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. * Katunayake 71 years Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 4,010,000 100.00 100.00 40,100 40,100 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. Embilipitiya 17 years Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 8,900,000 100.00 100.00 89,000 89,000 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. Matale 11 years Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 1,400,000 100.00 100.00 14,000 14,000 Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd Ambewela 17 years Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 5,222,500 100.00 100.00 36,307 36,307 Ace Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. * Koggala 48 years Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd. Fiji 11 years Ace Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Aitken Spence Agriculture (Pvt) Ltd * Dambulla 28 years Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 37,050,000 100.00 100.00 430,000 132,500 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd * Mihinthale 27 years Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 172 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 173 Notes to the financial statements Country of Number of Company Group Non31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Country of Number of Company Group Non31.03.2016 31.03.2015 incorporation shares holding holding controlling incorporation shares holding holding controlling holding holding % % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 820 820 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 73.01 26.99 Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd. (d) Sri Lanka 52,500 100.00 100.00 514 514 Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 73.01 26.99 Aitken Spence Group Ltd. (b) (c) Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Hethersett Hotels Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 65.29 34.71 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd. (d) Sri Lanka 4,020,000 100.00 100.00 40,200 40,200 Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* Sri Lanka 60.00 40.00 Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* Sri Lanka 50.00 50.00 Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 152,740 100.00 100.00 1,500 1,500 Aitken Spence Resorts (Middle East) LLC. (b)* Oman 60.89 39.11 Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 140,000 100.00 100.00 1,400 1,400 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Ltd. (a)* India 86.99 13.01 Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 100,000 100,000 Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd.* India 86.99 13.01 Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 2,038,072 100.00 100.00 132,717 132,717 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. (a)* India 73.57 26.43 Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. (b) Sri Lanka 1,577,506 100.00 100.00 13,888 13,888 Perumbalam Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (a)* India 73.57 26.43 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 16,400,100 100.00 100.00 223,000 223,000 Ace Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d)* Maldives 86.99 13.01 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 30,000,000 100.00 100.00 222,690 222,690 ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Maldives 86.99 13.01 Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (a) Sri Lanka 50,000 100.00 100.00 500 500 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Maldives 86.99 13.01 Spence International (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Maldives 70.77 29.23 Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 25,000 100.00 100.00 650 650 Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* Maldives 60.00 40.00 Triton (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 10,000 100.00 100.00 50 50 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d)* Maldives 44.69 55.31 Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 50,000 50,000 Crest Star Ltd. (a)* Hong Kong 74.49 25.51 Vauxhall Investments (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 1,320,000 100.00 100.00 13,200 13,200 Crest Star (BVI) Ltd. (a)* British Virgin 74.49 25.51 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 11,270,000 100.00 100.00 153,401 153,401 Islands Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (c) Sri Lanka 46,000 92.00 92.00 8.00 1,825 1,825 4,820,224 5,223,513 Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (b) Sri Lanka 74,865,000 90.09 99.96 0.04 748,650 748,650 b) Preference Shares Western Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. (a) Sri Lanka 80 80.00 80.00 20.00 200,000 200,000 Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (a) Sri Lanka 500,000 100.00 100.00 5,000 5,000 Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. (a) Sri Lanka 154,686 77.35 77.35 22.65 11,542 11,542 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) (d) Sri Lanka 16,500,000 100.00 100.00 165,000 165,000 Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 37,500 75.00 75.00 25.00 375 375 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. Sri Lanka 4,000,000 72.70 72.70 40,000 40,000 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. (a) Sri Lanka 124,033,413 74.00 74.00 26.00 703,626 1,404,415 210,000 210,000 Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* Sri Lanka 26,251 50.00 100.00 263 263 Provision for impairment of investments (201,317) (151,317) Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. Sri Lanka 998,750 50.00 50.00 50.00 26,257 26,257 4,828,907 5,282,196 MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (b) Sri Lanka 3,000,000 50.00 50.00 50.00 35,566 35,566 a,b,c,d refer note 46 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia (Pvt) Ltd. (b) (d)* Sri Lanka 4,924,500 49.00 86.99 13.01 49,245 49,245 Aitken Spence Hotels International (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d)* Sri Lanka 10,323,225 49.00 86.99 13.01 99,000 99,000 22.2 Investments in subsidiaries quoted Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 6,000,000 37.00 82.99 17.01 182,050 182,050 Country of Number of Company Group Non31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Ace Aviation Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. Maldives 490 49.00 49.00 51.00 639 639 incorporation shares holding holding controlling Interlifts International (Pvt) Ltd. Maldives 38,550 65.00 65.00 35.00 3,258 3,258 holding Ace Alliance Power Ltd. (a) Bangladesh 6,400 64.00 64.00 36.00 96 96 % % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Bhairob Power Ltd. (a) Bangladesh 5,100 51.00 51.00 49.00 80 80 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. Sri Lanka 239,472,667 71.20 74.49 25.51 2,458,287 2,458,287 Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd. (a) (c) Fiji Islands 1,572,993 51.00 60.80 39.20 749,242 749,242 (a) (d) (Ordinary Shares) Aitken Spence Agriculture (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (b) Sri Lanka 2 100.00 100.00 2,458,287 2,458,287 Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka 100.00 Market value of quoted investments as at 31st March 12,692,051 16,044,669 A E Lanka (Pvt) Ltd.* Sri Lanka 100.00 Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (a)* Sri Lanka 100.00 22.3 Total carrying amount Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 100.00 Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd. (c)* Sri Lanka 100.00 Investment in subsidiaries unquoted 4,828,907 5,282,196 Clark Spence and Company (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* Sri Lanka 100.00 Investment in subsidiaries quoted 2,458,287 2,458,287 DBS Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* Sri Lanka 100.00 7,287,194 7,740,483 Aitken Spence Ports International Ltd. (c)* Sri Lanka 100.00 During the period under review the Company impaired one of its investments in the renewable power sector and recognised an impairment loss of Rs.50 Turyaa Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 million in the income statement under depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-financial assets. Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 * Investments are held by one of the following companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Triton M.P.S. Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd., Crest Star (BVI) Meeraladuwa (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd.,Aitken Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* Sri Lanka 74.49 25.51 Spence Ports International Ltd., or PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. 174 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 175 Notes to the financial statements Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd., Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd., ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Aviation Services Maldives 23 Investments in equity-accounted investees (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Interlifts International (Pvt) Ltd. and Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in Maldives, Crest Star (BVI) Ltd. is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Crest Star Ltd. is incorporated in Hong Kong, Ace Alliance Power Ltd. and Bhairob Power Ltd. are incorporated in GROUP COMPANY Bangladesh, PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd., Perumbalam Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd. and Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Note 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 (South India) (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in India, Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd. is incorporated in Fiji Islands, Aitken Spence Resorts (Middle East) LLC. is Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 incorporated in Oman, while all other companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. Recognised in the statement of financial position The value of shares pledged by the Group as securities for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs.112.5 million (2014/2015 Rs.112.5 million) Interest in joint ventures 23.1.1 5,061,651 3,061,899 333,980 333,980 Principal activities of the Group’s interest in subsidiaries are described on pages 232 to 238. Interest in associates 23.2.1 4,710,333 2,341,619 2,516,255 165,000 a,b,c,d refer note 46 Carrying amount as at 31st March 9,771,984 5,403,518 2,850,235 498,980 22.4 Non-controlling interests Recognised in the income statement The following table summarises the financial information relating to each of the Group's subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests, before any Interest in joint ventures 23.1.2 227,402 261,053 intra-group eliminations. Interest in associates 23.2.2 4,768 69,834 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 232,170 330,887 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Recognised in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income Aitken Other Intra-group Total Aitken Other Intra-group Total Spence individually eliminations Spence individually eliminations Interest in joint ventures 23.1.2 1,137 (4,205) Hotel immaterial Hotel immaterial Interest in associates 23.2.2 52,647 (11,707) Holding subsidiaries Holding subsidiaries Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 53,784 (15,912) PLC & PLC & Group Group Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) is further analysed as Non-current assets 32,631,901 22,776,605 GROUP Current assets 5,816,313 10,011,662 2015/2016 2014/2015 Non-current liabilities (8,598,275) (5,707,821) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Current liabilities (6,015,036) (5,211,214) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 19,452 (15,912) Net assets 23,834,903 21,869,232 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss 34,332 Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 6,428,141 1,126,583 7,554,724 5,709,105 1,502,875 7,211,980 53,784 (15,912) Revenue 13,378,071 13,270,918 23.1.1 Interest in joint ventures Profit for the year 2,087,762 3,435,622 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 756,009 138,795 GROUP COMPANY Total comprehensive income for the year 2,843,771 3,574,417 No. of Holding 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 No. of Holding 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the year allocated to non-controlling 660,445 256,722 917,167 924,825 379,767 1,304,592 Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (consolidated 1,704,000 50.00 60,876 60,876 1,704,000 50.00 60,876 60,876 interests with Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd.* and Aitken Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 230,553 40,829 271,382 55,450 (42,684) 12,766 Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd.*) allocated to non-controlling interests (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Total comprehensive income for the year 890,998 297,551 1,188,549 980,275 337,083 1,317,358 Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (b) 14,170,000 50.00 141,700 141,700 14,170,000 50.00 141,700 141,700 allocated to non-controlling interests (Ordinary shares Unquoted) EcoCorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd. (b) (d) 125,100 50.00 131,404 131,404 125,100 50.00 131,404 131,404 Cash flows from operating activities 3,467,472 3,986,229 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Cash flows from investing activities (6,495,310) (6,137,472) Ahungalla Resorts Ltd.*(d) 78,369,024 44.69 3,636,773 1,586,852 Cash flows from financing activities 1,409,694 2,412,925 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (1,618,144) 261,682 Colombo International Nautical and Engineering 253,334 40.00 502,950 502,950 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 152,949 364,763 517,712 347,533 241,408 588,941 College (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* (consolidated with Cinec Skills (Pvt) Ltd) (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Ace Bangladesh Ltd. (a)* 39,200 49.00 8,400 4,790 (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Carrying amount as at 31st March 4,482,103 2,428,572 333,980 333,980 Share of movement in equity value 579,548 633,327 Equity value of investments 5,061,651 3,061,899 333,980 333,980 176 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 177 Notes to the financial statements 23.1.2 Summarised financial information of joint ventures Group 24 Deferred tax assets 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 24.1 Movement in deferred tax assets Rs.’000 Rs.’000 GROUP COMPANY Carrying amount of interest in joint ventures 5,061,651 3,061,899 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Group's share of : Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the year (net of tax) 227,402 261,053 Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) 1,137 (4,205) Balance at the beginning of the period 215,907 224,495 Total comprehensive income for the year 228,539 256,848 Exchange difference 10,741 1,097 Reversal of temporary differences transferred from/ (to) income statement * Investments are held by one of the following companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., or Recognised in profit / (loss) 104,479 (14,479) 79,564 Aitken Spence Ports International Ltd. Recognised in other comprehensive income (2,987) 4,794 (1,179) Ace Bangladesh Ltd., is incorporated in Bangladesh while all other joint venture companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. Balance at the end of the period 328,140 215,907 78,385 Principal activities of the Group’s interest in joint ventures are described on pages 239 to 240. 24.2 Composition of deferred tax assets a,b,c,d refer note 46 GROUP COMPANY 23.2.1 Investment in associates 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 GROUP COMPANY No. of Holding 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 No. of Holding 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Deferred tax assets attributable to; shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Defined benefit obligations 96,745 65,796 28,116 Tax losses carried forward 300,379 192,270 71,087 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC., (a) (b) 8,295,860 38.95 165,000 165,000 8,295,860 38.95 165,000 165,000 Other items 29,093 22,673 (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC .,(a) (b)) Property, plant and equipment (98,077) (64,832) (20,818) (Ordinary shares Quoted) Net deferred tax assets 328,140 215,907 78,385 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd., (a) (c) 14,630,970 20.00 2,351,255 14,630,970 20.00 2,351,255 (Ordinary Shares Unquoted) 24.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group Browns Beach Hotels PLC., (a) (d)* 48,627,103 27.96 928,077 928,077 (consolidated with Negombo Beach Resorts (Pvt) Ltd.) As at Recognised in Recognised Exchange As at Recognised in Recognised Exchange As at 31.03.2016 profit / (loss) in other difference 31.03.2015 profit / (loss) in other difference 01.04.2014 (d) (Ordinary shares Quoted) comprehensive comprehensive Amethyst Leisure Ltd. (d) * 86,532,335 17.46 191,409 191,409 income income (consol with Paradise Resorts Passikudah (Pvt) Ltd. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (d)) (Ordinary shares Unquoted) Carrying amount as at 31st March 3,635,741 1,284,486 2,516,255 165,000 Deferred tax assets Share of movement in equity value 1,074,592 1,057,133 Defined benefit obligations 96,745 33,936 (2,987) 65,796 (2,659) 4,794 63,661 Equity value of investments 4,710,333 2,341,619 2,516,255 165,000 Tax losses carried forward 300,379 108,109 192,270 (48,311) 240,581 Market value of quoted investments as at 31st March 1,957,842 1,593,328 377,462 377,462 Other items 29,093 2,639 3,781 22,673 (406) 23,079 426,217 144,684 (2,987) 3,781 280,739 (51,376) 4,794 327,321 23.2.2 Summarised financial information of associates Group Deferred tax liability Property, plant and equipment (98,077) (40,205) 6,960 (64,832) 36,897 1,097 (102,826) 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 (98,077) (40,205) 6,960 (64,832) 36,897 1,097 (102,826) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Net deferred tax assets 328,140 104,479 (2,987) 10,741 215,907 (14,479) 4,794 1,097 224,495 Carrying amount of interest in associates 4,710,333 2,341,619 Group's share of : Profit for the year (net of tax) 4,768 69,834 Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) 52,647 (11,707) Total comprehensive income for the year 57,415 58,127 * Investments are held by Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. is incorporated in Fiji Islands while all other associate companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. Principal activities of the Group’s interest in associates are described on pages 239 to 240. a,b,c,d refer note 46 178 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 179 Notes to the financial statements 24.4 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Company 27 Trade and other receivables 31.03.2016 Recognised in Recognised 31.03.2015 Recognised in Recognised 01.04.2014 GROUP COMPANY profit/(loss) in other profit/(loss) in other 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 comprehensive comprehensive Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 income income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade receivables 3,372,711 5,619,715 27,957 31,073 Deferred tax assets Other receivables 1,037,734 1,439,114 78,364 408,722 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 28,116 29,295 (1,179) Amounts due from subsidiaries 2,967,121 2,340,808 Tax losses carried forward 71,087 71,087 Amounts due from equity-accounted investees 454,230 680,684 126,187 77,393 99,203 100,382 (1,179) Loans to employees 28,842 28,694 16,691 22,380 Deferred tax liability 4,893,517 7,768,207 3,216,320 2,880,376 Property, plant and equipment (20,818) (20,818) Impairment of trade and other receivables (93,011) (90,759) (26,881) (30,516) (20,818) (20,818) 4,800,506 7,677,448 3,189,439 2,849,860 Net deferred tax assets 78,385 79,564 (1,179) The movement of loans above Rs. 20,000/given to executive staff is as follows ; 25 Other financial assets non current COMPANY 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 25.1 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities Rs.’000 Rs.’000 GROUP COMPANY Balance as at the beginning of the period 22,380 25,801 No. of 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 No. of 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Loans granted during the period 3,433 7,700 shares shares 25,813 33,501 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Recoveries during the period (9,122) (11,121) Sumiko Lanka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (Redeemable Debentures) 60,948 106,659 60,948 106,659 Balance at the end of the period 16,691 22,380 Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 3,500,000 35,000 35,000 3,500,000 35,000 35,000 No loans have been given to the Directors of the company. Business Process Outsourcing LLC. (Ordinary shares) 30,000 8,640 8,640 30,000 8,640 8,640 Floatels India (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 988,764 126,650 126,650 Cargo Village Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 40,900 823 357 28 Other current assets Ingrin Institute of Printing & Graphics Sri Lanka Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 10,000 100 100 GROUP COMPANY 232,161 277,406 104,588 150,299 Notes 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Change in fair value of investments 71,349 47,651 (15,098) (14,855) Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Carrying amount as at 31st March 303,510 325,057 89,490 135,444 Other financial assets current 28.1 7,662,401 10,947,256 5,130,226 4,863,453 Transferred from property, plant and equipment 28.2 1,474,229 Current unquoted debt and equity securities (45,711) (45,711) (45,711) (45,711) 9,136,630 10,947,256 5,130,226 4,863,453 Non-current unquoted debt and equity securities 257,799 279,346 43,779 89,733 28.1 Other financial assets current 26 Inventories GROUP COMPANY GROUP COMPANY Notes 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Available-for-sale financial assets Raw materials 1,110,704 860,305 Quoted equity securities 28.1.1 38,523 39,837 3,393 5,111 Work-in-progress and finished goods 187,552 79,401 Loans and receivables Consumables 207,273 561,129 2,322 2,026 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 25 45,711 45,711 45,711 45,711 1,505,529 1,500,835 2,322 2,026 Bank deposits 28.1.2 7,007,013 9,447,159 4,512,773 3,398,789 Impairment of inventories (309,698) (16,331) (27) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1,195,831 1,484,504 2,322 1,999 Government securities 28.1.3 568,349 1,413,842 568,349 1,413,842 Forward foreign exchange contracts 28.1.4 2,805 707 Based on the new power purchase agreement signed between Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd and the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) on 6th April 2016 7,662,401 10,947,256 5,130,226 4,863,453 (refer note 43) and the limitation on the tenure of the agreement, inventories of the company was recorded at net realisable value. Value of inventories pledged as security for facilities obtained by the Group from banks, amounted to Rs. 432.3 million as at 31st March 2016. (2014/2015Rs. 148.3 million) (Company-nil) 180 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 181 Notes to the financial statements 28.1.1 Quoted equity securities 29 Cash and cash equivalents COMPANY GROUP COMPANY No. of shares 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 No. of shares 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank PLC (Ordinary shares) 24,770 399 399 24,770 399 399 Cash at bank and in hand 3,192,434 1,913,062 640,310 185,561 Overseas Realty (Ceylon) PLC (Ordinary shares) 37 37 Short-term deposits 1,461,354 998,073 757,360 Colombo Dockyard PLC (Ordinary shares) 13,543 123 123 Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position 4,653,788 2,911,135 1,397,670 185,561 Hatton National Bank PLC (Ordinary shares) 196,874 4,060 4,060 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings (1,439,684) (2,089,729) (183,416) (254,619) 4,582 4,619 399 436 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 3,214,104 821,406 1,214,254 (69,058) Change in fair value of investments 33,941 35,218 2,994 4,675 Carrying amount as at 31st March 38,523 39,837 3,393 5,111 30 Assets classified as held for sale 28.1.2 Bank deposits Consequent to the decision made by the Group to divest from the ship owning business in 2007/2008 and the sale of ships by the Group’s ship owning Bank deposits include fixed and call deposits which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate. These financial assets are expected to companies, the Group recognised the fair values of the investments in Ceyaki Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. & Ceyspence (Pvt) Ltd. under assets held for sale. be recovered through contractual cash flows. The liquidation of these companies are not yet concluded. 28.1.3 Government securities Government securities are treasury bills and treasury bonds held for trading purposes and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. GROUP COMPANY 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 28.1.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Net capital exposure of forward foreign exchange contracts Share of net assets of equity-accounted investees classified as held for sale 141,446 141,446 57,237 57,237 The Group’s financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include forward foreign exchange contracts denominated in US dollars. Net current assets of group companies classified as held for sale 7,679 85,477 77,798 149,125 226,923 57,237 135,035 GROUP COMPANY There were no discontinued operations recognised in the income statement during the period. 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 31 Stated capital and reserves Net capital exposure 950 7,693 1,000 31.1 Stated capital Derivative financial asset 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Derivative financial asset recognised in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts arises due to the positive movement in fair value of forward contracts. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 GROUP Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Derivative financial asset recognised 2,805 707 No. of shares 405,996,045 405,996,045 2,805 707 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per individual present at meetings of the shareholders or one vote per share in the case of a poll. 28.2 Transferred from property, plant and equipment Based on the new power purchase agreement signed between Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., and the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) on the 6th April 31.2 Reserves 2016 (refer note 43) and the limitation on the tenure of the agreement, the property plant and equipment of Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., was transferred Revaluation reserve to current assets. Revaluation reserve relates to the amount by which the Group has revalued its property, plant and equipment. There were no restrictions on distribution of these balances to the shareholders. General reserve General reserve reflects the amount the Group has reserved over the years from its earnings. Exchange fluctuation reserve Exchange fluctuation reserve comprises of all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign subsidiaries in the Group and the portion of exchange gain or loss arising from the translation of the hedge instruments in relation to cash flow hedges. 182 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 183 Notes to the financial statements Other capital reserves 31.3.2 Company This represents the portion of the stated capital of subsidiaries attributable to the Group. AvailableRetained Total equity for-sale earnings Available-for-sale reserve reserve This represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are derecognised or impaired. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 31.3 Other comprehensive income accumulated in reserves For the year ended 31st March 2016 31.3.1 Group Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations 4,210 4,210 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (1,868) (1,868) Attributable to equity holders of the company NonTotal equity Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (56) (56) Revaluation Exchange AvailableRetained Total controlling reclassified to profit or loss reserve fluctuation for-sale earnings interests Income tax on other comprehensive income (1,179) (1,179) reserve reserve Total (1,924) 3,031 1,107 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 For the year ended 31st March 2016 For the year ended 31st March 2015 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (6,915) (6,915) Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations 16,442 16,442 1,379 17,821 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 2,404 2,404 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 559,503 559,503 267,390 826,893 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (6,212) (6,212) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 19,588 19,588 2,889 22,477 reclassified to profit or loss Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets Total (3,808) (6,915) (10,723) reclassified to profit or loss (56) (56) (56) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted 34,332 19,468 53,800 (16) 53,784 investees (net of tax) 32 Interest-bearing liabilities Income tax on other comprehensive income (3,681) (3,681) (260) (3,941) 32.1 Movement in interest-bearing liabilities Total 593,835 19,532 32,229 645,596 271,382 916,978 32.1.1 Group as at 31st March 2016 For the year ended 31st March 2015 Bank / financial institution Balance Transaction Impact of New loans Transferred Capital Balance Total as at cost exchange obtained out of repayment as at interest paid Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 67,757 67,757 23,204 90,961 31.03.2016 amortised rate during the interest 01.04.2015 2015/2016 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (42,113) (42,113) (6,094) (48,207) fluctuation year bearing Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (85,207) (85,207) (17,855) (103,062) liabilities Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 63,512 63,512 7,597 71,109 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 4,594 4,594 4,838 9,432 HSBC 10,487,273 602,803 5,764,652 (2,114,668) 6,234,487 291,245 reclassified to profit or loss DEG 2,517,606 143,476 1,004,150 (363,180) 1,733,160 85,983 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted DFCC Bank 1,835,814 11,829 75,000 (455,863) 2,204,849 105,363 investees (net of tax) (15,987) (15,987) 75 (15,912) Commercial Bank of Ceylon 665,432 (86,485) 751,916 55,111 Income tax on other comprehensive income 6,477 6,477 1,001 7,478 Hatton National Bank 489,423 (603,702) 1,093,125 49,219 Total 67,757 (85,207) 68,106 (51,623) (967) 12,766 11,799 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. 10,931 (155,815) (23,722) 168,606 6,369 Transaction cost to be amortised (16,460) 9,446 (25,906) 15,979,088 9,446 769,039 6,843,802 (155,815) (3,647,621) 12,160,236 593,290 Current portion of interest-bearing liabilities (3,736,594) (2,723,741) Non-current portion interest-bearing liabilities 12,242,494 9,436,495 184 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 185 Notes to the financial statements 32.1.2 Company as at 31st March 2016 32.3 Analysed by interest rate Bank / financial institution Balance Transaction Impact of New loans Capital Balance Total GROUP COMPANY as at cost exchange obtained repayment as at interest paid 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 amortised rate during the 01.04.2015 2015/2016 fluctuation year Total Secured Total Secured Total Secured Total Secured Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing borrowing Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DEG 2,517,606 143,476 1,004,150 (363,180) 1,733,160 85,983 HSBC 1,446,900 110,800 1,336,100 32,492 Term loans linked to AWPLR Commercial Bank of Ceylon 602,500 (72,500) 675,000 48,608 DFCC Bank 1,704,048 1,131,548 2,051,056 1,106,058 572,500 945,000 DFCC Bank 572,500 (372,500) 945,000 57,452 Commercial Bank of Ceylon 665,432 62,932 751,916 76,916 602,500 675,000 Hatton National Bank 332,500 (192,500) 525,000 32,870 Hatton National Bank 384,423 51,923 901,369 376,369 332,500 525,000 Transaction cost to be amortised (16,460) 9,446 (25,906) 2,753,903 1,246,403 3,704,341 1,559,343 1,507,500 2,145,000 5,455,546 9,446 254,276 2,340,250 (1,000,680) 3,852,254 257,406 Term loans linked to AWDR Hatton National Bank 105,000 45,000 191,756 Current portion of interest-bearing liabilities (1,770,729) (1,161,334) 105,000 45,000 191,756 Non-current portion interest-bearing liabilities 3,684,817 2,690,920 Term loans linked to LIBOR HSBC 9,419,717 7,972,817 5,383,038 5,383,038 1,446,900 32.2 Analysed by capital repayment DEG 2,517,606 1,733,160 2,517,606 1,733,160 32.2.1 Group as at 31st March 2016 DFCC Bank 131,767 131,767 153,791 153,791 12,069,090 8,104,584 7,269,989 5,536,829 3,964,506 1,733,160 Bank / financial institution Payable in Payable Payable Payable Payable after Total Term loans linked to EURIBOR less than 3 within 3 12 within 1 2 within 2 5 5 years HSBC 156,734 156,734 months months years years 156,734 156,734 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Fixed rate term loans HSBC 422,807 1,543,841 2,342,169 5,143,194 1,035,262 10,487,273 HSBC 910,821 910,821 851,449 851,384 DEG 157,350 472,051 629,402 1,258,803 2,517,606 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd 168,607 DFCC Bank 146,788 501,163 300,571 641,147 246,145 1,835,814 910,821 910,821 1,020,056 851,384 Commercial Bank of Ceylon 39,121 117,364 188,985 319,962 665,432 Transaction cost to be amortised (16,460) (25,906) (16,460) (25,906) Hatton National Bank 85,858 257,573 115,931 30,061 489,423 Total interest-bearing liabilities 15,979,088 10,463,542 12,160,236 7,947,556 5,455,546 3,852,254 Transaction cost to be amortised (2,053) (5,270) (5,190) (3,947) (16,460) Secured bank loans are secured over the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment of Rs. 5,759.2 million, inventory of Rs. 432.3 million, investment 849,872 2,886,723 3,571,867 7,389,220 1,281,407 15,979,088 in shares of Rs. 112.5 million, corporate guarantees of Rs. 7,499.1 million and leasehold rights of Maldives hotel properties of Rs. 4,120.2 million. 32.2.2 Company as at 31st March 2016 32.4 Analysed by currency equivalent in rupees Bank / financial institution Payable in Payable Payable Payable Payable after Total less than 3 within 3 12 within 1 2 within 2 5 5 years GROUP COMPANY months months years years 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs. Equivalent Rs. Equivalent Rs. Equivalent Rs. Equivalent DEG 157,350 472,051 629,402 1,258,803 2,517,606 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 HSBC 60,288 180,863 361,725 844,025 1,446,900 United States dollars 75% 12,069,090 7,269,989 72% 3,964,506 1,733,160 Commercial Bank of Ceylon 35,625 106,875 175,000 285,000 602,500 Sri Lankan rupees 18% 2,858,903 3,896,163 28% 1,507,500 2,145,000 DFCC Bank 125,625 376,875 70,000 572,500 Other currencies 7% 1,067,555 1,019,990 Hatton National Bank 65,625 196,875 70,000 332,500 Transaction cost to be amortised (16,460) (25,906) (16,460) (25,906) Transaction cost to be amortised (2,053) (5,270) (5,190) (3,947) (16,460) 100% 15,979,088 12,160,236 100% 5,455,546 3,852,254 442,460 1,328,269 1,300,936 2,383,881 5,455,546 186 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 187 Notes to the financial statements 33 Deferred tax liabilities 34 Employee benefits 33.1 Movement in deferred tax liabilities 34.1 Retirement benefits obligations GROUP GROUP COMPANY 2015/2016 2014/2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 655,224 635,979 Present value of unfunded obligations 718,654 635,684 100,414 98,240 Exchange difference 10,316 (2,388) Total present value of the obligation 718,654 635,684 100,414 98,240 Origination of temporary differences transferred to / (from) income statement Recognised in profit / (loss) 11,516 24,317 34.2 Movement in present value of the defined benefit obligations Recognised in other comprehensive income 954 (2,684) GROUP COMPANY Balance at the end of the period 678,010 655,224 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 33.2 Composition of deferred tax liabilities Defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the period 635,684 545,527 98,240 86,426 GROUP Expenses recognised in profit or loss 2015/2016 2014/2015 Current service cost 64,040 75,886 9,154 9,594 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Interest cost 58,397 51,330 9,501 9,075 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to ; Expenses recognised in other comprehensive income Property, plant and equipment 815,877 733,261 Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from; Undistributed profits of consolidated entities 70,466 70,466 financial assumptions (68,995) 38,605 (7,659) 4,476 Defined benefit obligations (42,203) (39,837) demographic assumptions Tax losses carried forward (165,441) (106,652) experience adjustment 51,174 9,602 3,449 2,439 Other items (689) (2,014) Exchange difference (270) (1,780) Net deferred tax liabilities 678,010 655,224 Others Benefits paid by the plan (91,737) (81,785) (12,271) (13,770) 33.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group Liabilities assumed on business combinations 70,361 Defined benefit obligations of companies disposed during the period (1,701) As at 31st Recognised in Recognised Exchange As at 31st Recognised in Recognised Exchange As at 1st March 2016 profit / (loss) in other difference March 2015 profit / (loss) in other difference April 2014 Defined benefit obligations at the end of the period 718,654 635,684 100,414 98,240 comprehensive comprehensive income income The provision for retirement benefits obligations for the year is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by professionally qualified actuaries, Messrs. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., as at 31st March 2016. The actuarial present value of the promised retirement benefits as at 31st March 2016 amounted to Rs. 718,653,836/(Company Rs. 100,414,214/-). The liability is not externally funded. Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 815,877 71,644 10,972 733,261 114,757 (3,001) 621,505 34.3 Actuarial assumptions Undistributed profits of The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining the cost are given below; consolidated entities 70,466 70,466 (8,707) 79,173 886,343 71,644 10,972 803,727 106,050 (3,001) 700,678 34.3.1 Financial assumptions Deferred tax assets 2015/2016 2014/2015 Defined benefit obligations (42,203) (2,813) 954 (507) (39,837) (6,998) (2,684) 538 (30,693) Tax losses carried forward (165,441) (58,789) (106,652) (73,502) (33,150) Discount rate 11.0% p.a. 9.5% p.a. Other items (689) 1,474 (149) (2,014) (1,233) 75 (856) Salary increments (208,333) (60,128) 954 (656) (148,503) (81,733) (2,684) 613 (64,699) * Executive staff 11.0% p.a. 11.0% p.a. Net deferred tax liabilities 678,010 11,516 954 10,316 655,224 24,317 (2,684) (2,388) 635,979 * Non Executive and other staff 7.50% p.a. 7.50% p.a. It is also assumed that the company will continue in business as a going concern. 188 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 189 Notes to the financial statements 34.3.2 Demographic assumptions 37 Other current liabilities 2015/2016 2014/2015 37.1 Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities include derivative financial liability, which arises due to the negative movement in fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts. Mortality & Disability Based on published statistics Refer note 28.1.4 for Group’s holding of forward contracts details. and mortality tables Retirement age 55 years 55 years GROUP COMPANY Staff turnover rates at each age category 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 * 20 years 0.07 0.07 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 * 25 years 0.05 0.05 * 30 years 0.05 0.05 Derivative financial liability recognised 639 530 * 35 years 0.04 0.04 639 530 * 40 years 0.03 0.03 * above 40 years 0.00 0.00 38 Financial instruments accounting classifications and fair values 34.4 Sensitivity analysis The following tables shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group and the Company. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes at the reporting date in the key assumptions employed with all other variables held constant in the employment benefit liability measurement. 38.1 Accounting classifications and fair values of financial instruments Group The sensitivity of the liability in the statement of financial position is the effect of the assumed changes in discount rate and salary increment rate on the Notes Trading Loans Available Other NonTotal Fair employment benefit obligation for the year. at fair value and for sale financial financial carrying value receivables liabilities instruments amount 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2016 Financial assets Discount rate (1% movement) (50,742) 43,026 (44,590) 50,548 Trade and other receivables 27 4,559,198 241,308 4,800,506 4,800,506 (a) Salary increments (1% movement) 44,554 (52,750) 51,139 (45,834) Deposits and prepayments 132,960 1,032,983 1,165,943 1,165,943 (a) Other financial assets 25 & 28 35 Provisions Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 60,948 242,562 303,510 303,510 GROUP Quoted equity securities 38,523 38,523 38,523 2015/2016 2014/2015 Bank deposits 7,007,013 7,007,013 7,007,013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Government securities 568,349 568,349 568,349 Forward foreign exchange 2,805 2,805 2,805 Balance at the beginning of the period 457,751 contracts Additional provision for the period 180,526 Cash and short-term deposits 29 4,653,788 4,653,788 4,653,788 (a) Amounts used during the period (112,849) 571,154 16,413,907 281,085 1,274,291 18,540,437 18,540,437 Impact due to expiry of the power purchase agreement (525,428) Balance at the end of the period Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 32 15,979,088 15,979,088 15,979,088 36 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables 36 8,183,557 1,599,958 9,783,515 9,783,515 (a) Other financial liabilities 37 GROUP COMPANY Bank overdrafts and other short29 1,439,684 1,439,684 1,439,684 (a) 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 term borrowings Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 25,602,329 1,599,958 27,202,287 27,202,287 Trade payables 896,569 1,181,065 Other payables 4,997,089 4,162,499 276,728 280,398 Amounts due to subsidiaries 957,728 1,281,662 Amounts due to equity-accounted investees 3,875,880 1,586,824 3,583,398 1,574,184 Unclaimed dividends 13,977 143,635 13,977 143,635 9,783,515 7,074,023 4,831,831 3,279,879 190 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 191 Notes to the financial statements Notes Trading Loans AvailableOther Non Total Fair Notes Trading Loans Available Other NonTotal Fair at fair value and for-sale financial financial carrying value at fair value and for sale financial financial carrying value receivables liabilities instruments amount receivables liabilities instruments amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2015 As at 31st March 2015 Financial assets Financial assets Trade and other receivables 27 7,409,876 267,572 7,677,448 7,677,448 (a) Trade and other receivables 27 2,832,293 17,567 2,849,860 2,849,860 (a) Deposits and prepayments 287,874 511,479 799,353 799,353 (a) Deposits and prepayments 704 33,646 34,350 34,350 (a) Other financial assets 25 & 28 Other financial assets 25 & 28 Unquoted debt securities and Unquoted debt securities & equity securities 106,659 218,398 325,057 325,057 equity securities 106,659 28,785 135,444 135,444 Quoted equity securities 39,837 39,837 39,837 Quoted equity securities 5,111 5,111 5,111 Other bank deposits 9,447,159 9,447,159 9,447,159 Bank deposits 3,398,789 3,398,789 3,398,789 Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 1,413,842 Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 1,413,842 Forward foreign exchange contracts 707 707 707 Cash and short-term deposits 29 185,561 185,561 185,561 (a) Cash and short-term deposits 29 2,911,135 2,911,135 2,911,135 (a) 1,413,842 6,524,006 33,896 51,213 8,022,957 8,022,957 1,414,549 20,162,703 258,235 779,051 22,614,538 22,614,538 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 32 3,852,254 3,852,254 3,852,254 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 36 2,949,231 330,648 3,279,879 3,279,879 (a) Interest-bearing liabilities 32 12,160,236 12,160,236 12,160,236 Other financial liabilities 37 Trade and other payables 36 5,458,765 1,615,258 7,074,023 7,074,023 (a) Forward foreign exchange 530 530 530 Other financial liabilities 37 contracts Forward foreign exchange contracts 639 639 639 Bank overdrafts and other shortBank overdrafts and other short-term term borrowings 29 254,619 254,619 254,619 (a) borrowings 29 2,089,729 2,089,729 2,089,729 (a) 530 7,056,104 330,648 7,387,282 7,387,282 639 19,708,730 1,615,258 21,324,627 21,324,627 (a) Carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities is a reasonable approximation of the fair value. 38.2 Accounting classifications & fair values of financial instruments Company The Group and the Company does not have any financial instruments designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition as at 31st March 2016. Notes Trading Loans Available Other Non Total Fair None of the financial assets were pledged by the Group or the Company as securities for facilities obtained from banks for 2015/2016 and 2014/2015. at fair value and for sale financial financial carrying value receivables liabilities instruments amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2016 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 27 3,186,636 2,803 3,189,439 3,189,439 (a) Deposits and prepayments 704 37,645 38,349 38,349 (a) Other financial assets 25 & 28 Unquoted debt securities & equity securities 60,948 28,542 89,490 89,490 Quoted equity securities 3,393 3,393 3,393 Bank deposits 4,512,773 4,512,773 4,512,773 Government securities 568,349 568,349 568,349 Cash and short-term deposits 29 1,397,670 1,397,670 1,397,670 (a) 568,349 9,158,731 31,935 40,448 9,799,463 9,799,463 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 32 5,455,546 5,455,546 5,455,546 Trade and other payables 36 4,635,141 196,690 4,831,831 4,831,831 (a) Other financial liabilities 37 Forward foreign exchange contracts Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 29 183,416 183,416 183,416 (a) 10,274,103 196,690 10,470,793 10,470,793 192 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 193 Notes to the financial statements 39 Fair value measurement Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 39.1 Fair value measurement hierarchy Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The Group and the Company use the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of assets and liabilities by valuation techniques: Assets for which fair values are disclosed : Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Investment property Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly Freehold land 1,648,301 1,648,301 Other financial assets Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data Unquoted debt securities 106,659 106,659 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group's assets and liabilities. Bank deposits 9,447,159 9,447,159 9,553,818 1,648,301 11,202,119 39.1.1 Fair value measurement hierarchy Group Liabilities measured at fair value : Other financial liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Forward foreign exchange contracts 639 639 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 639 639 As at 31st March 2016 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed : Recurring fair value measurements Interest-bearing liabilities 12,160,236 12,160,236 Assets measured at fair value : 12,160,236 12,160,236 Property, plant and equipment Non-recurring fair value measurements Freehold land 7,659,562 7,659,562 Assets classified as held for sale 226,923 226,923 Other financial assets 226,923 226,923 Unquoted equity securities 202,395 40,167 242,562 39.1.2 Fair value measurement hierarchy Company Quoted equity shares 38,523 38,523 Government securities 568,349 568,349 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,805 2,805 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 606,872 205,200 7,699,729 8,511,801 As at 31st March 2016 Assets for which fair values are disclosed : Recurring fair value measurements Investment property Assets measured at fair value : Freehold land 1,630,801 1,630,801 Other financial assets Other financial assets Unquoted equity securities 28,542 28,542 Unquoted debt securities 60,948 60,948 Quoted equity securities 3,393 3,393 Bank deposits 7,007,013 7,007,013 Government securities 568,349 568,349 7,067,961 1,630,801 8,698,762 571,742 28,542 600,284 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed : Assets for which fair values are disclosed : Interest-bearing liabilities 15,979,088 15,979,088 Investment property 15,979,088 15,979,088 Freehold land 3,382,350 3,382,350 Non-recurring fair value measurements Other financial assets Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 149,125 Unquoted debt securities 60,948 60,948 149,125 149,125 Bank deposits 4,512,773 4,512,773 4,573,721 3,382,350 7,956,071 As at 31st March 2015 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed : Recurring fair value measurements Interest-bearing liabilities 5,455,546 5,455,546 Assets measured at fair value : 5,455,546 5,455,546 Property, plant and equipment Non-recurring fair value measurements Freehold land 7,656,658 7,656,658 Assets classified as held for sale 57,237 57,237 Other financial assets 57,237 57,237 Unquoted equity securities 180,191 38,207 218,398 As at 31st March 2015 Quoted equity shares 39,837 39,837 Recurring fair value measurements Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 Assets measured at fair value : Forward foreign exchange contracts 707 707 Other financial assets 1,453,679 180,898 7,694,865 9,329,442 Unquoted equity securities 28,785 28,785 Quoted equity securities 5,111 5,111 Government securities 1,413,842 1,413,842 1,418,953 28,785 1,447,738 194 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 195 Notes to the financial statements 39.3 Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The following table shows the valuation techniques used by both the Group and the Company in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, and the significant unobservable inputs used. Assets for which fair values are disclosed : Investment property 39.3.1 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value Recurring Freehold land 3,382,350 3,382,350 Other financial assets Assets and liabilities Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Sensitivity of the input to the fair value Unquoted debt securities 106,659 106,659 Other bank deposits 3,398,789 3,398,789 Property, plant and equipment Market comparable method Price per perch of land Estimated fair value would increase 3,505,448 3,382,350 6,887,798 Freehold land This method considers the selling price (decrease) if ; Liabilities measured at fair value : of a similar property within a reasonably Price per perch increases (decreases) recent period of time in determining the Other financial liabilities fair value of property being revalued. Forward foreign exchange contracts 530 530 This involves evaluation of recent active 530 530 market prices of similar assets, making Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed : appropriate adjustments for difference in Interest-bearing liabilities 3,852,254 3,852,254 size, nature and location of the property. 3,852,254 3,852,254 Other financial assets Net assets basis Carrying value of assets and Variability of inputs are insignificant to Non-recurring fair value measurements Unquoted equity securities liabilities adjusted for market have an impact on fair values. Assets classified as held for sale 135,035 135,035 participant assumptions. 135,035 135,035 Market return on a comparable Current market interest rates Not applicable investment 39.2 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of Level 3 financial instruments Other financial assets / liabilities Market comparison technique Forward exchange rates as at Not applicable The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for level 3 fair values. Forward foreign exchange The fair values are based on broker reporting date. contracts quotes. Similar contracts are traded in an GROUP COMPANY active market and the quotes reflect the Unquoted Freehold Unquoted actual transactions in similar instruments. equity land equity securities securities Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 39.3.2 Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Recurring Balance as at 01.04.2014 243,671 8,506,328 30,829 Assets and liabilities Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Exchange difference (9,609) (3,113) Investment property Market comparable method Price per perch of land Companies disposed / transfer (855,284) Freehold land This method considers the selling price of a similar property within a reasonably Purchases 5,000 507,349 5,000 recent period of time in determining the fair value of property being revalued. This Sales (91,000) (1,766) involves evaluation of recent active market prices of similar assets, making appropriate Total gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income adjustments for difference in size, nature and location of the property. Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (unrealised) 60,904 934 Other financial assets Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss (realised) 9,432 (6,212) Unquoted debt securities Discounted cash flows Current market interest rates Revaluation of property, plant and equipment (unrealised) 90,961 Other bank deposits Transfers out of Level 3 (180,191) Interest-bearing liabilities Discounted cash flows Current market interest rates Balance as at 31.03.2015 38,207 8,246,241 28,785 39.3.3 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value Non-recurring Exchange difference (13,973) Transfers 42,385 Assets and liabilities Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Assets acquired on business combination 2,528,039 Assets classified as held for Valued at the cash available with the disposal group held for sale. Not applicable Purchases 466 sale Total gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (unrealised) 1,494 (243) Balance as at 31.03.2016 40,167 10,802,692 28,542 39.2.1 Transfers between levels of fair value hierarchy There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during 2015/2016. However, an investment under equity securities classified as available-for-sale, was categorised under Level 2 from Level 3 during 2014/2015. This was due to the change in valuation technique used to fair value the investment to market return on a comparable investment. The fair value of this investment was categorised as Level 3 as at 31st March 2014. 196 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 197 Notes to the financial statements 40 Financial risk management objectives and policies Foreign currency sensitivity Please refer the comprehensive risk report on pages 119 to 125 of the annual report for a detailed description of the Group’s risk management structure, The main foreign currencies the Group uses to transact in the US dollar and the Euro. The exposure to other foreign currencies is not considered as it is process and procedures. not material. In order to estimate the approximate impact of the currency risk on financial instruments a 5% fluctuation was considered in the US$/LKR exchange rates. In calculation of this risk it is assumed that all other variables are held constant. The sensitivity analysis relates only to assets and liabilities The Group uses financial instruments in its business activities. As financial instruments contain many variables that are affected by various market and depicted in financial statements as at the end of the financial year. environmental conditions which are generally not within the control of the users, there are inherent risks posed which can have unintended consequences. These risks need to be managed as unmanaged risks can lead to unplanned outcomes where the Group could fall short of its financial and budgetary Group objectives. The Group has adopted a financial risk management strategy aimed at minimising the risks associated with the use of financial instruments by 2015/2016 2014/2015 establishing a number of policies and guidelines that are followed by the companies in the Group. These policies and guidelines are reviewed from time to Effect on profit before tax Effect on Effect on profit before tax Effect on time and updated to reflect current requirements in accordance with the developments in the operating environment. US$ net US$ forward equity US$ net US$ forward equity financial contracts financial contracts This part of the report covers the financial impact that could arise from market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, the most important elements of the financial assets / assets / risk that the Group is subject to. (liabilities) (liabilities) US$'000 US$'000 US$'000 US$'000 US$'000 US$'000 40.1 Market risk Fluctuations of variables affecting cashflows arising from financial instruments can result in the actual cashflows being different to the expected cashflows Net exposure as at 31st March (29,158) 950 91,107 5,666 (7,693) 83,302 thereby creating market risk. Variables such as interest rates and exchange rates can move in directions different to those originally expected and the Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 consequent cashflows could be different to the originally anticipated cashflows. LKR depreciates against the US$ by 5% (210,944) 7,050 659,115 37,767 (51,484) 555,289 Market risk could result in the revenues and expenses of the Group being adversely affected and impacting the profit attributable to shareholders. In order to LKR appreciates against the US$ by 5% 210,944 (7,050) (659,115) (37,767) 51,484 (555,289) identify, manage and minimise the market risk the Group has put into practice a number of policies and procedures. The effect on the equity arises from the investments made by the Group in the Maldives, India, Oman and Fiji. We have not accounted for the sensitivity 40.1.1 Currency risk arising in any of the other investments as the Group’s exposure to such is not significant. The currency risk arises when a financial transaction is denominated in a currency other than that of the reporting currency of an entity. The Group has Company operations in a number of regions across the globe and conducts business in a variety of currencies. The Group’s worldwide presence in many geographies exposes it to the currency risk in the form of transaction and translation exposure. 2015/2016 2014/2015 Effect on Effect on profit before tax Transaction exposure arises where there are contracted cashflows (receivables and payables) of which the values are subject to unanticipated changes profit before in exchange rates due to the contract being denominated in a foreign currency. Translation exposure arises to the extent to which financial reporting is tax affected by exchange rate movements when the reporting currency is different to those currencies in which revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are US$ net US$ net US$ forward financial financial contracts denominated. assets / assets / (liabilities) (liabilities) As the Group transacts in many foreign currencies other than the Sri Lankan rupee which is the reporting currency, it is exposed to currency risk on revenue US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 generation, expenses, investments and borrowings. The Group has significant investments in the Maldives, India, Oman and Fiji where the net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Revenue generations and expenses incurred in these geographies are exposed to foreign currency transaction Net exposure as at 31st March (11,106) (4,337) 1,000 risk. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The total interest bearing liabilities of the Group denominated in US$ amounted to Rs. 12.07 billion. The overseas investments made by the Group during LKR depreciates against the US$ by 5% (80,348) (28,909) 6,708 the financial year were mostly financed through US$ denominated borrowings from international banks. The US$ 20 million term loan facility from DEG LKR appreciates against the US$ by 5% 80,348 28,909 (6,708) (Germany) available to the company was fully utilised during the financial year and the major portion of this loan has been invested in overseas projects 40.1.2 Interest rate risk that generate cashflows mainly in US$. The translation exposure resulting from foreign currency borrowings has been hedged to a great extent through these investments and by the acquisition of financial assets denominated in US$. A significant portion of the foreign currency borrowings have been made Values of financial instruments could fluctuate depending on the movements in interest rates giving rise to interest rate risk. This is a consequence of the by Group companies with incomes in foreign currencies, especially in the tourism and strategic investments sectors. Transaction exposures are usually changes in the present values of future cash flows derived from financial instruments. The fluctuation in the values of financial instruments will result in mark minimised by selectively entering into forward contracts when future cashflows can be estimated with reasonable accuracy with regard to amounts as well to market gains or losses in investment portfolios and could have an impact on the reported financial results of the Group. as timing. The group treasury monitors foreign exchange markets on a continuous basis and advises on appropriate risk mitigating strategies. The Group’s investment portfolio consists of a range of financial instruments with both fixed and variable interest rates such as treasury bills and treasury bonds which are subject to interest rate risk. Liabilities with variable interest rates such as LIBOR and EURIBOR linked borrowings would expose the Group Significant movement in exchange rates during the year ended 31st March 2016 to cashflow risk as the amount of interest paid would change depending on market interest rates. Investments with fixed interest rates would expose the Highest Level Lowest Level Spread Year end rate Group to variations in fair values during the marking to market of portfolios. Suitable strategies are used by the group treasury to manage the interest rate Rate Date Rate Date risk in portfolio investments. Using long term interest rate forecasts in order to determine the most suitable duration of investments with the objective of overcoming the re-investment risk as well as to minimise any adverse impact in marking to market of the portfolio is one of the often used strategies. Interest USD/LKR 148.53 30.03.2016 133.14 09.04.2015 15.39 144.69 rate swaps could be used when there is a need to hedge the risks on debt instruments with variable rates. Close monitoring of market trends is carried out EUR/USD 1.1619 08.24.2015 1.0565 30.11.2015 0.1054 1.138 to improve the accuracy of such decisions. The group treasury monitors the interest rate environment on a continuous basis to advise the sector finance managers on the most suitable strategy with regard to borrowings. The Group usually negotiates long term borrowings during the periods in which interest rates are low in order to extend the favourable impact to future reporting periods. 198 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 199 Notes to the financial statements Significant movement in interest rates during the year ended 31st March 2016 40.2 Liquidity risk Liquid assets of a company consists of cash and assets which can be converted to cash in a short period of time to settle liabilities as they arise. Liquidity is Highest Level Lowest Level Spread Year end rate an important factor in the operations of a business as it is an essential requirement for the successful operation of an entity. Rate Period Rate Period A shortage of liquidity would have a negative impact on stakeholder confidence in a business entity and impact its operations. The Group has ensured that LKR Interest rate * 9.90% Mar-16 6.28% Jun/Jul-2015 3.62% 9.90% it maintains sufficient liquidity reserves to meet all its funding requirements by closely monitoring and forecasting future funding needs and securing funding US$ Interest rate ** 0.92% Mar-16 0.40% Apr-15 0.52% 0.92% sources for both regular and emergency requirements. * One year Government treasury bill rate Shortening the working capital cycle is one of the main techniques used in ensuring that there is sufficient liquidity at a given time. Adequate short term ** Six months US$ LIBOR working capital facilities provided by banks are available to all the Group companies which are utilised in the event of a requirement. The Group maintains a constant dialogue with the banking sector institutions to ensure that there are sufficient working capital facilities available whenever required. Interest rate sensitivity At the reporting date the interest rate sensitivity profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments and its impact on the profit before tax was as The Group has implemented procurement and vendor evaluation policies to prevent payment of excessive prices to suppliers and to obtain maximum credit follows. in order to ensure a strong working capital position. Special attention has been given to cash inflows and outflows both at a consolidated and sector levels. The maturity profile of the Group’s investments is monitored and adjusted to meet expected future cash outflows in the short, medium and long terms. Group Funding requirements of the sectors and at the parent company level are evaluated at regular intervals by analysing business expansion strategies. The 2015/2016 2014/2015 Group has adopted a conservative investment strategy in order to preserve the scarce capital. At opportune moments funds are mobilised by accessing Financial rupee US$ financial Financial rupee US$ financial capital markets. The Group attempts to minimise future interest expenses on borrowings by negotiating for favourable interest rates with the respective assets financial liabilities assets financial liabilities lenders. The Group makes use of attractive interest rates offered by international banks on foreign currency denominated fundings mostly to finance its liabilities Rs. Equivalent liabilities Rs. Equivalent overseas investments. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Exposure as at 31st March 568,349 2,858,903 12,069,090 1,413,842 3,896,097 7,269,989 Group Impact on profit before tax Decrease of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates 1,438 28,589 N/A 3,678 38,961 N/A As at 31st March 2016 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total Increase of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates (1,425) (28,589) N/A (3,653) (38,961) N/A months months years Decrease of 10 basis points in US$ interest rates N/A N/A 12,069 N/A N/A 7,270 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Increase of 10 basis points in US$ interest rates N/A N/A (12,069) N/A N/A (7,270) Interest bearing liabilities 849,872 2,886,723 3,571,867 7,389,220 1,281,407 15,979,088 At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Company’s interest bearing financial instruments was as follows. Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 1,439,684 1,439,684 Trade payables 605,315 133,359 157,896 896,570 Company Other payables 5,978,921 488,933 819,134 7,286,987 2015/2016 2014/2015 8,023,920 1,472,164 3,863,753 3,571,867 7,389,220 1,281,407 25,602,329 Financial rupee US$ financial Financial rupee US$ financial assets financial liabilities assets financial liabilities As at 31st March 2015 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total liabilities Rs. Equivalent liabilities Rs. Equivalent months months years Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Exposure as at 31st March 568,349 1,507,500 3,964,506 1,413,842 2,145,000 1,733,160 Interest bearing liabilities 730,203 1,993,538 3,139,473 4,382,524 1,914,498 12,160,236 Impact on profit before tax Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 2,089,729 2,089,729 Decrease of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates 1,438 15,075 N/A 3,678 21,450 N/A Trade payables 903,193 153,762 124,110 1,181,065 Increase of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates (1,425) (15,075) N/A (3,653) (21,450) N/A Other payables 2,878,604 379,424 1,019,672 4,277,700 Decrease of 10 basis points in US$ interest rates N/A N/A 3,965 N/A N/A 1,733 Increase of 10 basis points in US$ interest rates N/A N/A (3,965) N/A N/A (1,733) 5,871,526 1,263,389 3,137,320 3,139,473 4,382,524 1,914,498 19,708,730 40.1.3 Equity price risk The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. The Group has adopted a policy that its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies are recorded at cost as per LKAS 27 and 28 Company standards and therefore are scoped out from the Sri Lanka accounting standards, LKAS 32 and 39 Financial Instruments. As at 31st March 2016 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total The Investments made by the Group which do not belong to the above categories are classified as financial assets and categorised as available-for-sale months months years (AFS). Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 At the reporting date the value of investments classified as AFS are as follows; Interest bearing liabilities 442,460 1,328,269 1,300,936 2,383,881 5,455,546 Quoted equity securities : Rs. 38.5 million (As at 31.03.2015; Rs. 39.8 million) Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 183,415 183,416 Unquoted equity securities : Rs. 242.5 million (As at 31.03.2015; Rs. 218.4 million) Other payables 4,563,393 71,748 4,635,141 4,746,808 442,460 1,400,017 1,300,936 2,383,881 10,274,103 A sensitivity analysis of the above has not been carried out as the Group’s exposure to such is not material. 200 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 201 Notes to the financial statements 40.3.1 Trade receivables As at 31st March 2015 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total months months years Trade receivables consist of recoverables from a large number of customers spread across diverse industries, segments and geographical areas. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 93.0% of the Group’s trade receivables are due for settlement within 90 days as at the end of the financial year. The credit policy for each segment of Interest bearing liabilities 384,058 777,276 1,433,457 1,257,463 3,852,254 business varies due to the diversity of operations in the Group. The credit policies that best suit their respective business environment are developed for Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 254,619 254,619 each sector and the responsibility for this rests with the heads of finance and the senior management teams. Other payables 2,894,630 1,250 53,352 2,949,231 The credit policies of Group companies are prepared subsequent to analysing credit profiles of customers. In this regard factors such as the credit history, 3,149,249 385,308 830,628 1,433,457 1,257,463 7,056,104 legal status, market share, geographical locations of operations, and industry information are considered. Reference from bankers or credit information Liquidity position databases are obtained when it is considered necessary. Each Group company has identified credit limits for their customers. In the event a customer does not meet the criteria or the stipulated benchmark on a transaction, then the business is carried out with such customers only up to the value of the GROUP COMPANY collaterals or advances obtained. 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The Group does not have a significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty. Cash and short-term deposits 4,653,788 2,911,135 1,397,670 185,561 The Group is confident that these receivables will be recovered in the immediate future. Trade & other receivable within 30 days 2,243,838 2,961,387 106,321 439,795 Trade receivable settlement profile Short Term deposit 7,575,362 10,861,001 5,081,122 4,812,631 Total Liquid assets 14,472,988 16,733,523 6,585,113 5,437,987 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Less: Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowing 1,439,684 2,089,729 183,416 254,619 Less than 30 days 2,243,838 2,961,387 Trade payable on demand 605,315 903,193 Other payable at on demand 5,978,921 2,878,604 4,563,392 2,894,630 More than 30 days but less than 60 days 707,473 1,311,056 Total on demand liabilities 8,023,920 5,871,526 4,746,808 3,149,249 More than 60 days but less than 90 days 184,485 607,404 Excess liquidity through operating cycle 6,449,068 10,861,997 1,838,305 2,288,739 More than 90 days but less than 180 days 143,483 651,429 Undrawn approved bank facilities 11,737,198 13,757,653 5,991,494 6,207,153 More than 180 days but less than 365 days 40,445 45,327 Market value of discounted securities 568,349 1,413,842 568,349 1,413,842 More than 365 days 52,987 43,112 Liquidity available on demand 12,305,547 15,171,495 6,559,843 7,620,995 Total gross trade receivables 3,372,711 5,619,715 Impairment provision for trade receivables (66,130) (56,601) 40.3 Credit risk Total net trade receivables 3,306,581 5,563,114 The risk assumed by an entity resulting from the risk of a counter party defaulting on its contractual obligations in relation to a financial instrument or a Collateral acquired for mitigating credit risk customer contract is known as the credit risk. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from its operating and financing activities including transactions with The Group as a policy does not offer credit to individuals unless collateral in the form of bank guarantees or advances are provided to cover the receivable. banks in placing deposits, foreign exchange transactions and through other financial instruments. The maximum credit risk of the Group and the Company The total collateral obtained on trade receivables is Rs. 242.2 million as at the balance sheet . The Group focuses on quality and the realisability of such is limited to the carrying value of these financial assets as at the reporting date. collateral to mitigate potential credit losses. Group Company 40.3.2 Bank deposits 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 The Group has a number of bank deposits in both rupees and US$. These deposits have been placed in several banks in order to minimise the credit risk in Exposure Exposure Exposure Exposure accordance with the policy directions provided by the board. In order to further minimise the credit risk the Group’s exposure and credit ratings of banks are Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % regularly monitored and a diversified investment portfolio is maintained. In the event of any weakening of credit metrics of a bank the Group may decide to liquidate its investments and move to an institution with a higher credit rating. Trade and other receivables 4,559,198 26.41 7,409,876 33.94 3,186,636 32.66 2,832,293 35.53 Deposits and prepayments 132,960 0.77 287,874 1.32 704 0.01 704 0.01 Group Company Other financial assets 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 303,510 1.76 325,057 1.49 89,490 0.92 135,444 1.70 Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution Quoted equity shares 38,523 0.22 39,837 0.18 3,393 0.03 5,111 0.06 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Other bank deposits 7,007,013 40.58 9,447,159 43.27 4,512,773 46.24 3,398,789 42.64 Government securities 568,349 3.29 1,413,842 6.47 568,349 5.82 1,413,842 17.74 Credit Rating Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,805 0.02 707 Fitch ratings ; AAA(lka) 154,263 2.20 181,318 1.91 Cash and short-term deposits 4,653,788 26.95 2,911,135 13.33 1,397,670 14.32 185,561 2.33 AA+(lka) 849,246 12.12 4,418,041 46.77 717,120 15.89 1,866,361 54.90 17,266,146 100.00 21,835,487 100.00 9,759,015 100.00 7,971,744 100.00 AA-(lka) 5,875,273 83.85 4,643,135 49.15 3,737,341 82.82 1,532,428 45.10 A+(lka) 58,312 0.83 58,312 1.29 The Board of directors has provided the policy direction for the group treasury to manage the risk arising from investments made in financial institutions. JCR-VIS ; AAA 3,372 0.04 Group’s transactions are carried out only with a limited number of institutions all of which have stable credit ratings from internationally recognised rating Fitch ratings (Australia); AA201,293 2.13 providers. The Group’s exposures and credit ratings of counterparties are continuously monitored and the investment portfolio is diversified amongst several Rating not available 69,919 1.00 institutions to minimise the unsystematic risk. Total bank deposits 7,007,013 100.00 9,447,159 100.00 4,512,773 100.00 3,398,789 100.00 202 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 203 Notes to the financial statements 41 Capital management 41.4 Capital management policy The capital management policy of the Group has following key objectives; The fundamental objective of the capital management policy of the Group is maximising the return on limited available capital whilst safeguarding the • Ensuring the availability of a sufficient amount of capital for long term investments and growth of the business. investments that have already been made. Ensuring that there is adequate capital for the Group to expand its operations while continuing with its regular business operations, requires the management to consider multiple facets of the operation and take into account the behaviour of a number of parameters, • Maintaining an adequate liquidity buffer for business operations. both internal and external. The rapid pace of change in the operating environment has a profound influence on many factors affecting the use of capital. A • Sustaining the financial health of the Group to withstand economic cycles and, thorough understanding derived from years of experience in a business sector is vital to ensure successful management of capital. • Maintaining stakeholder confidence in the Group. The Group’s capital management policy fundamentally stems from various decisions the board has taken regarding capital investments and the optimum When capital is not available in adequate quantities or at a reasonable cost, it can have an adverse impact on the performance of the Group. The utilisation of cash resources. This policy is a reflection of the current thinking of the board on present and future industry, market and economic risks and management, being conscious of these factors, has implemented the capital management policy to ensure the long term sustainability and competitiveness conditions. Potential investments and divestments are discussed at length by the Group directors and various aspects of risk and return parameters are of the Group. Ensuring that there is no idle capital which will act as a drag on the returns generated is another factor that is considered. Too much capital considered prior to making capital investment decisions. A vital role in the implementation of the capital management policy is played by the Group treasury invested in a business will have a dampening impact on the performance while too little capital will prevent an organisation from achieving its long term and the corporate finance division. objectives. The management information necessary to base policy decisions such as key performance indicators and value drivers of the sectors highlighting financial 41.1 Types of capital performances are generated by the corporate finance division. Some of the important parameters which guide the capital management policy include the tolerance for gearing, interest risk appetite and the view on the exchange rate movement. The underlying variables such as the market borrowing Financial capital of the Group consists of two components; namely equity and debt. The equity capital consists of the stated capital, retained earnings and lending rates, exchange rates, inflation and other macroeconomic indicators are constantly monitored by the Group treasury and recommendations and reserves while the debt capital is made up of the long and short term debt. The debt capital is sourced from lending institutions and capital markets. regarding the appropriate policy changes are made to the management. Although the Group raises debt capital often it has not raised new equity capital from shareholders in recent times. It is vital for the Group’s long term survival and growth to have a sound capital management policy as decisions taken at the present time will have The Group regularly evaluates its future capital requirements by looking at new investment and expansion needs and other uses of capital. Such analysis implications for the future. The Group’s capital management policy, therefore is constantly evolving and attempts to link its future strategy to present day would highlight shortfalls in available capital which would be raised through either the issue of new equity or debt. The debt to equity ratio (defined as financing decisions while being based on a solid foundation of optimising of resources. the ratio between non-current interest bearing borrowings to the total equity and minority interest) is regularly monitored to ensure the efficient use of shareholders' equity. Managing the debt to equity ratio is a vital element of capital management as it has a direct bearing on the Group’s ability to raise low cost capital. 42 Contracts for capital expenditure Sourcing of debt is carried out subsequent to careful and detailed analysis of lender proposals. Important factors such as the tenure of the debts, interest The following commitments for capital expenditure approved by the Directors as at 31st March have not been provided for in the financial statements. rates, capital repayment terms including grace periods and repayment amounts and other terms and conditions including covenants are taken into account when making a decision. Minimising the weighted average cost of capital is one of the key considerations in determining sourcing options. The Group’s debt 42.1 Commitments for capital expenditure for subsidiaries is denominated in LKR as well as foreign currencies such as US$ and Euro. Foreign currency denominated loans have been taken mainly by the companies 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 with foreign exchange earnings in order to take advantage of the relatively low interest rates. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 The Group treasury plays an active role in ensuring that the cost of capital is maintained at the optimum level and the financial and other covenants linked to Approximate amount approved but not contracted for 3,400,195 3,487,253 the sourcing arrangements are acceptable. Approximate amount contracted for but not incurred 175,849 718,246 3,576,044 4,205,499 41.2 Capital allocation and investment Implementation of the Group’s long term strategy for growth requires continuous capital investments in the four sectors in which the Group operates. The above includes Rs. 3,471.7 million (2014/2015 Rs. 4,134.7 million) for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and Rs. 104.4 million The allocation of limited capital available is done pursuant to careful evaluation of investment opportunities to ascertain expected returns. The Group’s (2014/2015 Rs. 70.8 million) for the acquisition of intangible assets. capital investment decisions are supported by elaborate financial modelling, thorough sensitivity analysis and legal, financial and technical due diligence. Identification and ranking of suitable investment opportunities are carried out using the discounted cash flow modelling technique and Internal Rate of Return 42.2 Commitments for capital expenditure for joint ventures (IRR) hurdle rates and payback periods. At the evaluation stage for capital investments, financial modelling, sensitivity analysis and the calculation of IRR are 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 carried out either by the Group’s corporate finance division, or the respective sector through which the investment will take place with the assistance of the Rs.’000 Rs.’000 former. Approximate amount approved but not contracted for 177,671 61,368 Upon making a decision to proceed with a capital investment, the Group follows necessary procedures to ensure that it is carried out in the best possible Approximate amount contracted for but not incurred 2,898,827 1,655,951 manner. When the investment involves external shareholders, the Group take steps to protect its rights by entering into carefully drafted legal agreements. 3,076,498 1,717,319 Post investment evaluations are carried out at frequent intervals to ensure that the returns envisaged at the evaluation stage are actually delivered. Exposure limits are used to control the default risk especially in portfolio investments. The amount shown is the Group's share of capital commitments by joint ventures. 41.3 Adequate financial reserves The above includes Rs. 3,071.2 million (2014/2015 Rs. 1,712.0 million) for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and Rs. 5.3 million (2014/2015 The long term financial health of the Group has been ensured by maintaining sufficient reserves of capital which can be drawn upon when there is a Rs. 5.3 million) for the acquisition of intangible assets. requirement. Probable future risks that could result in negative financial outcomes are identified and required mitigation measures are taken. The Group has implemented sound cashflow planning procedures ensuring that the receivables are collected in an efficient manner thereby shortening the cash cycle. A special emphasis is placed on minimising operating costs through critical evaluation and justification of all cost elements. The Group policies regarding managing receivables have been communicated to the heads of finance of the business sectors and the corporate finance division monitors the Group-wide status of receivables and submits exception reports to the management for advise on required action. 204 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 205 Notes to the financial statements 43 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd 46.2.3 Compensation paid to / on behalf of key management personnel of the Company is as follows; The initial Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) dated 9th May 2003 signed between Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., a subsidiary company and the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) expired on the 6th April 2015. Subsequent to the expiry of this PPA, on the 6th of April 2016 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd entered Company Group into a short term PPA with the CEB for a period of one year on the same terms and conditions of the PPA dated 9th May 2003, with amendments to certain Rs.’000 Rs.’000 clauses. In terms of the ongoing discussions with the CEB there appears to be limited prospects of the PPA being extended further. Hence the directors Short term employee benefits 108,548 638,057 of the company are of the opinion that the continuity of operations will be limited to the tenure of the short term PPA, and the assets and liabilities of the company are recorded at net realisable basis in the financial statements. Post employment benefits 18,948 No post-employment benefits were paid to key management personnel of Aitken Spence PLC during the financial year. The Company/Group did not have any material transactions with its key management personnel or their close family members during the year. 44 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities as at 31.03.2016 on guarantees given by Aitken Spence PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 1,120.9 million. The guarantees given 46.2.4 Key management personnel of Aitken Spence PLC hold positions in other companies, some of which had trading transactions with the Group only relates to facilities obtained by subsidiaries and as at reporting date the Company has not given any guarantees to other related companies listed in during the year. Such companies the Group had transactions with are identified below. note 46.5 to the financial statements. Contingent liabilities as at 31.03.2016 on guarantees given by subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees to other Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena, Chairman of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, and Aitken Spence Hotel companies amounted to Rs. 15,352.3 million. None of the above guarantees were in relation to facilities obtained by companies other than companies Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., which are subsidiaries of the Group. He is also the Chairman of Browns Beach Hotels PLC., and Negombo Beach Resorts within the Group. There were no guarantees given in relation to facilities obtained by Aitken Spence PLC. (Pvt) Ltd., which are equity-accounted investees of the Group, and the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of companies indicated by “*” in the list of Cey Spence (Pvt) Ltd which was previously an equity accounted investee now under liquidation, and the share of net assets of which is reflected under companies disclosed under note 46.5. assets classified as held for sale in the consolidated financial statements of the Group was issued an income tax assessment under the Inland Revenue Act Mr. J.M.S. Brito, Managing and Finance Director of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of the subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees that in relation to the year of assessment 2007/2008. The Tax Appeals Commission hearing the appeal has determined the income tax assessment in favour of are indicated by “a” in notes 22 and 23 to the financial statements. He is also a Director of SriLankan Airlines Ltd. the Department of Inland Revenue. Pursuant to the determination of the Tax Appeals Commission the company has appealed against the determination to the Court of Appeal. The contingent liability to the Group is estimated to be Rs. 70 million inclusive of any penalties. Based on expert advice the directors are Dr. R.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “b” in note 22 and 23 to the financial confident that the ultimate resolution of the case will not have a material adverse impact on the financial statements of the Group. statements. Dr. P. Dissanayake a Director of the company is also the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “c” in note 22 to the Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd which is an equity accounted investee of the Group was issued an income tax assessment under the Inland Revenue Act financial statements. No.10 of 2006 and its amendments thereto in relation to the year of assessment 2009/2010. The Tax Appeals Commission hearing the appeal in relation to the year of assessment 2009/2010 has determined the income tax assessment in favour of the Company. Pursuant to the determination of the Tax Appeals Mr. C. H. Gomez a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. Commission the Department of Inland Revenue has appealed against the determination to the Court of Appeal. The contingent liability to the Group is Mr. N. J. de S Deva Aditya a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of Distilleries Company of estimated to be Rs. 17.5 million inclusive of all penalties for the above year of assessment. Based on expert advise and the decision of the Tax Appeals Sri Lanka PLC. Commission the directors are confident that the ultimate resolution of the case will not have a material adverse impact on the financial statements of the Group. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of CIC Holdings PLC, Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC, Mercantile Merchant Bank Ltd., Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt Ltd., Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. and Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC. 45 Directors’ fees Miss. D.S.T. Jayawardena a Director of the company is also the Chairperson or a Director of the companies marked by “d” in note 22 and 23 to the The Directors of the Company have received fees amounting to Rs. 108,000 /from subsidiaries for the year ended 31st March 2016. financial statements. She is also the Chairperson or a Director of Splendor Media (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd,. Stassen Foods (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen International (Pvt) Ltd. and Stassen Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd. 46 Related party transactions The Aitken Spence Group and the Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Transactions and outstanding balances between the companies within the Group and related parties are given in note no. 46.2 46.8. 46.1 Parent and ultimate controlling party The Company does not have an identifiable parent of its own. 46.2 Transactions with key management personnel 46.2.1 Aitken Spence PLC., considers its Board of Directors as the key management personnel of the company. The Board of Directors, Vice Presidents and Assistant Vice Presidents of subsidiary companies are considered as key management personnel of such companies. 46.2.2 There were no loans given to Directors of the company during the financial year or as at the year end. 206 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 207 Notes to the financial statements 46.3 Transactions with subsidiary companies 46.4.2 Transactions with associate companies Transactions with Aitken Transactions with Aitken Transactions with Group Spence PLC Spence PLC companies 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Income from services rendered 548,794 521,352 Sale of goods and services 13,582 10,132 49,957 25,029 Rent income received 16,492 17,049 Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 528 682 528 682 Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 41,995 40,315 Purchase of goods and services 3,122 3,543 22,062 7,204 Purchase of goods and services 45,131 44,796 Net transfers under finance arrangements (34,500) 34,500 (58,222) 34,500 Net borrowings under finance arrangements (217,038) 11,539 Interest paid 1,512 689 7,881 689 Interest income received 102,558 95,643 Transactions with AEN Palm Oil (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC, Browns Beach Hotels PLC, Elpitiya Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Ltd., Interest paid 50,025 50,931 Elpitiya Plantations PLC, Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd., Negombo Beach Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Paradise Resorts Pasikuda (Pvt) Ltd., Tea Country Homes (Pvt) Ltd. Sale of assets 6,680 are reflected under transactions with associates above. Transactions with A E Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Alliance Power Ltd., Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Aviation Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd., Ace 46.5 Transactions with other related companies Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd., Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd., ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. , Aitken Spence Agriculture (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Transactions with Aitken Transactions with Group Aviation (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Exports Ltd. , Aitken Spence Garments Ltd. , Spence PLC companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, Aitken Spence Hotel Management (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management (South India) (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Ports International Ltd., Aitken Spence Printing Sale of goods and services 183 317,206 335,756 and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Property Developments Ltd., Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd., Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. , Aitken Spence Shipping Services (Pvt) Ltd. , Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., Alliance Spence Power Ltd., Branford Hydropower Purchase of goods and services 5,412 30,043 681,378 665,773 (Pvt) Ltd., Clark Spence and Company Ltd. , Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd., Crest Star (BVI) Ltd., Crest Star Ltd., D B S Logistics Ltd., Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. Interest paid 369 , Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Hapag Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Hethersett Hotels Ltd., Interlifts International (Pvt) Ltd., Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Transactions with Ambewela Livestock Company Ltd.*, Bell Solutions (Private) Ltd.*, Bellvantage (Pvt) Ltd.*, Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., CIC Holdings PLC, Ltd., Kandalama Hotels Ltd., Logilink (Pvt) Ltd., Meeraladuwa (Pvt) Ltd., MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., MPS Hotels Ltd., Neptune Ayurvedic (Pvt) Ltd., Dankotuwa porcelain PLC, Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC and companies of the Group *, Indo Lanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd.*, Royal Spence Aviations (Pvt) Ltd., Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Spence International (Pvt) Ltd., Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Spence Maldives Lanka Dairies (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC*, Mercantile Merchant Bank Ltd., Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd.*, Pattipola livestock company (Pvt) Ltd., Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Investments Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments Ltd., Western Power Ltd.*, Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd.*, Rajawella (Holdings) (Pvt) Ltd., Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Royal Ceramics PLC, Splendor Media (Pvt) Ltd., Sri Lankan Airlines Ltd., Company (Pvt) Ltd. are reflected under transactions with subsidiary companies above. Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen International (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Telecom Frontier (Pvt) Ltd.*, Texpro Industries Ltd.*are reflected under transactions with other related companies, above. 46.4 Transactions with equity-accounted investees 46.4.1 Transactions with joint venture companies 46.6 Transactions with post-employment benefit plans Transactions with Aitken Transactions with Group Transactions with Aitken Transactions with Group Spence PLC companies Spence PLC companies 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sale of goods and services 43,944 38,318 2,259,305 1,461,757 Contributions to the provident fund 202,092 175,841 38,088 32,957 Rent income received 1,088 1,080 1,088 1,080 Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 11,809 12,490 11,809 12,490 Contributions to the Aitken Spence & Associated Companies Executive Staff Provident Fund., and the Aitken Spence & Associated Companies Clerical Staff Purchase of goods and services 1,013 858 72,961 113,440 Provident Fund., are reflected under transactions with post-employment benefit plans, above. Net transfers under finance arrangements 2,515,000 497,000 2,515,000 497,000 Interest paid 110,696 62,925 110,696 62,925 Sale of assets 11 Transactions with Ace Bangladesh Ltd., Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd., Ahungalla Resorts Ltd., Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd., EcoCorp Asia (Pvt) Ltd. are reflected under transactions with joint ventures above. 208 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 209 Notes to the financial statements 46.7 Amounts due from related parties 47 Foreign currency translation The principal exchange rates used for translation purposes were; Balances with Aitken Spence Balances with Group PLC companies 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 United States dollar 144.69 133.32 46.7.1 Amount due from subsidiaries British Pound 207.90 197.24 Fully owned subsidiaries 2,036,785 1,702,851 N/A N/A Euro 163.94 144.29 Partly owned subsidiaries 930,336 637,957 N/A N/A Oman Rial 373.76 345.18 2,967,121 2,340,808 N/A N/A Fiji dollar 68.87 64.67 Provision for doubtful debts 2,710 3,635 N/A N/A South African Rand 9.65 10.96 Indian rupee 2.17 2.12 46.7.2 Amount due from equity-accounted investees Maldivian Rufiyaa 9.41 8.61 Joint ventures 114,300 55,773 375,255 618,892 Bangladesh Taka 1.84 1.71 Associates 126,187 21,620 78,974 61,792 240,487 77,393 454,229 680,684 48 Number of employees Provision for doubtful debts The number of employees of the Group at the end of the year was 7,342 (2014/2015 7,131) The number of employees of the Company at the end of the year was 196 (2014/2015 207). 46.7.3 Amount due from other related companies 31,777 42,503 Provision for doubtful debts 1,419 293 49 Events occurring after the reporting date 46.8 Amounts due to related parties The Board of Directors of the Company resolved to recommend a first and final ordinary dividend of Rs.1.50 per share for the year 2015/2016 to be Balances with Aitken Spence Balances with Group approved at the Annual General Meeting. Details of the dividend is disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements. PLC companies On 6th April 2016 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd, a subsidiary company entered into a short term Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the Ceylon 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 Electricity Board (CEB) for a period of one year on the same terms and conditions of the previous PPA dated 9th May 2003 with amendments to certain Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 clauses, and recommenced generation and supply of power to the national grid. 46.8.1 Amount due to subsidiaries There were no other material events that occurred after the reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. Fully owned subsidiaries 776,893 1,006,462 N/A N/A Partly owned subsidiaries 179,651 275,200 N/A N/A 956,544 1,281,662 N/A N/A 46.8.2 Amount due to equity-accounted investees Joint ventures 3,583,076 1,527,686 3,614,681 1,537,939 Associates 322 46,498 261,200 48,885 3,583,398 1,574,184 3,875,881 1,586,824 46.8.3 Amount due to other related companies 51,250 17,320 46.9 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties All related party transactions are carried out in the normal course of business and transacted at normal business terms .The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions and comparable with those that would have been charged from un-related companies. All related party outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and are to be settled in cash. The Group does not have any material commitments to related parties, other than those disclosed in note 44 to the financial statements. 210 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 211 Notes to the financial statements 50 Comparative information 50.3 Impact on consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31st March 2015. The Group has consistently applied the accounting policies with those adopted in the previous financial year. The presentation and classification of the As previously Prior year As restated financial statements of the previous period, have been adjusted, where relevant, for better presentation. recorded adjustment 31.03.2015 31.03.2015 50.1 Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd., a subsidiary incorporated in Fiji, which was acquired during 2013/2014, has restated its opening retained earnings as a result of correcting an error relating to a receivable balance which had been incorrectly recognised prior to acquisition by the Group. As a result the Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 consolidated financial statements of Aitken Spence PLC have been restated and the following table summarises the impact of this restatement on ASSETS the Group's statement of financial position. Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 24,799,321 28,696,631 50.2 Impact on consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31st March 2014. Investment property 1,648,301 1,648,301 Intangible assets 507,171 50,869 558,040 As previously Prior year As restated Biological assets recorded adjustment Leasehold property 1,461,100 1,906,527 31.03.2014 01.04.2014 Pre-paid operating leases 1,010,199 1,072,370 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Finance lease receivables 2,245,884 ASSETS Investments in equity-accounted investees 3,367,589 5,403,518 Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 224,495 215,907 Property, plant and equipment 24,799,321 24,799,321 Other financial assets 339,540 279,346 Investment property 1,648,301 1,648,301 35,603,600 50,869 39,780,640 Intangible assets 600,927 50,869 651,796 Biological assets Current assets Leasehold property 1,461,100 1,461,100 Inventories 1,723,718 1,484,504 Pre-paid operating leases 1,010,199 1,010,199 Pre-paid operating leases 50 930 Finance lease receivables 2,245,884 2,245,884 Finance lease receivables 146,948 1,333,200 Investments in subsidiaries Trade and other receivables 7,770,650 (93,202) 7,677,448 Investments in equity-accounted investees 3,367,589 3,367,589 Current tax receivable 243,779 229,366 Deferred tax assets 224,495 224,495 Deposits and prepayments 867,318 799,353 Other financial assets 339,540 339,540 Other current assets 10,514,376 10,947,256 35,697,356 50,869 35,748,225 Cash and short-term deposits 2,672,100 2,911,135 23,938,939 (93,202) 25,383,192 Current assets Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 226,923 Inventories 1,723,718 1,723,718 Total assets 59,691,664 (42,333) 65,390,755 Pre-paid operating leases 50 50 Finance lease receivables 146,948 146,948 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Trade and other receivables 9,049,706 (102,094) 8,947,612 Equity Current tax receivable 243,779 243,779 Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 Deposits and prepayments 867,318 867,318 Reserves 13,864,351 3,336 13,867,687 Other current assets 10,514,376 10,514,376 Retained earnings 16,238,762 19,022,310 Cash and short-term deposits 2,672,100 2,672,100 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 32,238,253 3,336 35,025,137 25,217,995 (102,094) 25,115,901 Non-controlling interests 7,257,649 (45,669) 7,211,980 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 149,125 Total equity 39,495,902 (42,333) 42,237,117 Total assets 61,064,476 (51,225) 61,013,251 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 Reserves 13,884,656 (1,199) 13,883,457 Retained earnings 16,238,762 16,238,762 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 32,258,558 (1,199) 32,257,359 Non-controlling interests 6,667,889 (50,026) 6,617,863 Total equity 38,926,447 (51,225) 38,875,222 212 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 213 Consolidated financial statements in US$ Consolidated income statement in US$ Consolidated statements of financial position in US$ For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 As at 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 US$.’000 US$.’000 US$.’000 US$.’000 Re-stated Re-stated Revenue 179,541 264,918 ASSETS Revenue taxes (1,982) (2,913) Non-current assets Net revenue 177,559 262,005 Property, plant and equipment 243,818 215,246 Investment property 11,271 12,363 Other operating income 1,207 3,807 Intangible assets 5,994 4,186 Biological assets 179 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (144) 441 Leasehold property 13,869 14,300 Raw materials and consumables used (12,621) (67,683) Pre-paid operating leases 12,639 8,044 Employee benefits expense (40,812) (38,877) Investments in equity-accounted investees 67,537 40,531 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-financial assets (14,440) (17,992) Deferred tax assets 2,268 1,619 Other operating expenses direct (51,724) (57,851) Other financial assets 1,782 2,095 Other operating expenses indirect (32,095) (41,420) 359,357 298,384 Profit from operations 26,930 42,430 Current assets Finance income 4,476 4,679 Inventories 8,265 11,135 Finance expenses (6,710) (6,762) Pre-paid operating leases 227 7 Net finance income / (expense) (2,234) (2,083) Finance lease receivables 10,000 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 1,605 2,482 Trade and other receivables 33,178 57,587 Profit before tax 26,301 42,829 Current tax receivable 1,550 1,720 Income tax expense (5,952) (6,198) Deposits and prepayments 8,058 5,996 Profit for the year 20,349 36,631 Other current assets 63,146 82,113 Attributable to: Cash and short-term deposits 32,164 21,836 Equity holders of the company 14,010 26,846 146,588 190,394 Non-controlling interests 6,339 9,785 Assets classified as held for sale 1,030 1,702 Profit for the year 20,349 36,631 Total assets 506,975 490,480 Earnings per share basic/diluted (Rs.) US$ cents = 3.45 6.61 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Exchange rate US$ = 144.69 133.32 Equity Stated capital 14,757 16,015 Reserves 105,387 104,018 Consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income in US$ Retained earnings 133,126 142,682 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 253,270 262,715 For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 Non-controlling interests 52,213 54,095 US$.’000 US$.’000 Total equity 305,483 316,810 Profit for the year 20,349 36,631 Non-current liabilities Other comprehensive income Interest-bearing liabilities 84,612 70,781 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Deferred tax liabilities 4,686 4,915 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 682 Employee benefits 4,967 4,768 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations 123 (362) 94,265 80,464 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 134 (119) Current liabilities Income tax on other comprehensive income (27) 56 Interest-bearing liabilities 25,825 20,430 230 257 Trade and other payables 67,617 53,060 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Current tax payable 3,835 4,036 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 5,715 (773) Other financial liabilities 5 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 155 533 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 9,950 15,675 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss 71 107,227 93,206 Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 237 Total equity and liabilities 506,975 490,480 6,107 (169) Other comprehensive income for the year, (net of tax) 6,337 88 Exchange rate US$ = 144.69 133.32 Total comprehensive income for the year 26,686 36,719 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 18,472 26,838 Non-controlling interests 8,214 9,881 Total comprehensive income for the year 26,686 36,719 Exchange rate US$ = 144.69 133.32 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 214 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 215 Ten year summary Benchmarks of Year ended 31st March 2016 Rs.’000 2015 Rs.’000 2014 Rs.’000 2013 Rs.’000 2012 Rs.’000 2011 Rs.’000 2010 Rs.’000 2009 Rs.’000 2008 Rs.’000 2007 Rs.’000 sustainability (re-stated) ** (re-stated) ** Operating results Revenue 25,977,795 35,318,891 35,059,123 35,822,630 31,021,623 25,143,811 24,168,970 29,307,818 27,515,960 19,765,632 The social and environmental governance GRI and IIRC Guidelines on Sustainability human rights, labour standards, environment Profit before taxation 3,805,508 5,709,923 5,444,946 5,069,032 5,183,354 3,815,555 3,353,169 3,396,916 3,064,792 2,582,088 framework of Aitken Spence PLC is guided by Reporting and anti-corruption. Aitken Spence PLC is a Taxation 861,229 826,323 865,457 713,755 746,090 387,335 366,193 328,385 235,110 298,018 experience as well as local and international best Aitken Spence PLC follows the Global Reporting signatory of the Global Compact since 28th May Profit after taxation 2,944,279 4,883,600 4,579,489 4,355,278 4,437,264 3,428,220 2,986,976 3,068,531 2,829,682 2,284,070 practices. 2002. Profit attributable to Aitken Spence PLC 2,027,112 3,579,008 3,671,870 3,287,607 3,487,669 2,535,956 2,059,636 2,040,010 1,841,150 1,459,774 Initiative’s G4 Reporting Framework (In Accordance – Core) and the integrated reporting Equity and liabilities How these principles are practiced across Aitken Management Systems & Certifications guidelines developed by the International Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Spence Companies is presented throughout Aitken Spence Companies use management Integrated Reporting Council to guide the Reserves 15,255,809 13,867,687 13,883,457 12,695,793 12,454,684 11,071,652 9,317,199 7,227,545 3,505,284 2,673,510 this report: refer to the GRI Index to find specific systems to incorporate sustainability action Company’s reporting practices. The advantage Retained earnings 19,254,670 19,022,310 16,238,762 13,222,324 10,564,698 8,309,395 7,442,131 7,715,269 6,263,600 5,122,472 information by indicator. More content, including into operations. The ISO 14001 environmental of adopting the international frameworks and Non-controlling interest 7,554,724 7,211,980 6,617,863 5,560,028 4,708,800 5,129,687 4,566,388 4,553,439 3,881,704 3,193,710 the integrated sustainability policy of Aitken management system standard guides the best practices is twofold: the indicators give Spence PLC in Sinhala, Tamil and English, is Non-current liabilities 13,639,158 10,727,403 8,493,842 7,133,962 6,563,195 4,746,363 5,730,436 6,677,114 6,903,834 6,832,112 direction on required action and works as a Group in managing the activities to reduce, if also available on the Sustainability page of the Current liabilities 15,514,730 12,426,235 13,644,187 15,141,965 14,558,490 8,752,588 8,352,184 8,072,337 8,495,631 6,393,881 not eliminate adverse environmental impacts. tool to map requirements of other frameworks Group’s corporate website at 73,354,231 65,390,755 61,013,251 55,889,212 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 Rainforest Alliance certification and Forestry against the reported indicators. www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability. Assets Stewardship Council certification guide the Property, plant and equipment 35,278,046 28,696,631 24,799,321 23,534,930 22,585,836 23,925,653 23,328,896 22,635,636 16,982,305 16,770,495 plantations segment to manage environmental IFC Performance Standards A summary of the action taken by Aitken Spence Investment property 1,630,801 1,648,301 1,648,301 1,661,596 1,662,349 102,799 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 as well as social governance procedures. The Aitken Spence Social and Environmental Due PLC and our Group companies to internalise Intangible assets 867,223 558,040 651,796 350,368 643,600 134,026 154,185 109,164 122,520 159,407 OHSAS 18001 system standard provides Diligence Evaluation Guide was introduced these principles is presented in this section of Biological assets 25,838 guidance to the companies to implement to the Group Companies in 2014/2015 and the report. Leasehold property 2,006,728 1,906,527 1,461,100 1,463,930 1,521,101 1,354,028 1,462,903 1,499,514 1,351,259 occupational health and safety procedures. The were used by the respective Sustainability ISO 9001 guides companies to implement quality The Global Compact Local Network’s role is Pre-paid operating leases 1,828,797 1,072,370 1,010,199 980,681 1,028,164 5,455 5,546 5,637 5,728 Teams in the annual Management Reviews on standards. Travelife certification standards to root the Global Compact within Sri Lanka Finance lease receivables 2,245,884 2,325,091 2,512,923 sustainability. This is meant to be supporting maintained in the hotels sector assures ethical and to facilitate the progress of companies Investments in equity-accounted investees 9,771,984 5,403,518 3,367,589 3,059,987 1,770,117 1,335,002 767,498 752,636 764,489 697,111 resource incorporating compliance requirements tourism operations while the Hotels sector also engaged in the Global Compact with respect Deferred tax assets 328,140 215,907 224,495 225,749 209,769 138,314 56,823 74,008 39,342 and expected behaviours in environmental, social maintains energy management practices in to implementation of the ten principles, create Other financial assets 257,799 279,346 339,540 414,409 392,737 473,945 483,580 404,946 263,576 170,098 and economic activities of the Companies. The line with the ISO 50001 management system opportunities for multi-stakeholder engagement, Current assets 21,209,750 25,383,192 25,115,901 21,723,346 18,509,286 12,494,114 11,093,448 10,721,243 11,465,087 8,524,778 guidelines of the IFC Performance Standards standard. More details of specific management collective action and to deepen the learning Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 226,923 149,125 149,125 149,125 181,489 161,663 149,124 161,951 were key resources used in developing this systems and certifications maintained by the experience of all participants through their own 73,354,231 65,390,755 61,013,251 55,889,212 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 evaluation guide for Aitken Spence Companies Companies can be reviewed in the sector activities and promote to monitor sustainability performance. Share information Reviews section in this report as well as in the action in support of Earnings per share (Rs.) 4.99 8.82 9.04 8.10 8.59 6.25 * 5.07 *5.02 *4.53 *3.60 Group’s website broader UN goals. Aitken Market value per share (Rs.) post share sub 73.50 99.50 97.90 119.60 112.70 162.30 (www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability) The UN Global Compact Spence PLC has been division The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) a member of the Global Market value per share (Rs.) pre share sub 1,373.75 315.00 430.00 380.00 is a voluntary strategic policy initiative that was Compact Network Sri division launched by the UN to encourage businesses Lanka’s Board and the Market capitalisation on 31st March (Rs. Mn) 29,841 40,397 39,747 48,557 45,756 65,893 37,182 8,526 11,639 10,285 to align their operations and strategies with 10 steering committee, Price earnings ratio 14.72 11.29 10.82 14.77 13.12 25.97 18.05 4.18 6.32 7.05 universally accepted principles in the areas of since inception. Net assets per share (Rs.) 90.26 86.27 79.45 69.10 61.96 53.00 * 46.54 *42.06 *29.32 *24.46 Employees information Progress Made on Internalising the UNGC 10 Principles No. of employees 7,342 7,131 6,797 6,207 5,791 5,328 5,042 5,045 5,090 4,199 Value added per employee (Rs. ‘000) 1,765 2,031 1,941 1,979 1,915 1,884 1,770 1,635 1,503 1,467 Human Rights Ratios and statistics • Aitken Spence endorses the Human Rights Protection Framework developed by the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights (BLIHR) as a guide Ordinary dividend (Rs. ‘000) 608,994 811,992 811,992 608,994 568,394 405,996 270,664 257,131 189,465 175,931 integrate human rights concerns into business management. Group level policies, practices, and procedures have been evaluated in line with the Dividend per share (Rs.) 1.50 2.00 2.00 1.50 1.40 1.00 * 0.67 * 0.63 * 0.47 * 0.43 essential and expected action points of the framework as well as other voluntary endorsements such as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Dividend cover (times covered) 3.33 4.41 4.52 5.40 6.14 6.25 7.61 7.93 9.72 8.30 and the Women’s Empowerment Principles. Dividend payout ratio 0.30 0.23 0.22 0.19 0.16 0.16 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.12 • The network of Human Resource Partners of Aitken Spence PLC proactively lead initiatives for personal and professional development of the Current ratio (times covered) 1.37 2.04 1.84 1.43 1.27 1.43 1.33 1.33 1.35 1.33 workforce. Support Givers for human rights at the workplace have been appointed at all key SBUs as an additional support system and have been Debt-equity ratio 0.28 0.22 0.19 0.18 0.19 0.16 0.22 0.29 0.41 0.49 educated on the BLIHR framework, and the policies, procedures and practices in place in the Company. The Support Givers are expected to convey ROE (%) 5.66 10.64 12.18 12.36 15.01 12.55 11.45 14.08 16.86 15.82 any concerns identified to the respective Human Resource Partner(s) of the Company. Interest cover ratio 16.80 30.47 13.97 8.72 23.08 23.48 6.44 6.54 5.78 4.93 • Over 50% of the total workforce of the Company is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Note: * The above figures are restated taking into consideration the sub division of shares in October 2010. • The Company’s Code of Ethics has been communicated to all employees and all operations are assessed for risks related to corruption, occupational ** Please refer note 50 to the financial statements health and safety and impacts on the environment. 216 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 217 Benchmarks of sustainability GRI index Human Rights • Sustainability Teams, Human Rights Support Givers and staff members chosen randomly from all SBUs, were assessed on their awareness about the Human Rights Protection Framework during annual sustainability review inspections. • Security personnel employed at Aitken Spence Towers were given a refresher training on human rights at the workplace. The Group Sustainability GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Team is working with Group Security to develop this training to incorporate acceptable behaviour in potential situations that would make Security personnel the first respondents. General Disclosure Title Page Number (or Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Standard Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Disclosures Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) Environment STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS • Aitken Spence Companies adopt a management system based approach to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment from business activities: all G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the 13-22 ISO 26000: 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 companies have implemented management systems according to the nature, scale and the potential impacts of each operation. More details of the organisation management systems and the certifications Aitken Spence Companies have obtained can be viewed in the sector Reviews. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 39-43, 56-104 ISO 26000: 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 • Sustainability Teams, and staff members chosen randomly from all SBUs, were assessed on their awareness about the action taken to protect the ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE environment during annual sustainability review inspections. G4-3 Name of the organisation 10 ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 Labour Standards G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 56-104, 232-240 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 10 • Sri Lanka has become signatory to and ratified the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation which are in the areas of Freedom of G4-6 Locations of the organisation’s operations 4-5 Association, Forced Labour, Discrimination and Child Labour. The Group complies with the labour laws of Sri Lanka and the ILO conventions with G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 10 respect to employment of persons. The Group offers equal employment opportunities to existing and potential employees irrespective of gender, race, G4-8 Markets served 56-104 or religion. All eligible persons are given the opportunity to secure employment and thereafter continue in an appropriate career path. The Recruitment G4-9 Scale of the organisation 4-10 Policy of the company ensures that discrimination is discouraged and no persons below the legal minimum age are offered employment. The common G4-10 Workforce breakdown 44-47 ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, practice of the Company is to match the skill sets of employees to the job description and in the remuneration packages rather than allocating specific 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 quotas or rates to different groups. General practices of Aitken Spence PLC have been reviewed against the Human Rights Framework as explained UNGC: Principle 6 above. G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 217-218 ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, • Voluntary endorsements and benchmarking or Company practices: Ongoing assessments evaluate the Company’s practices in line with the Women’s agreements 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 Empowerment Principles (WEP) and action points. 35% of the workforce is female. 14% of the managerial positions are held by female employees. UNGC: Principle 6 The Group’s first female Main Board Director was appointed to the Board in 2013. She was also appointed as the Chairperson of Aitken Spence Hotel G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.3.10, 6.4.1 to 6.4.2, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, Managements (Pvt.) Ltd. in January 2016. We have also seen an increase in the number of female representatives in the Management Teams of the 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 Company. Our progress in implementing the WEP is illustrated at the end of this section. G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 56-104, 13-22 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach 39-43, 56-104 G4-15 Voluntary endorsement of policies/ charters 217-218, 56-104 Anti Corruption G4-16 Membership associations and affiliations • Company Code of Ethics has stringent instructions on anti-corruption. The Internal Audit Department of the Company audits all units periodically to make sure that adequate internal control systems are in place to prevent and detect fraud. All employees including new recruits are required to know IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES the stipulated procedures and carry out their business activities in accordance with them. All executive staff in the plantation segment receives training G4-17 Entities excluded from the organisation’s reporting 3 ISO 26000: 5.2, 7.3.2, 7.3.3, 7.3.4 and awareness on Group policies. Company procedures on anti-corruption and ethical behaviour are mentioned in all appointment letters. Group’s boundary Corporate Governance procedures, Risk Management and Audit practices also contribute towards prevention of corruption within the company G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect 3, 39-43 operations. Boundaries G4-19 Material Aspects 39-43, 56-104 Women’s Empowerment Principles G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation 56-104 Aitken Spence PLC was one of the first organisations in the World to become signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) in 2011. Over the G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation 56-104 years, we have conducted gap assessments and incorporated action points into the existing systems and procedures to internalise the requirements of the G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information 13-22 7 WEPs. Assessment of the action points required within each principle is ongoing. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 56-104 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 39-43, 56-104 ISO 26000: 5.3 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 39-43, 56-104 whom to engage G4-26 Organisation’s approach 39-43, 56-104 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 39-43, 56-104 WEP UNGC engagement 218 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 219 GRI index General Disclosure Title Page Number (or Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External General Disclosure Title Page Number (or Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Standard Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Standard Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Disclosures Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) Disclosures Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) REPORT PROFILE ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-28 Reporting period 1st April 2015 to ISO 26000: 7.5.3, 7.6.2 G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms 107-114, 48-55 ISO 26000: 4.4, 6.6.3 31st March 2016 of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 31st March 2015 G4-57 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice 119-125 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to G4-31 Contact point for questions about the report 247-248 organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option chosen Core G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting 119-125 G4-33 Organisation’s policy and current practice on seeking Not Assured concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and external assurance for the report matters related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing GOVERNANCE mechanisms or hotlines. G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation 107-114 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 G4-35 Delegation of authority for economic, environmental and 28 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES social topics Note : Selection of material aspects was discussed in the Sustainability Strategy section with more emphasis given in the respective sector Reviews. In this G4-36 Executive-level position and positions with responsibility for 28 section, information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ Core option is mapped in the index: references will be made to economic, environmental and social topics other sections in the report as well as information presented in the Group’s website www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability. Page numbers referring to G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders and the highest 39-43 sector Reviews indicate the sectors for which certain indicators are applicable (material) and the location in the annual report/ Group website where governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. the information can be found. Page numbers referring to complete sections of the report provide information on aspects which are material to all G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its 107-114 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 Group Companies. In addition to the material aspects we have also included several indicators as requested by key stakeholders. committees WEP: Principle 1 Company website: G4-39 Role of the Chair of the highest governance body 107-114 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest 107-114 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 governance body and its committees Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External WEP: Principle 1 Disclosure UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance (or Link) G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to avoid/ 107-114 ISO 26000: 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 Women’s Empowerment Principles manage conflicts of interest (WEP) G4-42 Role of the highest governance body and senior 107-114 executives in the development, approval, and updating of CATEGORY: ECONOMIC the organisation’s guiding principles and business models ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-43 Capacity building for the highest governance body’s 107-114 collective knowledge on economic, environmental and G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 48-55 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 social topics. G4-EC1 The direct economic value generated and distributed None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.8.1 to 6.8.2, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance 107-114 (Socio Economic Value Generated and Distributed) on the governance of economic, environmental and social G4-EC3 Liabilities that are met by the organisation’s general None 153 ISO 26000: 6.8.7 topics. resources, the percentage of salary contributed by G4-45 The highest governance body’s role in the identification 39-43, 56-104 employee or employer and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-46 Role of the highest governance body in reviewing the 107-114 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 48-55 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management G4-EC6 The percentage of senior management at significant None 56-69, 80-95 ISO 26000: 6.4.3, 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 6.8.5, processes locations of operation that are hired from the local 6.8.7 G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of 107-114 community. UNGC: Principle 6 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-48 The highest position for formal review and approval of the Managing & G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 48-55 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 organisation’s sustainability disclosures Finance Director G4-EC7 Significant infrastructure investments and services None 56-69, 80-95 ISO 26000: 6.4.3, Community G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the 107-114 supported. involvement and development highest governance body. ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-50 Addressing and resolving them critical concerns 107-114 communicated to the highest governance body G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 39-43 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body 107-114 G4-EC9 Percentage of the procurement budget used on None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 6.8.1, 6.8.2, and senior executives suppliers local to that operation 6.8.7 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 107-114 220 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 221 GRI index Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Women’s Empowerment Principles Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) (WEP) CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: OVERALL G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 39-43 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures None Rs. 111.7 Mn ISO 26000: 6.5.1 & 6.5.2 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 39-43, 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 UNGC: Principles 7,8 & 9 G4-EN3 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources None 39-43, 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.5.4 UNGC: Principles 7 & 8 CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-EN6 Amount of reductions in energy consumption None 39-43, 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.5.4, 6.5.5 SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK UNGC: Principles 8 & 9 ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 44-47 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 39-43, 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-LA1 Turnover during the reporting period None 44-47 ISO 26000: 6.4.3 G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn None 39-43, 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.5.4 UNGC: Principle 6 UNGC: Principle 8 WEP: Principle 2 G4-EN9 Total number of water sources significantly affected by None None withdrawal G4-LA2 Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of None As mentioned ISO 26000: 6.4.4 the organisation: herewith G4-EN10 Total volume of water recycled and reused by the None 56-104 organisation. Bonus/ salary increments on performance basis; Festival advance; Medical benefits; Retirement benefits/ ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY obligations G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 39-43, 56-69, ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS UNGC 80-95 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 44-47, 217ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-EN11 Operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent None 39-43, 56-69, ISO 26000: 6.5.6 218 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 80-95 UNGC: Principle 8 outside protected areas. G4-LA4 Minimum notice period None 1 month ISO 26000: 6.4.3, 6.4.5 G4-EN12 Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on None 39-43, 56-69, UNGC: Principle 3 biodiversity 80-95 ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-EN13 Size and location of all habitat protected areas or None 39-43, 56-69, restored areas 80-95 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-LA5 Level at which each subsidiary’s OHS representative/ None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.4.6 ASPECT: EMISSIONS committee operates within the organisation G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of Reported 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.5.5 CO2 equivalent only for G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 44-47 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 UNGC: Principles 7 & 8 CO2 G4-LA9 Average hours of training provided to employees during None 44-47 ISO 26000: 6.4.7 emissions the reporting period UNGC: Principle 6 G4-EN16 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions in metric tons None 56-104 WEP: Principle 4 of CO2 equivalent G4-LA10 Type and scope of programmes implemented and None 44-47 ISO 26000: 6.4.7, 6.8.5 G4-EN19 The amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.5.5 assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. UNGC: Principles 8 & 9 G4-LA11 Percentage of total employees by gender and by Only 100% ISO 26000: 6.4.7 employee category who received a regular performance reported for executive staff UNGC: Principle 6 ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE and career development review executive G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 cadre WEP: Principle 4 G4-EN23 Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.5.3, 6.5.4 disposal methods ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN UNGC: Principle 8 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 44-47 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-EN24 Total number and total volume of recorded significant None None ISO 26000: 6.5.3 spills. G4-LA13B Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women None 1:1 ISO 26000: 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 UNGC: Principle 8 to men UNGC: Principle 6 G4-EN26 Water bodies and related habitats that are prevented None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 from being affected by water discharges of the WEP: Principle 2 UNGC: Principle 8 organisation ASPECT: LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 44-47 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-LA16 Total number of grievances about labour practices None 05 grievances ISO 26000: 6.3.6 G4-EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for nonNone None ISO 26000: 4.6 filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the compliance with laws or regulations reporting period. UNGC: Principle 8 222 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 223 GRI index Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Standard Disclosure Requirements Omissions Page Number Linkage to ISO 26000:2010 clauses, External Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Disclosure (or Link) UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Assurance Women’s Empowerment Principles Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) (WEP) SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-PR5 Results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.6 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104, ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 surveys 217-218 G4-HR2 Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted None 56-104, ISO 26000: 6.3.5 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS to training on human rights policies or procedures 217-218 UNGC: Principle 1 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to G4-PR7 The total number of incidents of non-compliance with None None ISO 26000: 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.3 operations and the percentage of employees trained regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing ASPECT: NON – DISCRIMINATION communications G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 217-218 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and None None ISO 26000: 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 corrective action taken UNGC: Principle 6 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints received None None ISO 26000: 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.7 WEP: Principle 3 concerning breaches of customer privacy ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 217-218 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel who have received None 217-218 ISO 26000: 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 G4-PR9 The total monetary value of significant fines for nonNone None ISO 26000: 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.6 formal training in the organisation’s human rights policies UNGC: Principle 1 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments, None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.3.9, 6.5.1, 6.5.2, 6.5.3, 6.8 and development programmes UNGC: Principle 1 WEP: Principle 6 ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 217-218 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for None 100% ISO 26000: 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.3 risks related to corruption UNGC: Principle 10 G4-SO4 Total number and percentage of governance body None 100% ISO 26000: 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.3, members, employees, business partners that the Promoting social responsibility in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures value chain have been communicated to UNGC: Principle 10 G4-SO5 Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of None None ISO 26000: 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.3 corruption UNGC: Principle 10 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-SO8 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non None None ISO 26000: 4.6 -compliance with laws or regulations SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories None 56-104 ISO 26000: 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, for which health and safety impacts are assessed for 6.8.8 improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with None None ISO 26000: 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.4, regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health 6.7.5, 6.8.8 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of product 224 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 225 Investor information Public Holding The percentage of public holding as at 31st March 2016 was 36.48% with reference to the rule No. 7.6 (iv) of Colombo Stock Exchange. Twenty Largest Shareholders as at 31st March 2016 Stock Exchange Listing Name No. of Shares % Company Name Aitken Spence PLC Stock Symbol SPEN.N0000 1 Melstacorp Limited 176,193,390 43.40 ISIN LK0004N00008 2 Rubicond Enterprises Limited 65,990,145 16.25 Security Type in Issue Quoted Ordinary Shares Listed Exchange Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) Main Board 3 HSBC International Nominees Limited BPSS Lux -Aberdeen Global Asian Smaller Companies Fund 24,355,179 6.00 Market Sector Diversified Holdings 4 Employees’ Provident Fund 20,590,978 5.07 Featured Stock Indices All Share Price Index (ASPI), S&P (SL) 20 Index, Diversified Holdings Index 5 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd – BP2S LondonAberdeen Asia Pacific 12,192,300 3.00 6 Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 1.80 Analysis of Shareholder Base 7 HSBC International Nominees Ltd SSBT Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds LLC 5,795,500 1.43 Distribution of shares 8 Placidrange Holdings Limited 5,521,500 1.36 Shareholder Category 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 9 HSBC Intl Nominees Ltd BP2S London Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust XCC6 4,503,555 1.11 No. of shareholders No. of shares % No. of shareholders No. of shares % 10 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd – BP2S Luxembourg Aberdeen Global Frontier Markets Equity Fund 4,502,000 1.11 1 1,000 2,644 825,249 0.20 2,473 793,843 0.20 11 Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Limited 4,321,500 1.06 1,001 10,000 1,295 4,627,446 1.14 1,361 4,922,139 1.21 12 HSBC Intl Nominees Ltd – BP2S London Aberdeen Asia Smaller Companies Investment Trust 3,400,000 0.84 10,001 100,000 369 11,323,748 2.79 370 11,421,633 2.81 13 Stassen Exports (Pvt) Limited 3,244,500 0.80 100,001 1,000,000 82 24,927,447 6.14 92 27,402,490 6.75 14 Ms. A. T. Wickremasinghe 3,211,975 0.79 1,000,001 above 25 364,292,155 89.73 28 361,455,940 89.03 Total 4,415 405,996,045 100.00 4,324 405,996,045 100.00 15 Ms. K. Fernando 3,135,070 0.77 16 Mr. G. Wickremasinghe 3,019,090 0.74 There were 4,415 registered shareholders as at 31st March 2016 and they are entitled for one vote per share. (31st March 2015 4,324). 17 Employees’ Trust Fund Board 2,621,870 0.65 Individuals / Institutions Residents / Non-Residents 18 Bank of Ceylon No. I Account 2,596,230 0.64 19 National Savings Bank 2,593,516 0.64 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 No. of Shares % No. of Shares % No. of Shares % No. of Shares % 20 Mellon Bank N.A. Florida Retirement System 2,490,000 0.61 Total 357,586,538 88.07 Institutions 365,822,748 90.10 366,246,184 90.21 Residents 263,874,921 64.99 242,379,045 59.70 Individuals 40,173,297 9.90 39,749,861 9.79 Non-Residents 142,121,124 35.01 163,617,000 40.30 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 Shareholding of Directors 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 Shareholding of Directors together with their spouses in Aitken Spence PLC 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 Individuals / Institutions Residents / Non Residents Mr. J.M.S. Brito 309,495 304,495 as at 31st March as at 31st March Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 7,308,240 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 90.10% 9.90% 64.99% 35.01% 2016 2016 Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 27,839 27,839 90.21% 9.79% 59.70% 40.30% 2015 2015 Indirect holding by Directors 90.67% 9.33% 57.72% 42.28% 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 2014 2014 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Manohari Enterprises Ltd 298,830 298,830 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Melstacorp Limited 176,193,390 167,376,598 Institutions Individuals Residents Non Residents Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd 3,244,500 3,244,500 Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd 4,321,500 4,321,500 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC 186,500 186,500 Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd 21,200 21,200 226 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 227 Investor information Shareholding in Group companies Market Value 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC Mr. J.M.S. Brito 111,596 106,596 Highest (Rs.) 104.50 120.50 140.00 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 2,082,241 2,082,241 Lowest (Rs.) 67.10 95.50 95.00 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 Closing (Rs.) 73.50 99.50 97.90 Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 16,000 16,000 The market value of the ordinary share as at 24th May 2016 was Rs. 80.50. Hethersett Hotels Limited Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 1,041,500 1,041,500 Share Trading Information Market Value Per Share 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 for the year ended 31st March Number of transactions 4,363 7,868 3,755 140.00 No. of shares traded during the year 29,133,437 26,691,694 35,111,754 Value of shares traded during the year (Rs. Million) 2,733 2,771 3,965 120.50 Percentage of total value transacted (%) 1.18 0.78 2.03 97.90 99.50 104.50 95.00 95.50 73.50 Share Trading Market Capitalisation 67.10 for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March 35 1.59 29 2014 2015 2016 27 1.40 1.15 Highest (Rs.) Lowest (Rs.) Closing (Rs.) 3,965 2,771 2,733 39,747 40,397 29,841 Performance of the SPEN Share 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Share Price vs Indices 2015/2016 Value of shares traded No. of shares traded Market capitalisation Percentage of total 12 Months Trend during the year (Rs.Mn) during the year (No.Mn) on 31st March (Rs.Mn) market capitalization (%) Rs. Index Level 160.00 9,000 140.00 8,000 120.00 7,000 100.00 Market Capitalisation 6,000 5,000 80.00 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 4,000 60.00 Market capitalisation (Rs. Million) 29,841 40,397 39,747 3,000 40.00 Percentage of total market capitalisation (%) 1.15 1.40 1.59 2,000 20.00 1,000 0 0.00 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 ASPI S&P SL20 Diversified holdings sector Share Price 228 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 229 Investor information Share Price vs ASPI Investor Information 10 Year Trend (1st April 2006 to 31st March 2016) Index Level Rs. 9,000 250 8,000 Earnings 7,000 200 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 6,000 150 5,000 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 4.99 8.82 9.04 4,000 Price earnings ratio (P/E) (Times) 14.72 11.29 10.82 100 3,000 2,000 Net Assets per Share 50 1,000 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 31st March 2014 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 The Group (Rs.) 90.26 86.27 79.45 The Company (Rs.) 32.72 31.35 31.85 Share Price ASPI Dividends An ordinary dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share (2014/2015 Rs. 2.00 per share) has been recommended to the shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Price Earnings Ratio Net Assets Per Share as at 31st March as at 31st March History of dividend per share, dividend cover and dividend-payout ratio for the past 10 years 14.72 90.26 86.27 Year Dividend per share Dividend cover Dividend payout 79.45 11.29 (Rs.) (Times) ratio 10.82 2006/2007* 0.43 8.30 0.12 2007/2008* 0.47 9.72 0.10 2008/2009* 0.63 7.93 0.13 2009/2010* 0.67 7.61 0.13 2010/2011 1.00 6.25 0.16 2011/2012 1.40 6.14 0.16 2012/2013 1.50 5.40 0.19 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2013/2014 2.00 4.52 0.22 Price earnings ratio (P/E) (Times) Net assets per share (Rs.) 2014/2015 2.00 4.41 0.23 2015/2016 1.50 3.33 0.30 * The above figures are restated taking into consideration the subdivision of shares. Return on Equity Shareholder's Funds as at 31st March as at 31st March Dividend Per Share & Dividend Cover Dividend-Payout for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March 36,646 35,025 12.2% 32,257 2.00 2.00 10.6% 30% 1.50 5.7% 4.52 4.41 22% 3.33 23% 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Return on equity (%) Shareholder’s Funds (Rs.Mn) Dividend per share (Rs.) Dividend cover (Times) Dividend-Payout (%) 230 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 231 Group companies and directorate Aitken Spence Hotels International (Private) Limited * Holding company of resort companies in the Maldives and provides K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). international marketing services to resorts overseas. Cowrie Investment Private Limited * Directors: Owns and operates Adaaran Select Meedhupparu Maldives. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 30.11.2015), Directors: Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 30.11.2015), J.M.S. Brito (Chairman and Managing Director), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015), I.M. Didi, V.M. Gunatilleka (Resigned w.e.f. 30.11.2015). M. Salih, TOURISM MARITIME & LOGISTICS STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SERVICES Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Private) Limited * S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Manages resorts in Sri Lanka. • Hotels • Maritime and Port Services • Power Generation • Inward Money Transfer Crest Star (B.V.I.) Limited • Inbound & Outbound Travel • Freight Forwarding & Courier • Printing & Packaging • Elevator Agency Directors: The holding company and managing agent of Jetan Travel Services • Airline GSA Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Company Private Limited – Maldives. • Integrated Logistics • Apparel Manufacture • Insurance • Airline GSA (Cargo) • Plantations • Property C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Managing Director), Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty, • Maritime Education • Technology J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), K.A.A.C. Perera (Joint Managing Director) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) C.M.S. Jayawickrama, (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), R.E.V. Casie Chetty (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Private Limited Tourism sector Owns the 143 room hotel property Turyaa in Chennai. Crest Star Limited Directors: Directors: M. Mahdy, J.M.S. Brito (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), OUTBOUND TRAVEL J.M.S. Brito, A.K.M.P. Wijesekara (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Ace Aviation Services Maldives Private Limited * R.E.V. Casie Chetty, S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). K.A.A.C. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), General Sales Agents for Sri Lankan Airlines and Mihin Lanka in the S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Ace Resort Private Limited * S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 09.07.2015). Maldives. Proposed to construct and develop a resort in the Maldives. Golden Sun Resorts (Private) Limited Directors: Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia (Private) Limited * Owns and operates the resort Turyaa in Kalutara. S.T.B. Ellepola (Chairman), Directors: Manages resorts in Oman and in the Maldives. J.M.S. Brito, Directors: M. Firaq, Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Managing Director) (Appointed w.e.f.01.07.2015), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), N.A.N. Jayasundera, Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, K.R.T. Peiris, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), A.K.M.P. Wijesekara, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, D.L. Warawita. Dr. R.M. Fernando, M. Mahdy (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Aitken Spence Aviation (Private) Limited S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). T.D.U.D. Peiris (Resigned w.e.f. 01.02.2016). G.P.J. Goonewardena. General Sales Agents for Singapore Airlines and Singapore Airlines Cargo. Aitken Spence (Middle East) LLC * Heritance (Private) Limited * Directors: Aitken Spence Hotel Services Private Limited Owns the Al Falaj Hotel in Oman. Owns a land for a proposed hotel project. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), The Company ceased commercial operations during the year. Directors: Directors: S.K.R.B. Jayaweera (Managing Director). Directors: Dr. R.M. Fernando, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), R.S. Rajaratne, Aitken Spence Moscow (Private) Limited * C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, A.K.M.P. Wijesekara. The Company ceased operations during the year. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, A.K.M.P. Wijesekera, Directors: S.N. de Silva. Aitken Spence Resources (Private) Limited * K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Dr. J.W.A. Perera (Managing Director), Human resource management, foreign employment and recruitment S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC * company. S.T.B. Ellepola. Hethersett Hotels Limited * The holding company of the Group’s hotel interests. Owns and operates Directors: Owns and operates Heritance Tea Factory. Royal Spence Aviation (Private) Limited Heritance Ahungalla. Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), The Company manages Ace Aviation Services Maldives Private Limited. Directors: Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Directors: Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), G.P.J. Goonewardena, J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). S.K.R.B. Jayaweera. Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Aitken Spence Hotels Limited * K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015), Holding company of Kandalama Hotels (Private) Limited and Heritance S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). HOTELS (Private) Limited. Owns and operates Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Jetan Travel Services Company Private Limited * A.D.S. Resorts Private Limited * G.P.J. Goonewardena, Directors: Owns and operates Adaaran Club Rannalhi Maldives. Owns and operates Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi Maldives. R.N. Asirwatham, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Directors: Directors: C.H. Gomez, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya. N. Ratwatte (Resigned w.e.f. 22.12.2015), C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Appointed as Managing Director w.e.f. 01.07.2015), C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Appointed as Managing Director w.e.f. 01.07.2015), * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 232 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 233 Group companies and directorate H. Mohamed, Perumbalam Resorts Private Limited MARITIME & LOGISTICS SECTOR M. Mahdy, A fully owned subsidiary of PR Holiday Homes Private Limited. A.K.M.P. Wijesekara (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), Directors: T.D.U.D. Peiris (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 01.02.2016), J.M.S. Brito, FREIGHT FORWARDING AND COURIER INTEGRATED LOGISTICS S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Ace Aviation Services (Private) Limited Ace Containers (Private) Limited * Kandalama Hotels (Private) Limited * A.K.M.P. Wijesekera (Appointed w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Operates as General Sales Agents for airline cargo. Operates an inland container terminal, container freight station and provides Owns and operates Heritance Kandalama. M.R. Narayanan, haulage management. Directors: K.K.M. Rawther, Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: R. Narayanan, Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), K.R.T. Peiris, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 30.06.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, J.E. Brohier. A.M.M. Amir, S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). R.E.V. Casie Chetty, I.S. Cuttilan, Ace Cargo (Private) Limited K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), PR Holiday Homes Private Limited A. Jayasekera, Provides international freight forwarding services. S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Owns a land in Cochin, India for a future hotel project. N.P. Wakwella (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2015). Directors: M.P.S. Hotels (Private) Limited * Directors: Ace Container Repair (Private) Limited * Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), Owns and operates Hotel Hilltop, Kandy. J.M.S. Brito (Appointed w.e.f. 30.06.2015), Undertakes container repairs, conversions for Garments on Hangers (GOH) K.R.T. Peiris, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, and other purpose built solutions. Directors: J.E. Brohier. A.K.M.P. Wijesekera (Appointed w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Directors: M.R. Narayanan, Ace International Express (Private) Limited C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), K.K.M. Rawther, Provides international air express, domestic delivery, international mailing, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, A.M.M. Amir, K.A.A.C. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), supply chain solutions and record management. K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), A. Jayasekera, S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Directors: N.P. Wakwella (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2015). The Galle Heritage (Private) Limited Dr. P. Dissanayake, Meeraladuwa (Private) Limited Ace Container Terminals (Private) Limited * Proposed for constructing and operating a heritage hotel within the Fort of K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), Owns the island of Meeraladuwa. Provides container storage, customs brokerage, transport and warehousing Galle. J.E. Brohier. Directors: services. Directors: Aitken Spence Cargo (Private) Limited Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Directors: Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), International freight forwarding and General Sales Agents for airline cargo. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: A.M.M. Amir, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), A. Jayasekera, K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), N.P. Wakwella (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2015). S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). J.E. Brohier. Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Private) Limited * Ace Distriparks (Private) Limited * Triton (Private) Limited Leases company owned land and buildings to Aitken Spence Hotels DBS Logistics Limited Provides total integrated logistics services which encompasses warehouse (Being amalgamated with Vauxhall Investments (Private) Limited) Limited. International freight forwarder and network partner for DB Schenker. management, transport and distribution services, project cargo logistics, The holding company of Aitken Spence Aviation (Private) Limited. Directors: Directors: mobile storage solutions and acts as agents. Also agents for leading Liquid Directors: Cargo Operators and container leasing companies. Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), J.M.S. Brito, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Dr. P. Dissanayake, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, K.R.T. Peiris, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), J.E. Brohier. A.M.M. Amir, S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). A. Jayasekera, Spence International (Private) Limited Turyaa Resorts (Private) Limited N.P. Wakwella (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2015). Nilaveli Holidays (Private) Limited * Regional operating headquarters to manage operation overseas. (Formally known as Aitken Spence Resorts (Private) Limited) To operate a future hotel project. Directors: Ace Freight Management (Private) Limited Owns the 90 room hotel property Turyaa in Kalutara. Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, Undertakes clearing, forwarding and operates an inland container terminal. Directors: Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), K.R.T. Peiris, Directors: Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, J.E. Brohier. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, A.M.M. Amir, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Spence Maldives Private Limited K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), A. Jayasekera, K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Cargo General Sales Agents and provides international air express,domestic S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). N.P. Wakwella (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2015). S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). express and freight forwarding services in the Maldives. Nilaveli Resorts (Private) Limited * Directors: Aitken Spence Developments (Private) Limited * Unique Resorts Private Limited * To operate a future hotel project. Dr. P. Dissanayake, Property development company. Owns and operates Adaaran Prestige Vaadhoo Maldives. Directors: K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), Directors: Directors: Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), M. Firaq, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, J.E. Brohier, A.M.M. Amir, C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Appointed as Managing Director w.e.f. 01.07.2015), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, A. Ghiyas. A. Jayasekera. A.K.M.P. Wijesekara (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015), K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), M.D.B.J. Gunatilake (Appointed w.e.f. 14.03.2016), S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). T.D.U.D. Peiris (Resigned w.e.f 01.02.2016), M.S. Hassan (Resigned w.e.f. 25.06.2015), S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 234 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 235 Group companies and directorate Logilink (Private) Limited * Clark Spence and Company (Private) Limited * Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging (Private) Limited * Branford Hydropower (Private) Limited Provides container freight station services and deconsolidation of imports, Shipping agency services in all ports in Sri Lanka and an international freight Provides printing and packaging services to the local market. Owns a 2.5MW hydro power plant in Matale to supply electricity to the storing, distribution and consolidation for exports. forwarder. Directors: national grid. Directors: Directors: P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam. L. Wickremarachchi, K.R.T. Peiris, I.S. Cuttilan, Ms. N. Sivapragasam. A.M.M. Amir, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. APPAREL MANUFACTURE Western Power Company (Private) Limited A. Jayasekera, Fiji Ports Terminal Limited Obtained approval to construct, commission and operate a 10MW Waste to N.P. Wakwella (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2015). Ace Apparels (Private) Limited A joint venture with Fiji Ports Corporation Limited. To operate, manage, Energy Power Project to supply electricity to the national grid. Manufacturer and exporter of high quality apparels to departmental stores maintain and develop the two major ports of Suva and Lautoka in Fiji. Directors: and apparel importers mainly in the USA and EU. MARITIME AND PORT SERVICES Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Directors: Aitken Spence Maritime Limited * H. Patel (Chairman), L. Wickremarachchi (Managing Director), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Holding company of Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Limited and Aitken Spence N. Cook, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, P.C.J. Fernando (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2016), Ports International Limited. V. Chand, S.R.S.L. Karunanayake, J.S.A. Fernando (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2016). J.M.S. Brito, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne. Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, Aitken Spence (Garments) Limited Dr. P. Dissanayake, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Manufacturer and exporter of high quality apparels to departmental stores I.S. Cuttilan. CORPORATE ADVISORY I.S. Cuttilan. and apparel importers primarily in USA and EU. Aitken Spence Ports International Limited Directors: Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Private) Limited * Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Limited * (Formally known as Port Management Container Services (Private) Limited) R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Provides corporate services including that of corporate finance, treasury, Liner agency representation. Port management services which includes operations and productivity R.G. Pandithakorralage, legal, secretarial, human resource development, information technology, enhancement management in ports. Directors: financial shared service and security services to the group companies. P.C.J. Fernando (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2016), J. Schlotfeldt (Chairman), Directors: J.S.A. Fernando (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2016). Directors: F.R. Coutinho, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Managing Director), J.M.S. Brito, Aitken Spence Apparels (Private) Limited I.S. Cuttilan, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Dr. P. Dissanayake. Manufacturer and exporter of high quality clothing to departmental stores W.L.P. Wijewardena. Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, and apparel importers chiefly in USA and EU. Shipping and Cargo Logistics (Private) Limited * R.G. Pandithakorralage, Aitken Spence Shipping Limited * Directors: Liner agency representation. V.M. Gunatilleka (Resigned w.e.f. 30.11.2015). Shipping agency services in all ports in Sri Lanka. Liner, Cruise and Casual R.E.V. Casie Chetty, caller agency representation, Non Vessel Operating Container Carrier Directors: Aitken Spence Group Limited * P.C.J. Fernando (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2016), (NVOCC) and an international freight forwarder. V.M. Fernando (Chairman), Overall management of the Aitken Spence Group of Companies. J.S.A. Fernando (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2016). J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), Directors: Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), Dr. R.M. Fernando, K.M.A.T.B. Tittawella, POWER GENERATION A. Jayasekera, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, I.S. Cuttilan, I.S. Cuttilan, Ace Power Embilipitiya (Private) Limited K.R.T. Peiris, K.M. Fernando. Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony. Owns and operates a 100MW thermal power plant in Embilipitiya to supply Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Spence Logistics (Private) Limited * power to the national grid. Dr. P. Dissanayake, Aitken Spence Shipping Services Limited * NVOCC freight forwarding operator. Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Shipping agency activities in all ports in Sri Lanka. Directors: Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Directors: R.G. Pandithakorralage, Dr. P. Dissanayake, L. Wickremarachchi, Dr. P. Dissanayake, D.S. Mendis, A.M.M. Amir, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, I.S. Cuttilan, P. Karunatilake, I.S. Cuttilan, Ms. M. Spoelgen, A. Jayasekera. V.M. Gunatilleka (Resigned w.e.f. 30.11.2015), A. Jayasekera. Ms. A.M. Fernando. S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Ace Wind Power (Private) Limited Owns and operates a 3MW wind power plant in Ambewela to supply electricity to the national grid. STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR Directors: L. Wickremarachchi, Ace Printing & Packaging (Private) Limited * Ms. N. Sivapragasam. PRINTING AND PACKAGING (Being amalgamated with Aitken Spence Printing and Packaging (Private) Aitken Spence Power (Private) Limited Ace Exports (Private) Limited * Limited) Takes part in new project opportunities. Provides printing and packaging services to the direct and indirect export Provides printing and packaging services to the local market. markets. Directors: Directors: J.M.S.Brito, Directors: P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), L. Wickremarachchi, P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam. N. Sivapragasam. Ms. N. Sivapragasam. * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 236 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 237 Group companies and directorate SERVICES SECTOR EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Interlifts International Private Limited * TOURISM SECTOR Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Marketing, installing, commissioning and maintaining branded elevators, R.N. Asirwatham (Appointed w.e.f. 17.03.2016), Aitken Spence Property Developments (Private) Limited * escalators and other people moving equipment. Ace Travels & Conventions (Private) Limited * N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya (Appointed w.e.f. 17.03.2016), Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; “Aitken Spence Tower The company did not carry out operations during the year as the MICE Directors: T.D.U.D. Peiris (Resigned w.e.f. 10.02.2016), II” which serves as the Group’s corporate office at Vauxhall Street, Colombo. Activities are shown under Aitken Spence Travels (Private) Limited. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, (Appointed as Managing Director w.e.f. 18.03.2016), S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Directors: A.K.M.P. Wijesekera, Directors: Negombo Beach Resorts (Private) Limited * Dr. R.M. Fernando, M.M. Ahmed, N.A.N. Jayasundera, Owns and operates Heritance Negombo. Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.G. Salgado (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 18.03.2016). S.T.B. Ellepola, R.G. Salgado (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2016). P.L. Perera. Directors: Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), Vauxhall Investments (Private) Limited INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES Ahungalla Resorts Limited * Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Owns buildings and land in Bloemendhal Street. A joint venture company with RIUSA NED BV and in the process of C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd * constructing a 501 room resort in Ahungalla. Directors: K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Provision of Information Technology enabled services. P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Directors: S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). Ms. N. Sivapragasam. Directors: Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Dr. R.M. Fernando, Paradise Resort Pasikudah (Private) Limited C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Vauxhall Property Developments (Private) Limited * D.S. Mendis, Owning company of Amethyst Resort, Pasikudah. L. Riu Guell, Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; Ms. N. Sivapragasam, C.L.M. Riu Guell, Directors: “Aitken Spence Tower I”. R.G. Pandithakorralage, K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.07.2015) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2016), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed as Chairperson w.e.f. 01.01.2016), Directors: V.M. Gunatilleka (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 30.11.2015). R.E.V. Casie Chetty (Resigned w.e.f. 01.01.2016), V.J. Senaratne, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). B.H.R. Sariffodeen, R.G. Pandithakorralage. M.Z.H. Hashim, INWARD MONEY TRANSFER Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Private) Limited * A. Mahir. MMBL Money Transfer (Private) Limited * The company did not carry out operations during the year INSURANCE SURVEY AND CLAIM SETTLING AGENCY Principal agent for Western Union money transfer services in Sri Lanka. Directors: Aitken Spence Insurance (Private) Limited * N.A.N. Jayasundera, MARITIME & LOGISTICS SECTOR Directors: Survey and claim settling agents for several reputed insurance companies J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), S.T.B. Ellepola, Ace Bangladesh Limited and organisations worldwide . Superintendents for UN World Food D.S. Mendis (Managing Director), H.P.N. Rodrigo. Provides international freight forwarding services in Bangladesh. Programme in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. M.D.D. Peiris, Aitken Spence Travels (Private) Limited * Directors: Directors: Ms. Y.N. Perera, A joint venture with TUI one of the largest tourism companies in the world A. Mannan (Chairman), Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne (Managing Director), K. Balasundaram, and a leading destination management company in Sri Lanka. R. Rahman (Managing Director), A.N. Seneviratne, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, J.M.S. Brito, Directors: R.G. Pandithakorralage. J.V.A. Corera, Ms. F.R. Ahmed, J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), M.R.P. Balendra (Alternate Director to Ms. Y.N. Perera and M.D.D. Peiris), K.R.T. Peiris, N.A.N. Jayasundera (Managing Director), Dr. R.M. Fernando (Alternate Director to J.M.S. Brito), A. Rahman. INSURANCE BROKERING J.C. Munar (Appointed w.e.f. 13.05.2015), R.G. Pandithakorralage (Alternate Director to D.S. Mendis). M. Habig (Alternate Director to J.C. Munar) (Appointed w.e.f. 13.05.2015), Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Private) Limited * N.N. Lazaro (Appointed w.e.f. 13.05.2015), (Private) Limited (CINEC) * Placement of life insurance and general insurance business with insurance PLANTATIONS S.T.B. Ellepola (Alternate Director to J.M.S. Brito), Sri Lanka’s largest private maritime and higher education campus. companies in Sri Lanka. D.C. Schelp (Resigned w.e.f. 13.05.2015), Directors: Directors: Aitken Spence Agriculture (Private) Limited* P.A. Mitchell (Resigned w.e.f. 13.05.2015). Capt. P.A.P. Peiris, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, (Formally known as Aitken Spence Tawoos Agriculture (Private) Limited) To cultivate farm fruits and vegetables for the export market. Amethyst Leisure Limited C.L. Wikramanayake, A.N. Seneviratne, Holding company of Paradise Resort Pasikudah (Private) Limited. H.K. Jayanetti, R.G. Pandithakorralage. Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, J.M.S. Brito, Directors: J.M.S. Brito, Dr. R.M. Fernando. Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed as Chairperson w.e.f. 01.01.2016), ELEVATOR AGENCY Ms. N. Sivapragasam, V.J. Senaratne, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Elevators (Private) Limited * B.H.R. Sariffodeen, OTHER SERVICES R.G. Pandithakorralage, Exclusive agents and distributors in Sri Lanka and in the Maldives for M.Z.H. Hashim, S.A.R.S. Karunanayake, marketing, installing, commissioning and maintaining OTIS elevators, Aitken Spence Exports (Private) Limited* A. Mahir. D. Malais, escalators and other people moving equipment. Bottles and markets “Hethersett” bottled water. Browns Beach Hotels PLC * H.D.J.B. Ranchigoda, Directors: Directors: Owns the property leased out to Negombo Beach Resorts (Private) Limited. E.T. Komrowski, J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Chairperson) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2016), E.P. Komrowski (Alternate Director to E.T. Komrowski), Directors: B.D.S. Mendis (Joint Managing Director) (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2016), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, B. Sprotte (Alternate Director to D. Malais) (Resigned w.e.f. 31.05.2015). Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), S. Mariappan (Joint Managing Director) (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2016), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, J.M.S. Brito, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, C.D.D. Perera, M.V. Theagarajah, S. Joseph (Appointed w.e.f. 23.11.2015), S.M. Hapugoda (Resigned w.e.f. 30.06.2015). A.L. Gooneratne, R.G. Salgado (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2016), G. Pandya (Resigned w.e.f. 23.11.2015). * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 238 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 239 Group companies and directorate Glossary of terms Fiji Ports Corporation Limited SERVICES SECTOR Own and operates all the major ports in Fiji in addition to providing Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Private) Limited * navigational services. To construct and operate gated community type premium villas in Negombo. Directors: Directors: S. Ali (Chairman), A.Y. Atapattu (Chairman), Assets Held for Sale Capital Expenditure Debenture Ms. M. Konrote, J.M.S. Brito, V. Maharaj, The carrying amount of the asset value which will The total of additions to property, plant and A long term debt instrument issued by a S. Chandramohan, V. Chand, be recovered through a sale transaction rather equipment, intangible assets, investment corporate. Dr. R.M. Fernando, J.M.S. Brito, than through continuing use. property and the purchase of outside D.S. Mendis, Dr. P. Dissanayake, S.G. Atapattu. investments. Debt/Equity Ratio T. Kuruvakadua, T. Ricketts, Ecocorp Asia (Private) Limited * Asset Turnover Non-current interest bearing borrowing divided S. Singh. Formulates specialised surface protection systems and applications on Total revenue divided by average total assets. Capital Reserves by the total equity and minority interest. It shows different materials utilising nanotechnology; while introducing diverse Reserves identified for specific purposes and the extent to which the firm is financed by debt. innovative solutions for industries. STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR Available-for-Sale considered not available for distribution. Directors: Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC * Any non-derivative financial assets designated Derivatives C.V.J.P. Fraser, Managing agents for Elpitiya Plantations PLC. K.M. Fernando, on initial recognition as available-for-sale or any Carrying Amount Financial contracts whose values are derived Directors: V.M. Fernando, other instruments that are not classified as loans The amount at which an asset is recognised in from the values of underlying assets. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Dr. R.M. Fernando, and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or the statement of financial position. Dr. R.M. Fernando (Managing Director), Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Dividend Cover Merrill J. Fernando, Ms. N. Sivapragasam. Malik J. Fernando, Collateral Net profit attributable to the ordinary D.A. de S. Wickremanayake, AWDR Monetary or non monetary asset pledged or shareholders divided by the total dividend. D.C. Fernando (Alternate Director to Merrill J. Fernando), The Average Weighted Deposit Rate is calculated received as security in lieu of a loan or credit A.L.W. Goonewardena, by the Central Bank monthly and half yearly terms obtained or provided. Dividend – Payout Ratio Ms. M.D.A. Perera (Alternate Director to. Malik J. Fernando), based on the weighted average of all outstanding R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Dividends per share divided by earnings interest bearing deposits of commercial banks Collective Impairment Provision L.N. de S. Wijeyeratne. per share. This indicates the percentage of and the corresponding interest rates. Elpitiya Plantations PLC Impairment provision is measured on a collective the Company’s earning that is paid out to Owns tea, rubber and oil palm estates in the Pundaluoya, Pussellawa and basis for homogeneous groups of debtors that Shareholders in cash. Galle regions with a total land extent of 8,830.67 hectares. AWPLR are not considered individually significant. The Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate is Dividend Yield Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), calculated by the Central Bank weekly, monthly Contract Dividend per share divided by the market value Dr. R.M. Fernando (Managing Director), and half yearly based on commercial bank’s An agreement between two or more parties of a share. Merrill J. Fernando, lending rates offered to their prime customers. that has clear economic consequences that Malik J. Fernando, the parties have little, if any discretion to avoid Dividends Per Share (DPS) Dr. S.A.B. Ekanayake, Basis Point D.C. Fernando (Alternate Director to Merrill J. Fernando), usually because the agreement is enforceable Dividends paid and proposed, divided by the Ms. M.D.A. Perera (Alternate Director to Malik J. Fernando), One hundredth of a percentage point. by law. number of issued shares, which ranked for those S.C. Ratwatte, i.e.1/10000 dividends. A.L.W. Goonewardena, Credit Risk Ms. B.W.G.C.S. Bogahawatta. BAU The Risk that a counter party to a transaction Earnings Per Share (EPS) Business As Usual, the normal execution of fails to meet its contractual obligations in Net profit for the period attributable to ordinary operations within an organisation. accordance to the agreed terms and conditions. shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the Biological Asset Current Ratio period. A living animal or plant. Current assets divided by current liabilities. EBITDA Business Model Currency SWAP Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and The process adopted by a company to generate An agreement between two parties to buy and amortisation. revenue and make a profit from operations. sell or sell and buy a currency against another currency at fixed rates on fixed dates. * The companies’ financial statements are audited by KPMG. 240 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 241 Glossary of terms Effective Rate of Dividend Financial Instruments Impairment Market Capitalisation Return on Equity (ROE) Yield to Maturity Rate of dividend per share paid on the number Any contract that gives rise to financial assets Occurs when recoverable amount of an asset is The number of ordinary shares in issue multiplied Profit attributable to equity holders of the The discount rate that equals present value of all of shares ranking for dividend at the time of each of one entity and financial liability or equity less than its carrying amount. by the market price per share. company divided by average equity less nonexpected interest payment and the repayment of payment. instrument of another entity. controlling interest at the beginning and end of principal. Intangible Assets Market Risk the year. Effective Rate of Interest Financial Leverage An identifiable non-monetary asset without Possibility of loss arising from changes in the Young Managers Total long term and short-term interest divided by Total average assets divided by total average physical substance held for use in the production value of a financial instrument as a result of Revaluation Surplus Executives in managerial positions (Assistant average long term and short-term liabilities at the equity. or supply of goods or services for rental to others changes in market variables such as interest Surplus amount due to revaluing assets in Manager and above), and under 35 years of age. beginning and end of the year. or for administrative purposes. rates, exchange rates, credit spreads and other accordance with its fair value. Financial Liability asset prices. Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) Emissions A contractual obligation to deliver cash or Interest Cover Revenue Reserves The rate that a company is expected to pay on The release of greenhouse gases and/or their another financial asset to another entity or Operating profit before interest divided by the net Net Assets per Share Reserves set aside for future distributions and average to all its equity and debt holders. precursors into the atmosphere over a specified exchange financial instruments with another interest. Total assets less total liabilities including minority investments. area over a specified period of time. entity under conditions that are potentially interest divided by the number of shares in issue Working Capital unfavourable. Interest Rate Swap as at 31st March. SBU Current assets less current liabilities. Employee Turnover An arrangement whereby two parties swap Strategic Business Unit; is usually a profit centre Number of employees who leave an organisation Forward Exchange Contract interest rate commitments with each other to Net Profit Margin which focuses on specific product offerings over a year expressed as a percentage of the Agreement between two parties to exchange reduce interest rate risks on fixed or floating rate Net profit for the period divided by the revenue. and/or market segments thus can be identified total work force. one currency for another at a future date at a rate loans. individually within the framework of the main agreed upon today. Non-controlling Interest business. Equity Instruments Investment Property Part of the net results of operations and of net A contract that evidences a residual interest in GHG Investments in land and buildings that are held assets of a subsidiary attributable to interest Total Equity the assets of an entity after deducting all of its Greenhouse gases. to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or for which are not owned, directly or indirectly Total of share capital, reserves, retained earnings liabilities. both. through subsidiaries, by the parent. and non-controlling interest. Goodwill on Consolidation EURIBOR The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Operating Profit Margin (EBIT Margin) Total Shareholder Return (TSR) The Euro Interbank Offered Rate; is a rate value of the share of net assets acquired when Rate of return used in capital budgeting to Earnings before interest and tax divided by Change in market price of the share between calculated based on the interest rates at which a purchasing an interest in a company. measure and compare the profitability of revenue. end and beginning of the financial year, plus panel of European banks borrow funds from one investments. dividend for the year, divided by the market price another. Gross Treasury Bill Rate Price Earnings Ratio of the share at the beginning of the financial year. Weighted average treasury bill rate gross of LIBOR Market value per share divided by the earnings Fair Value withholding tax published by Central Bank of Sri The London Inter Bank Offer Rate; is an interest per share. Treasury Bill The amount at which an asset is exchanged or Lanka at the auction immediately preceding an rate calculated based on the rates at which Short term debt instruments with a maturity a liability settled, between knowledgeable and interest determination date. banks borrow and lend funds, in marketable size, Price to Book Value Ratio (PBV) period of 3, 6 or 12 months issued by the willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. with other banks in the London interbank market. Government of Sri Lanka. Market price per share divided by net assets per Guarantees It is commonly used as a benchmark for shortshare. Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVPL) term interest rates. Treasury Bond A contractual obligation made by a third party Financial instruments that are held for trading (Guarantor), who is not a party to a contract Quick Asset Ratio Medium to long term debt instruments with a and are designated as at fair value through profit between two others, that the guarantor will be Liquidity Risk minimum maturity period of 2 Years and issued Total current assets less inventories divided by and loss. liable if the guarantee fails to fulfil the contractual The risk of an entity having constrains to settle its by the Government of Sri Lanka which carries a total current liabilities. obligations under that said contract. financial liabilities. coupon (interest) paid on semi-annual basis. Financial Asset Related Parties Any asset that is cash or an equity instrument Held-to-Maturity Loans and Receivables Unquoted Shares Parties who could control or significantly of another entity or a contractual right to receive A financial asset with fixed and determinable A financial asset with fixed and determinable Shares which are not listed in a regulated Stock influence the financial and operating decisions of cash or another financial asset from another payments and fixed maturity, other than loan and payments that are not quoted in an active market Exchange. the business. entity or a contractual right to exchange financial receivables, for which there is a positive intention and do not qualify as trading assets. instruments with another entity under conditions and ability to hold to maturity. that are potentially favourable. 242 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 243 Notice of meeting Form of proxy Notice is hereby given that the Sixty Fourth Annual General Meeting of Aitken Spence PLC will be held at the Institute of the Chartered I/We …................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. of Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30 A, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 07 at 10.00 a.m. on Thursday, June 30, 2016 for the following purposes :….................................................................................................................................................................................................... being a member/members • To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors together with the Financial Statements of the Company and the Report of the Auditors thereon for the year ended 31st March 2016. of Aitken Spence PLC hereby appoint ………………………………………………………….……of .…………………………………………....... (whom failing) • To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. • To re-elect Mr. C.H. Gomez who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. Don Harold Stassen Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) • To re-elect Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: Joseph Michael Suresh Brito of Colombo (whom failing) “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who has attained the age of 82 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” Rohan Marshall Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) • To re-elect Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: Mahinda Parakrama Dissanayake of Colombo (whom failing) “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Deshamanya D.H.S. Don Stasshani Therese Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) Jayawardena who has attained the age of 73 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” Gaurin Chandraka Wickremasinghe of Colombo (whom failing) • To re-elect Mr. R.N. Asirwatham who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. R.N. Asirwatham who has Charles Humbert Gomez of Gibraltar (whom failing) attained the age of 73 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” Niranjan Joseph de Silva Deva Aditya of United Kingdom (whom failing) • To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. Rajanayagam Nalliah Asirwatham of Colombo • To re-appoint the retiring Auditors, Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. • To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. as my/our Proxy to represent me/us, to speak and to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 30th day of June 2016 and at any adjournment thereof and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Signed this …......................................... day of June Two Thousand Sixteen. R.E.V. Casie Chetty FCA, FCMA, MCMI, J Dip. MA …………………………………………….…………….. Company Secretary Signature Colombo 28th May 2016 Notes : 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend, speak and vote in his/her stead and a Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. The completed Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Office of the Registrars P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd., at No. 3/17, Kynsey Road, Colombo 8, not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting. 3. It is proposed to post the dividend warrants on 12th July 2016 provided the dividend recommended is approved. In accordance with the rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, the shares of the Company will be quoted exdividend with effect from 1st July 2016. Note : Instructions as to completion are noted on the reverse hereof. 244 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 245 Aitken Spence PLC | Shareholder feedback form INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION Name (Optional) : .......................................................................................................................................................................................... Kindly perfect the form of proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. Address (Optional) : .......................................................................................................................................................................................... If the proxy form is signed by an Attorney, the relative power of attorney should also accompany the proxy form for registration, if such power of attorney has not already been registered with the Company. : .......................................................................................................................................................................................... In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal (if required), which should be affixed and attested in the Number of shares held (Optional) : .......................................................................................................................................................................................... manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. The completed form of proxy should be deposited at the Office of the Registrars P W Corporate Secretarial (Pvt) Ltd., at No.3/17, Kynsey Road, Colombo 8 before 10.00 a.m. on June 28, 2016 being 48 hours before commencement of the meeting. Please rate the following areas (where applicable) on a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 is the lowest to 5 being the highest Lowest Highest 1 2 3 4 5 1. Reporting a) Quality and presentation of the Annual Report o o o o o b) Likelihood of the financial information in the Annual Report to influence investment decisions o o o o o c) Likelihood of the environmental information in the Annual Report to influence investment decisions o o o o o d) Likelihood of the social information in the Annual Report to influence investment decisions o o o o o e) Satisfaction with the risk management strategies of the Company o o o o o 2. Corporate Communication a) Quality of Group communications appearing in traditional media (newspapers, radio, television). o o o o o b) Quality of Group communications appearing in emerging and new media (social media, web). o o o o o c) Accessibility and availability of information related to the Group in mass media channels o o o o o 3. Employees a) Satisfaction with the conduct of Group employees o o o o o b) Competency of Group employees based on your recent interactions. o o o o o c) Availability of talent management related information o o o o o 4. Sustainability a) Satisfaction with the strategies developed for economic sustainability o o o o o b) Satisfaction with the commitment of the Group towards environmental conservation and management o o o o o c) Satisfaction with the commitment of the Group towards social empowerment and community o o o o o development d) Ethical conduct of the Group in business activities o o o o o 246 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 247 Aitken Spence PLC | Shareholder feedback form Please tick more than one where applicable: 5. What areas of the following business activities are you interested in receiving more information regarding via Group communication channels? a) Sustainability initiatives o b) Reporting processes o c) Internal operations o d) New business initiatives o e) Strategic investments o 6. 6. What channels of communication are preferred when receiving Group related information? a) Web o b) Print media o c) Electronic media o d) Social media o e) Mobile o 7. Out of the following, what areas of sustainability do you feel Aitken Spence Group should focus in greater detail? a) Energy o b) Water o c) Biodiversity o d) Waste management o e) Resource efficiency o f) GHG emission reduction o g) Social empowerment o h) Infrastructure development o i) Education o The completed Feedback Form could be handed over to a Company representative at the end of the Annual General Meeting or emailed to info@aitkenspence.lk or mailed / delivered to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02, Sri Lanka. 248 Aitken Spence PLC . Annual Report 2015 2016 Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd AITKEN SPENCE PLC 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka T : + (94) 11 230 8308 F : + (94) 11 244 5406 www.aitkenspence.com
