United Global Compact. Communication progress 2016. Company Name Contact Name Submission Date Number of Employees Berendsen plc Nagore Marco 15 April 2016 Approximately 15,000 Address Position Membership Date Sector 4 Grosvenor Place Group Risk Manager 27 January 2009 Support Services London SW1X7DL Telephone Number Highest level executive Country 0044 207 259 6663 Chief Executive Officer United Kingdom Introduction and progress since joining Berendsen plc became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on 27 January 2009. This is our 7th communication on Progress. We outline below the progress we are making in each of the areas covered by the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Participation in the Global Compact continues to provide us with a recognised and respected policy framework for our work on corporate responsibility. Many of the markets that we operate in are continuing to demand higher levels of cooperation and innovation in the areas outlined in the Global Compact’s ten principles. As a Support Service, we understand the importance of ensuring we can grow with our client’s demands to provide a service which benefits our customers, our environment, our communities and our world as a whole. Statement of continued support As Chief Executive Officer I commit Berendsen plc to continued support for the United Nations Global Compact in the coming year. James Drummond Chief Executive Officer Signature 02 Our business and its impacts Our customers demand that we provide the highest standards of products and service; they require us to source the products that We continue to be a focused European textile, hygiene and safety they need, and provide the highest standards of cleanliness. solutions business. We lease, source, clean and maintain textiles Increasingly we need to be innovative and flexible to meet these that our customers need to keep their business running. The demands, whilst maintaining high standards of reliability and European textile rental market in which we operate can be broken timeliness of delivery. down into six key areas: cleanroom, mats, healthcare, washroom, We continue to focus on maintaining excellent operational hospitality and workwear. Through our network of laundries and standards both in our laundries and within our distribution network. other production facilities we provide service solutions to each of We recognise that our customers and our own people demand that these areas. We also provide direct sales and production. we comply with all appropriate employment standards, in all the Within each of our business lines there are market dynamics that countries where we operate. Throughout 2015, our businesses were influence individual market segments. The specialist services we structured around “core growth” areas and “manage for value” areas. provide are predominantly non-core activities for our clients. Our This will change in future reports to reflect our new business structure density and scale in our key geographies allows us to provide an which focuses on 4 Key sectors: Hospitality, Healthcare, Workwear expert and cost-efficient service, meeting our client’s needs and and Facility (which includes Mats, Cleanroom and Washroom). Our allowing them to free up capital to invest in their own business. As strategic restructuring, which took place after a review of our clients expand, we often expand with them, working efficiently business strategy in 2015, will allow us to focus on our customers across national boundaries. Our services may be non-core but and deepen our understanding of their markets. This will in turn they are often absolutely critical for the safe day-to-day running of unlock greater opportunities for our businesses going forward. our clients’ operations (e.g. hospitals, food industry, R&D Each of these sectors contribution to our total group revenue in 2015 centres). Our track record in understanding evolving standards and 2014 was as follows: and our ability to devise innovative products and services to meet them means we are a partner of choice in many industries. Our economies of scale mean that we can launder and sterilise far Business overview more cost-effectively and efficiently than our clients. Our focus on 2015 2014 reducing our use of water, electricity, chemicals, oil & gas and Revenue Revenue CO2 emissions (WECO) not only gives us a competitive advantage but also gives our clients the confidence to use us as Core growth part of their own environmental supply chain due diligence. Workwear £304.6m £295.3m The nature of our business dictates that the services we provide • Managed supply of dedicated garments; to customers have varying impacts on the environment, our • Fitting and selection advice; and employees and the communities in which we operate. These • Automated dispensing solutions. manifest themselves in varying degrees throughout the product and service lifecycle, and include: Facility £224.3m £237.7m • The production and/or purchase of textiles, much of which is • Mats; sourced from overseas. As a consequence we are mindful of • Washroom; and ensuring that appropriate labour practices are applied • Cleanroom. throughout our supply chain; • The washing, drying and packing of textiles at our plants where UK Flat Linen £210.1m £207.5m we use of water, energy and detergents. These are closely Hotels and restaurants monitored within a programme of reduction; • Managed linen supply; • Many of our employees work in our plants with industrial • Product innovation; laundry machinery and equipment so we recognise the • Workwear supply and chef wear; and importance of providing them with the appropriate training, tools • Restaurant textile services. and equipment to create a safe and healthy working Healthcare environment; • Managed linen supply to hospital wards; • The delivery of our products and services involves a high level • Sterile textiles supply to operating of logistics. We therefore understand the importance of theatres; and continually reviewing the routing of delivery vehicles to ensure • Supply of single use textiles, dressing the most efficient use of our fleet resources and fuel; and packs and sterile consumables. • Our operations recruit from the local community and many of Manage for value our plants are in suburban areas. We therefore recognise the importance of maintaining a strong local reputation. Hotels outside UK £267.0m £298.1m Healthcare outside UK Clinical solution and decontamination 03 Our strategic approach to Vision, Mission & Values sustainability The driving force behind our sustainability goals and the deliverability of our CR strategy are contained within our new We recognise that corporate responsibility is vital to the long-term Vision, Mission and Values. They represent the ethos Berendsen sustainability of our company. We stay close to our key stakeholders holds itself to and inform the decisions we make on a daily basis. in order to understand their expectations on all aspects of CR which They show that our customers, people, communities and in turn guide our business decisions. More than ever, our credentials environment are at the core of all that we do: in these areas are influencing our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, investors and suppliers. They also underpin Our Vision: “Through great customer partnerships and innovation our licence to operate by strengthening our relationships with local we will be respected for being the best, setting new standards and communities, industry partners and regulators. developing services that benefit all of our stakeholders” By focusing on smarter working practices and continuous Our Mission: “We are here to develop and provide valueadded dialogue with our stakeholders, we believe that corporate textile, hygiene and safety solutions” responsibility brings a number of opportunities to our business: Our Values: • Our corporate responsibility commitments help us contribute to our customers' own sustainability commitments; • New ideas and technologies improve how we work, reducing our environmental impact and our operating costs; • Being a good employer and supporting our people to do their best work helps us attract and retain high performing individuals and create a great place to work; and • Seizing the opportunity to be a more responsible business helps differentiate us from our peers and stand out in a competitive marketplace. These opportunities have informed how we focus our efforts on CR: Throughout 2016 we will be reviewing our Corporate Responsibility strategy and policies so that we can continue to improve and develop our approach to sustainability, for the benefit of our customers, employees, local communities and environment. 04 Human rights and Labour may have relating to the supply chain. These guidelines and hotline contact information have been communicated to suppliers principles and are also accessible via our website. Principle 1 We regularly conduct supplier visits and these are complemented Businesses should support and respect the protection of by our assurance provider’s independent audits, which report on internationally proclaimed human rights. each supplier’s level of compliance and alert us to any areas that require improvement. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in We also have teams of quality managers working at supplier plant human rights abuses. level, and their responsibilities include maintaining a clear focus on corporate responsibility matters including human rights. Principle 3 We maintain a firm focus on child labour, forced labour and labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the conditions. We are absolutely committed to ensuring that child effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. labour is never used by any Berendsen supplier and will work toward publishing a public statement to this effect in compliance Principle 4 with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 requirements. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. In relation to principles 3 and 6 Principle 5 Our ability to look after the well-being and development of all our Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. people has a direct impact on our overall strategic performance. By engaging our people we improve customer satisfaction and Principle 6 retention and ultimately Berendsen’s growth prospects. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Human Resources and Employee Policy outlines the appreciation of our responsibility to our employees, and the importance of creating and maintaining a working environment Our Policies where the basic rights of all employees are recognised. Our employment procedures continue to be guided by the following principles: In relation to principles 1, 2, 4 and 5 • Non-discrimination between employees or potential employees We thoroughly acknowledge the importance of supporting and and equal opportunities for all; respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human • Recruitment, promotion and development of employees based rights processes and have procedures in place designed to on each individual’s aptitude, abilities and skills; ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Provision of suitable training according to role and Our main human rights risks relate to our suppliers. We reduce responsibilities; these risks by closely managing our supply chain and awarding contracts to large and trusted suppliers. • Employee pay that meets at least national minimum standards; We have a Supplier Code of Conduct which is communicated to • Excessive hours not being encouraged; suppliers and made available through our website. The key principles • Effective communication with our employees; of our code of conduct ensure suppliers: • Acknowledgement of the right of any employee to join a trade • Recognise and respect the protection of internationally union; proclaimed Human Rights; • No tolerance of victimisation, sexual or other harassment or • Abide and work in line with the United Nations Global compact bullying; and principles on Human Rights and Labour; • Regular feedback through biannual employee surveys. • Ensure the provision of a safe working environment for employees; Our Group Ethics Policy recognises the importance of reinforcing the key messages about our values as a business and • Strictly prohibit the use of Child labour OR any form of slavery, is currently under review so that we can communicate a strong forced labour and Human Trafficking as defined in the Modern consistent message to our employees in line with the new Slavery Act 2015; Berendsen Mission, Vision and Values. • Ensure labour conditions are fair; wages reflect work Our Health and Safety Policy identifies the key principles to be performance and all legal requirements are complied with; and adopted to ensure that best practices are in place across the • Prevent any form of discrimination based upon any distinction such group. Each of our business units are required to adopt and as; race, gender, age, ethnicity, political opinion, origin etc. operate with appropriate health and safety documentation at all times, while considering the appropriate local legislation and We have a supplier whistleblowing scheme in place which specialist operational requirements. We are continually reviewing enables suppliers to raise with us any issues or concerns they 05 our Health and Safety policies and continue working towards The Academy was further developed in 2015 through the launch achieving our objective of zero incidents. of an E-learning platform which provides a range of programmes to enhance management skills. Our goal is a working culture that is inclusive for all. We are committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity Our LEAD (Leadership Effectiveness and Development) model amongst our workforce. We aim for our employees to be defines key areas of effective leadership and behaviour for our representative of the communities in which we operate and for senior manager and plant manager roles. each of our people to feel respected and able to give their best. This was developed during 2013 and combines behaviours which Implementation have made us successful up till now with behaviours that will make us even more successful in the future. These behaviours Vision, Mission and Values are a cornerstone of our PDR (Performance and Development Berendsen’s Vision and Mission are supported by our Values of Review) process. In 2015 we continued to embed LEAD through Determination, Caring, Empowerment, Teamwork, Safety and LEAD Development Centres. These are intensive and stretching Integrity. These Values represent the core principles we stand for one day events aimed at building competency around LEAD and believe in as a Group. They also form part of our behaviours. They are either one-to-one or group based Performance and Development Review (PDR) so that programmes and result in each participating manager being performance is evaluated in line with our values. provided with a tailored development report that identifies strengths and opportunities for ongoing learning and In 2015 we continued to motivate, engage, develop, reward and development. In 2015, 97 managers at both plant and senior level recognise our employees. participated in our LEAD Development Centres, receiving tailored Employee engagement individual feedback and pointers for future development plans. In 2015 we conducted our second company-wide “One As a result of our business strategy review in 2015, and the Berendsen” employee engagement survey. We had a subsequent introduction of our new business model, the LEAD participation rate of 84% and maintained our overall engagement model will undergo a review to ensure it remains aligned with our score of 69%. We will be working with employee groups new strategy. throughout 2016 to identify improvement actions for each of Management rewards Berendsen’s 140+ workplaces, all aimed at further enhancing levels of engagement into the future. We reward our managers based on their performance, potential and contribution to the success of the business. We aim to Employee communication provide competitive fair rates of employee pay and benefits in We place a high priority on employee communication and make every country where we operate. In 2015 we continued to focus use of a variety of channels to provide a wide range of company on clear and transparent links between performance and reward. information, news, knowledge sharing and best practice We incentivise managers through annual bonus programmes exchange. We continue to develop Berendsen Universe which is aligned to the key performance objectives of each business line, our group intranet accessible to all employees. In 2015, we which in turn support our strategy for growth. The Berendsen published nine editions of our corporate newsletter highlighting Long Term Incentive plan, first introduced in 2012, rewards business strategy, company successes in sales and services, managers for the achievement of strategic goals and encourages product news and other developments across the company, with share ownership. 107 were rewarded in 2015, with this figure each issue introduced by the CEO giving regular updates on expected to rise in 2016. company performance. Diversity Training and development Our goal is a working culture that is inclusive for all. We are In all areas of the business we invest in the development of our committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity people’s skills and in 2015 we spent just under £2.5 million on amongst our workforce. We aim for our employees to be training and development. Throughout the year we continued to representative of the communities in which we operate and for develop and invest in our leadership development programmes each of our people to feel respected and able to give their best. and maintained our investment in a group of over 20 management One of our commitments in this respect is to improve gender trainees across the business diversity. Whilst 43% of our employees are female in 2015 they occupied only 29% of middle management roles, and 11% of In 2015 we continued to add to the learning and development senior leader roles. These figures however are an increase from opportunities provided through the Berendsen Academy. The 2014 and show our continuing focus on gender balance. We are Academy, first launched in 2012, is Berendsen’s in-house committed to the development of practical initiatives which will “corporate university” for furthering company knowledge, help us achieve our gender diversity objectives for 2016. expertise and leadership development. We decided to expand the Academy by introducing a LEAN programme in 2015; this will train our people in LEAN processes and skills to eliminate waste and increase efficiency in our processes. We expect good results from this and the programme will continue into 2016. 06 Gender statistics 2015 Despite an average trend of reduction in major injuries since 2009, we are disappointed that, compared with 2014, the incident Female Male % Female rate has increased by 23% in 2015. As a result of this, and as part of the strategy review which concluded in November 2015, the Board of directors 2 5 29% Executive Board has revised its approach to health and safety to (2014: 29%) ensure we continuously drive improvement by increasing visibility of safety risks, understanding root causes and taking appropriate Senior management 12 109 11% action. (2014: 9%) Health and Safety is now the first item on the agenda at all formal Other management 158 380 29% management meetings and the Health and Safety Director, (2014: 28%) appointed January 2015, is now a key part of the Berendsen Excellence function which is directed by an Executive Board Employees 6,622 8,778 43% Member. Management bonuses have now also been aligned with (2014: 43%) health and safety performance (25% relates to health and safety performance). Supply chain and overseas textile suppliers Major injury rate statistics for 2015 reported to the Board and We regularly visit suppliers and use a single assurance provider included in our 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were as to carry out independent audits of these suppliers to ensure that follows: our ethical standards are being correctly observed, including those relating to human rights and working conditions. During Health & Safety statistics 2015 our assurance provider completed eight audits at supplier Business Major Number of locations in Cambodia, Pakistan, Vietnam, the Philippines and the lines injury rate* major injuries United Arab Emirates. No significant issues relating to ethical standards were reported but a number of recommendations were Facility – – made to further improve the high standards that our suppliers adopt. We have been working with external specialists and Workwear 0.86 5 suppliers to ensure that actions are complete, or are in progress, UK Flat Linen 0.50 4 to address all of the recommendations made. This approach provides us with a standard audit process and Flat Linen outside UK 0.86 4 reporting mechanism, highlighting each supplier’s level of Clinical Solutions compliance and flagging any actions required for improvement. and Decontamination – – For added assurance, we have a supplier whistleblowing scheme which enables suppliers to flag up any issues or areas of concern. Total Group 0.54 13 Total Group – 2014 0.44 11 Measurements of outcomes Total Group – 2013 0.79 23 • 69% employee engagement level which is 8pts higher than *Major Injury Rate = (Number of major injuries/Total hours worked) X 1,000,000 benchmark norm. • £2.5 million investment in employees training and The reporting and monitoring of all health and safety related development in 2015. incidents will continue into 2016 and beyond, including regular • Eight audits at supplier locations completed with clear reporting to the Board. This will be enhanced through the recommendations made to suppliers. No significant issues Berendsen Excellence Function and their work towards have been reported. consolidating and automating our incident reporting system. This • No issues reported through the whistleblowing system. will allow for the extraction of reports, KPIs, statistics and transparent monitoring of incidents over each Berendsen site. Health and safety The health and safety of our people is paramount. Although we operate in many countries, with varying local standards, both in Our employees are at the heart of our business and their health terms of regulation and accepted best practice, we are aiming for and safety is a fundamental element of our strategy and one of a much higher standard than mere compliance. We are seeking to our new core values. implement best-in-class health and safety systems across our Our Incident Reporting System requires that all major injuries, businesses to ensure we improve our performance and move significant near misses/dangerous occurrences, and cases of any towards out objective of zero accidents. occupational disease are reported upwards through the organisation. The Board receives information regularly on health and safety, including details of all reported incidents, as well as incident statistics, including major injury rate. 07 Environmental principles sustainable, reduce costs for both ourselves and our customers and ultimately help us to win and retain more customer contracts. Principle 7 Our priorities are therefore now well-established and are centred Businesses should support a precautionary approach to around our use of water, electricity, chemicals and oil/gas environmental challenges; (WECO). Principle 8 Water and energy consumption Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Water plays an inevitably significant role in our washing processes and its effective use and recovery has an important Principle 9 impact on our overall environmental and operational performance. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Water recovery initiatives form the spearhead of our drive to friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals improve efficiency. Across the group, most operations now have water recovery systems in place. Changes in process account for Our Policy most of the reduction in this water usage. These reductions have been achieved through the introduction of highly technical wash We continue to acknowledge the importance of our business units systems that produce high quality work using much less energy supporting a precautionary approach to environmental and water with an additional benefit of reduction in fabric damage. challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater Product innovation is also playing a part in reducing water environmental responsibility, and encouraging the development consumption. For example, the shift from cotton to polycotton in and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. our UK operations has led to a reduction in water and energy We remain committed to protecting the environment both through consumption. In the UK, the change in process is capable of our own actions and also by working with our suppliers. Our producing high quality work at 1.8kg per litre of water in some of environmental principles are consistent with those of the our flat linen plants. As a UK group, we processed 5.9kg of European Textile Services Association, which represents and textiles per Litre in 2015 which shows a 23.3% reduction on our promotes the textile rental services sector in Europe. water use in 2010. Through the communication of our own Group Environmental We also work alongside our suppliers to validate our water Policy we actively promote awareness in our business units of recovery processes. Chemical suppliers analyse our performance the need for: and identify areas for improvement, while our boiler water treatment suppliers check boiler operation and provide reports on • Lower water and energy consumption; efficiency. An efficient boiler is the mark of good energy • Use of environmentally friendly washing detergents and management, and we check performance by monitoring the packaging materials; quality of the water. We also use flue gas thermometers, steam trap surveys and check on hot well temperatures to help us • Minimisation of distances travelled when making deliveries; identify efficiency issues. We have installed reverse osmosis • Re-use or recycling of textiles; and systems at sites where the boiler water supply has a high Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) count. These systems ensure very high • Targeted staff training on environmental issues and quality water is supplied to the boilers reducing the need to blow housekeeping. down boiler water to maintain the water quality within the boiler. To complement the adoption of these principles our business We will continue to focus on initiatives that will reduce our use of units specifically focus on: water and increase our recovery rate, as long as they also make • Researching with suppliers ways to minimise the amount and commercial sense in reducing our cost base for our business and concentration of detergents used in our laundries and disposed our customers. of in effluent, and opportunities for low temperature washing; Chemicals and detergents • Routinely recovering water and energy for re-use; In 2015 we implemented a new enzyme process in the washing • Minimising heat, energy loss and fuel usage; cycle in another 31 laundries (20 in 2014), which partially replaces detergents and chemicals as well as improving whiteness and • Regularly reviewing vehicle routing to ensure the most efficient quality. From an environmental perspective, this leads to a use of fleet resources and fuel; and reduction in resources used and fewer harmful substances • Recycling textiles, paper and packaging materials wherever this contained within the waste water. is possible. We have also introduced ‘cool chemistry' in eight of our 25 UK flatwork laundries. This enables reduced wash temperatures with Implementation associated reduced energy. The wash chemicals are dynamically manufactured on site, reducing the need for resources as well as The nature of our business means that in our everyday operations contributing to a reduced environmental impact. In 2016, we aim we inevitably use significant amounts of raw materials, energy to roll out the enzyme process and cool chemistry across and chemicals. Reducing the volumes used and better managing additional UK laundries. our overall environmental impact will make our business more 08 Transport and logistics We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology and conversion factors to assess our carbon footprint. We updated the All vehicles adhere to the requirements of low emission zones conversion factors on 1 January 2015 to reflect the new factors and we always specify the latest and most efficient engines for used by DEFRA in the UK. We have attempted to calculate our new vehicles. In order to maintain tight control on our operations, scope 2 emissions using both the location based method and we own and operate most of our fleets ourselves. We also market based method, as required by the Greenhouse Gas constantly review fuel costs and usage. We have a range of Protocol but we have only been able to get these figures from our initiatives and programmes in place to help us reduce this impact. UK suppliers. We will engage with all of our EU suppliers during The aim is to reduce fuel consumption by minimising harsh 2016 to ensure they are up to speed with our requirements. acceleration, braking, and excessive idling. We monitor and regularly review vehicle routes to improve fuel efficiency and, We value the role of the Carbon Trust Standard in helping wherever possible, use fewer large vehicles instead of more of companies reduce emissions and our UK business is proud of its the smaller ones across the business. Large vehicles have the existing CO2 and water certification. The water certification was advantage of being able to carry greater volumes per mile driven, renewed at the end of 2015 and we will actively be looking to which enables us to reduce the overall number of vehicles on the renew the CO2 certification at the end of 2016. These standards roads at any one time. are only awarded to those organisations that measure, manage and reduce their carbon footprint, which is a key priority for Energy and CO2 Emissions Berendsen. Our activities consume energy and produce CO2 and we work hard to reduce consumption and improve efficiency. Measurements of outcomes Our initiatives on water recovery have a positive knock-on effect • In the UK water consumption has been reduced by 38% from on energy usage – when we use less water, it requires less 9,512 litres/tonne shipped in 2008 to 5906 litres in 2015. energy to heat it. This is also due to the recovered water already • We have achieved a 16% reduction in energy usage* in the being at a high temperature and therefore needing less energy to UK in 2015 (from a 2008 baseline). This means we are bring it up to the correct temperature for washing. Process progressing towards meeting the requirements of the UK changes have been adopted throughout our sites in 2015. These Climate Change Agreement of reducing energy usage by changes include the integration of high efficiency systems which 25% by 2020 are capable of producing high quality work at 1.8 Litres of water per kg of textiles and have led to further reductions in our energy • In November 2015 our Workwear laundry in Klarenbeek consumption. Across several plants in Europe we are changing was awarded the FTN Energieprijs 2015. This shows our the preferred energy supply from “all oil” to take account of the commitment to reducing our energy consumption and opportunities offered by more sustainable local energy sources. In the great work undertaken by our businesses locally to addition all UK sites currently run on gas. As burning oil produces achieve this. 45% more CO2 per kWh that using gas, we are producing less • 1 kWh of gas = 1 unit, 1kWh electricity= 2.6 units. CO2 Emissions in our plants. We are on track to comply with Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive which requires that large enterprises complete regular energy audits. In the UK, our first audit was completed in October 2015. As the table below shows, Kg of CO2 per tonne of laundry shipped has fallen from 379Kg in 2014 to 364Kg in 2015. Our total CO2 emissions Kg of CO2 per tonne of laundry shipped 2015 2014 Facility 258 261 Workwear 491 500 UK Flat Linen 370 369 Flat Linen outside UK 328 359 Clinical Solutions and Decontamination 735 1,163 Total Group 364 379 09 Anti-corruption principles All businesses within the group are tasked with adopting a riskbased approach to managing any potential issues relating to Principle 10 bribery and corruption. An Anti-bribery and Corruption risk Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, assessment is submitted by each business on an annual basis, including extortion and bribery the results of which are reviewed and reported to our Audit Committee. This update on compliance with our anti-bribery and corruption procedures and will continue into 2016 and beyond. Our Policy We already have a well-established Incident Reporting System which covers a number of different areas. This has been We maintain a zero tolerance line against bribery and corruption extended to include any known instances of actual or suspected and have a policy which sets out the minimum requirements to bribery and/ or corruption. We had 3 counts of internal fraud ensure this stance is consistent throughout the Group. The audit reported in 2015. These were incidents relating to textile theft, process for new suppliers includes compliance with our antipetty cash misappropriation, and falsification of contracts. In these bribery and corruption requirements, a process that is overseen instances, appropriate corrective actions were taken and we had by our group procurement function. Each year, or upon any no customers affected as a result of these incidents. significant changes to the business, each business unit must complete an anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment, and For 2016 our aim is to produce E-learning training so that we bribery awareness is frequently an agenda item for management have the tools to ensure all of our employees are up to date and meetings. informed on the subject of Anti-bribery and Corruption. Implementation Measurements of outcomes Our Group Ethics Policy states that we are committed to • We had 3 cases of internal fraud reported in 2015. We take a operating within the law of each and every jurisdiction in which we zero tolerance stance towards any form of corruption; we will operate and to the highest ethical standards. We recognise that aim to report zero instances of corruption in 2016. this can only be achieved with the continued integrity and • All businesses submitted their Anti-Bribery and Corruption commitment of our employees. The policy identifies key principles risk assessments with no net risks being highlighted as high. that should be adopted by all employees which include not accepting or offering anything of value in the nature of an inducement, facilitation payment or bribe. We will be updating this policy to further strengthen and align our approach taking into account the new core value of integrity.
