Schiphol Group Annual Report 2015 Value creation Value creation Connecting the Netherlands Schiphol Group’s mission is Connecting the Netherlands: Permanently connecting the Netherlands to the rest of the world in order to contribute to prosperity and well-being in this country and elsewhere; connecting to compete and connecting to complete. G H a Network and special interest o Knowledge institutions Alliances & organisations M Outcome Participations s Employees Sustainable & Safe Performance R Real Estate B 1 Business partners Ambition D Q Development V al u e W ho Ho w What W hy of the Group Output F T Financial stakeholders c Top Connectivity r Consumer Products & Travellers U m C Services q Business Competitive model E Mission Marketplace Government A Excellent Visit 2 bodies Airlines Value O Aviation S Sector Local residents I partners Input SCHIPHOL ANNUAL REPORT 2015 1 Value creation Why What Who m Mission Connecting the Netherlands: Our job is to maintain and further develop Mainport Schiphol has many stakeholders who represent a wide range of interests: Connecting the Netherlands Schiphol’s position as a to the rest of the world in order to contribute to prosperity and multimodal hub. To do this, Schiphol Group must be r Travellers well-being in this country and successful across the board. elsewhere. Five themes underpin our strategy for meeting this A Airlines 1 Ambition It is Schiphol Group’s ambition challenge. O Local residents to develop Schiphol into Europe’s Preferred Airport for T Top Connectivity The best connections • Alders Platform • Schiphol Local Community Council travellers, airlines and logistic Connect • Local Community Contact Centre service providers alike. • Network of destinations Schiphol and flight frequencies • Airport infrastructure • Accessibility by road and rail S Sector partners • Airlines How • Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) In order to achieve our E Excellent Visit Value An attractive airport • Handling agents • Dutch Customs mission effectively and Compete • Royal Netherlands Marechaussee efficiently, we have clustered • Cost-efficient operations our core activities around four business areas: Aviation, • Streamlined and distinctive passenger experience q Government bodies • Neighbouring municipalities Consumer Products & Services, • Competitive price/quality ratio • Provinces Real Estate, and Alliances • Ministries & Participations. This business model guides C Competitive Marketplace A prime location F Financial stakeholders the implementation of our Attractive • Shareholders joint strategy and determines • Locations, locations, locations • Banks the success of Schiphol Group. • Attractive business climate • Bond investors • Logistic capacity 2 Aviation Infrastructure and facilities D Development of the Group B Business partners • Concessionaires for airlines, passengers, handling A strong Group • Lessees agents and logistics service Strengthen • Security companies providers at Schiphol, safety • International development • Facility service providers and security at Schiphol. • Organisational development • Construction and installation • Synergy within the Group companies c Consumer Products & Services Products and services for s Sustainable & Safe Performance M Employees travellers and businesses Sustainability and safety at Schiphol Future-proof R Real Estate • People Planet Profit • Financial solidity G Network and special interest organisations Operational and commercial • Safe environment for staff, real estate at Schiphol and other airports. passengers and visitors H Knowledge institutions a Alliances & Participations Participating interests in airports in the Netherlands and abroad, other domestic and international activities. SCHIPHOL ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2 Value creation Value I Q o Capital Input Output Outcome Produced • Airport infrastructure • High-grade facilities • Buildings and infrastructure 3 • Car parks • Competitive airport • Roads charges • Attractive real estate Social and • Infrastructure and • Accessibility of Prosperity relationships network destinations • Stakeholder dialogue • Relationships with • Collaborations sector partners, business partners, 4 suppliers and employees • Local support base Human • Employees • Skilled and trained • Schiphol workers employees • Connections • Diversity • Economic value 5 • Safe working • Safety conditions • Living and working climate • Support base • Reputation 6 Intellectual • Knowledge • Brands and concepts • Committed and • Expertise • Innovation motivated workforce • Ecological value Nature • Energy • Emissions • Raw materials • Noise • Drinking water • Use of materials and • Land holdings residual waste flows • Waste water 7 • Water Well-being • Space requirements • Biodiversity Financial • Financial position • Return • Creditworthiness • Credit rating 8 • Taxes • Dividend SCHIPHOL ANNUAL REPORT 2015 3 Contents Message from the CEO 7 Key events in 2015 9 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol – 100th anniversary 10 Facts and figures About us 14 13 page Facts and figures 14 Connecting the Netherlands 16 Airports in the value chain Our activities 18 Our position in the value chain 25 page 26 Our strategy 28 The context in which we operate 29 Our strategy: five themes Our strategy: five themes 38 page 38 Our results 2015 Management Agenda 44 45 Our results 46 Network of destinations The value of our impact 73 Financial performance 76 page 48 Governance 92 Report of the Supervisory Board 93 Employees in figures Supervisory Board 100 Management Board 102 page 69 Corporate Governance Remuneration 103 107 Stakeholder quotes Risk management 112 80 Annual Statements page Socio-economic accountability 120 Financial Statements 134 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 5 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 6 Message from the CEO Aviation is a fascinating sector. The interests and interdependencies are huge and the sector is constantly evolving. For an ambitious market player like Schiphol Group, the key is to distinguish itself. Mainport Schiphol is in an excellent position thanks to its extensive Competitive rates network of connections. Schiphol is expanding more rapidly than Airport charges are a key income source for airports. However, several of its European counterparts and its cost level is competitive. competitive pricing is crucial to maintaining a strong international This position should not be taken for granted however. The position. In 2015 the airport charges were reduced by 6.8% and we domestic market is relatively small, the focus of the global economy announced a further 11.6% reduction with effect from 1 April is shifting and competition continues to intensify, both within and 2016. This decision was motivated by higher than expected outside Europe. But there are also opportunities: more people than passenger volumes and effective cost control. In the years ahead, ever are travelling by air and new markets are developing at a rapid passenger numbers will continue to grow and we want to be able pace. to accommodate and facilitate this growth going forward. To that end we will have to make substantial investments, which will Strategy for 2016-2020 eventually push airport charges up again. Our intention is to provide In 2015 Schiphol Group adapted its strategy for the 2016-2020 for gradual adjustments where possible. period. The core of this strategy is to increase connectivity by investing in capacity and quality and to facilitate the growth of Continued investment activities at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and our other airports as Investments to strengthen, enhance and enlarge our infrastructure effectively as possible. Our strategy is based on five key principles: are urgently needed. Our largest planned investments will be in a Top Connectivity, Excellent Visit Value, Competitive Marketplace, new pier and terminal, modernising the bus and railway station, Development of the Group and Sustainable & Safe Performance. building new access roads, upgrading Schiphol Plaza and Jan Dellaertplein and the demolition and construction of parking Mainport Schiphol's strength lies in its dense network of facilities. These measures are needed for us to continue offering destinations, the majority of which are served by our home carrier travellers and airlines an excellent product. The definitive decision KLM and its partners. It is this network that makes Schiphol one of regarding these investments is expected soon. Several tenders for Europe's key hubs. Our connectivity generates growth and jobs for the construction of the new pier and terminal have already been the Amsterdam metropolitan area and the Netherlands as a whole. initiated, with the new pier now scheduled to be completed in 2019 Our aim is to expand this network, focusing on destinations that and the new terminal building to open in 2023. Since passenger create the most value for the Dutch economy. numbers will continue to grow in the meantime, Schiphol will be reaching the limits of its capacity in the coming years. Operational SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 7 Message from the CEO constraints are unavoidable at peak times, and some tough choices regarding selectivity policy and contribute ideas and resources to will need to be made that will affect all parties operating at the improving landside accessibility of the airport. We were pleased to airport. learn that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment is taking these points as input for the Aviation Action Plan. Quality under pressure: accessibility Access to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is currently under pressure Connecting to compete & complete and this could potentially undermine our competitive position. The As an aviation company, Schiphol Group has a key social and railway station and bus station are too small and the railway tunnel economic function. We call this connecting to compete and does not offer sufficient capacity either, causing frequent connecting to complete. We are determined to set a strong example disruptions for travellers and airport employees. In view of the in the public sphere, for instance through initiatives targeting anticipated growth in passenger numbers, the problems will only emissions and circularity. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol aims to be increase if we do not take appropriate action. Schiphol has already the world's most sustainable airport, which is reflected in the fact been calling for extension of the North-South metro line for some that Sustainable & Safe Performance is one of the five pillars of our time now. Though investments are essential, until national and core strategy. Schiphol is one of the airports most actively pursuing regional authorities assume their responsibility no real solution will emissions reductions. In addition, we take measures to enhance the be possible. quality of life for local residents and to promote the use of clean transport vehicles, efficient energy use, smart reuse and recycling of Quality under pressure: renovations and residual waste flows and the long-term employability of our staff. heightened threat level in the Netherlands The interests of people, the environment and the community play a Other developments also placed constraints on the quality of our fundamental part in our daily operations, which is also illustrated by services. Setbacks in construction made it impossible, for instance, our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global to complete the renovation of Departure Lounge 2 in 2015. This Compact. delay adversely affected our service to passengers and placed a considerable strain on our business partners, as borne out in our Schiphol is ambitious, both in connecting to compete and internal quality surveys and external rankings. At the new central connecting to complete. Running an airport is all about people – security filters the security process is being optimised to enhance the about providing our services to travellers and airlines. Schiphol has passenger experience. The Royal Netherlands Marechaussee lacks been doing this for one hundred years now and will be celebrating sufficient capacity to man all of the desks at peak times, resulting in its centenary in 2016. Yet instead of a hundred years old, we feel regular queues at passport control. This is an important issue for young. We are bursting with energy and vitality and are continuing Schiphol, in view of long-term demands being made on the Royal full speed ahead. Aviation is a fascinating sector and one that is Netherlands Marechaussee in connection with the nationwide fight constantly evolving, and Schiphol has got what it takes to keep against terrorism and immigration issues. playing a prominent role in the global vanguard. Role of government Jos Nijhuis Maintaining a strong and competitive aviation sector requires more than just changes at operational level. The government also plays a President & CEO of Schiphol Group role by setting priorities, making the right choices, creating optimal conditions, eliminating unnecessary rules and costs, ensuring fair competition and, where necessary, making investments and collaborating closely with the sector. It would be helpful if, after seven years of thinking and talking, the evaluation of the Aviation Act was transformed into legislation and the government pushed forward the implementation of the New Environmental Standards and Enforcement System. Agreement on the regional authorities' plans to build new housing in the vicinity of Schiphol can only be reached under strict conditions, as Schiphol believes this must be viewed alongside other elements of the Alders Agreement and the airport's long-term growth beyond 2020. Working in cooperation with KLM and Air Traffic Control the Netherlands, Schiphol Group established a list of action points in 2015 in which we ask the government to provide more direction and adopt a more integrated approach, assess how it might contribute to a more competitive cost structure, provide clarity SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 8 Key events in 2015 First quarter 1 January  Set-up of the Schiphol Local Community Council in order to conduct  5 February consultations with the region and the sector regarding the long-term Protix – one of 100 entries – wins the Schiphol Go development of aviation in the Schiphol region. International competition. This sustainable producer of commercial fish food will be launched on the international stage. 31 March  Minister for the Environment Wilma Mansveld presents the Lelystad Airport Decree. Second quarter 30 April  Sale of a 60% stake in Schiphol Airport Retail to Gebr. Heinemann. Set-up of a joint venture for the sale of alcoholic beverages, 2 May tobacco and chocolate in the shopping area beyond security control. Schiphol is awarded Level 3+ Airport Carbon Accreditation status: the highest possible level. Schiphol is therefore among the top airports in the world with regard to sustainability. 13 May  Minister for the Environment Wilma Mansveld opens the high-quality public transport hub in Schiphol-North:  29 May a unique five-party collaboration. Start of Aruba Happy Flow: a collaboration between Aruba, the Netherlands, Aruba Airport, Schiphol Group and KLM that means passengers only have to display their passport once. 3 June  Implementation of central security in the entire terminal of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Opening of four new security filters.  18 June Schiphol puts 35 electric buses into operation to transport passengers from the aircraft to the gates, and has the largest charging station in Europe for these buses. Third quarter 2 July Summer  Schiphol becomes the first European airport Summer campaign in the terminal: Mini-Heroes. with full beacon coverage: the terminal building is equipped with nearly 2,000 beacons.  23 July 29 August  Wave Goodbye app expanded to Samsung Electronics B.V. reports that it will be relocating its include a ‘welcome home’ function. company headquarters to Avioport.  31 August 1 October 30 September  Major maintenance on Runway 18L-36R, Schiphol Group places an 11-year Eurobond for 300 million euros. meaning greater usage of Runways 18C-36C and 09-27. Fourth quarter 30 October  For the 26th time, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is named best airport in Europe by the UK magazine Business Traveller.  17 December The new Hilton Hotel at Schiphol – with 433 rooms and extensive conference facilities – welcomes its Schiphol announces an 11.6% reduction in airport charges as of first guests. A covered walkway connects the hotel 1 April 2016. The reduction was made possible by higher than directly to Schiphol Plaza and the airport terminal. expected passenger numbers in both 2014 and 2015, as well as ­effective cost control. Schiphol Group signs a contract with building firm Dura Vermeer for the construction and long-term maintenance of the airside and landside infrastructure of the new Lelystad Airport. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 9 100th anniversary Amsterdam Airport Schiphol 1926 1958 1916 1940 1947 1920 1957 1934 1945 1918 1950 1923 1916 1925 1930 1940 1945 1950 The beginnings The first upgrade Years of Destruction Reconstruction An independent flourishing airport growth Origins as a military A mature civilian Second airport in the Bombed by the Rebuilt and extended From municipal airport airport with a terminal world with a paved Germans and Allies 8 July 1945 marked service to public A few wooden hangars Air traffic grew rapidly. runway system At the outbreak of the landing of the first limited company were built in the Schiphol’s facilities, Aviation activities at the Second World War aircraft after the war, Schiphol enjoyed rapid Haarlemmermeer polder, however, were Schiphol flourished. Schiphol fell into the though improvisation growth with the advent in the midst of the First inadequate. The airfield To safely manage the hands of the Germans. was the order of the day. of jet aircraft in 1958. World War. suffered frequent busy airspace, Air Traffic The airport formed Air Traffic Control was To prepare for the future, The first military aircraft flooding, inconveniencing Control at Schiphol a threat to the allies initially housed in the inspirational airport landed on 19 September passengers and pilots. acquired responsibility due to its strategic removal vans and a manager Jan Dellaert 1916. Post and cargo The municipality of for air traffic in the skies geographic location. wooden, two-storey developed plans for a soon began to be Amsterdam acquired above the Netherlands. As a result, it was emergency building completely new airport. shipped by air shortly responsibility for civil Schiphol gained a paved bombed countless would later serve as the Its designated location after the war. aviation in 1926. runway system in 1938. times by the British and air traffic control tower. was slightly to the west KLM was founded and A new terminal worthy Dellaert developed Americans and ultimately Jan Dellaert vigorously of its current location. the Amsterdam-London of welcoming Olympic a vision in which wiped off the map. tackled the reconstrucThe central government route marked the first athletes and internatioSchiphol featured as tion efforts. A new approved the plans, scheduled flight service nal guests was built in a major contributor to terminal opened in 1949 and in 1958 Schiphol in 1920. 1928. the Dutch economy. and passenger volume became a public limited Jan Dellaert joined KLM rose sharply. company with the central as the terminal and government as its major airport manager. shareholder. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 10 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol – 100th anniversary 1970 1990 2012 1960 2004 1990 2015 1970 2000 1967 1991 1985 2015 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2016 The new airport Steady growth New Master Plan Implementation Stagnation Schiphol as of the developand agreements a major driver ment plans on growth of the economy Construction of Ever larger aircraft New expansion in From airport to Controlled Continuous innovation Schiphol-Centre and growing passenger order to accommodate AirportCity development within keeps the pioneering Dellaert’s plan was numbers expected growth After the opening of agreed boundaries spirit alive revolutionary. Passenger volume Midway through the the air traffic control The new millennium Hundred years ago One central terminal continued to grow 1980s the airport again tower in 1991, further marked a difficult start Jan Dellaert envisioned building was constructed, steadily with the advent faced space constraints. projects were implemenfor the aviation sector. that Schiphol would play surrounded by three piers of the Boeing 747 A new Master Plan for ted in rapid succession. Passenger volume fell in a key role in making the for passengers plus ‘jumbo jet’. The arrival more than 100 projects The 1990s saw the the wake of the 2001 Netherlands ‘big’. And his a separate cargo zone. hall was expanded in was created in 1988. expansion of Schiphol September 11 attacks vision has materialised. Four runways were built 1971 and later the Priority was given to with the West Terminal in New York. The new Schiphol has made the and geographically northerly section in the construction of a (Departure/Arrival Hall 3) 18R-36L runway opened Netherlands bigger positioned to enable 1975, which gained new air traffic control plus Schiphol Plaza. in 2003. Schiphol thanks to more than 300 aircraft to take off Departure Hall 2 tower. At 101 metres, The railway station and expanded, gaining international connections. and land in all wind plus a fourth pier. it was the world's tallest landside shopping centre Departure and Arrival Schiphol continuously directions. The tax-free Accessibility to Schiphol air traffic control tower were housed under Halls 4, plus Piers H innovates, keeping shopping centre was improved with the at that time. Schiphol a single roof together and M. The aviation Dellaert's pioneering spirit unique. On 28 April 1967 opening of a railway ranked as the world's with the arrival and sector reached alive. With due consideraQueen Juliana of the line in 1978. third-largest airport departure halls. agreement with local tion for the quality of life Netherlands officially for cargo and gained stakeholders about in the airport environs, opened the new airport. a new cargo zone at further growth. Schiphol serves as a major Schiphol-South in 1988. economic driver for the Netherlands. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 11 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 12 About us SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 13 Facts and figures 64 million passengers 322 58 destinations Schiphol million passengers Schiphol 295 39.5% passenger destinations Schiphol transfer passengers Schiphol 31% 1.6 business travel Schiphol million tonnes cargo Schiphol 5 6.4 main runways Schiphol billion € total fixed assets 1.9 88% billion € real estate occupancy rate real estate 1.65 4.1% kg CO2 per passenger energy efficiency Schiphol 40% 28% by public transport to Schiphol waste separated Schiphol 30% 3.6% employees female absenteeism 52% 10.4% SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 14 Key figures EUR million unless stated otherwise 2015 2014 % Results Revenue 1,423 1,438 -1.0 Other income and results from investment property 67 -1 >100,0 Other income 50 36 39.1 Operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairment) 804 837 -3.9 EBITDA1 735 635 15.7 Depreciation and amortisation 223 228 -2.3 Impairment 8 4 78.7 Operating result 505 403 25.3 Financial income and expenses -89 -86 3.5 Share in results of associates 60 27 >100,0 Result before tax 477 345 38.3 Corporate income tax -99 -71 38.2 Result after tax 378 274 38.3 Net result 374 272 37.6 Total equity 3,716 3,453 7.6 Investments in intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 439 396 10.9 Cash flow from operating activities 508 508 -0.1 Proposed dividend 187 138 35.2 Ratios RONA after tax 2 8.3% 6.6% Return on equity (ROE)3 10.4% 8.0% Leverage4 37.0% 35.0% FFO / total debt5 22.0% 26.5% FFO interest coverage ratio6 6.7 6.4 Earnings per share7 2,010 1,461 Dividend per share 1,006 744 Business volume (in numbers) Air transport movements8 498,580 484,250 3.0 Passenger movements (x 1,000)8 64,309 60,591 6.1 Cargo (x 1,000 tonnes)8 1,621 1,633 -0.7 Workforce in full-time equivalents 2,000 2,039 -1.9 1 Operating result plus depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2 Operating result after tax plus share in results of associates and interest income / (average non-current assets minus deferred tax assets) 3 Net result attributable to shareholders / average total equity 4 Leverage: interest-bearing debt / (total equity + interest-bearing debt) 5 Funds from operations (cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital) / interest-bearing debt 6 Funds from operations plus gross interest expense / gross interest expense 7 Based on net result attributable to shareholders 8 Schiphol Group: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 15 Connecting the Netherlands Schiphol Group is an airport company with an important socio-economic task. The airports of the group, and Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in particular, create value for society and for the economy. Based on our mission of Connecting the Netherlands we facilitate optimal links with the rest of the world, contributing to prosperity and well-being both in the Netherlands and beyond. Mainport Schiphol's core strength is its network of destinations. This This network of connections is also of great social value. Its network defines how we contribute to prosperity and well-being in constituent airports make the Netherlands larger and the world the metropolitan region of the Netherlands and nationwide, as well more accessible. The more refined the network, the easier it is for as in other countries, cities and regions to which we are connected. people to connect, share knowledge and bridge cultural differences. In this way, Schiphol also contributes to social networks and social It is this network that puts the Netherlands in direct contact with wealth, in a form of personal and cultural enrichment that cannot key economic centres across the globe, and that allows Dutch only be expressed in the bottom line. In other words, we are entrepreneurs to conduct business worldwide. Conversely, the Connecting to complete. network also improves the local region's competitive position by making it an attractive business environment for international We take people, the environment and the surrounding region into companies. This creates a competitive marketplace – a driver for account in everything we do. We are conscious of the impact of economic growth. By facilitating this network and all the associated aviation activities, and realise that the benefits and drawbacks of activities, Schiphol Group contributes to prosperity. We call this the airport are not evenly distributed across the surrounding region. Connecting to compete. This is why we are constantly working with our stakeholders to minimise noise and inconvenience and continue to invest primarily with a view to improving the quality of life in the region. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 16 Connecting the Netherlands Our organisation the years, Schiphol has grown to become one of the largest hub airports in Europe, with 322 direct destinations. In 2015 the number of travellers served by Schiphol grew by 6.0% to over 58.2 million. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is not the Netherlands' only gateway Cargo volumes were down by 0.7% to 1.6 million tonnes. Schiphol to the rest of the world. Though the operation of this hub airport is is an important marketplace, with the airport site alone one of our principal activities, the other airports we operate in the accommodating some 500 companies that together employ around Netherlands further extend our reach and impact. Schiphol Group 65,000 people. is the owner and operator of Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Lelystad Airport, and holds a majority share in Eindhoven Airport. The rest of the group is also growing. The number of travellers served by Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport We also work closely with foreign airports which can strengthen our grew by 0.3% and 10.3% respectively. In 2015 a total of 64.3 position. They include the airports of Aéroports de Paris, in which million passengers travelled through Schiphol Group airports, a rise we have an 8% cross-participation. In addition, Schiphol Group is of 6.1%. involved in the activities of JFKIAT at JFK International Airport's Terminal 4 in New York. We are also engaged in strategic To maintain its position and enable it to continue fulfilling its sociocollaboration with Incheon Airport, have an interest in Brisbane economic role, Schiphol Group invests in infrastructure and facilities Airport and have activities at the airports of Hong Kong and Aruba. at these airports, seeking to balance a reasonable return on its equity These international activities account for a significant part of and a stable dividend stream, on the one hand, with a moderate Schiphol Group's results. We conduct our domestic and development of airport charges for airlines on the other. Our sound international operations in a balanced manner, and in doing so financial policy is aimed at safeguarding full independence in the reflect our key values of reliability, efficiency, hospitality, inspiration financing of our business, both today and in the future. Schiphol and sustainability. Group has four shareholders: the Dutch state (69.8%), the municipality of Amsterdam (20.0%), Aéroports de Paris (8.0%) and Thanks to these activities and the strength of the group we are able the municipality of Rotterdam (2.2%). to invest in growth and the highest standards of quality. By joining forces with our sector and business partners, the authorities and the local community, we can achieve our ambition to further develop Mainport Schiphol as a multimodal hub. We are positioning Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as Europe's Preferred Airport – the first choice of passengers, airlines and logistics services providers. Over Schiphol Group Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Regional airports Airports abroad Rotterdam The Hague Airport Eindhoven Airport Lelystad Airport Aéroports de Paris Brisbane Airport JFK (T4) New York SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 17 Our activities In order to achieve our mission of Connecting the Netherlands effectively and efficiently, we have clustered our core activities around four business areas: Aviation, Consumer Products & Services, Real Estate, and Alliances & Participations. We use this business model to implement our strategy and determine the success of Schiphol Group. Our business model The Real Estate business area develops and manages real estate at and around the airport. The central task of this business area is to ensure that the airport area offers attractive business locations and The most important airport in the group, Amsterdam Schiphol a pleasant environment. We offer a wide diversity of first-class real Airport, has been developed as an AirportCity where travellers, estate such as the new Hilton Hotel, office buildings, logistics airlines and businesses can access all the services they need, 24 buildings and leased premises in the terminal. hours a day. Schiphol continues to distinguish itself through the development of a wide range of commercial activities. Three Our fourth business area, Alliances & Participations, is focused on complementary and mutually reinforcing business areas form the the operation of regional airports and the development of cornerstones of the AirportCity concept: Aviation, Consumer international business activities. Like Schiphol itself, the regional Products & Services and Real Estate. airports are developed on the AirportCity model through investments in real estate and the creation of an attractive range of Serving travellers, airlines, handling agents and logistic services shops, hotels and restaurants. We also export our AirportCity providers alike, the Aviation business area plays a pivotal role at the concept and operational expertise to airports abroad, thereby airport. Aviation supplies and manages the infrastructure needed to generating income and gaining new insights for the development ensure pleasant, reliable and efficient arrival and departure of Mainport Schiphol. processes for travellers, baggage and cargo. It is responsible for coordinating safety in the terminal, on aprons and roads, and in Schiphol Group is more than the sum of its four business areas or a airside areas and buildings. collection of airports; by tapping into the operational and commercial knowledge and innovative capacity in every part of the The Consumer Products & Services business area offers travellers a group, including our foreign interests, the group as a whole can range of products and services that facilitate a carefree and remain strong, agile and distinctive within the aviation industry. comfortable travel process. It includes shops, catering facilities and parking services at the airport. In addition, the business area markets The operation of these airports is governed by a management model advertising opportunities at the airport. that enables Schiphol Group to make maximum use of the expertise of sector and business partners in the value chain, thus both promoting flexibility within the group and offering economies of scale. We participate in various partnerships for the joint SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 18 Our activities development of innovative concepts and solutions, as well as in joint Non-aviation activities at Schiphol are not regulated. They include procurement initiatives, where possible. all activities related to retail, catering, leases, media, real estate development, parking, car parking fees as well as our international All four business areas contribute to Schiphol Group's results. The activities. The operation of our regional airports is not regulated group derives its income from a range of sources, including airport either. Our non-regulated revenue flow contributes substantially to charges and passenger charges, concession fees from retail and the group's financial results, allowing us to maintain a healthy catering companies, revenue from advertising and parking services, financial position. Both our aviation and non-aviation activities property rents and leaseholds and income from associates. contribute to the fulfilment of our mission: connecting the Netherlands with the rest of the world. Regulation Our income differentiates between regulated and non-regulated flows, in what is known as a dual-till system. Rates for aviation activities at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol are regulated. The scope available to Schiphol Group for charging costs directly related to its primary airport operations, infrastructure and security is largely fixed. The rates, including take-off and landing fees and passenger and security charges that Schiphol receives from the airlines, are periodically determined in accordance with legal provisions in the Dutch Aviation Act. The return on aviation activities has been capped at the regulated average weighted cost of capital (WACC) determined annually, on which the ten-year interest rate on government bonds has a considerable impact. This means that Schiphol Group's return on aviation activities depends on the development of the interest rate. Business model 869 439 s Ai rp e nt or tm tc ha ve s 185 168 Co rg In t s nc es n eﬁ es be sio ni ye e 183 155 Re nc p lo r ity om Em nt e cu sa Se e 102 nd 108 Pa lea nc rk ses a ing in ten 35 Ma ing 153 Ot lea n he C r in c om e ses 299 60 Sh a en re i exp n re ng sult rati s of a r ope ssocia tes Othe Taxes 99 89 Net ﬁnancial expense 187 Dividend SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 19 Aviation Our activities Key figures EUR million 2015 2014 % Total revenue 844 839 0.6 Operating expenses 579 565 2.4 Depreciation 161 163 -1.2 EBITDA 266 274 -3.0 Operating result 104 110 -5.7 Average fixed assets 2,225 2,147 3.6 EUR million Aviation Security 2015 2014 % 2015 2014 % Total revenue 549 551 -0.4 295 288 2.6 Operating expenses 341 323 5.6 238 243 -1.9 Depreciation 124 123 1.0 37 40 -7.8 EBITDA 208 229 -8.9 57 45 26.8 Operating result 84 105 -20.4 20 5 299.7 Key performance indicators Number of scheduled destinations Punctuality of arrivals Passengers and cargo (in %) 2015 322 2015 83.7 2014 323 2014 86.1 IR rate for baggage handling Punctuality of departures (% of baggage delayed) (in %) 2015 1.7 2015 76.8 2014 1.6 2014 79.0 Schiphol passenger market share Schiphol cargo market share Top-10 European airports (in %) Top-10 European airports (in %) 2015 2014 2015 2014 11.0 10.9 14.3 14.6 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 20 Consumer Products & Services Our activities Key figures EUR million 2015 2014 % Total revenue 314 361 -13.0 Other income 50 5 823.9 Operating expenses 102 158 -35.7 Depreciation 24 27 -10.1 EBITDA 262 208 26.0 Operating result 238 181 31.3 Average fixed assets 314 298 5.5 EUR million 2015 2014 % Concessions 155 145 7.4 Parking fees 90 86 4.3 Retail sales 26 82 -68.7 Rents and leases 16 18 -12.5 Advertising 16 18 -11.7 Other revenues 11 11 -2.5 Total revenue 314 361 -13.0 Key performance indicators Airside retail spend per passenger Airside catering spend per passenger EUR per departing passenger EUR per departing passenger 2015 14.45 2015 3.98 2014 14.48 2014 3.82 Parking revenue Concession income EUR per departing NL passenger EUR per departing passenger 2015 7.91 2015 5.33 2014 7.79 2014 5.26 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 21 Real Estate Our activities Key figures EUR million 2015 2014 % Total revenue 173 175 -1.2 Other income and results from investment property 66 31 117.6 Operating expenses 85 103 -17.3 Depreciation 19 20 -4.6 Impairment 7 4 58.5 EBITDA 154 102 50.4 Operating result 129 79 63.7 Average fixed assets 1,861 1,702 9.3 EUR million 2015 2014 % Investment property: buildings, including service charges 70 70 -0.6 Investment property: land 24 24 1.5 Operating property, including service costs 43 43 1.0 Other 35 38 -7.4 Total revenue 173 175 -1.4 Key performance indicators Direct return on offices Direct return on industrial property (in %) (in %) 2015 6.3 2015 7.7 2014 6.4 2014 8.2 Indirect return on offices Indirect return on industrial property (in %) (in %) 2015 6.8 2015 6.1 2014 -1.2 2014 3.8 Total return on offices Total return on industrial property (in %) (in %) 2015 13.6 2015 14.3 2014 5.1 2014 12.3 Occupancy rate (in %) 2015 88.3 2014 87.1 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 22 Alliances & Participations Our activities Key figures EUR million 2015 2014 % Total revenue 187 178 4.7 Operating expenses 133 126 6.0 Depreciation 19 19 1.0 EBITDA 54 51 4.6 Operating result 34 33 4.0 Share in result of associates including interest 63 42 48.3 Average fixed assets 983 921 6.7 International Other EUR million airports Domestic airports participations Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Revenue 13 15 92 88 81 76 187 178 Operating result 11 6 18 16 5 11 34 33 Share in result, interest charges and result on 63 42 63 42 other investments Total result 74 49 18 16 5 11 97 75 Average asset base 820 754 117 112 46 55 983 921 Key performance indicators Eindhoven Airport Brisbane Airport (Australia) Passengers x1,000 Passengers x1,000 2015 4,332 2015 22,153 2014 3,926 2014 22,255 Rotterdam The Hague Airport JFK IAT, New York (USA) Passengers x1,000 Passengers x1,000 2015 1,692 2015 19,582 2014 1,687 2014 17,130 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 23 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 24 Our position in the value chain Many parties are involved in the development of Mainport Schiphol, and our core activities are a vital link in a complex value chain. The passenger and cargo transport processes together constitute an planning of the airport site, which is developed in close cooperation airport's value chain. Schiphol Group plays a critical role in this chain: with municipal, regional and national authorities. as an airport operator, we are responsible for these processes. This is also laid down in legislation and licences. It is vital that we take due account of these diverse responsibilities. They have a major influence on our growth ambitions, which must Under the Aviation Act, our core responsibility is to act as the airfield conform to environmental standards and noise level limits. operator. Our socio-economic function is to promote the airport's optimum use as a high-quality hub for domestic and international To provide insight into the long-term impact of its activities within air traffic. the value chain, Schiphol Group uses a value creation model. This model explicates the relationship between input, output and Airports provide infrastructure and facilities for departing, outcome. Input are the resources that we use to create value, such transferring and arriving passengers and cargo, and for the as the airport infrastructure, our workforce potential and our businesses involved in the transportation process. In addition to partnerships. Our business activities generate output – in other being a multimodal hub, we are an attractive marketplace for words, things we produce – which include not only high-quality products and services and offer a wide range of location options for facilities and services but also a safe working environment, noise businesses. A large number of parties are involved in these levels and waste flows, for example. Business activities combined processes. Our most important value chain partners are airlines, with output represent the outcome, which is the added value that handling agents, Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL), we are continually seeking to provide. This value is expressed, for Customs and the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee. We also work example, by the extensive network of connections, economic value with a wide array of business partners, including tenants, retail and and strong popular support, all of which act to boost prosperity and catering companies and cleaning and security companies. well-being both in Netherlands and beyond. In 2015 we began translating our outcome into actual monetary impact. For further In many cases, responsibilities are shared. Airports do not always details, see Valueing our Impact. have complete control over the final performance: this is simply an inherent part of collaborating with multiple parties. Incidents can The airport process occur due to an error not only on the part of a Schiphol employee, Our process roughly comprises three elements: transport to and but also on the part of employees of other partners in the chain. from the airport, the terminal and the apron and runways. These Reduction of noise impact and CO2 emissions are also areas of activities determine the material aspects on which we report, such shared responsibility, but Schiphol can exert its influence with as accessibility, capacity, safety and air quality. Further details can be partners to make air traffic more environmentally friendly and found under Stakeholders and materialityStakeholders and quieter. Schiphol Group also shares responsibility for spatial materiality. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 25 Our position in the value chain Chain Terminal Transport Apron and Transport Terminal to airport runways from airport Airport grounds Own facility Full control In collaboration with partners No control SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 26 Our position in the value chain Airport grounds The quality and capacity of the total chain have enabled us to create a vast network of destinations, offer a high-quality visitor environment and ensure that all activities conducted here generate considerable economic spin-off for the region, the Netherlands and Schiphol Group. Schiphol Group builds, develops and commercially operates real estate on the airport grounds. The terminal and various buildings are the property of Schiphol Group. The company also leases out land under long leases. Schiphol develops a large number of office buildings, warehouses and other buildings such as hotels on behalf of or in collaboration with users/lessees. Schiphol Group shares joint responsibility with government authorities for the spatial planning of the airport grounds. Materiality Pre and post-transport Terminal Aprons and runways Schiphol Group owns the parking The terminal is infrastructure owned The gates where passengers board areas at the airport. As a result, it can by Schiphol Group. The airport’s own the aircraft are Schiphol Group assets. influence the usage of various modes employees work in the terminal as well Aircraft are owned by the relevant of transport, e.g. by adjusting parking as those of sector and business partners. airlines. The airlines are responsible fees: being picked up and dropped The check-in desks and the baggage for the safe carriage of passengers, off by a third party means four car system are Schiphol Group assets baggage and cargo. The aprons and journeys have to be made, while if the and make an important contribution runways are Schiphol Group assets. passengers drive themselves and park to efficient passenger flow. Safe and We are responsible for the maintenance, at the airport, only two car journeys are efficient screening of people and goods availability and safety of the apron and required. Together with our partners is ensured by a collaboration between runway infrastructure. Air Traffic Control in the public-transport sector, we are the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee, the Netherlands (LVNL) indicates which working to expand capacity and improve Dutch Customs and security companies. take-off or landing runways should be quality with regard to transport by bus The security and cleaning companies used and the LVNL air traffic control and train. We are building roads and bus in the terminal are hired by Schiphol tower maintains contact with pilots. lanes at the airport, and are developing Group. The departure lounges located In compliance with internationally a high-quality bus network together after border/security control featuring applicable regulations, the governmentwith bus operators and government seating areas, retail and catering outlets appointed slot coordinator allocates the authorities. Furthermore, Schiphol gives are Schiphol Group assets. We grant available slots and assigns permits for concessions for taxi services from the concessions for operating retail and taking off and landing at certain times. airport, especially sustainable taxis. catering outlets. Schiphol develops retail and leisure concepts in association with its business partners. Materiality Materiality Materiality SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 27 Our strategy SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 28 The context in which we operate Schiphol Group operates in a dynamic environment. By remaining alert to new developments and responding with forward-looking strategies, we can strengthen our position. Consulting with stakeholders is an ongoing process; their interests play a part in our choices. Not only is this the best approach to Schiphol's socio-economic task, it also ensures that the group continues to meet the requirements of a robust, enterprising business model. Strategic reporting Mission Trends & developments Stakeholders Strategy Risks Materiality SWOT Targets Results Value creation SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 29 The context in which we operate Stakeholders and materiality construction. Each consultation is evaluated with the airlines following completion. Schiphol Group considers it its social duty to consolidate and further Four times per year, the Chief Operating Officers (COO) or senior improve the position of Mainport Schiphol and the regional airports. managers of Air Traffic Control the Netherlands, the airlines based This is the subject of ongoing consultations with our stakeholders. at Schiphol (KLM, Transavia, Martinair, TUIfly, Corendon Dutch These consultations form the basis for our materiality matrix, Airlines and easyJet), the Schiphol Airline Operators Committee comprising the key material aspects impacted by our organisation. (SAOC) and BARIN advocates convene the Schiphol Operational We weigh the interests of Schiphol Group in these aspects versus Consultation (OSO), which is chaired by Schiphol. In the OSO, those of our stakeholders. capacity declarations are adopted regarding the maximum number of flights ('air transport movements') allowed during the winter and Our stakeholders have let us know that direct contact is the main summer seasons, and important operational issues and problems channel for them to be kept informed of our strategy and targets. are discussed. As the various interests and growth plans represented We also use other communication channels, such as social media, in the meeting may well conflict, it is important to reach consensus websites and newsletters, depending on the message and target on the capacity declaration. The slot coordinator and representatives group. Our annual report primarily attracts comments from of the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation of the ministry of shareholders, financiers, policymakers and the regulatory Infrastructure and the Environment regularly sit in on these authorities. It provides an up-to-date, comprehensive account of meetings. ongoing projects, important developments and results – information which other stakeholders, current and future staff and In the Schiphol Community Council (ORS), government authorities, suppliers may also find useful. aviation sector parties, residents and trade organisations discuss Schiphol's development as it relates to the surrounding area, For the most part, the interests of our many stakeholders vary including the agreements in the Alders Platform covenants, the widely. We are in touch with them regularly, at various levels, on a implementation of noise mitigation measures and the new variety of issues. That way, we understand their priorities and they environmental standards. For example, this meeting decided that keep abreast of what is happening at Schiphol Group. We consult night-time departure and approach procedures would begin half an with our sector partners at operational and tactical level on a daily hour earlier at 22:30. This will be laid down in the Schiphol Airport basis about efficient and safe operations. We regularly invite our Traffic Decree (LVB). The ORS also discusses new plans to build stakeholders to visit our premises and share information about dayhousing in the airport's direct vicinity. to-day activities, laws and regulations and current affairs, such as large-scale investments and renovation projects. Schiphol Group's Consultations with other stakeholders Management Board is actively involved in these exchanges. Schiphol's potential role as a driver of sustainable innovation was one of the subjects discussed at a meeting in late November of In addition to sector and business partners, influential businesses representatives from the business community and sustainability from other sectors are also involved in stakeholder consultations. experts. Members of the Management Board attended on behalf of Their unique expertise and insights help keep us on our toes. After Schiphol, which organised the network dinner. Schiphol entered all, Schiphol Group is concerned with more than just the financial into a dialogue as to the role it might play in the pursuit of bottom line: we feel connected to the surrounding community and sustainability. The attendees felt that role should be significant: fulfil an important socio-economic role. Potential solutions to Schiphol has a coordinating role in the chain and should societal issues are sought collectively. Wherever possible, any demonstrate leadership, especially because it aspires to be the questions or advice arising in our discussions are addressed. world's most sustainable airport. Opinions and ideas were exchanged freely, leading to a lively and inspiring discussion. The Sector consultations participants felt Schiphol ought to be as open as possible and listen Throughout the year, we meet with airlines to discuss transport attentively to what employees and external parties have to say. forecasts, investments and cost development. These consultations Though they admitted that it has done much already, they thought are more than just a formal, legal obligation; they are an ongoing Schiphol Group could demonstrate greater courage and dialogue with the airlines, culminating in the formal setting of persistence. After a successful meeting, the parties agreed to meet airport charges at set times each year. We also discuss our again in 2016 to determine exactly what being the most sustainable investment plans in these meetings. For instance, discussion of Area airport entails. A development led to the adoption of a phased approach to SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 30 The context in which we operate Materiality matrix Interest of stakeholders Interest of Schiphol Group Network of destinations Financial solidity Circular economy Capacity Air quality Employment practices Customer appreciation Noise Supply chain responsibility Regional significance Accessibility Water Safety CO2 emissions SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 31 The context in which we operate As in 2014, our CEO held meetings with his counterparts from and the entire audience participated in an in-depth discussion on leading Dutch companies, to discuss the future of the Mainport and current topics including innovation, corporate responsibility and the challenges it faces. The CEOs were also given a guided tour of integrity. the construction projects and received information about the significance of these huge investments. The guests acknowledged Materiality analysis Schiphol must invest in order to maintain and strengthen its The materiality analysis has been adapted somewhat following an competitive position and expressed concern that investments in internal consultation round. Several subjects were assigned a road and train infrastructure at and around Schiphol have lagged different position in the matrix. Two subjects were renamed: behind. The CEOs said that they greatly appreciated being regularly Operating capacity is now called Capacity, to signify capacity in the updated in this way and shared their own experiences with airports, airspace and around the airport, in addition to capacity at the including Schiphol. That was very enlightening. airport. Significance for the region is now called Regional significance. Schiphol Group wants to be a good principal. To continue to position itself as Europe's Preferred Airport, Schiphol sets high standards for The shift of Employment practices, both to the right on the its suppliers, so it is only fair that our suppliers expect a lot of us, horizontal axis and upwards on the vertical axis, can be explained too. In this light, a meeting was held in early November with the on the basis of one of the stakeholder consultations. In the autumn, management of our key suppliers to share our strategy and recent we held a meeting together with employers' association AWVN for developments. The suppliers were asked in advance how they HR managers of sector partners. The initiative produced 'Luchtvaart viewed their relationship with Schiphol. They explained their views Inclusief' ('Aviation Inclusive'), an initiative in which employers in the Consultations on the Aviation Policy Document In September 2015, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a round table discussion with various aviation stakeholders, mainly to decide whether a full or partial update of the 2009 Aviation Policy Document was required. Schiphol, the regional airports, KLM and other airlines, municipalities, residents' organisations and scientists shared their views in The Hague. President and CEO Jos Nijhuis attended on behalf of Schiphol Group and defended a number of issues critical to the development of the Dutch aviation sector in general and of Mainport Schiphol in particular: A comprehensive Mainport approach. Central, provincial and local government policies directly affect Schiphol's operations. For example, while surrounding municipalities want to build more housing, the lack of a comprehensive policy could lead to a situation in which any noise mitigation efforts by the sector are negated. A sustainable framework for selectivity. The decision to allow for Mainport Schiphol's selective growth will mean prioritising the traffic offering the greatest economic and social value, while other traffic is shifted to the regional airports. At this time, neither national nor European legislation and regulations provide sufficient scope to adequately develop this plan. Prompt investment in accessibility. The reliability and capacity of the Schiphol Airport train station and the railway tunnel are under tremendous pressure. There is an urgent need for investments, which must be included in the Multi-year Infrastructure, Spatial Planning and Transport Programme (MIRT). Great improvements in regional accessibility could also be made if the North-South metro line were extended from Amsterdam to Schiphol. Improving competitive cost levels. Security is a top priority for the aviation industry. At the same time, our cost level must be kept competitive. The costs resulting from increasingly stringent European security measures are now being borne solely by the sector. Furthermore, the Netherlands currently also has higher cargo surveillance and inspection costs than neighbouring countries. A strategy to increase the competitiveness of European aviation. Schiphol Group supports a joint European approach to aviation treaties with third-party countries. More rapid progress is also needed in the implementation of projects such as the Single European Sky. The EU must monitor the situation closely to ensure the playing field is as level as possible. There will be an opportunity to address these matters during the Dutch EU Presidency in the first half of 2016. Schiphol Group has asked the Lower House to make explicit mention of these issues in its agenda. In response to the round table discussion, the Minister for the the Environment announced her intention to prepare an aviation sector action agenda in which measures aimed at strengthening the Dutch aviation sector's competitive position will be jointly formulated by the government and the sector. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 32 The context in which we operate Schiphol region join forces to find more jobs for the occupationally Accessibility for further details. The subjects Circular Economy and impaired. Air Quality moved up the vertical axis. This is partly due to the focus on ultra-fine particles and the collaborative ventures for the Circular The subject of Accessibility was shifted to the right on the horizontal Economy we established with stakeholders. The remaining subjects axis. This subject has become more important for us due to the are still consistent with the adjusted strategy, as described in the pressures facing the Schiphol railway station. See the section on remaining sections of this annual report. Material aspect and results Stakeholder Contact moments Regional significance Airlines Amsterdam Economic Board Business partners Tenants' consultation platform Financial stakeholders Amsterdam business network for local Employees entrepreneurs (ORAM) Local residents Schiphol Governance Forum Government Mainport Amsterdam Schiphol Network and special interest organisations Haarlemmermeer Structural Concept (SMASH) Agenda for collaboration between the municipality of Amsterdam, Schiphol and KLM Network of destinations Airlines Consultation process Travellers Consultation with accounts Sector partners Business partners Government Network and special interest organisations Capacity Airlines Schiphol Operational Consultation (OSO) Travellers Consultation process Local residents Alders Platform Sector partners Business partners Financial stakeholders Government Network and special interest organisations Accessibility Airlines Collaboration programme for NS, ProRail and Travellers ministry of Infrastructure and the Employees Environment Local residents SIM Innovative Mainport Alliance Government Talks with concessionaires Network and special interest organisations Knowledge institutions Customer appreciation Airlines Continuous survey Travellers ASQ Benchmark Government Customer Contact Center Network and special interest organisations Noise Airlines Schiphol Community Council Sector partners Regional Alders Platform Employees Local Community Contact Centre Schiphol Local residents (Bas) Government Schiphol Quality of Life Foundation Network and special interest organisations Knowledge and Development Center (KDC) Knowledge institutions SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 33 The context in which we operate Material aspect and results Stakeholder Contact moments Safety Airlines Schiphol Safety Platform Travellers Runway Safety Team Sector partners Netherlands Control Group for Bird Strikes Business partners (NRV) Employees Schiphol Security and Public Safety Platform Local residents Safe Working for Main Contractors Government Campaigns Network and special interest organisations Knowledge institutions CO2 emissions Airlines ACI Airport Carbon Accreditation benchmark Employees Climate KIC Local residents SIM Innovative Mainport Alliance Government Knowledge and Development Center (KDC) Network and special interest organisations Bioport Holland Knowledge institutions RenJET Network and special interest organisations Air quality Airlines Continuous survey Financial stakeholders ASQ Benchmark Employees Customer Contact Center Local residents Hydrogen Economy Alliance for the Government Amsterdam Region Network and special interest organisations Knowledge institutions Circular economy Airlines Ellen MacArthur Foundation Financial stakeholders The Netherlands as a Circular Hotspot Local residents Amsterdam Economic Board Government Western Axis Network and special interest organisations Agenda for collaboration between the Knowledge institutions municipality of Amsterdam, Schiphol and KLM Supply chain Airlines Supplier Code responsibility Sector partners Consultation with accounts Business partners Safe Working for Main Contractors Employees Campaigns Government Network and special interest organisations Employment practices Financial stakeholders Works Council Employees Schiphol Aviation College Government Aviation Inclusive Network and special interest organisations trade unions Water Government Rijnland Water Board Network and special interest organisations Knowledge institutions Financial solidity Airlines General Meeting of Shareholders Business partners Consultations with accounts Financial stakeholders Employees Local residents, Government Network and special interest organisations The table includes the contact moments for consultation with our stakeholders. Consultation frequency ranges from once a day to stakeholders on the material themes. Note that this overview is not once a year. There is no direct correlation between the second and exhaustive and that many contact moments involve multiple third columns. The results achieved on each material theme are SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 34 The context in which we operate included in the section Our results. More information on the aim of the agreements made is to mitigate noise. However, parties materiality process can be found under Reporting guidelines. looking after the interests of the surrounding areas are often focused on reducing noise impact through restrictions on capacity for future growth, to the exclusion of all other methods. This is not Trends and developments the only way to combat noise disturbance. For example, in recent years operational measures and quieter aircraft have also contributed to this goal. The airlines using Schiphol have General developments contributed over 750 million euros over the past few years towards 2015 witnessed tentative signs of economic recovery – including in soundproofing measures and compensation for losses from the Netherlands. However, at the macroeconomic level, Europe's planning decisions. With a volume of 500,000 air transport economic growth has trailed and appears increasing fragile. Various movements and 20% environmental benefit, Schiphol will easily long-term scenarios are possible, and in each of those scenarios achieve the noise mitigation target. The initial results of the Schiphol Group must be prepared to respond to changing Environmental Impact Assessment show that on balance, the conditions. According to forecasts by the Netherlands Bureau for disturbance reduction will be even more favourable. Economic Policy Analysis (CBP), passenger numbers may surge to over 120 million by 2040, or could alternatively drop to less than 40 Reducing CO2 emissions to combat climate change was a central million. This gap is due in part to Europe's economic growth and theme of the Paris Climate Conference in late 2015. The 196 competition from other parts of the world, which greatly impact the participating countries reached a historic agreement to limit global Netherlands' appeal as a business location and how cities develop warming to 2 degrees Celsius. The Intergovernmental Panel on into metropolitan regions. In this crucial gateway to Europe, the Climate Change (IPCC, the UN climate panel) report on 2014 impact on passenger travel and goods transport will be evident. confirms that it is 'highly likely' that global warming is caused by human activities. According to a June 2013 UN report, by 2050 the Technological developments and digitisation will also affect future world population will have reached 9.5 billion. In other words, over demand for air travel or the way in which airports organise their the next 35 years, the population will increase by two billion. All of services. When and how this will happen is difficult to predict. those people will need homes and jobs and will want to travel. This Airports must account for the potential impact of technologies such will affect the climate and the demand for raw materials. Climate as 3D printing, robotics or self-driving cars not only on their own change is relevant for aviation, too. Globally, the aviation industry business, but that of their clients and partners, as well. produces 3% of total CO2 emissions, primarily due to kerosene combustion. Stricter international legislation and regulations may Geopolitical developments be passed in response to new insights into the dangers of ultra-fine Geopolitical events such as wars, terrorist attacks, economic particles. Like motor vehicles, aircraft also emit ultra-fine particles, sanctions and epidemics can greatly impact airports, due to their especially during take-off. This may affect the extent to which air effect on both airline operations and people's willingness to travel. traffic is permitted to grow, as well as support for the location of Possible future developments may also significantly impact our airports in urban areas. If the aviation sector is going to reduce airport: the United Kingdom may vote to leave the European Union pollution, it will have to find new solutions, particularly to the and the influx of refugees could lead to reforms in the free emission of ultra-fine particles, and limiting the use of fossil fuels movement of goods and persons. World events lead to changes will play a key role in this. which affect airports almost immediately. Examples include new security requirements and stricter border controls. Such The Sustainable Development Goals were ratified in New York in developments can cause modifications to airport or terminal September 2015. The new goals replace the Millennium Goals and operations. apply to the period from 2015 to 2030. On the eve of the Climate Conference, the European Commission introduced its action plan Socio-economic developments to promote a European circular economy. At its core, the plan seeks The municipalities around our airports are increasingly looking to to reduce wastage and pollution by promoting more efficient use areas near runways for new residential development. Previously of raw materials and more recycling, and by discouraging waste established boundaries and building restrictions are being production. questioned more often. Schiphol does not oppose these new construction plans per se, but does object if they were to generate Developments in aviation additional complaints in the future. New residents cannot always Overall, the aviation industry is expected to continue growing. imagine what it will be like to live near an airport, or end up However, European growth is trailing behind. The Airports Council experiencing more nuisance from noise and odour once they move International (ACI) and aircraft manufacturer Boeing expect intrain than they originally expected. European air traffic to increase by approximately 3.5%, compared to average worldwide growth of 5%. This will affect European hub Discussions about the long-term growth of our airports often fail to airports, including Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. sufficiently account for the positive social and economic effects. The SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 35 The context in which we operate Competition from the Gulf states and Turkey, in particular, is Online shopping poses a threat to traditional retail stores, including expected to increase. Their airlines and airports are expanding at airports, but also presents opportunities to develop this rapidly, solidifying their position as hub airports at the expense of multichannel approach. Airport shops will have to offer an even the traditional European hubs. Meanwhile, European competitors broader range of products, both on and offline. Moreover, a possible are also investing heavily in capacity and quality. The new Terminal ban on sales of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages in tax-free 3 at Frankfurt Airport is just one example. stores and limits on the number of hand baggage items allowed on board (the 'one-bag rule') pose a threat to airport retail business. The market share of low-cost airlines in Europe, now at 39%, keeps growing as they expand into the business travel segment and the The share of inbound tourists is growing, mostly from flights major airports. This is affecting network carriers, as well as transfer originating in the Far East. A different, more personal approach is airports such as Schiphol, which are largely dependent upon the hub required for these passengers than for Western tourists, and they and spokes network of their home carrier. prefer to be addressed in their own language. Our more exclusive shops, in particular, are catering to this need. In the long run, air cargo is likely to grow, though it is difficult to predict exactly how much. The overcapacity now dominating the Developments in real estate market is caused by the sharp increase in the number of passenger Real estate is developing along two lines. While occupancy and aircraft with more cargo capacity. This overcapacity is causing revenue continue to grow at prime real estate locations, downward pressure on cargo transport rates. In Schiphol's case, performance is dropping off at less desirable sites. The same is true KLM – like many other combination carriers – is downsizing its cargo for Schiphol: demand is focused mainly on the Central Business fleet, including Martinair activities. Economic developments in District and first line locations (areas near the terminals and various markets, including the Far East, also directly affect air cargo runways). Demand for flexible lease concepts is also increasing. developments. Furthermore, the centre of the Netherlands' logistics activities is shifting southward (e.g. to the province of NoordDevelopments in international activities Brabant), whereby other airports become alternatives to Schiphol. Opportunities to develop international activities and forge We see prospects for Schiphol – both in exports and imports – if the partnerships with foreign airports are expected to continue to arise airway and road network connections, as well as cargo in future, too. However, airports are also attracting more and more transshipment facilities, are improved. interest as investment opportunities. Many airport operators and financial institutions are active in this market. Developments in capacity Nearly all major European airports will expand over the next several years and invest in their facilities. The growth in global aviation, in which Schiphol has successfully claimed its share, only increases the necessity for Schiphol to expand. Capacity and quality go hand in hand. Schiphol cannot afford to risk further pressure on the quality of its services and to have to 'say no' during peak times. This would undermine its ability to compete with European hub airports and the fast-growing airports in Turkey and the Middle East. The other Dutch airports in the group need more capacity. Plans for expansion of Eindhoven and Rotterdam airports are in the works. Lelystad has been given the go-ahead for the phased construction of a new airport for non-Mainport-related traffic, such as holiday flights. The public transport infrastructure must also be expanded to ensure airports can easily be reached as passenger and cargo volumes grow. Schiphol railway station also has an increasingly urgent need for new infrastructure: not only is it one of the nation's busiest train stations, it is also an increasingly busy transfer point to trains and buses. Developments in consumer behaviour Consumer behaviour has changed dramatically over the last few years. Passengers increasingly expect an omnichannel experience, including continuous access to consistent and real-time information. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 36 The context in which we operate SWOT analysis Strengths Opportunities • Network of destinations • Traffic and transport from strongly emerging regions • Modern and well-equipped hub airport • Implementation of selectivity based on Schiphol • Non-aviation activities Community Council agreements • Price/quality ratio • Supply chain innovation and sustainability initiatives • Innovative strength • Direct international train connections to and from the • Conscious weighing of people, planet and profit airport aspects • International activities • Local community engagement • Collaboration with airlines and other partners • Accessibility by road • Single European Sky • Reputation and brand recognition • Ongoing digitisation and big data • Network of international partners • Highly developed AirportCity • Development of the region • Strong marketplace Weaknesses Threats • Small domestic market • Mounting competition from other airports • Dependence on the transfer market • Geographic shift of transport and trade flows • Lack of capacity during peak times • More competing airport and carrier systems • Location in urban area limits options to expand • Challenges facing European network carriers • Relatively old infrastructure in relation to rival airports • Relatively limited economic growth • Complex system of rules and agreements for using • Intensified security requirements runways and airspace capacity • Quality perception under pressure due to large-scale • Geographic location in relation to Asia less favourable renovation projects than that of Istanbul and Dubai airports • Online retail and price comparison • Dependence on a number of large customers • Declining support in metropolitan regions • European regulations • Impact of ultra-fine particles • Accessibility by rail • Threat of terrorism SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 37 Our strategy: five themes To achieve our mission of Connecting the Netherlands, we must secure the position of the Mainport. In the process, we must factor in future developments, whether or not they can be predicted. The core principle of Schiphol Group's strategy is increasing connectivity by investing in capacity and quality and offering competitive rates. Our goal is to strengthen the Mainport network. We must ensure Mainport Schiphol the conditions are in place for airlines to optimise their operational efficiency at our airports. This is reflected in our 2016-2020 targets, the milestones we wish to reach during that period. More than Concurrerende regio Aantrekkelijke regio voor before, we intend to use the unique strengths of the group as a wonen, werken en toerisme whole to achieve our targets. Concurrerende luchthaven To strengthen the Mainport, we always focus on making the ‘Attractive & efficient hub airport’ necessary investments in capacity and quality and deliberately aim to control costs in all of our processes, which translates into Sterk netwerk competitive rates. KLM/SkyTeam Driver voor Mainport Schiphol At the same time, we ask the government to pursue a comprehensive policy which will strengthen the Mainport without unnecessary rules and/or costs. The government can also facilitate fair competition and, where necessary, invest in and collaborate closely with the sector at both the national and the European level. Internationaal businessklimaat Nederland als concurrerende vestigingsplaats SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 38 Our strategy: five themes Strategic themes Schiphol's efficient, innovative logistics chain makes it ideal for cargo. We search for and deploy innovative solutions leading to higher, more affordable quality and lower costs for ground handlers Our core strategy is embodied by the following five themes: Top and forwarders. Connectivity, Excellent Visit Value, Competitive Marketplace, Development of the Group and Sustainable & Safe Performance. We continue to strive to offer an attractive product at a competitive price and seek to achieve quality and cost levels that compare Top Connectivity favourably to our rival hubs. The best connections Mainport Schiphol's strength is its network of destinations served Competitive Marketplace by the airlines. The majority of these are served by our home carrier A prime location KLM and its partners. It is this intricate network that makes Schiphol We continue strengthening the Mainport through further one of Europe's key hubs. We strive to expand the network, not only development of the Schiphol marketplace, as a prime location for in Europe but intercontinentally as well, particularly by adding work and leisure. A key reason why international businesses destinations that support the Mainport. To continue Mainport establish themselves here is the proximity to the airport. We are development, existing capacity will have to be used even more always upgrading the working environment and offer flexible, efficiently and new capacity will need to be created. innovative lease concepts. We call this AirportCity 3.0. Schiphol also supports the region's logistics sector and investigates opportunities In 2018, Lelystad Airport will begin commercial operations. We want for new business. to entice airlines to offer non-Mainport-related flights from Lelystad Airport to make way for Mainport traffic at Schiphol, where we are Development of the Group preparing to build a Pier A and a new terminal. The new capacity A strong group will be configured in a flexible manner so that it can be adapted Even more than before, we will act as a group. Our ability to do so depending on the nature of the air transport. will depend to an important degree on improving the Schiphol Group organisation. We are implementing the HPO ('high We must also ensure the airport can be easily accessed by road and performance organisation') culture and coordinate major projects rail. Together with sector parties such as NS and ProRail, we are more comprehensively than before. We will also make more efficient developing solutions to address the current problems as well as a use of the synergy within our own airport network: we want to sustainable solution to meet the long-term capacity demand. The make the most of the interplay between Schiphol airport, the joint long-term plan includes the construction of a new bus and regional airports and the group's international activities. We are railway station and modification of the drop-off roads. At the same seeking to expand our international activities, particularly with time, we are expanding existing parking capacity to meet the airports with strategic relevance for the Mainport. growing need for good parking facilities. Sustainable & Safe Performance Along with our stakeholders, we will work to strengthen and Sustainability and safety develop the Mainport. Sustainability and safety are the most important preconditions for everything we do – they play a permanent, integral part in our Excellent Visit Value decisions. Maintaining a healthy and safe working environment for An attractive airport staff and safe surroundings for passengers and nearby residents is We aspire to uphold Schiphol's position as Europe's Preferred always a top priority. To us, sustainability means we maintain our Airport: the first choice of passengers, airlines and logistic services focus on long-term developments and aim to create lasting value. providers. Top quality is our aim: in our processes, facilities and We could not succeed in this without dialogue with our commercial offering. Even more explicitly than before, our policies stakeholders. We seek a careful balance between the social, will be guided by the interests of clients and passengers. Using new environmental, commercial and financial interests of people, planet digital technologies, wherever possible, and offering users a digitally and profit. We aim to realise a reasonable return: our financial policy enabled airport will play an essential part in this. is solid and forward-looking. As for airport operations, our focus will lie on increasing efficiency In 2016, we will continue developing our ambition to become the and process reliability. We offer airlines service, speed, flexibility, world's most sustainable airport, increasingly measuring value safety and reliability. For passengers, the focus will be on offering a creation against the non-financial dimensions. pleasant and safe experience ('seamless and secure'). Schiphol wants to be an airport that surpasses passengers' expectations. The passengers' experience is to a large extent determined by the range of commercial products and services offered. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 39 Our strategy: five themes Cohesion • Real estate market development: the focus will remain on developing Schiphol as a prime location. However, supply elsewhere and shifts in demand could have a serious impact. With our renewed strategy, we are able to respond to new • Political context: comprehensive government policy and developments in the aviation industry, society and the world at effective economic regulation can help strengthen the large. It enables us to steer the best course and confront a variety Mainport. of challenges and risks. The material aspects highlight the interests • IT infrastructure and information security: increasing of both our stakeholders and Schiphol Group and indicate where dependence on IT systems makes their sustained availability and we can make a difference and thereby have an impact. We feel that reliability crucial. it is important to establish a clear link between material aspects and • Major projects: the progress, budget and quality must be our strategy. At the same time, we want to mitigate the associated monitored to ensure the required capacity is available as needed risks by actively managing them. and investments achieve the desired effect. • International enterprise: presents opportunities for risk An overview clarifying the relationship between the key risks facing diversification, but also poses other, often unknown, risks which Schiphol Group, its strategic themes and material aspects is given may not be desirable. below. • Operational risks: safety, business continuity and dependence on third parties must be properly managed in order to reliably Schiphol Group faces strategic, operational, financial and facilitate growth. compliance risks. We have identified the key risks which could stand • Financial risks: market, liquidity and counterparty risks related in the way of achieving our mission and we have taken the mainly to funding are mitigated to ensure long-term financial appropriate measures to mitigate these risks. Risk management is health. an integral part of our business operations. • Compliance risks: failure to comply with legislation and regulations and other integrity violations could lead to The key risks are as follows: reputational damage and loss of support. • A change in demand, which could lead to either a shortage or excess capacity, directly affecting Mainport growth, the network The control measures are covered in more detail in the section on of destinations, retail and catering outlet sales and real estate 'Risk management'. occupancy. • Competition is also an important factor affecting the growth of the airports and development of commercial activities at and around airports. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 40 Our strategy: five themes Cohesion Material aspect Strategic theme Risks Network of destinations A change in demand Accessibility Political risks Major projects Top Connectivity International enterprise Capacity Competition Customer appreciation Political risks IT infrastructure & information security Excellent Major projects Visit Value Operational risks A change in demand Regional significance Competition Political risks Competitive Real estate market Marketplace development Employment practices Major projects Financial solidity International enterprise Financial risks Development Compliance risks of the Group Political risks Safety Operational risks Noise Financial risks CO2 emissions Sustainable Compliance risks & Safe Circular economy Performance Air quality Water Supply chain responsibility SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 41 Our strategy: five themes 2016 Management Agenda Targets In addition to maintaining network quality and connectivity, increasing customer satisfaction and ensuring adequate capacity are Every year our long-term strategy is translated into a four-year critical aspects of the management agenda. We face tremendous tactical plan, comprising the budget for the coming year and three infrastructure challenges. Commercial turnover must also be further forecast years. The tactical plan sets out in concrete terms how we optimised to respond effectively to the shortage in retail space in plan to achieve all of Schiphol Group's strategic milestones. An the coming years and to shifts in consumer behaviour. important condition of the plan is that it meets the requirements of sound financial policy. The company must maintain its We also want to involve our stakeholders more intensively in creditworthiness (S&P rating of A+) and be robust enough to devising our plans, and ensure a comprehensive government weather any financial setbacks. Schiphol Group also aims to meet approach and more political support. Meanwhile, we want to or exceed the return required by the Dutch government of 6.7% translate our aspiration to become the most sustainable airport into (return on equity of Schiphol Group). The tactical plan also results a plan to realise that ambition. The further development of our in a management agenda which sets out concrete actions and organisation should ensure solid business management particularly targets for management for the year to come. with regard to large projects and management of airport infrastructure. Top Excellent Competitive Development of Sustainable & Connectivity Visit Value Marketplace the Group Safe 2016 Management Agenda Performance Maintaining network quality and connectivity High levels of quality and customer satisfaction at the airports at competitive cost levels Secure capacity for 500,000 air transport movements at Schiphol and sufficient capacity at the regional airports, including the development of Lelystad Airport Make provisions for the necessary operating capacity and quality prior to the completion of the entire Area A Implement the Master Plan such that operational performance is kept up to par and infrastructure challenges are addressed Optimise commercial turnover and use scarce square meterage wisely Improve coordination with stakeholders Apply the principles of people, planet and profit (Corporate Responsibility and financial solidity) Maintain a healthy, safe working environment Develop the organisation SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 42 Our strategy: five themes Where will we be in 2020 Comfort The network We will have implemented We will maintain Gate Process Innovation, the current network. with improvements to gate waiting comfort. Top Connectivity Automation High Performance Digital support for Our continued efforts passengers, and opening of to improve our own the retail ‘omnichannel’. organisation will be reflected in high scores on the High Performance Organisation (HPO) benchmark. Excellent Visit Value Growth Agreements with our stakeholders will enable growth beyond five International hundred thousand flight We will have movements per year expanded our after 2020. international activities. Central Business District Activity in the Central Competitive Marketplace Business District will have Lelystad Airport Non-aviation increased significantly to Lelystad Airport will We have secured include a wider range of be fully operational. our non-aviation services, an attractive income sources. working environment and high occupancy rates. Sustainability New pier and terminal We will be acknowledged The construction of the new as a leading enterprise pier and terminal will be on in the field of Corporate Development of the Group schedule, and in accordance Responsibility. Security with the set budgets. We will be a High Reliability Organisation with a pro-active security culture. Lowest costs We will be the lowest-cost Accessibility hub in Europe, and will We will have prepared have optimised our projects for improving operational processes Schiphol’s landside Sustainable & Safe Performance in collaboration with our accessibility, targeting the business partners, train station, access roads enabling further cost and parking capacity. reductions. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 43 Our results SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 44 2015 Management Agenda The Supervisory Board determines the Management Agenda, which The operational transition to central security took place as scheduled forms the basis for concrete and more detailed targets. Evaluation on 3 June, even though not all construction had been completed, of the management agenda and associated targets is used to thereby setting a new standard for security as a service. Due to the determine the variable remuneration. More information can be delayed completion of Departure Lounge 2, we were unable to found in the section on Remuneration. increase non-aviation income from retail activities. However, new lessees for The Base and Avioport and completion of the Hilton In 2015 we fully achieved six of the ten objectives on the Hotel did result in additional non-aviation income. Once again we Management Agenda. These objectives entailed improving the achieved various results in the area of Corporate Responsibility, such competitive position of the Mainport, intensifying stakeholder as the 'Aviation Inclusive' programme, an initiative to create more management, maintaining our solid financial position, completing jobs for people with a disability. In addition, Schiphol has retained the organisational transition and achieving further efficiency the highest level (3+) of the Airport Carbon Accreditation improvements. We partially achieved the result envisaged for the Benchmark of sector association ACI. However, internally CR does Master Plan. The investment decision on Area A will be taken in early not always receive the attention it deserves. A number of CR KPIs 2016. Partly in response to the wishes of Schiphol users, were not achieved. implementation of the project will be phased, which required additional preparation time. Top Excellent Competitive Sustainable 2015 Management Agenda Connectivity Visit Value Marketplace Performance Improve the competitive position of the Mainport, including development of Lelystad Airport and the other regional airports Continue to implement and develop the Master Plan, including Area A Continue and intensify stakeholder management Complete major investment projects with minimal disruption to operations and with specific attention for Corporate Responsibility Ensure that Schiphol Group maintains its solid financial position Continue to develop international activities Achieve the Corporate Responsibility ambitions Increase income from non-Aviation activities Complete the organisational transition and achieve further efficiency gains Focus on leadership, culture and compliance Target achieved Target partially achieved Target not achieved SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 45 Our results It is Schiphol Group's socio-economic task to strengthen Mainport Schiphol and the regional airports. In fulfilling this task we have an impact on society. Our results show how we take responsibility and seek to strike the appropriate balance between the positive and negative effects of our activities. We always endeavour to consciously weigh the people, planet and profit aspects in our investment decisions, calls for tenders and other business activities. built network of over 320 European and intercontinental Regional significance destinations and the activities carried out at and around Schiphol and our other airports constitute major drivers of the Dutch Schiphol Group's activities are particularly important for the Dutch economy and employment. According to aviation organisation economy and the attractivess of the Randstad conurbation. IATA, 3.5 billion people and 55 million tonnes of cargo were Mainport Schiphol – the hub airport for KLM, its SkyTeam partners transported across a global network of 51,000 routes in 2015. The and other airlines – and the group's regional airports serve as aviation industry in the EU provides 9.3 million jobs and contributes connecting links between national and international networks of 512 billion euros to GDP. Extrapolation of a 2011 BCG/McKinsey people, businesses, trade, science and culture, thereby effectively study shows that the aviation industry's contribution to the Dutch fulfilling our mission of Connecting the Netherlands. economy rose from 26 billion euros in 2011 to 30 billion euros in 2015, or 4.5% of GDP. Aviation activities directly and indirectly Connectivity is vital for both the Dutch generate 300,000 jobs. The Schiphol location alone accommodates economy and society some 500 companies that provide jobs for approximately 65,000 Mainport Schiphol has an excellent position: the network of employees. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and its home carrier KLM is among the strongest in Europe. Schiphol is expanding more rapidly than its Good connections with the rest of the world are also vital for the European counterparts and its cost level is competitive. However, tourism industry. In 2015 the number of tourists that visited the this position cannot be taken for granted. The Mainport's Netherlands increased yet again to almost 15 million, up 7%, competitive position is coming under increasing pressure: the according to figures published by the National Bureau for Tourism domestic market is relatively small, the focus of the global economy and Conventions (NBTC). The Netherlands attracts tourists from is shifting and competition continues to increase, both within and almost all European countries as well as from other continents, outside Europe, particularly in the Gulf Region and Turkey. At the especially from Asia. Many tourists arrive via Schiphol. same time, opportunities exist: more people than ever are travelling by air and new markets are developing at a rapid pace. Significance for Amsterdam and the Randstad conurbation The Netherlands benefits from strong, direct connections with the Our airports, the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region and the Randstad world's major political, cultural and tourist centres. The carefully conurbation are inextricably linked and reinforce each other. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 46 Our results Schiphol makes a vital contribution to the Amsterdam Metropolitan Rotterdam The Hague Airport is an important factor in the business Region. As a Mainport it performs an important function for the climate and international appeal of the Rotterdam-The Hague Netherlands, offering fast, direct road and rail transport connections metropolitan region. In addition, the airport provides connections to the rest of Europe. Thanks to its network of connections Schiphol with tourist destinations abroad and plays an increasingly important ranks among Europe's major hubs, which is an exceptional role in incoming tourism, boosting both the regional economy and accomplishment given its small domestic market in the Netherlands. employment. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, itself, has evolved into a dynamic city Eindhoven Airport – an AirportCity. Schiphol offers a wide variety of work, visitor and Eindhoven Airport is an essential factor in the development of the leisure facilities with, at its heart, an international airport, which is Eindhoven region, connecting Brainport, the city's high-tech centre, being continuously improved. Improvements which are based on with other, mostly European destinations. The airport enhances the the principles of flexibility, multifunctionality, connectivity, business environment and plays a crucial role in achieving the experience and value for money. We offer a range of high-quality regions ambitions. facilities to travellers and airlines and to airport-based logistic services providers and businesses. Lelystad Airport In order to maintain and strengthen Mainport Schiphol's economic Significance of regional airports function, agreement has been reached allowing Schiphol to grow Our other airports similarly play a pivotal role in the regional on a selective basis and to develop Eindhoven Airport and Lelystad economy. They play an essential – and increasingly significant – Airport as alternative airports for non-Mainport-related traffic. connective role in their respective regions in terms of employment, economic activity, knowledge development and tourism. They also Lelystad Airport will support the Mainport by offering travellers make a vital contribution to the development of Schiphol's Mainport attractive connections to popular tourist destinations in Europe and function. The development of Eindhoven Airport and Lelystad the Mediterranean region. It also serves as the regional centre for Airport is important for Schiphol's growth as they offer an business aviation, Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) alternative for non-Mainport-related air traffic. activities, recreational aviation and pilot and other training programmes. In 2015 employment at Lelystad Airport rose by over Rotterdam The Hague Airport 25% from 295 to 374 jobs. Rotterdam The Hague Airport's network of destinations is increasingly meeting the need for transport to and from the southCommunity engagement western part of the Netherlands. The airport primarily serves If we are to achieve our growth plans and retain sufficient support European business destinations and has a growing network of for our activities, it is vital that we listen to and observe the needs connections to destinations that are important for that region. and desires of the surrounding community. We aim to fulfil our Schiphol AirportCity in 2015 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol seeks to distinguish itself by delivering top quality, an ambition overarching our activities in the terminal and the airport process. In 2015, as in previous years, we boosted the dynamism of the AirportCity and introduced further innovations. New businesses have established operations in the airport zone. Schiphol is evolving into an ever more inspiring meeting place. With its contemporary design, the new Hilton Hotel in the heart of the airport's Central Business District is a veritable eye-catcher. The hotel welcomed its first guests in December 2015 and was officially opened in early February 2016. More businesses have likewise opened their doors. Electronics company Samsung is scheduled to move into the Avioport building in May 2016, thereby confirming Schiphol's growing appeal as a business location. The Base office complex is a resounding success and has already attracted tenants for almost all of its 36,000 m2 of floor space. We are examining possibilities for building an additional tower adding approximately 6,000 m2 of office space to The Base. The building is evolving into a community centre with a range of facilities catering to the needs of working people. We have become a partner to TEDx Amsterdam, an event that contributes to our AirportCity ambitions. We are also making further improvements to the outdoor areas. Car park P15 located between the Hilton Hotel and The Base is destined to become a public area featuring a courtyard, an amphitheatre, abundant green landscaping, a fountain and special lighting. Sports facilities will also be accommodated. December marked the completion of the revamped Evert van de Beekstraat. It now features comfortable benches, green landscaping and custom lighting. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 47 Our results mission in collaboration with our partners and the various in the labour market. Schiphol Aviation College places them with authorities and in close consultation with other stakeholders (see airport-based employers. We also offered 10 to14-year-olds from also 'Noise'). three Amsterdam IMC Weekend Schools an Airport Experience programme, giving them an opportunity to get to know the world Local residents of Schiphol and get an idea of prospective airport occupations. We believe it is important that local residents feel that Schiphol is a good and committed neighbour. We are engaged in a continuous Rotterdam The Hague Airport undertakes efforts to create dialogue with local residents' representatives on both the negative employment for young people with limited opportunities on the and positive effects of the airport on the surrounding area. Through labour market through the 'Startbaan II' project. The airport was the Schiphol Community Contact Centre (Bas) and other channels able to arrange some 20 work experience placements for young we endeavour to inform local residents as fully and effectively as people with several of its partners (Port of Rotterdam, the possible of air traffic and other issues at and around Schiphol. In municipality of Rotterdam, the Royal Netherlands Marine Corps and 2015 we showcased various aspects of the airport during three the Shipping and Transport College (STC)). A quarter of the group Neighbour Days and in the teaching materials we distributed to local found a job after completing their work placement. primary schools. School classes that used the teaching materials were given the opportunity to experience a Schiphol Behind-theSimilarly, Lelystad Airport has made a commitment to help people Scenes tour. with limited opportunities on the labour market into jobs at the airport in collaboration with Werkbedrijf Lelystad. The airport has Schiphol contributed financially and actively to the Olympic Sports also partnered with Stichting Campus Amsterdam Lelystad Airport Week in June, organised by Amsterdam Cares and Combiwel. (SCALA) and the Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences to Twenty-one Schiphol employees voluntarily supported the sports promote and put in place training initiatives and work placements. event held in the Olympic Stadium in which around 300 socially disadvantaged primary school children took part. The participating schools were mainly from the Amsterdam-Zuidoost and Amsterdam-West areas and do not have the means to organise Network of destinations sufficient sports activities themselves. Schiphol Group's airports, led by Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, In 2015 we carried out a baseline measurement to gauge local comprise the gateway to the rest of the world. The airport's residents' level of support for Schiphol. We will repeat the extensive network of European and intercontinental destinations measurement each year to monitor whether support is growing or enables us to fulfill our mission of 'Connecting the Netherlands'. declining, and to establish whether Schiphol is undertaking the right Our aim is to maintain and expand this network for both passengers activities to foster stronger ties with local residents. and cargo. Across the board support for Schiphol can be regarded as Schiphol's network in 2015 reasonable to good – we received an average score of 4.9 on a scale The number of destinations and flight frequencies to and from of 1 to 7. It is remarkable that there is no significant difference Amsterdam Airport Schiphol determine the socio-economic value of between residents in the immediate vicinity and those living further our network and the Mainport. In 2015 we again made every effort away. Support for Schiphol is stronger however among recent to facilitate this network, and the number of direct destinations airport visitors, and among people who either work at the airport remained virtually unchanged at 322, compared with 323 in 2014. themselves or have friends or family members who work here. The majority of these destinations, 295, are passenger destinations or combined passenger and cargo destinations. The number of Contributions to training at our airports cargo destinations in 2015 totalled 165 (2014: 159). The remaining Airports make a significant contribution to regional employment. 27 are destinations operated solely by full-freighters or cargo-only We stimulate employment through Schiphol Aviation College aircraft (2014: 21 in total). (Luchtvaart College Schiphol), an organisation established by KLM, the Amsterdam Regional Training Centre (ROC) and Schiphol Group. The 322 direct destinations in 95 countries and are served by a total Every year the College provides training to some six hundred of 109 airlines. Of these destinations, 134 were intercontinental in students and offers work placement positions for three hundred 2015 (2014: 132). This large intercontinental network is largely students. One thousand employees also receive training or take thanks to the transfer product offered by our home carrier KLM and courses. At Schiphol, the College promotes intersectoral mobility its partners. The number of destinations operated by KLM and its aimed at facilitating employee job rotation among the companies codeshare partners rose to 217 (2014: 210). located at the airport. O&D traffic (origin and destination traffic using Schiphol as the As a socially engaged business, we wish to fulfil our responsibility airport of departure or arrival) grew substantially. Within Europe, by offering job opportunities to people with limited opportunities KLM has increased its network and flight frequencies. Low-cost SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 48 Our results carriers – easyJet and Flybe in particular – are increasing their focus 2015 passenger volume at Schiphol (No. of passengers by airline) on major hub airports to improve their services to the business market. Total Relative growth KLM 28,681,460 2.7% The changes in the KLM and partner airlines' timetable largely account for the shift in the number of destinations. Our home carrier easyJet 4,477,209 21.0% added Edmonton (Canada) and Bogota and Cali (both in Colombia) Transavia 4,243,148 –2.2% to its timetable in 2015. The direct flight to Cali is unique: Schiphol Delta Air Lines 2,720,136 4.5% is the only European airport to offer this connection. Delta Air Lines TUIfly 1,630,574 3.9% began operating flight services to Salt Lake City (USA). Air France 1,231,682 21.7% British Airways 1,222,410 10.5% Within Europe KLM added several new destinations: Belfast City (Northern Ireland), Krakow (Poland) and Montpellier (France). Flybe Vueling 884,801 17.8% began operating flight services to Bournemouth (England), Adria Lufthansa 837,446 4.5% Airways to Lodz (Poland) and Transavia to Lemnos (Greece). Aer Lingus 703,637 3.0% Transavia France now flies to Paris Orly (France). 0 6,000 12,000 18,000 24,000 Schiphol welcomed seven new airlines in 2015: Aegean Airlines Air transport movements at Schiphol rose by 2.8%, from 438,296 (Heraklion and Rhodos), Xiamen Airlines (Xiamen), Atlas Global to 450,679. Seating capacity increased by 5.2% to 70.3 million. (Istanbul Atatürk Airport), Ryanair (Dublin), Qatar Airways (Doha), Average seating was up by 1.9% to 162 (2014: 159). The trend Air Canada (Toronto) and Transavia France (Paris Orly). observed in recent years with the number of available seats outpacing the growth in air transport movements therefore Spring 2015 marked the opening of easyJet's base at Schiphol continued in 2015. This is attributable to new, larger aircraft among where it now stations both aircraft and personnel. China Southern other factors. Similarly, passenger load increased from 82.2% in Airlines launched the Amsterdam-Beijing route in June 2015 with 2014 to 82.9% in 2015. the Airbus A380; it is the second airline to operate flights with the world's largest passenger aircraft at Schiphol. The growth in O&D passenger volume increased markedly in 2015, reflecting above-average growth of 7% to 35.2 million. In particular Regional airport network the category of foreign passengers with the Netherlands as their The nature of the network of our regional airports differs from that destination rose sharply. This is in line with the rising number of of Schiphol. Where the focus of our largest airport is on Mainportforeign tourists. The Netherlands Office for Tourism & Conventions related traffic, the focus of Rotterdam The Hague Airport and (NBTC) has calculated a 7% increase for the full year 2015. The Eindhoven Airport is on flights to European holiday and business NBTC has found that the relatively inexpensive euro has boosted destinations. However, the regional airports also facilitate European travel from non-eurozone countries to Europe. The tourism sector business traffic to destinations such as London City or London has also benefited from the recovery of both the European and US Stansted. economy. Incoming tourism from China (+20%) and Brazil (+12%) rose sharply in 2015; however, the number of tourists from Russia The number of destinations served by Rotterdam The Hague Airport plummeted (-23%). Incoming tourism from India reflected a 9% rose to 47 in 2015 (2014: 40). Over a quarter of these destinations increase. are offered year round, and the remainder seasonally. New direct destinations are Berlin-Tegel (Transavia) and Hamburg (VLM Airlines). The number of destinations served by Eindhoven Airport decreased from 76 to 72 in 2015; Ryanair discontinued a number of destinations. With year-round services to three quarters of its destinations, traffic at Eindhoven Airport is less seasonal in nature than at Rotterdam. Passenger volume continues to rise Passenger volume rose at all Schiphol Group airports. Total passenger volume was up by 6.1%, from 60.5 million to 64.3 million. The largest share was generated by Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, where passenger volume rose by 6.0% to 58.2 million (2014: 54.9 million). SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 49 Our results 2015 Air transport movements at Schiphol (7%). Passenger volume at Rotterdam The Hague Airport rose by 48.9% 0.3% to 1.7 million. Schiphol is posting higher passenger growth figures than the three largest European airports: London Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle and Frankfurt. However, Istanbul Atatürk Airport, now is the third largest airport in Europe in terms of passenger numbers. Istanbul saw its passenger volume rise by 7.7% to 61.3 million and now boasts a market share of 11.6%. Schiphol, Europe's fifth largest airport in 2015 (as in 2014), saw its growth figure increase slightly from 5.8% tot 6.0%. Madrid ranks sixth but is catching up fast on 450,679 Schiphol, with passenger numbers up 11.9% in 2015. 6.7% Transfer traffic increased by 3.4% bringing the total number of transfer passengers to 23 million. As a result, the share of transfer passengers fell from 40.5% to 39.5%. Transfer traffic is reflecting 6.1% slower growth with passengers choosing to transfer via the Gulf 23.7% Region and Turkey more often than in the past. To illustrate the 2.6% above, in 2015 Schiphol's market share for transfer passengers from 2.5% 2.3% and to the UK (from 7% to 6%) and Scandinavia (from 10% to 9%) 1.3% 1.8% 1.9% 2.2% declined. Number of flights Number of flights Air traffic within Europe grew sharply, representing 69.8% of total KLM 220,512 Air France 10,442 passenger volume in 2015 (2014: 69%). This growth is to be easyJet 30,201 Flybe 9,640 attributed largely to the United Kingdom (11%), Italy (18%) and Transavia 27,597 TUIfly 8,667 Germany (13%). Both easyJet and KLM increased the frequency of Delta Air Lines 11,432 Lufthansa 8,285 their flights to these countries in 2015. Outside Europe, most of the British Airways 11,086 Vueling 5,910 growth in passenger volume was accounted for by North America (5%) and the Middle East (8%). Africa was the only continent where Other 106,907 passenger volume decreased, namely by 2%. Cargo Passenger volume also grew at the regional airports. At Eindhoven In 2015 cargo at Schiphol recorded slightly lower results than in the Airport the number of passengers was up by 10.3% to 4.3 million. 2014 record year. Cargo volumes were down by 0.7% to 1.62 The increase was mainly brought about by the increase in flight million tonnes. The decline is partly due to the decrease in imports services offered by Ryanair (13%), Wizz Air (10%) and Transavia from Asia. The trade embargo on Russia has also adversely affected air cargo volumes. In 2015 we saw a marginal shift in cargo volumes carried by fullfreighters (cargo-only aircraft) to belly cargo (aircraft carrying both Development of Schiphol's market share in 2015 passengers and cargo). This is partly the result of the downsizing of (in millions of passengers) KLM/Martinair's full-freighter fleet. The share of full-freighter Market Growth share volumes declined in 2015 to 59.7% (2014: 61.4%). 1 London Heathrow LHR 75.0 2.2% 14.2% Schiphol continues to rank as Europe's third-largest cargo airport, 2 Paris CDG CDG 65.7 3.1% 12.4% after Frankfurt and Paris Charles de Gaulle. Compared with 3 Istanbul IST 61.3 7.7% 11.6% Frankfurt, Paris and Heathrow however, our market share fell slightly 4 Frankfurt FRA 60.9 2.5% 11.5% from 14.6% to 14.3%. Several smaller airports within our 5 Amsterdam AMS 58.2 6.0% 11.0% catchment area grew faster than Schiphol. For example, cargo 6 Madrid Barajas MAD 46.8 11.9% 8.9% volumes at Leipzig and Liège increased by 8% an 10% respectively. 7 Munich MUC 40.9 3.2% 7.7% Schiphol recorded strong growth in cargo transported to Asia in 8 London Gatwick LGW 40.3 5.6% 7.6% 2015, with export volumes up by 11%. The high performers were 9 Rome Fiumicino FCO 40.2 5.1% 7.6% Shanghai (+912 tonnes, +15%), Guangzhou (+618 tonnes, +62%) 10 Barcelona BCN 39.7 5.7% 7.5% and Singapore (+534 tonnes, +21%). Incoming cargo volumes from SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 50 Our results North America rose sharply, mainly Los Angeles (up 100%), Atlanta The air cargo market was volatile in 2015. Recovery set in mid-way (up 100%) and Chicago (up 37%). through the year but it is still too early to determine whether it will endure. Passenger volumes and growth by continent Passenger volume at Schiphol in millions (growth versus 2014) 37.9 (+6.3%) 4.4 (-10.8%) 5.7 (-0.5%) 1.8 (+13.7%) 2.5 (+4.7%) 2.7 (+3.1%) Cargo volumes and growth by continent Schiphol cargo x 1,000 tonnes (growth versus 2014) 134.5 (–12.8%) 616.8 (–2.8%) 306.6 (+5.4%) 210.1 (–0.1%) 176.4 (+5.1%) 176.6 (+0.6%) SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 51 Our results Our traveller The features that characterise our travellers have gradually shifted over the past two decades. More and more people are flying for leisure purposes, and with a shift to shorter holidays. The majority of our travellers continue to be male, and the average age is increasing. The top three leisure destinations have not changed. Travellers at Schiphol Top-5 leisure destinations 2015 1995 13% 59% Male 66% 1 United Kingdom 13% 11% Age 60+ 6% 2 Spain 7–8 1995 Number of flights per year 3 United States of America 2–3 66% 12% Leisure 59% 4 Germany Average duration of summer 7 holiday by air (in days) 21 5% 5 Greece 33% 4% Dutch nationality 38% Dropped off at Schiphol 24% 13% 40% By train to Schiphol 36% 25% 9% 1 United Kingdom Parked at Schiphol 14% 13% 2 Spain 2015 9% 3 United States of America 6% 4 Italy Country of residence 5% 5 Turkey 24% ICA 33% EUNetherlands overig Top-5 intercontinental destinations EU (excl. Netherlands) NL Rest of Europe 12% Intercontinental 4% 2% 1 United Kingdom 37% 6% 2% 1% 2 Canada 1995 3 Thailand Reason for travelling 4 Netherlands Antilles 1% 18% 5 Japan 31% Business 9% Congress /study 2% 2% 2% Leisure 1 United States of America 2% 4% Visiting friends /relatives 2 Canada 46% 2015 Other 3 China 4 Thailand 5 Morocco SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 52 Our results The extensive renovation provides for a more efficient and more Capacity service oriented security process while at the same time increasing space on the piers. With this project Schiphol is also prepared for In an effort to strengthen our competitive position and ensure that the anticipated growth in the number of passengers, future we can continue to offer our passengers and airlines a top-quality legislation and new technological developments. Furthermore the product, Schiphol Group is making substantial infrastructural actual cost savings resulting from the transition to central security investments. To support and ensure Schiphol's continued growth, is higher than orinally anticipated resulting in an more positive the airport's facilities will undergo extensive expansion and renewal business case for aviation than at the time the investment decision in the years ahead. This will allow us to offer the required extra was taken. capacity, bring quality to a higher level and further optimise the processes. Our Master Plan will be implemented in a modular In order to enable the transition to central security, the terminal fashion, by expanding the capacity on a gradual basis in line with underwent a major overhaul resulting in an additional 40,000 m2 of anticipated market developments. new space and renovation of 30,000 m2 of existing space. A new level was constructed in Departure Halls 2 and 3 to accommodate Capacity and quality for our clients the new filters and an additional level was added on top of Piers E, As a result of the rise in air traffic, pressure on the operating capacity F and G in order to separate the various passenger flows. This at peak times is increasing. As we wish to continue to offer our required the modification of 27 gates, and 24 gates were provided clients top quality even during peak hours, we are therefore with so-called gatehouses. These contain two floors; smart wall investing in the necessary expansion of the number of aircraft systems are used to separate arriving and departing passenger stands, the space in the terminal, access roads and the railway flows. Transfer passengers now pass through a security check before station. In Area A, preparations are underway for a new terminal entering the lounge. Passenger feedback on the new central security and pier. Now that agreements have been reached about the filters shows that their perception of waiting times has improved. growth of Schiphol, we wish to encourage airlines to relocate some of the air traffic to Lelystad Airport where an efficient, new airport The large-scale renovations which were required for central security for leisure flights is being constructed. started in 2013 and will be completed in 2016. Operational processes needed to continue despite the complexity of this project. We are offering passengers greater comfort in more spacious To that end we remained in close consultation with numerous terminals and piers with more streamlined passenger processes. The partners in order to minimise disruption for passengers and other new security filters, the creation of pleasant waiting areas at the parties involved. In addition, the project had to meet a tight schedule gates, the transformation of Departure Lounge 2 and the complete in order to be able to satisfy security legislation. As a result, much renovation and expansion of Holland Boulevard will contribute to of the work was carried out at night and numerous temporary an outstanding customer experience. measures were implemented. A comprehensive evaluation has shown that the facilities were taken into use within the deadlines Central security in the non-Schengen area set, but that the tight planning led to higher costs. In 2015, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol switched to central security in the non-Schengen with four new large security filters: two for Smart climate control on new floors departing passengers and two for transfer passengers. These new The new floors on the piers are full of smart technology which filters replaced the 130 separate checkpoints at the non-Schengen reduces costs in various areas. The climate control system is certainly gates. The transition from the old to the new system went smoothly. unique, as it is linked with Schiphol's flight information system. The Fifty-two new lanes in four filters became operational from one day air regulators, which know how many passengers will be arriving, to the next, during the night of 2 June. In Departure Hall 1 blow more air through the various spaces at peak times. The air (Schengen), the new central security filter had already been in use regulators are able to detect the presence of people on the piers on since 2014. the basis of mobile phones trying to find a WiFi source. As soon as no more signals are received, the ventilation stops. Room for quality Capacity and quality are inextricably linked. Without sufficient capacity, we cannot provide quality processes or facilities for our passengers, airlines and logistics services providers. We are currently experiencing problems in this regard in our terminal and our car parks: at busy peak times, we are unable to offer passengers the quality experience we would like. The first requirement is therefore additional capacity and space. This will allow us to keep positioning Schiphol as Europe’s Preferred Airport in the future, with an efficient, reliable, attractive and inspiring range of products for all our users. Sustainability is our main focus when creating more capacity, as we believe that quality and sustainability go hand in hand. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 53 Our results The new floors have smart sun blinds. Instead of electric, energyThe new pier is badly needed in order to make up for the shortage consuming blinds, the windows are fitted with a screen print of aircraft stands. It will accommodate both large and medium-sized containing millions of small dots: black on the inside and white on aircraft. The intention is for Pier A to be completed in phases as part the outside. From inside people can see out, while at the same time of Area A, with the first part being completed at the end of 2019. the white dots on the outside reflect the sunlight. The decision-making regarding Area A is expected to be finalised in the first quarter of 2016. Renovation of Departure Lounge 2 In 2014 we began the large-scale renovation and redesign of the Preparations are currently underway for the construction of a new entire retail and catering area in Departure Lounge 2. This lounge terminal above the current South baggage basement (next to the will offer an entirely new range of retail outlets, restaurants and air traffic control tower) and its integration into the current landside services, featuring surprising 'worlds of experience' which tie in with infrastructure. The new terminal, which is intended for both Schiphol's distinctive atmosphere. intercontinental passengers and passengers within Europe, will be connected to the current terminal, thus retaining the highly valued In 2015, we began with the phased opening of new retail and ‘one-terminal concept’. On the basis of current planning the new catering outlets, allowing passengers to gain an impression of the terminal will be completed in 2023. quality of the new lounge. Unfortunately, as a result of construction setbacks, it was not possible to complete the renovations on Operational Transition Plan schedule (in the second half of 2015). The delay put considerable In view of the major new construction plans to be implemented, we strain on our sector and business partners and also placed passenger prepared an Operational Transition Plan in 2015. The plan identifies services under pressure. This is reflected in our quality surveys. The the operational problems that can be expected to occur prior to renovation of Departure Lounge 2 will be finalised in the next few completion of Pier A and the new terminal, and identifies months. (temporary) solutions we will take to ensure the required capacity. These solutions include process adaptions, modifications to existing In addition to Lounge 2 we are also still busy with the renovation infrastructure or new construction. Our prime concern is to continue work on Holland Boulevard, which is being entirely redesigned. The providing the highest possible level of quality for travellers and our floor area of Holland Boulevard has almost doubled. customers. We have shared the Operational Transition Plan with the airlines. Passenger ratings of the new retail and catering outlets in Departure Lounge 2 and Holland Boulevard has improved, but has not yet Parking reached the level it was at before the work started. This is because In 2015, Schiphol once again attracted more passengers and visitors the construction work is still extremely evident in several areas. We than in the previous year. As a result, we are reaching the limits of expect to receive higher scores in 2016. our capacity at more times during the year, including for our parking garages and car parks. The renovation activities have adversely affected the average spend. The hoardings and diversions mean there is less space for The new covered car park at P3, which will offer 2,650 additional passengers. This influences passengers' perception and purchasing parking spaces, will increase long term parking capacity. This facility behaviour: in areas which are extremely busy, people buy less. is scheduled for completion in the spring of 2016, ahead of the busy Thanks to pop-up stores and the low rate of the euro compared with summer period. Unfortunately, however, passengers are experience several other currencies, the losses were limited. some disruption during the construction work. By introducing a number of temporary measures we are trying to maintain quality Preparations for Area A levels. Products such as Holiday Valet Parking and Drive-Incheck The expansion of Schiphol is essential for safeguarding the have made a positive contribution in this regard. competitive position of the Mainport: it will allow Schiphol to keep pace with market growth, improve connectivity and retain its We are ralso eaching the limits of our parking capacity at Schipholimportant role in Europe. Centre. In 2015, we developed plans for expanding the facilities so that we can continue to offer passengers and visitors a high level of The development of Area A, with its new pier and a terminal, is the service. Construction of the new terminal in Area A will require the next step in Schiphol's modular Master Plan approach. Although for demolition of a part of car park P2. To compansate for the loss of many years renewal work at Schiphol has largely been based on the part of the current car park P2, an extra level will be added to car renovation and modification of the existing infrastructure, Area A park P1 and the remaining part of P2 and a new garage will be built involves a structural expansion which will add capacity and therefore on the site of the old Hilton hotel. also quality. Furthermore, the new pier and terminal are being developed in accordance with the LEED method, which focuses In 2015, parking revenues rose by 4.3%. This increase is higher than heavily on sustainability aspects. the increase in the number of Dutch passengers departing from Schiphol (+2.4%). Extra marketing efforts through both TV SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 54 Our results Area A at Schiphol with the new pier and terminal (awaiting development) commercials and on and off line advertising continuously highlight Eindhoven Airport the wide range of parking products offered by Schiphol Parking. We In response to its rapid growth, Eindhoven Airport has focused on are also seeing a clear increase in the number of passengers making infrastructural expansions. A multi-purpose building will be advance online bookings. constructed on the airport forecourt to accommodate short-term parking, a public transport terminal and retail/catering outlets. Development of Lelystad Airport Construction is scheduled to begin in the second quarter of 2016. On 31 March 2015, the Minister for the Environment issued the The new multi-purpose building on the front airport concourse will Airport Decree. This decree allows Lelystad Airport to start be constructed in accordance with the BREAAM 3-star certificate constructing a new airport, which will open in 2018 when the first ('very good'). This means that the new premises will comply with a leisure flights will depart. wide range of sustainability requirements. In addition, the baggage hall will be expanded. Construction will start in the first quarter of Lelystad Airport has chosen a concept which revolves around the 2016, and terminal processes and facilities will need to be modified passenger, with a compact airport, bespoke products and the accordingly. Airside capacity was already expanded in 2015 with the accompanying levels of quality and comfort based on the principles addition of two new aircraft stands and a separate General Aviation of simplicity and no-nonsense. apron. Once all the renovations and expansions are completed, Eindhoven Airport will be able to handle around six million Rotterdam The Hague Airport passengers per year. In order to satisfy the growing market demand, Rotterdam The Hague Airport is preparing a new Airport Decree which provides for gradual growth through the addition of ten new destinations by 2025. An environmental impact assessment, an economic feasibility Accessibility study and a socio-economic cost-benefit analysis have been drawn up in order to substantiate this request. These also serve as the Schiphol Group will only be able to connect the Netherlands with starting point for the dialogue with stakeholders in the region. the rest of the world in an optimal manner if our airports are also Broad regional support among officials and residents is a easily accessible by road and rail. This is crucial to travellers, precondition for the desired growth and expansion of the number businesses, suppliers and employees. After price, the network of of destinations. destinations and flight frequency, accessibility is the main reason why passengers choose a specific airport. Together with our partners In 2016 and 2017, the apron and the airport square in front of the we therefore strive to ensure an extensive and reliable network of terminal will be renovated and the terminal capacity will be multimodal connections. This is a prerequisite for safeguarding our reviewed. competitive position. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 55 Our results Schiphol Group itself does not offer public transport, but it does play The airport's accessibility by bus was significantly improved in 2015. a coordinating role in improving public transport access to its In May, the North High-Quality Public Transport Hub (HOV) was airports and increasing the sustainability of the solutions offered, in opened by the Minister for the Environment. Travellers can transfer consultation with the transport companies. We wish to offer a good comfortably at this hub onto express bus services to destinations mix of products at our locations, with the provision that these such as Schiphol Plaza, Haarlem, Amsterdam, Amstelveen and products are of a high quality and providers are encouraged to use Amsterdam-Zuidoost. The project is a collaboration between the most sustainable products. We hold regular discussions on these Schiphol, the Amsterdam Metropolitan Area, the province of North subjects with our partners and include them as criteria for our Holland and the municipality of Haarlemmermeer. concession agreements for street taxis and bus transport from, to and at Schiphol. The new bus station, designed by the architects Claessens Erdmann, is an unusual and highly sustainable building. The roof is made of Schiphol's accessibility steel salvaged from an old British WWII aircraft hangar, which was Space in the Netherlands and also around Schiphol, our main previously located at Rotterdam The Hague Airport. Solar panels on airport, is limited. Schiphol Group and the parties involved must the roof make the building self-sufficient and therefore climatemake every effort to ensure that the road system, parking facilities neutral. The roof can be illuminated in various colour combinations, and public transport keep pace with the growth of air traffic. We drawing the attention of passengers and people in the surrounding aim to configure the facilities as efficiently as possible and to area. The unique design won the ARC15 Innovation Award. A facilitate the smooth flow of traffic at the airport. second bus station is currently being constructed at Schiphol-East. The bar is set high: Schiphol depends on a dense, high-frequency Despite the programme for collaboration with NS and ProRail, the public transport network as well as on a varied and adequate range number of disruptions caused by defective trains and railway of parking options that meet the needs of visitors, passengers and systems remains high. While the number of fire alarms in the employees. Nonetheless, Schiphol's accessibility is under pressure, Schiphol Tunnel has fallen, Schiphol's central position in the national which could undermine our competitive position. One concrete railway timetable means that disruptions outside Schiphol often example is the Schiphol NS railway station. The platforms, exits, negatively impact the accessiblity of the airport. This is why Plaza and bus station are reaching the limits of their capacity. In continuation of the improvement programme is essential. order to resolve this issue, a project group has been set up which includes ProRail, NS, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Passengers' choice of transport Environment, the municipality of Haarlemmermeer and the Despite the number of disruptions on the railway system, Schiphol Amsterdam Metropolitan Area. The project group is developing still achieves high scores for accessibility from passengers. In fact, solutions for the short and long term. In view of the expected within Europe only Copenhagen airport scored higher for growth in the number of passengers, these plans must be accessibility in the annual Airport Service Quality survey. This survey, implemented as soon as possible. which compared 280 airports, reflects the level of passenger satisfaction regarding accessibility. Schiphol will also continue to work towards more and better train connections. We are in favour of extending the North-South metro We conduct surveys among passengers in the waiting areas at the line from Amsterdam-Zuid WTC to Schiphol, and will continue our gates throughout the year. One of the questions is how the efforts to ensure this issue remains on the political agenda. We respondent travelled to Schiphol. In 2015, the percentage of believe there are two reasons why extending the North-South metro passengers who were dropped off and collected by car fell slightly line is so important: it will improve the connection with Amsterdam while the percentage of passengers parking in the Schiphol car parks and relieve pressure on the railway system. The reliability of the increased slightly. The percentage of passengers arriving by public entire transport system is expected to improve as a result. The transport also increased slightly. We are pleased with this project will free up space in the rail system for international development, as parking involves two traffic movements (there and connections to Paris and other important cities, such as Berlin, back), and collection and dropping off involves four traffic Frankfurt and London. As well as improving accessibility for our movements (twice there and twice back). passengers and visitors, these transport options also tie in with our aim to reduce CO2 emissions. Several significant improvements were introduced in 2015. Work has continued on the road network around the airport: the rerouting of the A9 motorway is underway and is scheduled for completion in 2018. As a result, traffic will flow more smoothly at the A4/A9 interchange. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 56 Our results Passengers' choice of transport to and from Schiphol the frequency of the direct bus connection between Eindhoven in % Airport and Eindhoven railway station was increased to eight buses 2015 2014 per hour. Public transport 40.4 39.1 In the longer term (2028) a new Eindhoven Airport railway station, Dropped off by car 23.8 26.2 on the Eindhoven-Den Bosch line, is a serious consideration. The Parked car at airport 13.6 13.7 station could promote a number of objectives, including the further Taxi 10.8 9.3 development of Brainport Eindhoven with its various business parks. Group transport 8.2 8.4 The Minister for the Environment is supporting investigation into the Other 3.2 3.3 possibilities for a railway station at Eindhoven Airport. Accessibility of regional airports Improved connections with public transport and the provision of Customer appreciation quick access roads are very important for our regional airports. Schiphol Group is positioning Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as The accessibility of Rotterdam The Hague Airport has been improved Europe’s Preferred Airport for passengers and airlines. We can only by expanding and renovating the airport's link to the A13 motorway realise this ambition if we offer comfort and service at the highest (Doenkade junction). As a result, car traffic is now flowing more level. We ask our customers for their opinion in order to identify smoothly. With regard to public transport, the frequency of the bus areas for improvement. We also focus on consistent high quality at service to and from Meijersplein station for the connection to our regional airports. Randstadrail has been increased. This means that the airport has also been easier to reach by public transport at weekends since the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol end of 2015. The connection could be further improved and the Customer appreciation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is currently airport is working with the metropolitan region, RET and the other under pressure. This is reflected in our own surveys, as well as in parties involved in order to achieve this. external measurements and rankings. In the global SKYTRAX ranking, we have dropped from position 5 to 9. This is not Eindhoven Airport has reached agreements with national and unexpected: there has been a temporary drop in comfort and quality regional authorities regarding improved accessibility. An important because of the construction work for the central security filters, element is improvement of the connection to the A2 and A58 Departure Lounge 2 and Holland Boulevard. motorways no later than 2020. Eindhoven Airport would is also keen to realise a rapid improvement in accessibility by train. In 2015, High-quality taxi service Schiphol wishes to offer passengers and visitors high-quality and sustainable taxi transport. For this reason, we reached agreements with BBF Schipholtaxi and BIOS-groep on the rates and service levels for trips from the drop-off roads at Jan Dellaertplein. In addition, these transport providers operate a fleet of 167 electric Teslas. In 2015, a change in the taxi legislation and a gap in the local legislation meant that other taxi providers could also offer their services from Jan Dellaertplein. Taxi firms were offering taxi services on the concourse outside the arrival hall in an irritating, undesirable and intimidating manner. The operators who had been selected by the airport for Schiphol Taxi were losing business as the taxi touts were intercepting passengers before they reached the official taxi ranks. This situation is undesirable and we also feel that it does not tie in with the image of a high-quality international airport. Schiphol therefore collaborated with the municipality of Haarlemmermeer to develop appropriate measures. The municipality drew up revised General Municipal By-laws (APV) which prohibited taxi touts. In turn, Schiphol provided organisational changes such as improving the visibility and signposting of the official taxis, and additional enforcement of the revised APV. Schiphol will bear the cost of extra supervisors. This approach aims to counter the taxi touts and the disturbance of public order associated with their activities. Our aim is to restore the taxi service from Schiphol to the desired high-quality and sustainable level. However, we are still running up against legislative constraints in terms of the permitted measures and enforcement capacity. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 57 Our results We conduct an annual survey about how satisfied travellers are with ASQ score. The launch of a new mobile website will also contribute our services. We measure passenger satisfaction with the arrival and to this. departure process, the accessibility of the airport and the price/ quality ratio of the shops and catering outlets beyond passport Awards control. We can see that the renovation work at Schiphol has a clear Amsterdam Airport Schiphol effect on passenger quality perception. On average, passengers who • Business Traveller UK (United Kingdom): ‘Best Airport in travelled in the first half of the year found it less easy to find their Europe’, for 26th year in a row. way and had to walk greater distances. The perception of the • Airlines on Airports benchmark among European airports: hygiene, atmosphere and range of catering and retail outlets in number 1 overall. Departure Lounge 2 is also less positive. • IATA: Air Cargo Excellence Award, ‘Best major European airport’. After the introduction of central security on 3 June, passengers had • Airport Marketing Awards Routes Europe: Highly Commended to get used to the modified process and walking routes in the in the category of 'Airports above 20 million passengers'. terminal. The Net Promoter Score dropped from 30 to 28. Waiting • Airport Marketing Awards World Routes: nominated (top 5) in times for central security have been rated as 'reasonable to good' the category '50 million passengers plus'. so far. Passengers are less satisfied with the waiting times for the • Spin Award (for creative digital concepts): online game various passport controls. This is partly due to temporary capacity Destination Unknown. issues at the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee. • Baxter Travel Media Agents’ Choice: favourite international airport according to Canadian travel agents for the 11th year in Despite the slightly lower score for several components, the general a row. perception of Schiphol has remained stable and at a high level. We are expecting an improvement in quality perception levels in 2016 Eindhoven Airport once the renovation of Holland Boulevard and Departure Lounge 2 • Zoover Awards: 'Most popular airport in the Netherlands'. is complete and passengers are able to use the new facilities. In the last quarter of 2015, when central security was fully operational, for example, we already noticed a shift towards a more positive score. In Departure Lounge 2 there are already signs that the score is Noise increasing once again; this is due to the phased opening of new retail and catering outlets. Living and working near an airport has both positive and negative sides. These are not distributed evenly over the region. We regard it The Airport Quality Service (ASQ) benchmark, which compares as our socio-economic responsibility to work with partners to European airports, shows how travellers rate our service level and improve the quality of life and to limit disturbance to the greatest facilities compared with other airports. Schiphol ranks seventh possible extent. among O&D passengers; Copenhagen Airport ranks in the top spot. Our goal is to achieve second position by 2020. Transfer passengers Among other things, noise disturbance depends on the number, have ranked us sixth; in this group Munich occupies the top spot. timing, flight operations and the aircraft used. Schiphol can We are aiming to rank first by 2020. influence some of these aspects directly, but on others we can only exert indirect influence. Schiphol is continuing its efforts to contain Rotterdam The Hague Airport noise disturbance as effectively as possible in collaboration with Rotterdam The Hague Airport has successfully undertaken steps to other aviation parties, including KLM, BARIN and Air Traffic Control further improve quality for example by introducing of new parking the Netherlands (LVNL). products, online reservations, renovation and expansion of the arrival facilities and improving the passenger flow through the Disturbance reduction around Schiphol baggage checks. Passenger appreciation of the improvements is Flight frequency: growth and agreements reflected in an increased Net Promoter Score from 30 to 46. With Schiphol's growth in mind, agreement has been reached with the Alders Platform (which has now been absorbed into the Schiphol Eindhoven Airport Community Council) regarding how many flights may take place Eindhoven Airport is currently in a phase of expansion and change. until 2020 and how the number of flights can develop from then As a result, customer satisfaction in the ASQ benchmark is slightly on. In January 2015 the parties to the Alders Platform made a lower than for other airports. The score in the autumn of 2015 was number of supplementary agreements. Schiphol will be given less 3.62, compared with 3.65 in 2014. The position of Eindhoven room for growth until 2020, and the maximum traffic volume has Airport in respect of other airports is stable and remains at 21. Once been reduced from 510,000 to 500,000 air transport movements. the construction work has ended and the airport is able to reposition In return, Schiphol will be permitted to use the fourth runway more itself, the customer appreciation will increase resulting in a higher often. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 58 Our results How flights are operated: runway usage and large-scale maintenance Four rules have been formulated that describe how the aviation sector is permitted to use the runways. For more information, click here. Within these rules, it is up to LVNL to decide which runways are to be used at which times. Schiphol influences this through the choices it makes with regard to the timing of large-scale runway maintenance. This year, large-scale maintenance was carried out on runways 18L-36R and 18C-36C. On both runways, work was carried out on the so-called ‘Touch Down Zone’, the target area where aircraft first touch the runway. This area of the runway is subject to heavy stress. This type of maintenance is essential in order to prevent possible future disruptions. In addition, we have worked hard on the Aircraft Lighting Control and Monitoring System. This runway 48 dB(A) lighting system is being renewed across the entire airfield, this year on Runways 06-24, 18R-36L, 09-27 and 18L-36R, for example. In 58 dB(A) 2015, runways were taken out of use more frequently than in other years. No. of people experiencing severe noise disturbance x 1,000 The aircraft used: fleet renewal 200 Fleet renewal affects noise disturbance. Schiphol welcomed an 170 Airbus A350 for the first time this year. The Finnish airline Finnair introduced this innovative aircraft to its fleet. This aircraft will be 140 seen at Schiphol on a regular basis in the years ahead. 2015 also 110 saw the introduction by KLM of the Boeing B787 Dreamliner. Both 80 the Airbus A350 and the Boeing B787 generate less noise and emit 2000 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 less noxious gases than their predecessors. A quieter, cleaner and more economical fleet is in everyone's interests. Airlines, airports and residents all benefit from these modern technologies. Breaches of environmental standards Schiphol is transitioning from the old environmental standards to Impact of disturbance reduction in 2015 the new Environmental Standards and Enforcement System (NNHS). As early as 2013, it was already clear that we would easily achieve Although not yet officially effective, the NNHS is already used in the agreed 5% reduction in noise disturbance. It is now evident that practice as the standard for flight operations. Over the past we can achieve a 20% reduction given a volume of 500,000 operating year the sector was in compliance with all the rules of the movements. The initial results of the Environmental Impact new system with the exception of the number of night-time air Assessment (MER) show that on balance, the disturbance reduction transport movements, which must be reduced in the operating year will be even higher. ahead. Noise impact The rules under the new system are to be laid down in laws and The figure shows the 58 and 48 Lden noise contours during the regulations. The Scope and Details Memorandum was published in 2015 operating year. The contour shows where a noise inpact of 58 June 2015. Publication of the Environmental Impact Assessment decibels or 48 decibels can be expected around Schiphol in average (MER) is expected in the first quarter of 2016, after which the period weather conditions. This contour is not static but has a bandwidth, of public consultations can begin. The aim of the MER is to have the as the noise disturbance can vary as a result of changes in the new system implemented as from the 2017 operating year, which weather. Within the contour, the number of residents that can be starts on 1 November 2016. characterised as 'experiencing severe noise disturbance' is calculated. The statutory norm for the maximum number of people At present we still apply the old system as a basis for our reporting. experiencing severe noise disturbance is 180,000. In the operating In the 2015 operating year the limit values of three enforcement year 2015, the number of people experiencing severe noise points were exceeded. Until the NNHS has been incorporated into disturbance as a result of the actual noise impact was calculated to the Aviation Act, any breaches will be evaluated with due regard for be 119,000. this new system. If such breaches turn out to be the result of the application of the new system of rules, no measures will be imposed on the sector. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 59 Our results Collaborating parties Number and nature of reports to Bas The structural consultations at national, provincial and municipal Habitual Focus group complainants level are extremely valuable for us. The Schiphol Community Council was set up in January 2015. It is a platform in which stakeholders 2015 2014 2015 2014 come together to address issues relating to the development of Schiphol and the surrounding area. These stakeholders include Number of complainants 5,462 7,446 35 26 authorities, the aviation sector, residents and sector organisations. The Community Council has replaced the Alders Platform Schiphol Reports received and the Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (CROS). Specific reports 20,392 20,870 114,204 83,437 Period reports 27,197 40,894 4,990 5,530 We also actively participate in SMASH (the Mainport Amsterdam General reports 685 840 422 275 Schiphol Haarlemmermeer Structural Concept), with the aim of Total reports strengthening the metropolitan region and the role of the airport in received 48,274 62,604 119,616 89,242 this regard. At a regional level, the Lelystad Alders Platform holds regular Reports may concern specific air transport movements or a specific discussions with the municipalities and other interested parties in period, or they may be of a general nature. the surrounding area. In Eindhoven the regional Alders Platform discusses airport development with key stakeholders. Rotterdam The focus group consists of people who submit no more than 500 The Hague Airport has its own Regional Consultative Committee, reports per person per year, which is 99.4% of the total number of which holds regular meetings with the main parties in the local complainants. Both the total number of complainants in and the community. number of reports received from this group were down in 2015, according to Bas figures. This follows a rise in the number of people Improving the quality of life around Schiphol submitting reports in the previous operating year, which owed to a Improving the quality of life for people living near Amsterdam long period of maintenance to the two preferred runways, 06-24 Airport Schiphol is a goal which is shared by Schiphol Group, the and 18R-36L. Overall, the number of reports was up. This is province of North-Holland and the central government. These attributable to 35 individual habitual complainants who together parties have set up the Schiphol Quality of Life Foundation in order submitted 119,616 reports, up 34% from 2014. to achieve this. All the participants have twice donated ten million euros to the foundation. The foundation finances projects and offers The lion's share of complainants submitted reports in September benefits-in-kind (such as noise insulation) to individuals subject to 2015, largely due to adjusted runway use in connection with major unacceptable or unworkable circumstances who fall outside the runway maintenance and work on lighting and control systems on scope of the existing statutory regulations for compensation. For Runway 18L-36R. As a consequence of this and the prevailing example, dire cases are accommodated in a special programme, the weather conditions, Runway 09-27 and Runway 04-22 were in first phase of which was completed in 2015. frequent use during this month. In previous years, local residents submitted the largest number of complaints during the peak Area-specific projects to which the foundation donates funds summer period in July and August. include the Campus Uilenstede in Amstelveen and the Iepenlaan in Uithoorn. Both will be completed in the first half of 2016. The Noise monitoring points approved Green Zone (Aalsmeer) and Hart van Zwanenburg projects Amsterdam Airport Schiphol uses the Noise Monitoring System, or are still in the preparatory phase. They will be financed using the NOMOS, which currently constitutes 37 monitoring points. A first tranche made available by the foundation. In 2016, the monitoring point consists of a 6-10 metre high mast mounted with foundation will start to select and implement activities and projects a microphone which continuously measures all environmental noise. covered by committed funds from the second tranche. These points are connected to a computer and to the nomos.schiphol.nl website, on which the results are posted. In 2014 Reports by local residents and 2015, Schiphol extended this network by adding eight The Local Community Contact Centre (Bas), a foundation formed monitoring points in surrounding municipalities. In early 2016 by Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) and Amsterdam another noise monitoring point will be added in Sassenheim. Airport Schiphol, provides daily information on air traffic to, from and at Schiphol, runway and route usage and living in the Schiphol Noise disturbance around Rotterdam The area. Bas registers all complaints and visits local residents who feel Hague Airport seriously affected and have requested face-to-face contact. Noise impact in the area around Rotterdam The Hague Airport is measured on the basis of six enforcement points. These enforcement points have been laid down in regulations which serve as a provisional airport decree. No breaches of these enforcement points occurred during the 2015 operating year. The airport used SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 60 Our results approximately 97% of available noise capacity at the most critical particular with Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) and our enforcement point over the course of the 2015 operating year. home carrier KLM. Noise disturbance around Eindhoven Airport Schiphol Noise capacity at Eindhoven Airport allowed for restricted growth In 2015 a total of 41 runway incursions were registered at in air transport movements in 2015. This capacity was not exceeded Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (2014: 17). This figure is well above in 2015 and will be increased in 2016, allowing for more flights. our target maximum of 22. There is no obvious cause for this Local residents can find information about noise and aircraft increase; most runway incursions resulted from a failure to follow movements at Eindhoven Airport on the website procedures. This issue continues to be a priority not only at Schiphol www.samenopdehoogte.nl. but within the entire aviation sector. The Runway Safety Team dedicated a separate session to the theme Human Factors. Alders Platform agreements on Lelystad Airport In 2015 we permanently closed down the W11 and W12 access The Airport Decree on the expansion of Lelystad Airport took effect roads from the Zulu taxiway to Runway 18C-36C, on which a on 1 April 2015, providing for phased development to a maximum considerable number of runway incursions occurred in the past. of 45,000 commercial air transport movements. Members of the Measures implemented on and around the G1 access road from Lelystad Alders Platform adopted a Work Programme 2.0 defining Runway 04-22 have led to a substantial reduction of runway and allocating actions to be taken over the coming years, incursions there. Further information: Runway incursions at Schiphol (annual number) • Local Community Contact Centre Schiphol (Bas) 2015 41 • Schiphol Community Council 2014 17 • NOMOS 2013 23 • Schiphol Quality of Life Foundation 2012 42 2011 36 Safety Rotterdam The Hague Airport Nine runway incursions occurred at Rotterdam The Hague Airport in 2015 (2014: 5). Rotterdam The Hague Airport implemented a Safety is a key priority in both our own operations and those of our number of additional control measures in 2015 to prevent runway partners. We work to ensure the safety of our travellers, visitors and incursions. Various new (and existing) lines have been applied (or employees and improve workplace safety in cooperation with the reapplied) using sustainable materials and flashing lights have been airlines, the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee, contractors and other installed at the holding position markings along the taxiway as an companies. extra signal to pilots and vehicle operators that they are approaching a runway. A safe and healthy airport environment and workplace is the shared responsibility of all stakeholders. Each partner is responsible for Eindhoven Airport ensuring the safety of its own processes. As the airport operator, Eleven runway incursions occurred at Eindhoven Airport in 2015 Schiphol Group monitors compliance with all relevant regulations. (2014: 8). In October 2015 the audit institute of the Dutch Airports Safe working conditions receive added attention during large-scale Association (NVL Auditinstituut) performed an audit under the construction projects such as the current implementation of the National Regulations for the Safe Use of Airports and other Master Plan. Management and employees must lead by example Aerodromes. This did not result in any urgent findings. and communicate the importance of health and safety both within and and outside the organisation. Bird strikes Birds are a serious flight safety risk. In order to control this risk, Safety on and around runways Schiphol employs bird controllers who patrol the landing area 24 Our runway safety policy is mainly aimed at preventing situations in hours a day, 7 days a week. In 2015 the mild winter led to a mouse which aircraft or other vehicles enter a runway when this is not infestation and an attendant sharp increase in the number of birds permitted or desirable. We make every effort to minimise the of prey throughout the Netherlands, and at Schiphol of kestrels in likelihood of such runway incursions. If an incident occurs, we take particular. To keep these birds away we sowed large areas with a all possible steps to limit any consequences and investigate what type of grass that is inedible for insects and mice, prompting them can be done to prevent similar occurrences in future, working in to seek out different foraging areas. As soon as the mouse close cooperation with all parties in the aviation process, and in population decreases, the kestrels will move out too. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 61 Our results The activities of the Netherlands Control Group for Bird Strikes (NRV) that while our projects are characterised by tight deadlines, we were further developed in 2015, with measures from the covenant, never lose sight of safety. A case in point would be the decision of such as the accelerated ploughing back of grain fields by farmers, whether to both process and assemble or only assemble specific implemented as effectively as possible. project components on site in the terminal, since this impacts on the indoor climate. Careful consideration is vital as the terminal is in use A new NRV covenant was prepared in 2015 for the 2015-2018 24 hours a day and there is limited room to manoeuvre. period. This new covenant will be signed in the spring of 2016 and builds on the existing agreements. 2015 also saw frequent use of Industrial accidents the bird detection system to supply data to NRV partners and analyse Schiphol uses Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) when registering the results of measures taken at Schiphol. In 2015, the number of work-related accidents that result in absenteeism. In this way we bird strikes at Schiphol per 10,000 air transport movements can compare our performance with that of other companies within amounted to 8.4 (2014: 5.8). or outside our sector. A total of seven work-related accidents resulted in absenteeism within our organisation in 2015, six of Bird strikes at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol which concerned airport fire service staff – one resulted from an (number per 10,000 air transport movements) injury sustained during fire service training and the other five from 2015 8.4 sports-related injuries. In 2015 Schiphol Nederland B.V. (excluding 2014 5.8 the fire service) had a single work-related accident with 2013 6.1 absenteeism, bringing the LTIF score for 2015 to 0.4 (2014: 1.2). 2012 7.0 The fire service achieved a score of 27.1, as compared to the target 2011 7.6 of 40 (2014: 22.7). The LTIF for both Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport was 0. Rotterdam The Hague Airport There were 78 incidents in the terminal involving personal injury, The number of bird strikes at Rotterdam The Hague Airport dropped mostly to passengers (2014: approximately 100). Roughly half were to 3.1 per 10,000 air transport movements (2014: 5.7). related to the use of our facilities, such as a staircase, escalator or ramp. The majority of injuries resulted from trips and falls. Eindhoven Airport At Eindhoven Airport, the number of bird strikes dropped to 8 per 10,000 air transport movements (2014: 8.8). This figure includes both civil and military flights. The ratio in 2014 was higher than reported in the 2014 Annual Report due to a calculation error. CO2 emissions Work safety As a key link in the aviation chain, Schiphol Group takes Safety during construction work responsibility for emissions reduction and pursues active policies to Our efforts to improve occupational safety received an additional this end. We are continually investing in the sustainability of our own impetus with the renewed risk-based Safe and Sustainable business operations and stimulate our partners at the airports to do Employability management system. A Schiphol-wide occupational the same. In 2015, Schiphol Group once again took part in Airports health and safety risk survey was carried out in 2015 and the Going Green, a leading aviation industry conference in Chicago identified risks were classified in a risk matrix. The top 5 risks are where experts share knowledge on airport sustainability and explore being further analysed and will be addressed through a number of innovative solutions. The ninth edition of Airports Going Green in measures. The top risks include staff absenteeism due to prolonged 2016 will be held at Schiphol in honour of our 100th anniversary. perceived excessive work pressure, staff absenteeism resulting from employability issues among older employees (due to e.g. the pace Joining forces of automation, flexible deployment and innovation), and personal Though they do not consume kerosene themselves, airports can injuries sustained during construction processes. work to facilitate the transition from fossil fuels to cleaner alternatives. Schiphol Group has joined forces with home carrier The design and construction of central security for non-Schengen KLM, biofuel supplier SkyNRG and several other partners to promote destinations placed a major emphasis not only on ergonomics, but large-scale use of biofuels in aviation. Schiphol Group and KLM are also on safety. Safety can not be taken for granted. The 12 Golden furthermore taking part in a number of university studies and pilot Rules of Safety are a vital instrument for keeping employees and projects to explore options for developing the biofuels market. KLM contractors mindful of safety. In 2016 we will also be launching is one of the world's most progressive airlines in terms of biofuels several safety campaigns in conjunction with our main contractors. use. Schiphol extended its membership of the KLM's Corporate BioFuel programme in 2015 through to at least 2018. The non-Schengen central security project offers a number of valuable lessons for the development of Area A. An external As a part of the European Single European Sky (SES) initiative, efforts evaluation of the efficacy of safety policy in this project concluded are underway to modernise the European air traffic control system. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 62 Our results As well as boosting capacity and optimising the use of air space, emissions from energy purchased), making it possible to more these modernisations also encompass significant efficiency actively monitor the performance indicators. CO2 emissions are improvements in ground processes, aircraft handling and airport consequently published in a different form than in the 2014 Annual use. Airspace optimisation is aimed at shortening flight routes and Report. For further information about performance indicators, see lowering fuel consumption which reduces CO2 emissions. the section on Socio-economic accountability. The SES programme is erasing national borders in the sky and the Eindhoven Airport was awarded 3+ status in the 2013 Airport boundaries between civilian and military airspace to create a single Carbon Accreditation benchmark and has had ACA cerification European airspace. Schiphol Group and its European partners are since 2011. The process to review the accreditation level is currently actively seeking the accelerated implementation of Single European ongoing. Sky. Rotterdam The Hague Airport aims to cut CO2 emissions by Schiphol supports the development of energy-saving take-off generating 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. The procedures, provided they are balanced against noise impact. This airport is currently not yet ACA-accredited but has taken steps to was the first full year in which KLM operated flights in accordance do so, for example by identifying the sources of CO2 emissions so with the NADP2, a take-off procedure under which departing that we can launch and monitor targeted projects and initiatives. aircraft achieve a high speed faster but also begin a steep ascent Rotterdam The Hague Airport's CO2 emissions, which are calculated earlier, and which reduces fuel consumption. Newer, lighter aircraft on a different basis than at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, declined types are also helping to cut back on the emission of hazardous by 5% in 2015 to 2,356 tonnes (2014: 2,484 tonnes). substances; these include the Airbus A350 and the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, which TUI began using in 2014 and KLM in 2015. CO2 emissions by Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (in tonnes) Leading the way in CO2 emissions reduction Caused by 20151 20141 It has been Schiphol Group's goal since 2012 to achieve CO2 neutrality for its own operations every year. We reduce emissions by Scope 1 Natural gas and fuel 19,954 16,190 using sustainable energy and fuels to the fullest extent possible. As consumption under the in previous years, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol met its target of SNBV licence CO2-neutral business operations in 2015, partly by compensating Scope 2 Electricity 78,681 81,426 for emissions through certificates for Dutch, Belgian and CentralTotal CO2 emissions 98,635 97,616 European wind energy and Belgian solar energy. Passengers x 1,000 57,581 54,549 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is one of the airports most actively CO2 Kg / passenger 1.71 1.79 pursuing emission reductions. In 2015 we retained our 3+ status in the Airport Council International's Airport Carbon Accreditation benchmark. This is the highest status that can be attained and was 1 The figures relate to emissions and the number of passengers over the operating year. awarded on the basis of our investments in biofuels, electrically powered vehicles, use of LED lighting and restriction of commuter Energy efficiency traffic. Our ambition is to maintain this highest status in future. Schiphol Group's policy is to use energy as efficiently as possible so that we can handle more aircraft, passengers and cargo while using In 2012 we set ourselves the goal of reducing CO2 emissions per less energy. In 2015 we once again implemented a wide range of passenger to 1.35 kg by 2020. The target for 2015 was a reduction measures to this end. A large share of the public and car park to 2.01 kg; the actual emissions level was 1.71 kg. The target for lighting was replaced by LED lighting, large cooling units and air 2016 has been set at 1.88 kg. As a result of the expansions of, for treatment units made way for more energy-efficient models and, instance, central security and the new Hilton hotel it will be a where possible, signs and systems were switched off more often. As challenge to achieve this figure in 2016. of 2015 we are also concluding Sustainable Management and Maintenance contracts with our main contractors, which will create a more comfortable environment for building users and reduce energy use. We have initiated the process to obtain BREEAM in-use sustainability certification for our office portfolio and also plan to develop a mobile energy-neutral commercial multi-tenant building at Schiphol-East. As of 2015, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol reports its emissions from Combined, the measures taken in 2015 yielded energy savings of energy consumption on the basis of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol more than 60 TJ, comparable to the energy consumption of around (scope 1 for emissions from airport activities and scope 2 for indirect 730 households, and met our 4.1% reduction target. Our absolute energy consumption did increase by 40 TJ, which is attributable in SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 63 Our results part to the fact that the 2015 operating year, which ran from discussion concerning these standards at the European level may 1 November 2014 to 31 October 2015, was slightly colder than the however lead to a tightening of the requirements in future. 2014 operating year. Consumption was also higher because apron buses now require electric charging; however, this is offset by the We apply performance indicators that involve input measurement, fact that they no longer produce diesel emissions. For 2016 we have such as the installation of Fixed Electrical Ground Power at aircraft set the same energy efficiency target of 4%. stands and the electrification of the vehicle fleet. Performance indicators that involve output monitoring are not being used at In 2015 the terminal of Rotterdam The Hague Airport was present as it is not always possible to draw clear causal links between connected to a collective heat and cold storage (HCS) system, which our own and other activities in the region and air quality. will dramatically cut gas consumption. The full effect will be measurable in 2016. Solar panels had already been installed on the Measures roof of the terminal and have now also been placed on a new In many cases, measures we take to improve air quality at our operational building. The new second arrivals hall slated for airports can dovetail with measures to cut energy consumption, completion in April 2016 has been designed to minimise energy most notably in the replacement of traditional fuel engines with consumption, with solar panels on the roof, LED lighting and a HCS electric engines. In 2015, we put 35 electric buses into operation connection. which are powered on solar energy instead of fossil fuels. The buses were designed especially for and in collaboration with the airport so Sustainable energy that they offer more seats and passenger comfort as well as more With the ground under Schiphol ideally suited for heat and cold baggage space. This is made possible by a number of measures, such storage (HCS), this technique continues to offer a financially and as a smaller battery tailored for the limited range required for these technologically sustainable solution for existing and new buildings busses at Schiphol. alike. Two new sources were activated in 2015, one to supply the new Hilton hotel and another for the new security filter to Piers G The growth of electric driving is accompanied by a growing need and H. These sources are now being charged for the first time. The for electric charging stations. Over the past year we met with all HCS supply for Pier F, which was taken out of operation during stakeholders to draft a policy on electric charging which was construction of the central security facilities, will also be reactivated. subsequently communicated to all handling agents and airlines. Sixteen charging facilities have now been installed out of a total of 150-200 ultimately required. These will be built over the next two years. Electric charging points will also be installed in the car parks. Air quality At the end of 2015, a total of 70 aircraft stands were supplied with Schiphol Group is dedicated to high air quality at and around the Fixed Electrical Ground Power (FEGP). Aircraft at these locations no airports and aims to lead the industry when it comes to reducing longer need to use their tail engines, thereby cutting NOx emissions. NOx, PMx and particulate emissions. These efforts are important in In 2016 we will be adding FEGP at another three aircraft stands. view of our commitment to the health of employees at Schiphol and local residents in our immediate environment. At Rotterdam The Hague Airport a further share of the mobile equipment will be replaced with electrical transport in 2016. In 2015 Air quality composition is monitored by the government through the airport and handling agent also agreed to launch a pilot project the National Air Quality Cooperation Programme. The Schiphol site to replace diesel generators with hydrogen-powered generators. currently meet all governmental requirements in this field. Public Dilemma: generating energy on our own site? In previous years our ambition was to generate 20% of our own energy requirement by sustainable means at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol itself. This year we evaluated whether this ambition is still realistic. We were confronted with a dilemma: on the one hand, we have a great deal of land on the Schiphol location, but on the other, we are faced with constraints due to airfield safety requirements. Besides there is also the question as to whether the role of energy producer fits in with Schiphol's strategy. For these reasons, in 2015 we compared options for generating energy on the Schiphol site and outside the Schiphol site. We have decided to purchase 100% sustainable energy. Meanwhile, we will continue to explore options for generating energy to meet our own building and process-based requirements on site. One example is our fleet of electric buses on airside, which run on solar energy generated on the Schiphol site. Plans are also well advanced for solar panels on the roofs of two cargo warehouses. We installed panels on the rooftops of the office complex The Base and the HOV Noord bus terminal in 2015. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 64 Our results Recycling and reuse Circular economy We continue to make progress every year, but have not yet achieved all of our ambitions. In 2015 we were unable to meet our recycling Schiphol Group believes in the necessity of a circular economy. We target. This is one of the reasons why we have now launched a Zero are dedicated to the intelligent design of operating equipment, Waste Plan. reuse and recycling of residual flows, closed circular supply chains and raising awareness throughout the entire supply chain. Aviation Under this plan, we aim to recycle at least 70% of operational waste companies have a key social and economic function, and we feel it at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol by 2020. Construction and is important to lead by example wherever we can. Rather than demolition waste and water containing glycol are not included in contributing to the problem, Schiphol Group wants to be a part of this target since they are removed by external parties. The the solution, and this also fuels our mission to innovate. percentage of separated waste in 2015 was 28.4% (2014: 25.9%), whereas our target was 40.0%. Protection of the environment is of course the main reason to invest in a circular economy, but other factors are involved too. More We are currently rethinking our approach. We aim to eliminate effective and efficient use of raw materials makes us less vulnerable waste flows, and are now talking in terms of residual flows, which to variations in supply and corresponding price fluctuations. It also often still have economic value. Achieving a true zero waste reduces the risk of incidents and catastrophic events that could arise operation calls for us to make our supply chains more sustainable from the use of hazardous substances such as asbestos and and to restructure our business models. Our order of preference is chromium-6 toxic paint. to reuse released materials on location and, if that is not possible, to reuse them in the region or else nationally. As well as simplifying With our central role in the aviation process in the Netherlands, we the process, this also cuts back on transport. Besides this we are also work alongside a wide diversity of companies and organisations working to phase out toxic substances used in construction and both on and off the airport premises. For example, Schiphol is a renovations at our locations. founding partner of 'The Netherlands as a Circular Hotspot' initiative. The Dutch EU Presidency, in particular, will afford an Use of materials opportunity to broadly promote the Netherlands' image as a Schiphol uses biobased products wherever possible. We cultivate pioneer, including during an incoming trade mission. our own hemp for fibre and flax for oil and recently began planting elephant grass. These grass varieties are useful for a range of In 2015 we joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, whose mission reasons: they do not contribute to residual flows, are unappealing is to speed the transition to a circular economy. We joined the to birds and at the same time supply organic products such as foundation in order to expand our knowledge in this field. With a furniture polish, sustainable building materials and paint. In broad international network of support, this foundation promotes October, the paint manufacturer Rigo which produces such organic education and works with industry and authorities to develop paints and polish received a SHARE Award for its sustainable ultramodern innovations. initiatives, presented during the eighth SHARE conference. This Zero waste in 2030 Percentage of waste separated By the year 2030 we aim to be an organisation that uses only (per year) products and resources that can either be reused or recycled or else 2015 28.4 are entirely biodegradable. Making Amsterdam Airport Schiphol a 2014 25.9 zero waste airport will require long-term vision and perserverence. 2013 36.0 2012 35.0 2011 30.2 Further research on ultra-fine particles In 2015 the Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) conducted a supplementary study on the concentration of ultra-fine particles in the air around Schiphol, responding to a publication issued by the TNO research institute in late 2014. The latter study found that aircraft may increase the concentration of ultra-fine particles in a radius of 40 kilometres around the airport during takeoff. The RIVM's research results, which were published in September 2015, show that concentrations of ultra-fine particles near the airport are comparable to those in a busy city street. It further notes that additional research is needed to ascertain the effects of ultra-fine particles on health. The Minister for the Environment has pledged to the Lower House that this further research will be conducted. Schiphol is seeking cooperation with other aviation sector partners to expand our knowledge of ultra-fine particles. We aim to address this issue as proactively as possible, supplying aircraft stands with Fixed Eletrical Ground Power and encouraging a speedier switch to electrical vehicles on airside. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 65 Our results event, of which Schiphol is one of the original founders, is held in agreements are laid down in the underlying contracts. We reserve Haarlemmermeer every year and seeks to to promote a sustainable the right to unilaterally terminate the contract with any supplier that economy in the region. fails to comply with these agreements. One aspect of the legislation for public tenders is the principle of proportionality: the choices that Regional airports we make and the requirements and conditions we expect suppliers Rotterdam The Hague Airport looks at what materials can be to meet must be reasonably proportional to the nature and scope recycled for all of its activities and investments. When replacing the of the contract being put out to tender. In 2015 we established a apron, for instance, the concrete rubble removed is reused for other system known as Contract Management Control (RCM) for the purposes, such as paving roads and compacting the soil on the purpose of ensuring that the agreements made in each contract are airport grounds. A large solar cell park has also been included in the complied with so that the contracts make a maximum contribution investment programme. The energy generated by the park will to our objectives. preferably be used entirely on the airport premises, for example to produce hydrogen. Waste separation did not take place in 2015 due Area A and the new Lelystad Airport to contract change with the waste collection company. The Two projects stand out: Area A and the new Lelystad Airport. containers for separating waste were supplied at the end of the year; the plan is to introduce them in phases in the terminal and to fully Sustainability is an integral part of the development of Area A at transition to waste separation on 1 March 2016. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. It is our aim to enhance the well-being of passengers and other users of the airport. We also wish to ensure that Area A is built and operates in a sustainable and reliable manner. Eight sustainability criteria are central to this project: wellSupply chain responsibility being, materials, energy, air quality, employment, noise and the local community, the water supply chain and visible sustainability. These As an airport operator, Schiphol Group plays a coordinating role. We criteria will been incorporated into the call for tenders and in the work to increase the sustainability of our own business operations functional Schedule of Requirements. and promote sustainability throughout our purchasing chains. We collaborate with businesses and organisations that are committed The tendering procedure for the development of the new Lelystad to leadership in this area. We work together to improve the Airport, entailing a series of tender lots, commenced in January sustainability of the Mainport and appeal of the region through 2015. One of the results of these tenders is that the contractor concrete measures and agreements. intends to use an innovative method in the construction of the foundation of the new runway which will necessitate fewer truck The airport's core processes involve close collaboration with our key movements thereby reducing CO2 emissions. In addition, LED partners: airlines, ground handlers, the Royal Netherlands lighting rather than incandescent lighting will be used to achieve Marechaussee, Customs and Air Traffic Control the Netherlands 30% energy savings. Furthermore one-third of the value of the (LVNL). As we do not purchase directly from these partners, they do construction work will be carried out by local businesses and that not fall within the scope of our sustainable procurement policy. local and regional businesses will be contracted to carry out twoSchiphol procures the majority of its services from construction, thirds of the of maintenance work. security and facility management companies. Schiphol engages main contractors for airport maintenance. Most CR in relation to procurement processes of the associated framework agreements were extended by one to Our central procurement department selects suppliers that actively three years in 2015, with the proviso that the suppliers contribute pursue Corporate Responsibility (CR). The Tendering Committee to reducing Schiphol's CO2 footprint plus the volume of waste and applies criteria in the area of legality, integrity, efficiency and CR. help the airport to further improve air quality. European tendering procedures are conducted on the basis of a tender document that sets out our basic principles, our Responsible market conduct considerations and the desired results. As a part of the selection We work in accordance with the Responsible Market Conduct phase, Schiphol asks candidates to explain how they have anchored Committee Code. Schiphol helped initiate this code, to which it is CR in their organisation. As a part of the awarding phase, we ask also a signatory. The Code defines professionalism, quality and candidates to explain how their deliverables, service and/or activities etiquette in the sector as 'responsible market conduct'. will contribute to our key CR objectives. All these aspects are Collaboration among principals, employers, employees and considered during the decision-making process. In 2015, in 83% of intermediaries is key. cases advice was sought from our CR officer during tendering procedures. The Code of Responsible Market Conduct for the cleaning sector has been broadened to include security and catering. As a Specific frameworks and rules relating to working conditions and committee member, Schiphol plays an active role in broadening the other aspects govern our procurement activities. Specific scope of this code and ensuring its further enshrinement. Among SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 66 Our results other aspects, the Code defines good contracting practices and now employability. In 2016 we plan to focus more specifically on target reads: 'companies must ensure that contractor staff are afforded the groups we have not yet been able to reach effectively, such as older same level of care as their own employees'. employees and shift workers. We will also continue our programmes for employee exchange and secondment to the regional and Schiphol Group operates with respect for people, the environment international airports. and its neighbours. We can only achieve this in close collaboration with our suppliers. In 2015 Schiphol therefore updated its Supplier Inclusive business practice Code and added the topic of integrity. The Code sets out what we The vision underpinning Schiphol Group's employment practices is expect from suppliers in terms of integrity and Corporate that we value people for who they are, their qualities and their Responsibility. This includes cooperating with any investigations. talent. We aim to be an organisation where all employees feel at home, regardless of their cultural or work background, gender, In 2015 Schiphol introduced a complaints desk where interested sexual orientation or physical disabilities. Schiphol Group raised its parties to tendering procedures can submit complaints relating to ambitions for inclusive business practice in 2015 and signed the inaccuracies and irregularities in the procedure. The Complaints Diversity Charter in the summer. Improving the position of people Committee received and examined one complaint in 2015, which it with an occupational disability has become one of the key objectives declared unfounded. The party that lodged the complaint accepted of our employment policy. the response. On 2 December we launched the 'Aviation Inclusive' project in Schiphol Group is reputed for the innovative manner in which it has conjunction with employer's association ANWV. Businesses in the organised its supply chain. In 2015 Schiphol received an honourable Schiphol region have expressed their intention to create more mention by ICT Media and Outsource Magazine during the regular jobs for people with an occupational disability. There are presentation of the TOMMIE Awards, stating that Schiphol ample possibilities among a wide variety of businesses. Apart from distinguishes itself by its innovative tendering procedure. By companies directly involved in aviation, security, cleaning and organising hackathons, designathons and similar events, the airport construction companies as well as suppliers are taking part. Aviation is building an innovative ecosystem of innovative suppliers. Inclusive is line with the Participation Act and will be given concrete form in 2016 with support from Schiphol Aviation College. The College is an important link in the chain as it can connect the parties to job seekers with limited chances on the labour market. Employment practices In 2015 we supervised 100 trainees and also organised a large Schiphol Group can only execute its strategy if it has the right people number of one-day work placements orieantations. This is in line to do so. To ensure the continued success of our business activities with the intentions set out in the Youth Covenant signed by Schiphol we need professional and committed employees. At the same time in 2014, an initiative aimed at increasing young people's Schiphol Group wishes to be a good employer for all of its opportunities on the labour market. employees. We believe this a prerequisite for a business that gives explicit consideration to people and society at and around its Women airports and also calls partners to account for responsible and In November 2015 Schiphol and nine other employers in the sustainable policy. Netherlands (including Unilever, NS, Rabobank and AkzoNobel) made agreements with the Minister of Education, Culture and Sustainable employability Science relating to promoting job opportunities for women. The Sustainable employability is the hallmark for Schiphol Group. We programme aims to increase women's financial independence by again devoted considerable attention to this topic in 2015. Our offering work-study positions, work placements and jobs. policy is aimed at the continuous development of employees within the company so that they can advance to new, challenging roles. According to the Management and Supervision (Public and Private The underlying principle is that all our people are fit, motivated and Companies) Act, the Schiphol Group Management Board and able to continue working productively both now and in the future. Supervisory Board should comprise a balanced mix with at least Vitality is a key concept for us. 30% female members. As of 1 September 2014, our Management Board consists of 50% male and 50% female members. The Schiphol promotes internal mobility. We firmly believe that composition of the Supervisory Board similarly complies with this employees will derive greater enjoyment and be more productive if principle, with five male members and three female members (37%) they change jobs at the right time. The target we have set is that effective April 2015. every year 15% of our employees change jobs. We achieved our target again in 2015 with a mobility percentage of 20.1% (2014: This means that we exceeded our female participation targets in (15.2%). As our active mobility policy enters its third year, employees 2015. The challenge in 2016 will be to continue this trend to ensure and managers are engaging in active discussions on sustainable SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 67 Our results a balanced ratio of men to women across all levels of the The Code of Conduct stipulates that employees must refrain from organisation. undesirable forms of behaviour such as sexual harassment, discrimination and bullying. It also contains regulations concerning Engagement use of work related communication resources and facilities (such as In 2015 Schiphol was again named Best Employer in the transport email, the Internet, laptop computers or telephones) and social and logistics sector in the Best Employer survey conducted by media. A further aspect highlighted in the Code is that it is crucial Effectory and Intermediair. We rank eighth (2014: fifth) in the for managers to lead by example. category of employers with more than one thousand employees. We value this recognition, not least because the survey was In 2015, 17 issues were reported to the Integrity Committee, one conducted among our own employees. They indicated that they of which related to discrimination. The reports have been enjoy working at Schiphol because no day is the same, while the investigated and where appropriate, people have been called to business of the airport continues regardless. Employees can apply account and necessary actions have been taken. their individual skills to the wide range of business activities at Schiphol. The average period of service is relatively long (13.1 years) Employees in figures and the average age of our staff is relatively high (44.7 years). This The number of FTEs declined slightly in late 2015 to 2,009 (2014: makes it essential that we pay particular attention to internal 2,039). Our employees either have a one-year contract or a mobility also in the light of the fact that older employees are permanent contract. We conclude individual agreements with generally unable to work in irregular shifts. employees who fall outside the scope of the Collective Labour Agreement. The ratio of men to women overall and in management Integrity roles remained stable. Schiphol places great value on the integrity of all its employees. The topic of integrity was also high on the agenda in 2015. An online Total workforce (By location, in % of total number of FTEs) training course was made available to raise and assess awareness for the Code of Conduct both among our own employees and 2.0% 0.8% 5.7% 91.5% FTE (number) external staff. On average, over 90% of our own and external staff Schiphol 1,839 have completed the training course. Rotterdam 114 2,009 A chapter on integrity based on the Code of Conduct has been Eindhoven 40 added to the Supplier Code, which has been distributed among all Lelystad 16 suppliers and integrated into the purchasing process. We have noted that clear rules are effective, with employee's showing heightened awareness of their relationship with third parties. For In 2015 the absenteeism percentage for Schiphol Nederland B.V. example, the Code clearly states that receiving sponsoring from rose from 3.4% to 3.7%. The Verbaan standard, a realistic suppliers is a violation of the Code. It is also important that absenteeism indicator, is 3.6% for Schiphol Nederland B.V. Absence employees understand how and when to report unethical due to illness at Rotterdam The Hague Airport was historically low behaviour. We devoted extra attention to this aspect in 2015. at 2.6%. The high percentage of 4.0% recorded in 2014 was due Situations now often discussed preventively. to a small number of colleagues on long-term sick leave. Eindhoven Airport recorded an absence due to illness percentage of 1.4% in 2015. Dilemma: priority for specific groups? Schiphol achieved its target to employ at least 15 people in its own workforce in 2015 within the categories of people with occupational disabilities, young people and those with a non-Western cultural background. The actual number of placements totalled 53. Regrettably these placements were not distributed proportionately across the categories. In 2016 we will need to devote more attention to the target group of employees with disabilities. We are looking for the best way to realise our ambition. Should we require managers to deliberately look for candidates in this target group? Are we going to give priority to people with a disability? In 2015 we noticed that the provision of information within the organisation needed improving. There is a perception, for instance, that people with a disability are less able to cope with the workload. This preconception must be eliminated. In addition, we should do more to convince managers that additional support and counselling can be accomodated, if required. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 68 Our results Gender split (% of employees, by location) Financial solidity Number Split Schiphol Group's financial policy seeks to ensure a solid financial Schiphol Group 2,031 70% 30% position and good creditworthiness with at least an A rating from Schiphol 1,839 71% 29% two reputable credit rating agencies. This is vital to our ability to Rotterdam 131 62% 38% finance the necessary large-scale investments. Profitability is a Eindhoven 44 50% 50% essential factor in maintaining a high credit rating. The return Lelystad 17 82% 18% generated by Schiphol Group determines to what extent we can Male Female create economic value for our shareholders. It equally determines the extent to which financial stakeholders believe that Schiphol Staff turnover (in number of employees) Group is equipped to bear investment risks. (Numbers by location) Joined (top) A dividend is paid to the shareholders every year. In 2015 Schiphol Left (bottom) Group paid a dividend of 138 million euros, of which 128 million 178 Schiphol Group 2,031 96 was distributed to the Dutch State, the municipality of Amsterdam Schiphol 1,839 156 77 and the municipality of Rotterdam. Rotterdam 131 12 16 Eindhoven 44 8 Return 3 2 Schiphol Group pursues a sound financial policy to ensure the Lelystad 17 0 current and future independence. We independently raise financing Deconsolidation SAR: 155 through the capital markets. We have four shareholders, the largest of which is the Dutch State which holds almost 70% of the shares. In 2013 the Dutch State introduced a standard return on equity of Average length of service at Schiphol Group 6.7% for Schiphol. Under the new Aviation Act (governing the (Years by location) operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol) a mechanism is expected Schiphol Group 13.1 to be introduced whereby Schiphol will be required to employ a Schiphol 13.6 portion of the profit exceeding the standard return to lower the Rotterdam 8.9 airport charges. This will enable the airlines to benefit from the Eindhoven 7.2 portion of the return exceeding the standard. On several occasions in the past Schiphol, of its own initiative, reduced airport charges to Lelystad 12.8 below the regulated maximum. As a result, cross-subsidisation has 0 4 8 12 16 regularly occurred from non-aviation activities to aviation activities. Average employee age A return requirement serves as an added incentive to continue to (Years by location) operate cost-effectively and to generate a higher result through Schiphol Group 44.7 non-aviation activities, such as real estate, parking and concessions. Schiphol 45.1 Rotterdam 40.6 Creditworthiness Eindhoven 40.7 It is also important to generate a sufficient return if we are to Lelystad 45.4 maintain our ability to independently raise financing, as this will 0 10 20 30 40 50 enable us to maintain access to the capital markets at favourable conditions. Good creditworthiness is a prerequisite for safeguarding Schiphol Group's ability to independently make the necessary longterm investments in capacity and quality. The long-term credit rating issued by Standard & Poor's in 2015 remained unchanged at A+ with a stable outlook. Similarly, Moody’s long-term rating of A1 remained unchanged with a stable outlook. The short-term ratings are P-1 (Standard & Poor’s) and A-1 (Moody’s). Competitive airport charges To sustain our airports' competitive position, it is essential that we maintain competitive airport charges. The rates charged by SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 69 Our results Amsterdam Airport Schiphol for using the airport are regulated, and expectations of travellers and the airlines. We are aware, however, determined each year following extensive consultations with the that quality comes at a price. Particularly where new investments airlines. The rates are subject to supervision by the Dutch Authority are concerned, we place greater emphasis on the long-term for Consumers and Markets (ACM). This economic regulation is part implications of the choices we make. By focusing on cost control, of the Aviation Act. we endeavour to increase our financial flexibility and resilience. For this purpose, we launched the AssetWise! programme several years Schiphol Group is mindful of the fact that it competes directly with ago. other airports. A large number of passengers can also choose from other airports in neighbouring countries. The capacity and quality Over 50% of all Aviation costs are directly related to the of our airports and the added value of the services we provide to infrastructure – the assets – of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. airlines, ground handlers and travellers alike are therefore of key Particularly when making new investments, we apply Total Cost of importance. Over the past few years, Schiphol's price-quality ratio Ownership as a cost control mechanism. The tightening of contract has compared favourably with that of its main European management procedures enables Schiphol to derive greater added competitors. value from supplier relationships. Where possible, we challenge suppliers to apply the full extent of their knowledge and expertise Each year the SEO Economic Research Foundation carries out a to enhance service provision and devise intelligent, cost-effective benchmark study on behalf of the ministry of Infrastructure and the and innovative solutions. We do so, for instance, through open Environment, which looks at both the airport charges and market consultation prior to major tenders, which gives existing and government levies applicable to Schiphol and its key competitors. prospective partners and suppliers an opportunity to offer input an The benchmark published at the beginning of 2015 shows that early stage. Internally we continued our efforts to bring about a Schiphol had seven more expensive competitors in 2014. The SEO culture change aimed at the more efficient utilisation of our own has found that there is a considerable gap between Schiphol and assets. We also organised workshops to increase knowledge of the Istanbul and Dubai airports. De SEO benchmark for 2015 is tendering procedures. scheduled to appear in the second quarter of 2016. BA Aviation costs 2015 and 2016 airport charges (EUR million) The airport charges were reduced by 6.8% with effect from 1 April Depreciation 2015 161 579 & amortisation 2015. The decision has been taken to reduce the 2016 airport 2014 163 565 charges by an average of 11.6%. The aviation charges will be Operating 2013 189 550 expenses reduced by an average of 10.6% and security charges by 13.4%. (excl. D&A) 2012 163 547 Around half of the decrease consists of a set-off for the higher than 2011 153 533 expected traffic and transport volumes in 2014. The decrease in 0 160 320 480 640 800 charges has also been brought about by the higher volumes in 2015, the higher expected volumes in 2016 and stringent cost control. Cost efficiency improved in 2015. We express cost efficiency as the Revenues from airport charges cost per Work Load Unit (WLU: one passenger or 100 kilogrammes of cargo). The costs per WLU at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol EUR million in % decreased in 2015 by over 2.8% to 9.93 euros (2014: 10.22 euros). Revenues 1,000 10 airport charges Costs per WLU (Aviation) 800 5 (EUR per WLU) Airport charges 600 0 2015 9.93 development 400 –5 per pax 2014 10.22 200 –10 2013 10.87 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 10.77 2011 10.54 The airport charges are not expected to be reduced any further after 2016 unless significant set-offs need to be made as a result of higher Significance of non-aviation activities than expected traffic volumes. Furthermore, in the years ahead we Non-aviation activities make a substantial contribution to Schiphol have planned major investments which will increase the cost levels. Group's return and to its capacity to raise financing. They generate 41% of net turnover and 79% of the operating profit. Non-aviation Focus on cost control activities enable Schiphol Group to create economic value and In order to be able to make major investments while at the same financing capacity despite the low returns on aviation activities due time maintaining competitive airport charges for our aviation to economic regulation that determines a regulated weighted cost activities, we continuously focus on cost control with due regard for of capital of 2.87% in 2015. Without the contribution from nonthe price-quality ratio. We wish to continue to meet the high SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 70 Our results aviation activities, Schiphol Group would be unable to raise Occupancy rate of commercial property (in %) financing independently and the risks would be inadequately 95 distributed. 93 Consumer Products & Services 91 The business area's contribution over the past few years is largely 89 reflected in the rise in concession income and parking revenue. 87 Concession income and spend per passenger 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 EUR million EUR In 2015 the occupancy rate rose to 88.3% (2014: (87.1%). A Concession 105 18 number of significant new lessees were recruited for existing and income 100 17 redeveloped premises, including The Base, the office complex which retail airside 95 16 now forms the heart of the Schiphol Central Business District. The Spend per pax retail airside recent period saw the valuation of commercial real estate rally, partly 90 15 due to the favourable development of occupancy rates and new, 85 14 long-term rental contracts. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Property portfolio Revenue from public parking (in m2) 690.000 EUR million EUR 660.000 Revenue from 80 4,000 630.000 public parking 70 3,700 600.000 Parking 60 3,400 570.000 revenue per 50 3,100 parking space 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 40 2,800 Real estate portfolio by category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (in % of total real estate portfolio) 2% Real Estate 17% 33% m2 Real estate activities provide robust revenues and cash flow. They Offices 217,561 are also important for spreading risk since the results are less Industrial units 316,452 dependent on developments in the aviation industry. Real estate 659,276 Operating property, terminal building 112,077 activities mainly generate rental income. We have a diversified real estate portfolio of offices, business premises and other real estate Operating property, other 13,186 generally offered at prime locations and even at the top end of the 48% Dutch office market. The occupancy rate has remained strong over the past few years, particularly in comparison with the other players Contribution from regional airports in the real estate market. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is not the Netherlands' only gateway to the rest of the world. Regional airports such as Eindhoven Airport, Rotterdam The Hague Airport and, in future, Lelystad Airport help to increase our connectivity. In addition, the network of domestic airports helps to spread both the positive impact and the burden Revenue Operating result (EUR million) (EUR million) 9% 7% 21% AP AP 11% REAviation 25% REAviation CPS CPS Consumer Products & Services Consumer Products & Services 1.423 A 505 A Real Estate Real Estate 21% Alliances & Participations Alliances & Participations 59% 47% SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 71 Our results geographically. The knowledge and know-how gained within the Group ultimately strengthens all airports. The regional airports contribute 3% to the overall result of Schiphol Group. Contribution from international activities Our international activities strengthen the organisation and help boost passenger and cargo traffic. They also make a significant contribution to our financial solidity and spread business risk, thereby reinforcing the Mainport's position. Our stakes in Aéroports de Paris S.A., Brisbane Airport and our other international activities contributed approximately 18% to net profit in 2015. In line with our new strategy, in 2015 we initiated a proactive policy to acquire new international activities. We will enter into discussions with airports of relevance to the Mainport. These processes typically take time, which means that the results of our new policy are only expected in the longer term. Our strategic partner Aéroports de Paris (ADP) recorded a total of 95.4 million passengers in 2015, with 65.8 million at Paris Charles de Gaulle (+3.1%) and 29.6 million at Paris Orly (+2.8%). The increase is partly attributable to the relatively low volume in 2014 (prolonged Air France strike). The impact of the November 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris had a negative impact on the development of passenger numbers in November and December. Retail and real estate activities at the Paris airports performed strongly. Under the HubLink alliance, a collaboration between ADP and Schiphol, we made agreements to intensify the exchange of knowledge. In 2015 Brisbane Airport recorded 0.5% growth in passenger volume, which rose from 22.1 million to 22.2 million. The international passenger segment grew by 4.8% to 5.2 million passengers. The redevelopment of the international terminal, and of the retail section in particular, was completed in 2015. The terminal has been widely acclaimed for its contemporary design and 'quintessentially Brisbane' characteristics. International travellers are offered a locally flavoured experience, with inspiring and inviting retail and catering outlets featuring in the terminal. Retail sales to date are higher than projected. Terminal 4 at New York's JFK Airport recorded a further increase in passengers numbers in 2015 to 19.6 million (+14.6% ). Delta Air Lines opened 11 new gates at the beginning of 2015. The number of passengers flying via Aeropuerto Internacional Reina Beatrix in Aruba rose by 16% to 2.9 million. In May 2015 Aruba Airport launched 'Aruba Happy Flow', a unique, innovative project for improving passport control and boarding card inspection. Thanks to facial recognition technology passengers can proceed from check-in and baggage drop-off through passport control without having to show their passport and boarding card each time. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 72 The value of our impact Connecting the Netherlands is our mission with at its core, expanding connectivity. We therefore invest in capacity and quality to facilitate the growth of aviation at Schiphol and Schiphol Group's other airports as effectively as possible. Value creation Schiphol has a socio-economic function and creates value for its Value stakeholders, not only financial value but also value in terms of natural and social capital, for example. Monetisation is a method I Q o which is used to make such values tangible, as it reflects the impact Capital Input Output Outcome of an organisation on the various forms of capital expressed in euros. Produced • Airport infrastructure • Buildings • High-grade facilities and infrastructure 3 • Car parks • Competitive airport • Roads charges • Attractive real estate In 2014 we visualised our added value for the first time based on the forms of capital laid down by the International Integrated Social and • Infrastructure and • Accessibility of Prosperity relationships network destinations Reporting Council (IIRC). In 2015 we took the first steps to monetise • Stakeholder dialogue • Relationships with • Collaborations sector partners, value. business partners, 4 suppliers and employees • Local support base The topics are part of the material themes. For more information, see Stakeholders and materiality. Human • Employees • Schiphol workers • Skilled and trained employees • Connections • Diversity • Economic value 5 • Safe working • Safety conditions • Living and Since the value that Schiphol creates for its stakeholders is working climate • Support base generated in a value chain in which a number of parties in addition • Reputation 6 Intellectual • Knowledge • Brands and concepts • Committed and to Schiphol itself play a role, the impact of that chain cannot be • Expertise • Innovation motivated workforce • Ecological value attributed to Schiphol alone. One example is the fact that countless international companies choose to locate an office at or around Nature • Energy • Raw materials • Emissions • Noise Schiphol. A number of those companies would not have done so • Drinking water • Land holdings • Use of materials and residual waste flows without the presence of the airport and its extensive network of • Waste water 7 • Water Well-being • Space requirements destinations. However, the geographical location in the Amsterdam • Biodiversity metropolitan region and the favourable tax climate also contributed Financial • Financial position • Return to their choice for Schiphol. • Creditworthiness • Credit rating 8 • Taxes • Dividend SCHIPHOL ANNUAL REPORT 2015 3 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 73 The value of our impact This impact is reflected in an allocation factor that indicates which improving the sustainability of our energy supply and recycling part of the value chain Schiphol attributes to itself. At the moment waste flows. A positive impact on social capital arises because that factor is at 10%. This represents Schiphol's added value, based people spend money on travelling and visiting family and friends. on the current situation minus the situation if the airport did not However, noise disturbance causes a negative impact on the exist. environment and also, therefore, on social capital. Investing in people and generating employment result in a positive impact on Exploring the impact on the various forms of human capital. capital One important impact of Schiphol within the value chain is that it In-depth analysis increases the accessibility of travel. Thanks to the existence of Two strategic themes by means of which we elaborate our mission Schiphol, people in the Netherlands need not travel via foreign are Top Connectivity and Sustainable & Safe Performance. For each airports and people from outside the Netherlands can fly to this of these themes we have selected a material topic: the network of country directly. As a result, travelling has become simpler, more destinations for Top Connectivity and CO2 emissions for Sustainable affordable and faster for more people. & Safe Performance. Travellers' motives for flying to destinations within our network vary considerably. We have specifically analysed In association with True Price we made an estimate of the impact of journeys made for holiday purposes. Such holiday trips represent a the activities at the Schiphol location. Financial capital is among certain value for, and also have a certain impact on the traveller's Schiphol's most important forms of capital and is generated not only well-being. The environmental impact caused by the use of fossil by the financial result we achieve, but also by the wages and taxes fuels has been examined as part of the CO2 emissions analysis. that we pay. Value creation on manufactured capital consists of all Emissions pricing is becoming an ever more widespread practice. our assets, the depreciation of which has a negative impact. The Connecting people and the impact of this on travellers' well-being airport has few patents, which is reflected in the relatively minor is a more abstract approach. These exploratory analyses of a type of impact on intellectual capital, compared with the other forms of capital that represents both a positive and a negative value have capital. Due to our emissions we have a negative impact on natural encouraged us to consider our impact from a new perspective. capital; however, we create a positive impact on natural capital by Financial capital Manufactured capital Intellectual capital Positive impact • Financial result • Investments in fixed assets • Innovation • Wages • Infrastructure • Aviation-specific knowledge • Taxes • Contribution to the results of business partners Negative impact • Subsidies • Depreciation Natural capital Social capital Human capital Positive impact • Renewable energy • Well-being attributable to • Well-being attributable generation holiday travel to work • Reuse and recycling • Customer appreciation • Training and education • Compensation-based • Contribution to greening of energy the employment of business partners Negative impact • Emissions • Noise disturbance • Raw material consumption • Inconvenience caused • Waste flows by flight delays • Water and land use SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 74 The value of our impact Well-being directly attributable to holiday travel CO2 impact of Schiphol Spend per person (in EUR) (EUR million) Totals Carbon compensation Schiphol Share of Schiphol travellers Direct Offsets passengers Schiphol Leisure 1,400 44% Indirect Prevented emissions Leisure and visiting friends/family 1,400 600 19% Total positive impact Visiting friends / family Flights Going on holidays Passenger transport to airport Emissions from other companies at Schiphol Emissions from own activities Impact of holidays on well-being Total negative impact We have investigated the extent to which holidays contribute to –260 –30 –15 0 15 travellers' well-being. The literature indicates that travellers feel 1 The impact of flights represented here equals 10% of the total impact of flights departing from Schiphol. better than normal several months before a trip and several months afterwards. Their sense of well-being is even greater if the trip includes meeting family or friends. The calculation is based on the number of passengers in 2014 who stated holiday (44%) or visiting sector to reduce emissions. We generate the positive impact by family or friends (19%) as the reason for travelling. On the basis of making our energy supply system more sustainable. the allocation factor, it is safe to assume that 10% of the current number of holiday-makers would not go on holiday by plane if Detailed discussion Schiphol did not exist. Most of them would still go on holiday, for This is the first time we have carried out this survey. We can conduct example by car, but some would not. For each holiday by air that a more in-depth and more comprehensive analysis of all forms of would not be possible without Schiphol, approximately half the capital. For example, the raw materials consumed by the airport are impact can be attributed to Schiphol and the other half to hotels, not included in the analysis of the impact on the natural capital due restaurants and other players in the travel chain. The airport is one to the unavailability of the relevant data. And the figure for social of the many links in the chain – but an important link. Various capital does not yet include the value of business travel and safety. sources in the literature have been used to calculate the impact of To be able to benefit from this method, we need to analyse which a holiday on the value of well-being. Statistics Netherlands has impact lies within our sphere of influence and which impact we wish published data on the average amount spent on holidays. to increase or and which to reduce. The CO2 analysis which includes Combining these figures, the net value of a holiday averages at the allocation factor clearly shows the impact of the flights 1,400 euros per passenger. Passengers spend an additional 600 themselves. If we remove air traffic from the analysis, we can see euros, on average, when visiting family or friends during their trip. which portion of the emissions is to be attributed to our own business activities. Well-being directly attributable to holiday travel Total impact (in EUR million) In addition, we developed our own method to examine whether the monetisation of non-financial values creates added value when making investment decisions. We can conclude that we have a Going on holidays 260 44% + 19% better understanding of the impact of our activities thanks to this Visiting friends/family 65 19% method, and will develop it further in 2016. Total 325 CO2 impact of Schiphol excluding allocated emissions from flights (EUR million) CO2 emissions Totals Carbon compensation Schiphol The second analysis relates to the impact of CO2 emissions at the Direct Offsets passengers Schiphol Schiphol location. This covers all emissions, including those caused Indirect Prevented emissions by flights. Again, the allocation factor for Schiphol in relation to Total positive impact these emissions is 10%. This is the share that we have allocated to Transport to airport passengers our impact. A CO2 price of 110 euros per tonne of CO2 has been Emissions other companies at Schiphol used. The reason for using this relatively high price in the calculation is that it costs more to fight the effects of emissions than to prevent Emissions own activities emissions. Every player in the chain will need to take sustainability Total negative impact measures, and we will need to do so in a coordinated manner. See –15 0 15 the section on Emissions for a description of initiatives taken by the SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 75 Financial performance Amsterdam Airport Schiphol recorded a further increase in passenger volume to over 58.2 million in 2015, making it all the more urgent for us to continue to invest in capacity and quality. Schiphol Group enjoys a healthy financial position that allows us to make such investments. In 2015 Schiphol Group’s net result rose to 374 million euros (2014: number of passengers served by Rotterdam The Hague Airport 272 million euros) thanks to 6.0% passenger growth at Amsterdam remained virtually unchanged at 1.7 million. The number of air Airport Schiphol, the one-off result of 50 million euros on the sale transport movements recorded by Eindhoven increased by 5.1% to of our 60% stake in Schiphol Airport Retail (SAR) and a 67 million 30,394 while Rotterdam recorded a 2.7% increase to 17,507. euro increase in the value of our real estate. In accordance with the Aviation Act, effective 1 April 2017 approximately 55 million euros Total revenue from concessions increased by 23.6%, from 136 will be set off in the airport charges, of which 36 million euros can million euros in 2014 to 168 million euros in 2015. Due to the sale be attributed to the better than expected development in passenger of a 60% stake in SAR, this entity was recognised as an associate volumes. with effect from 1 May. As a result, the revenue from retail sales was replaced by a concession fee and a share in the results of Revenue associates, with a positive effect on concession fees of 21 million Revenue decreased by 15 million euros (1.0%) in 2015, from 1,438 euros. Excluding the effects of the sale of SAR, revenue from million euros in 2014 to 1,423 million euros. Adjusted for the effect of the deconsolidation of SAR, revenue increased by 1.5%. Revenue EUR million 2015 2014 % Despite the 6.8% decrease in airport charges effective 1 April 2015, total revenue from airport charges rose by 0.6% to 869 million euros Airport charges 869 864 0.6 (2014: 864 million euros) thanks to the favourable development of Concessions 168 136 23.6 traffic and transport volumes. Passenger numbers at Amsterdam Rent and leases 155 157 -1.0 Airport Schiphol rose by 6.0% to more than 58.2 million, while the Parking fees 108 104 4.3 number of air transport movements rose by 2.8% to 450,679. The Retail sales 29 85 -66.1 increase was mainly seen in the segment of passengers using Advertising 17 19 -12.1 Schiphol as their point of departure or final destination. Cargo Services and activities on behalf 22 19 12.8 volume declined by 0.7% to 1,621 tonnes partly due to the of third parties declining transport flows to Asia and Russia. Eindhoven Airport, a Other 56 53 4.4 regional airport, likewise recorded growth in passenger numbers, Net Revenue 1,423 1,438 -1.0 which rose by 10.3% to a total of 4.3 million passengers. The SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 76 Financial performance concessions increased with 11 million euros. This equals the increase Operating expenses in passenger volume and the average retail spend per departing EUR million 2015 2014 % passenger in the area behind passport control at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, which remained virtually unchanged at 14.45 euros in Outsourcing and other external 434 434 -0.1 2015 (2014: 14.48 euros). The fall in retail sales, from 85 million costs euros in 2014 to 29 million euros in 2015, is primarily due to the Depreciation and amortisation 223 228 -2.3 deconsolidation effect of SAR effective 1 May 2015. Employee benefits 185 188 -2.0 Security 183 196 -6.9 Total revenue from rents and leases declined by 1.0% to 155 million Impairments 8 4 78.7 euros. Departure Lounge 2 was completed later than planned, as a Other operating expenses 4 19 -81.3 result of which rents and leases in the terminal fell relative to the Operating expenses 1,035 1,070 -3.3 previous year. The average occupancy rate of commercial real estate rose from 87.1% in 2014 to 88.3% in 2015. Adjusted for the lower purchasing costs associated with SAR, Total parking revenue rose by 4.3% to 108 million euros on account outsourcing and other external costs increased in particular as a of the improved capacity utilisation and passenger growth. result of renovation activities in the terminal. Security costs fell by 13 million euros thanks to the implementation of central security, Other revenues and other results on real which has enhanced the efficiency of the security process. estate The increase in other revenues relates to one-off effects. In 2015, The impairment of 8 million euros primarily relates to the writethe one-off result on the sale of a 60% stake in SAR of 50 million down of land developments at Schiphol-East and Nieuwe Meer. euros was recognised under this item. In 2014, two transactions Other operating expenses were lower than in 2014, when a number accounted for positive revenue of 35 million euros: 30 million euros of one-off effects were recognised; 8 million euros relating to the arising from the expansion of our stake in AREB C.V. and 5 million expansion of the interest in AREB C.V. and 7 million euros for an euros from the sale of our stake in Arlanda Schiphol Development onerous contract concerning land holdings, in which Schiphol Company A.B. Group participates with third parties. Other results on real estate amounted to 67 million euros (2014: 1 Operating result million euros negative). This positive development was brought The operating result rose by 102 million euros from 403 million about by the improved conditions on the real estate market, low euros in 2014 to 505 million euros in 2015 due to the higher result interest rates and a favourable trend in occupancy levels. The generated by the Consumer Products & Services and Real Estate increase in value is particularly in evidence at the offices in Schipholbusiness areas. This is due primarily to the sale of SAR (50 million Centre and the cargo warehouses. This result merely concerns a fair euros) and the increase in the value of real estate (67 million euros). value change, and does not reflect any actual cash receipts or realised income. Operating result EUR million 2015 2014 % Fair value gains and losses on property portfolio EUR million Aviation 104 110 -5.7 2015 67 Consumer Products & Services 238 181 31.3 2014 –2 Real Estate 129 79 63.7 2013 3 Alliances & Participations 34 33 4.0 2012 –24 Operating result 505 403 25.3 2011 –1 –25 0 25 50 75 Financial income and expenditure The net financial expense rose by 3 million euros to 89 million euros Operating expenses in 2015. Of this amount, 6 million euros is attributable to the The 35 million euro decline in operating expenses from 1,070 million increase in the value of a profit-sharing loan. In 2014 there were euros in 2014 to 1,035 million euros in 2015 (-3.3%) was primarily one-off costs of the settlement of interest rate derivatives of AREB due to the deconsolidation of SAR effective 1 May 2015, following C.V. and termination of hedge accounting for these derivatives. the sale of the 60% interest. This resulted in a decrease in total expenses by 35 million euros, of which 27 million euros concerns Share in results of associates purchasing costs and 6 million staff costs SAR. Operating expenses The share in the results of associates increased from 27 million euros in 2014 also included 15 million euros in one-off expenses. Adjusted to 60 million euros and represents 16% of the total net result (2014: for these effects totalling 50 million euros, expenses rose by 1.5%. 10%). In 2014 this result had been adversely impacted by the writeSCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 77 Financial performance down of 16 million euros on land positions in which Schiphol holds Investments an indirect interest. In addition, in 2014 the results of the associates In 2015 Schiphol invested 439 million euros in fixed assets (2014: ADP and Brisbane were adversely impacted by a 6 million euro 396 million euros), 11.0% more than in 2014. decrease in the value of ADP real estate and a 7 million euro decrease in the value of Brisbane derivatives. The new central security system was taken into operation on 3 June 2015, with the final construction work scheduled for completion in Share in results of associates 2016. The Hilton Hotel was completed in December 2015 and the EUR million 2015 2014 % Departure Lounge 2 refurbishment will be completed in summer 2016. Aéroports de Paris 36 26 38.2 Brisbane 20 11 84.4 Investments by Schiphol Group EUR million Other results of associates 3 -10 -135.3 2015 439 Result of associates 60 27 119.4 2014 396 2013 310 The return on our 18.72% stake in Brisbane Airport amounted to 2012 298 21.7% in 2015 (2014: 14.9%). In 2015 Schiphol Group received a 2011 263 dividend of 19.3 million euros on its ADP investment. The return on the 8% stake in ADP amounted to 5.8% in 2015 (2014: 4.2%). Balance sheet developments Schiphol Group's balance sheet total rose by 9.9% to 6,405 million Corporate income tax euros (2014: 5,830 million euros). Shareholders' equity increased by Corporate income tax amounted to 99 million euros in 2015 263 million euros to 3,716 million euros, largely on account of the compared with 71 million euros in 2014. The effective tax burden addition of the 2015 net result of 374 million euros, after payment in 2015 was 20.7%, which remains unchanged over 2014. The tax of the 138 million euro dividend for 2014. burden on the results adjusted for associates and joint ventures – units exempted from the participation exemption – amounted to Associates and joint ventures posted an increase of 61 million euros 21.7% (2014: 22.4%). arising from the favourable development of the results of Brisbane Airport and ADP, and the recognition of SAR as a joint venture. Schiphol Group pursues a transparent tax policy. The lower than nominal tax burden in both 2015 and 2014 is mainly attributable to Cash and cash equivalents rose by 216 million euros to 384 million the application of the participation exemption to the dividend euros. In 2015 under the EMTN programme a public placement of received on Brisbane Airport preference shares. Another – one-off 300 million euros was issued with an 11-year maturity period and a – effect is the exempted result on the sale of a 60% interest in SAR. 2% coupon. Excluding the exempted results of associates, the tax burden for 2015 would be 25%. The repayment of 134 million euros for Schuldschein notes due in February 2016 and 145 million euros in bonds due in autumn 2016 Of the tax burden totalling 99 million euros, 94 million euros account for the increase in current liabilities. comprises Dutch corporate income tax (2014: 70 million euros) and 5 million euros US corporate income tax (2014: 2 million euros). Cash flow developments The cash flow from operating activities remained unchanged in Net result 2015 compared with 2014, at 508 million euros. The operating The net result recorded for 2015 is 374 million euros (2014: 272 result reflects an increase of 102 million euros. However, this million euros). The result was determined by the positive effects of includes two large non-recurring items: the sales result and the the better than expected development in passenger volume, the sale revaluation effect arising from the sale of Schiphol Group's 60% of a 60% stake in SAR (50 million euros) and the upward trend in stake in SAR (50 million euros) and 67 million in real estate value the value of the real estate portfolio (67 million euros). Pursuant to changes. The cash flow from investing activities amounted to 411 the Aviation Act approximately 55 million euros will be used as setmillion euros negative compared with 410 million euros negative in off in the airport charges that take effect on 1 April 2017. The return 2014. This is due to the high level of investments of 439 million on equity (ROE) amounted to 10.4% in 2015 (2014: 8.0%) and euros, which is offset by receipts of 29 million euros for the 60% RONA after tax to 8.3% (2014: 6.6%). stake in SAR. The net cash flow from operating and investing activities – the free cash flow – amounted to 97 million in 2015 compared with 98 million in 2014. The cash flow from financing activities was 157 million euros positive in 2015 (2014: 397 million euros negative) as SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 78 Financial performance a result of drawing 300 million euros in bank loans and the dividend payment of 138 million euros. The net cash flow in 2015 amounted to 254 million euros positive (2014: 299 million euros negative). Consequently, the net amount of cash balances rose from 178 million euros at the end of 2014 to 394 million euros at the end of 2015. Financing The total amount of outstanding loans and lease liabilities rose by 324 million euros in 2015 to 2,185 million euros. In 2015 an 11year bond of 300 million euros was issued under the EMTN programme. In 2015 Schiphol Group also took out a new 300 million euro syndicated and committed revolving credit facility with maturity in June 2020. Schiphol Group also has access to a bilateral committed credit facility agreed with BNG Bank in the Netherlands. In 2015 this 100 million euro credit facility was extended until 1 January 2017. In addition, Schiphol Group has two bilateral uncommitted credit facilities, amounting to 75 million euros each. Ratios The most important financing ratios set out in our financing policy are the ‘FFO/total debt’ and ‘FFO/interest coverage ratio’. Funds from operations (FFO) is the cash flow from operating activities adjusted for operating capital. The FFO declined marginally in 2015 from 493 million to 482 million euros. This was brought about by the adjustment of the higher operating result for non-cash transactions relating to impairments and the result on the sale of a 60% stake in SAR, with retention of a minority shareholding. The FFO/total debt ratio amounted to 22.0% in 2015 (2014: 26.5%). The FFO/interest coverage ratio in 2015 was 6.7x, an improvement over the 6.4x recorded in 2014. This should mainly be attributed to the higher operating result. In addition to these two ratios, we apply the leverage ratio (ratio of interest-bearing debt to total equity plus interest-bearing debt). At the end of the financial year Schiphol Group's leverage ratio stood at 37.0% (2014: 35.0%). This means that the financial ratios satisfy the minimum requirements from Schiphol Group's financing policy, which prescribes an FFO/total debt ratio of at least 20% and a leverage ratio of between 30.0% and 50.0%. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 79 Hans de Boer Chairman of Employers’ Association VNO-NCW Schiphol: pioneering connectivity appropriate conditions. Examples include further steps and sustainability for a century under the Dutch Presidency of the EU towards a single European airspace and establishment by ICAO of a market mechanism for CO2 reduction on a global scale. “Schiphol’s 100th anniversary is a very special milestone. In the meantime, impressive progress is already being Not only can Schiphol boast an impressive history, it made through the use of quieter, cleaner and more also occupies a strong position today. The hundreds of efficient aircraft. Home carrier KLM is a global pioneer direct connections via Schiphol are very important for in the use of biokerosene, and Schiphol itself is the Dutch business climate. They make the Netherlands internationally renowned as one of the most attractive to international companies and head offices, sustainable airports in the world. Schiphol has and help to create jobs. It is therefore essential for a ‘one terminal’ layout, which means that passengers Schiphol to remain a leading hub. This requires the can reach everything at the airport on foot. Electric government, airport and hub carrier to keep operating taxis can be found in front of the terminal and the as a single Dutch aviation system in order to remain train station is beneath it. Recently, the terminal was competitive at a global level. the first in the world to install circular lighting. It is this combination of leadership, core activities, At the same time, the challenge of maintaining competitive strength and sustainability which forms and strengthening this position requires pressure the basis of a sustainable strategy. This will allow on the climate and the environment to be reduced. KLM’s outstanding network and the equally In my opinion, this should be possible if the sector outstanding Schiphol airport to retain their strategic and international governments work together to set significance for the Netherlands in the years ahead.” SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 80 Laura van Geest Director of CPB “Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is an attractive but in consultation with the users, and taking the interests uncertain asset. It is a modern airport with an extensive of local residents into account. network of destinations. This is important for Dutch travellers and also for the Dutch economy. Significant risks to future growth include the capacity The Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis of the runway system and noise disturbance. Schiphol (CPB) also expects expansion in the future as Schiphol must continue to invest in improving take-off and is located in a densely populated, affluent region landing procedures to ensure the most efficient use which will continue to experience economic growth. of the runway system and to keep disturbance levels Increasing prosperity in other parts of the world also caused by arriving and departing aircraft to a minimum. means that more foreigners will wish to fly to or via Schiphol could also encourage airlines to use quieter Schiphol. An appealing network of destinations should aircraft. This will allow Dutch travellers and the Dutch not be taken for granted, however. In the face of economy to continue to benefit from Schiphol’s hub increasing competition, Schiphol will only be able to function in the future.” retain its position by continuing to innovate and invest, SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 81 Sharon Dijksma Minister for the Environment Pioneering spirit Although the past creates confidence, this must never change to blind faith. Growth should not be taken for “2016 is the year of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. granted. The development of the Asian market and the A hundred years ago, three small single-engine planes emergence of the Gulf states are shifting the balance landed on a bumpy field with four wooden sheds on in the global aviation sector. Major new airlines are it. These days, over 58 million passengers pass through coming onto the market, not to mention new hub the airport every year, involving over 450,000 air airports. All of our pioneering spirit and our innovative transport movements. With 322 destinations, and collaborative capacity will be required to ensure Schiphol connects the Netherlands with the rest of the the sustainable future of our own aviation. Even if we world. It is an indispensable factor for our economy, cannot be the largest, we can still be the best, most but the airport is also crucial for connecting people, innovative and most sustainable airport. This year, cultures, knowledge and science. I will therefore be working with Schiphol and many other parties to draw up a ‘Schiphol Action Agenda’ to We can be proud of Schiphol, also because we have determine which steps we should take in the short and managed to achieve growth in a densely populated long term. This is the year of Amsterdam Airport area in which large numbers of people wish to live, Schiphol, in which we reflect on the past but work work and visit comfortably. Schiphol would not towards the future.” have been able to develop in this way without close consultation with local stakeholders. The new environmental standards which we are currently working on involve a clever balancing act. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 82 HRH Prince Carlos of Bourbon-Parma Director of the Institute for Sustainable Innovation & Development INSID “For foreign visitors, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol To prepare for a presentation on the circular economy, provides the first experience of the Netherlands. I recently found myself leafing through a pile of old And for the Dutch, it is a gateway to the rest of the magazines. My eye was drawn to a wonderful series world on the one hand and a ‘welcome home’ on of photos of Schiphol from the early 1950s. With these the other. In this context, the airport’s sustainability images still fresh in my mind, it is hugely impressive to ambitions serve a dual purpose: they illustrate both look at the Schiphol of 2016. In order for an airport to internationally and nationally the choices which develop in such a rapid and spectacular way, a well the Netherlands has made in favour of a sustainable, considered vision is indispensable. The fact that the circular economy and society. The most important circular economy forms a main cornerstone of that element needed to realise these ambitions is vision today reflects a healthy and ambitious sense collaboration. More than ever before, true progress of entrepreneurship. This choice also involves certain and innovation can only be achieved through extensive challenges, but I am convinced that, with a dedicated collaboration between businesses, authorities and focus, the path taken will lead to further success.” social organisations. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 83 Allard Castelein CEO of the Port of Rotterdam Authority “A 100th anniversary is a fantastic milestone which when it comes to increasing the sustainability of our invites us to look far ahead into the future. Mainports. Not only does this mean ensuring that our The Schiphol and Rotterdam Mainports currently own activities have a minimal ecological footprint, account for around 8% of the country’s GDP and but also encouraging our maritime and aviation generate around 500,000 jobs in total. If the Mainports customers to reduce their own environmental burden. are to keep making such a significant contribution to the prosperity of the Netherlands over the next 100 Reducing the environmental burden is important or even 25 years, we must keep on investing and for creating support among the general public and innovating. This is the only way to stay ahead of our within the local community. A positive image and international competitors. We must ensure that we support for the development of Schiphol and the port remain the most attractive hub for our customers, of Rotterdam are essential for our continued growth. lead the way in service, offer outstanding value for If the Dutch people, and above all the local community, money, provide exceptional ease of use for passengers view us positively, this will go a long way towards and crews and give top priority to security and safety. achieving our ambitions. Our task is to ensure that our communities are and remain proud of us and of what Our ambition as Mainports must be to lead the way in we are doing. all these fields, but I feel that two aspects truly stand out: sustainability and support. We must be pioneers I wish Schiphol every success over the next 100 years.” SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 84 Roger van Boxtel CEO of Dutch Railways “Every day, almost 70,000 people travel by train to Schiphol is very different from other railways stations. and from Schiphol and their number is growing. Nowhere else do fewer people live in the immediate Good accessibility is crucial for the competitive position vicinity of the station, nowhere else is the number of of the airport and the economy of the Amsterdam tourists higher and no other station brings together Metropolitan Region and the Netherlands. Because of more nationalities. This places many demands on the the number of passengers and its strategic location travel information, employees and services. As a result, within our network, Schiphol Station is in the NS top NS and Schiphol need each other to keep this 10. We attache great value to making the airport important economic engine running smoothly. future-proof and to serving all train passengers with their varying needs. For this reason, NS is working to All kinds of people also come together at Schiphol expand the railway station in close collaboration with Plaza: from train passengers to holidaymakers and Schiphol and its other regional partners, such as from taxi users to shoppers and Schiphol workers. the municipality of Amsterdam. This will allow us to In 2015, the airport and NS held intensive discussions accommodate the growing number of passengers on how to prepare Schiphol Plaza for the future, and improve service. thereby finishing 2015 on a positive note for the years ahead.” SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 85 Paul Polman CEO Unilever “I am delighted to be able to congratulate Schiphol In 2014 Schiphol received the Airports Going Green Group with its 100th year anniversary. Schiphol’s Award, and the company has gone from strength-tomission is ‘Connecting the Netherlands’. After having strength, including a circular lighting partnership with spent a substantial part of my life in Cincinnati, a great Cofely and Philips. city still close to my heart but suprisingly with only one direct international flight connnection, I now value the Following the December 2015 Climate Summit in Paris, unique position of the Netherlands as an international I would like to express my hope that Schiphol will mainport, through both Schiphol Airport and continue its sustainability focus, for example by Rotterdam harbour even more than before. teaming up with its business partners in order to swiftly implement science-based targets consistent In our competitive world growth is vital, but in with the agreed Paris goal of keeping global average my view this is only permissible in the context of temperature rise well below two degrees Celsius. a sustainable growth business model, which serves economic, environmental and social goals at the same If so, Schiphol’s second centenary couldn’t be off time. This core principle underlies my company’s to a better start, and I would like to wish you all Sustainable Living Plan. I am thrilled to say that a pleasant journey.” I have always counted Schiphol Group as a staunch ally in this endeavour, and for good reason. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 86 Augustin de Romanet Le Président-directeur général Aéroports de Paris “In order to achieve success in the long term, Schiphol 2016 marks the eighth anniversary of the HubLink has demonstrated its strong capacity to adapt its alliance between Schiphol and Aéroports de Paris. hub position to develop fast growing and changing With increasing competition between European and markets. Its connectivity-oriented attitude is definitely Middle-Eastern airports, HubLink is a great opportunity a key success factor for its sustainable future. for its two partners to distinguish themselves in this In addition, Schiphol’s achievements in enhancing the competitive environment by gaining access to best quality of the passenger experience have definitely practices, learning from each other’s optimised strengthened its competitive position for the future processes and achieving joint results. In this regard and qualify as a worldwide reference for customer I would like to thank the Schiphol and Aéroports de satisfaction. Paris teams for their involvement in and dedication to the alliance. Another key element in Schiphol’s future is Corporate Responsibility. In particular, this concerns the airport’s I strongly believe that further collaboration and sustained efforts to involve all stakeholders in the international orientation is a prerequisite to the decision-making process for major development sustainable future of our airports. In this regard, projects, as well as the company’s constant involvement Schiphol clearly has everything it needs to secure in climate change issues. its continuity over the next one hundred years.” SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 87 Ton Heerts Chairman of Trade Union Confederation FNV “Investing in sustainable fuels, reducing emissions and At Schiphol, the Netherlands Trade Union improving technology will all help to ensure Schiphol’s Confederation (FNV) is represented in various sectors sustainable future. However, creating sustainable such as flight handling, baggage handling, cleaning employment is one of the most important building and security. Schiphol is also one of the largest blocks of this future. Competition on the basis of terms contractors of services in the region. The FNV would of employment and working conditions will lead to like Schiphol to promote solid collective labour a race to the bottom that will also eventually cause agreements in each of these sectors. This will avoid a the quality of work to suffer. It is important to invest division in the employment market between employees in sustainable employment relationships, in real jobs with permanent contracts and the requisite level of which offer sufficient security, quality and purchasing security on the one hand and a rapidly growing group power, appreciation, a decent income and equal pay with flexible contracts and far less security on the other. for equal work. In its commissioning role, we are encouraging Schiphol to contribute to the creation of a sustainable employment market with more real jobs and to stop exclusion and further flexibility in the employment market.” SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 88 Theo Weterings Mayor of Haarlemmermeer “A strong airport needs a strong region. The main It is important to be and remain receptive to ideas, building block for a sustainable future, therefore, to new interventions, to views within society at large is the relationship with the environment. Schiphol is and from local residents and businesses. Make sure an airport which, in collaboration with its regional that the airport reflects pride and innovation in all partners, develops innovative and pioneering its activities and assets, as a welcoming gateway to initivatives in the fields of home, work, life and the rest of Europe. From this spot you’re in front of leisure – all centred around an international Rembrandt’s Night Watch in twenty minutes, after infrastructure hub. landing in a quintessentially Dutch polder that was drained using 19th century steam power. Make sure Creating a distinctive profile in terms of socio economic, that everyone has reason to be and remain immensely spatial and infrastructural aspects is essential for an proud of this dynamic epicentre in the heart of the airport region that aims to retain its leading position Randstad conurbation.” in the world. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 89 “In the third Golden Age of Amsterdam, it is fitting that travellers to and from Amsterdam should pass through an airport which is a global leader in the areas of Eberhard van der Laan innovation, e.g. the new security filters, hospitality and sustainability. Schiphol and home carrier KLM Mayor of Amsterdam constantly demonstrate their pioneering role in the aviation industry.” “First of all, I would like to say that I am proud to work for this airport and I know that many of my colleagues feel the same. Schiphol is a leading European airport and it gives me a great deal of satisfaction to be contributing to its success. As an employee, I feel that a sustainable employment policy is very important: after all, employees are a company’s key assets. So, select them carefully, put the right man or woman in the right place, make sure they can work efficiently and enjoy their work, give them every opportunity to develop and grow along with the company, and remain a caring employer. One of the things I have always found fascinating is the extent to which our activities are interwoven with all the other parties at and around the airport; the airlines, Royal Netherlands Marechaussee, government, local residents and others. Good consultation and collaboration with all of these parties is essential if we are to create a sustainable future. Hans Martens My personal message to Schiphol would be for the company to show its human side in everything it does, Market Research & in addition to business efficiency. Show understanding Intelligence Manager, Schiphol Group and compassion. And above all: show passion. Over the next 100 years, continue to fulfil your role as a socially responsible company with the same level of enthusiasm.” SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 90 Hans Alders Chairman of the Schiphol Community Council Multiple connections 3. The network of connections is an important cornerstone of The Nertherlands’ position as “Schiphol has a public function. It provides competitive business location and employer. the Netherlands with a hub for intercontinental Exploiting the positive effects of connections is connections. The key quality of a sustainable Schiphol a societal responsibility. Connections to national is connecting. and international business, travellers, and local and national authorities are essential. The future resilience and quality of this network demands constant maintenance of connections: 4. Last but not least, the quality and future resilience of Schiphol as an international hub are determined 1. The network of connections is supported by the by the relationship with its neighbours: the people operation of the hub, which forms the basis for who live in the area surrounding Schiphol, both now the continuity and quality of the connections. and in the future. The connection with these Recognition of this requires an effective and open neighbours – regional authorities and residents’ selectivity policy for the allocation of the scarce organisations – contributes significantly to our capacity. ‘licence to operate’. 2. The continuity and quality of the network of There can be no (sustainable) Schiphol without connections also requires connection within sustainable connection. I wish Schiphol outstanding the aviation chain of hub carrier, airport and connectivity over the next 100 years.” air traffic control. Collaboration within the chain is a prerequisite for being able to offer excellent service at a competitive price. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 91 Governance SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 92 Report of the Supervisory Board A. Supervision going forward. 2015 saw various decisions taken in regard to major projects, and some major projects were completed in that year. Milestones included the completion of central security in the nonThe Supervisory Board monitors and advises the Management Board Schengen area and the opening of the new Hilton Hotel at in setting and achieving the strategic objectives. The Supervisory Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Board is also closely involved in the major challenges facing Schiphol Group in its ambitons to grow and the associated capacity issues. It is gratifying to note that the Airport Decree for Lelystad Airport The company faces stiff competition and is obliged to carefully has been awarded and the tenders for Lelystad have formally consider and safeguard its interests. The Supervisory Board ensures commenced. A major step has also been made towards the future that it is continuously informed of the the Management Board's realisation of Area A, which will allow Amsterdam Airport Schiphol considerations in this regard. to accommodate the expected growth as well as guarantee quality. In this report, the Supervisory Board explains how it gave shape to Despite the large-scale renovations, Schiphol was again able to its monitoring of the Management Board's activities in the past year. break records: 2015 saw increases in both passenger numbers and The 2015 Management Agenda serves as a guideline for the the number of air transport movements. Supervisory Board's monitoring task as well as for the assessment of the performance of the Management Board of Schiphol Group. In April, Schiphol Group transferred its majority holding in Schiphol Airport Retail to a joint venture with Gebr. Heinemann. This Other important developments in which the Supervisory Board was association sees Schiphol team up with a strong partner for the involved this year are also discussed in this section. further development of airport retail. Main points for attention Socio-economic commitment and In 2015 the Group's Strategic Plan for the 2016–2020 period was responsibility reviewed and adjusted. The Supervisory Board closely followed the It is Schiphol Group's socio-economic task to bolster the strength of process of reviewing and optimising the Strategic Plan, and the Mainport. One of the conditions for achieving this is to ensure subsequently approved the new plan. that passengers and airlines continue to view Schiphol as Europe's Preferred Airport. This is an ambition which was also further Schiphol Group is investing in the expansion and renovation of the crystallised in 2015 by Schiphol working to raise quality and expand airports in order to safeguard Schiphol's position as a Mainport capacity both now and in the future. The associated investments are Annual Report The Supervisory Board is pleased to present the Annual Report, which includes the financial statements for 2015. The Annual Report was compiled by the Management Board. KPMG Accountants N.V. have audited the financial statements and issued an unqualified audit opinion. For further details, see ‘Other information’ under the Financial Statements section of this report. The Audit Committee has discussed the financial statements extensively with the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), her team and the external auditor. The Supervisory Board subsequently discussed the annual report with the Management Board in the presence of the external auditor. These discussions have convinced the Supervisory Board that this Annual Report meets all relevant regulations and fulfils all governance and transparency requirements and that it provides a sound basis for our Board’s supervisory accountability. The Supervisory Board approves the financial statements and concurs with the Management Board’s proposal to distribute a dividend of 187 million euros on the issued share capital. After an addition to the revaluation reserve amounting to 56 million euros and a release from the other statutory reserves of 3 million euros, the remaining portion of 128 million euros will be added to the retained earnings. The financial statements will be put before the General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption on 12 April 2016. The Supervisory Board proposes that the Management Board be granted discharge in respect of the management carried out, that the Supervisory Board be granted discharge for the supervision exercised and that the financial statements be adopted. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 93 Report of the Supervisory Board necessary to strengthen and improve Schiphol's position, necessary Central Security non-Schengen due in part to competition from other airports that are also making An important objective was reached with the completion of central substantial investments in the future and improving their quality. security in the non-Schengen area by the fixed date of 3 June 2015. The latter is borne out in rankings in which Schiphol's score dropped With the centralisation of security processes, not only does Schiphol in 2015. comply with European regulations in this area, it has also increased the efficiency of the security process, thereby boosting the quality Over the past year, the Supervisory Board has been intensively of the airport experience for passengers and airlines. During the involved in developments that concern the future of the Mainport, construction work, the Supervisory Board went on several guided focusing on the continued implementation of the Master Plan and tours through the area in order to satisfy itself that the work was the expansion of Area A in particular. This important item featured proceeding smoothly and that safety measures taken were effective. multiple times on the agenda in 2015, with the Management Board After the new central security filters were put into operational providing detailed explanations regarding the strategic background service, the Supervisory Board reviewed a detailed evaluation of the and necessity of the project, which for Schiphol is of unprecedented project, focusing especially on the budget adjustment that took scope, both financially and in terms of complexity. place. The lessons learned will be applied within the context of future projects. The Supervisory Board ensures that investments are well balanced against a controlled cost development so that tariffs can remain Current developments in Europe which are placing pressure on the competitive. Schengen Agreement featured in the discussions on airport security. There was also attention for the long queues which develop from It is extremely important that Schiphol's growth ambitions can rely time to time at the airport as a result of the fluctuations in Royal on sufficient public support. This is why the Supervisory Board Netherlands Marechaussee staffing of the border posts. ensured that it received regular updates on the discussions being conducted in the Schiphol Community Council, such as the Lounge 2 discussion on the dilemma about growth of the airport, on the one The Supervisory Board devoted special attention to the delay that hand, and the desire of municipalities to build new homes in the has occurred in the Lounge 2 project. The Supervisory Board has environs of Schiphol, on the other. been informed of the causes of the delay as well as the control measures taken and has gained an understanding of the various Strategic issues and projects considerations made. 2015 was a demanding year, with major renovation work requiring much attention from both the Management Board and Area A management while regular operations carried on as usual. The A key milestone, in November 2015, was the provisional approval Supervisory Board is satisfied to conclude that Schiphol has achieved of the development of Area A. This scheduled expansion paves the good results in terms of operations and its relationships with its key way for further development of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and stakeholders. While the the drop in passenger appreciation relative continued growth based on the Master Plan. An important to previous years is understandable given the scale of the component of the provisional approval is the second opinion renovations, it nevertheless remains an important point for regarding Area A, which will be provided at the request of the attention. The year closed with healthy financial results and a record Supervisory Board and the shareholders. It has been decided to number of passengers. make this second opinion a special area of attention for one of the Supervisory Board members. The step change formed by this Strategic Plan for 2016 -2020 project, and especially its complexity, requires careful decisionWith the reviewed and optimised Strategic Plan for 2016–2020, the making. A final decision is expected in the first quarter of 2016. The Management Board has laid a healthy foundation for Schiphol decision-making process involved extensive attention to the Group's strategy for the years ahead. During the strategy meeting relocation of a part of the current cargo area. in April, the Supervisory Board discussed the Strategic Plan with the Management Board. This discussion included the context in which Hilton Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Schiphol operates and the various uncertainties affecting the December 2015 saw the completion of the Hilton Amsterdam aviation industry worldwide: the emergence of low-cost airlines, the Airport Schiphol Hotel, marking the successful finalisation of this growth of both airports and airlines in the Middle East, and the real estate project. This remarkable hotel adds quality to the existing position of the home carrier at Schiphol. hotel facilities at the airport. The subject of 'capacity' also includes good accessibility of the Schiphol Airport Retail airport. The Supervisory Board considers it vital that investments Another strategic development concerns the transfer of Schiphol continue in public transport to and from the airport, the bus station Airport Retail (SAR) to a joint venture in which the German company and the railway station. Gebr. Heinemann aquired a majority stake. With this transaction, SAR's position has been consolidated with experience and expertise SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 94 Report of the Supervisory Board in the area of travel retail, e-commerce, procurement and logistics. This year a delegation of the Supervisory Board was involved in This collaboration also means that SAR will be able to respond preparing an amendment to the Articles of Associated requested by effectively in the future to the rapid developments in the the shareholders. The reason for this amendment is the State international travel retail market. Shareholdings Memorandum in which the government formulates its state shareholdings policy. In the memorandum, the government Asset Wise! expresses a desire for more uniform articles of association across the The Supervisory Board was included in the considerations and various state shareholdings. A delegation of the Supervisory Board results of the Asset Wise! programme, which has now been and of the Management Board is closely involved in this process. An incorporated into the existing organisation. The Supervisory Board important issue is the need to safeguard good governance: the has established that Asset Wise! has led to necessary organisational relationship between shareholders, the Supervisory Board and the improvements that will remain a focus of attention. The topic of Management Board. cost-awareness and the continued follow-up of the issues brought brought forward by Assets Wise! will therefore remain on the Financial reporting agenda of the Supervisory Board in the year ahead. The Management Board provides monthly reports to the Supervisory Board in which the enterprise's actual results are compared to the Corporate Responsibility 2015 budget, the latest estimate 2015 and the results of 2014. The In monitoring the strategy pursued by Schiphol Group, the Supervisory Board discussed these reports during the meetings of Supervisory Board has paid particular attention to Corporate the board. Subjects covered included the development of the Responsibility (CR). For the Supervisory Board, it is extremely company’s operating and commercial costs and results, the important that concrete CR objectives are developed for the development of the traffic and transport figures and their impact organisation, and particularly for the major projects that are due to on the budget, the development of profitability, and the company's be launched in the period ahead (such as Area A). The Supervisory funding and cash flow position. Board was kept well informed of the various activities and is convinced that the right steps are being taken to further define and The Supervisory Board concludes that Schiphol Group is financially anchor Corporate Responsibility as a key element of the strategic sound, but that the predictability of the costs of major projects calls agenda. Schiphol Group is setting the tone as a socio-economic for continued attention. responsible enterprise. The Supervisory Board expresses its appreciation for initiatives such as the launch of the Aviation The Supervisory Board observes that the credit ratings of Moody’s Inclusive covenant and the zero waste policy, which support and of Standard & Poor’s were upheld in 2015. These ratings are Schiphol's ambition for a circular economy. important in connection with the enterprise's future funding requirements. In 2015, the 2016 'funding plan' was adopted on the Other subjects basis of which the enterprise will be able to securing funding. The Supervisory Board has been informed about 'Mind your step', the compliance programme for Schiphol employees which includes No Conflicting Interest e-learning. Like the the employees of various departments, the There were no transactions in 2015 involving conflicts of interest on Supervisory Board members played the Dilemma Game as a way of the part of Management Board members, Supervisory Board discussing common business dilemmas. There was also a broader members, shareholders or the external auditor that were of material discussion on risk management within the group. significance to the company and/or the relevant Management Board members, Supervisory Board members, shareholders or external The Supervisory Board devoted specific attention this year to the auditor. subject of management development within Schiphol Group. The Supervisory Board is pleased to note that the new CCO has been Central Works Council (COR) appointed from within the company. Mr De Groof has performed The Supervisory Board, the Management Board and the Central outstandingly in the position of CCO since 2008 and, after having Works Council (COR) of Schiphol also held discussions a number of served two four-year terms, will leave the organisation. In Mr Van times in 2015. Members of the Supervisory Board were present at den Berg, who previously served as director of Schiphol Real Estate, five consultative meetings between Management Board members the Supervisory Board believes it has found an excellent candidate and the COR. Furthermore, the COR held discussions with the new for this position. Supervisory Board confidential advisor, Ms Scheltema. The members of the Supervisory Board experienced these meetings as constructive Management Board member Ms Otto was afflicted by a serious and informative. Important topics discussed concerned the illness which resulted in her absence for an extended period. The development of the organisation and, in particular, developments Supervisory Board has tremendous appreciation for the three other concerning the Asset Management, Operations, Security and ICT members of the Management Board who shared her duties during departments, and the integration of Schiphol Telematics. The her absence. meetings also devoted time to the lessons learned from the nonSchengen central security and Lounge 2 projects. The COR also SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 95 Report of the Supervisory Board spoke with the Supervisory Board about the Strategic Plan for 2016– work with the Management Board to achieve as much diversity as 2020 and issued a positive recommendation regarding the possible among the seats of both bodies. Further personal details appointment of Mr Van den Berg as the new CCO. on each member of the Supervisory Board can be found in the next section of this annual report. B. Quality Assurance In making new appointments, the Supervisory Board aims to safeguard the complementary expertise of its members, particularly in relation to the fields of knowledge that are relevant to Schiphol Members Group; these are listed in the Supervisory Board Profile (Appendix A Diversity is one of the cornerstones of Schiphol Group's policy. At to the Supervisory Board Regulations). The overview below indicates the end of 2015, the Supervisory Board had three female and five the fields of knowledge represented by each Supervisory Board male members. The Management Board has two female members member. The distribution of fields of knowledge areas as set out and two male members. The Supervisory Board will continue to below will factor into the filling of any new vacancies that arise. Division of knowledge areas among the members of the Supervisory Board H. Hazewinkel L. Gunning Schepers (Chair) (Vice-Chair) C. Clarke L. Galzy Year of birth and nationality 1951, Dutch 1949, Dutch 1964, British 1957, French First appointed in 2014 2009 2015 2014 Knowledge areas 1. EU / Globalisation • • 2. Aviation • • 3. Real Estate • • 4. Retail / e-Business • 5. Finance / Accountancy / Risk Management • • • 6. Corporate Responsibility • • 7. Marketing / Sales • 8. Human Resource Management • • 9. Politics and Schiphol's Social Climate • 10. Corporate Governance / Company Law • 11. Expertise on Amsterdam and the Amsterdam • region R.J. van de Kraats M. Ohlsson M. Scheltema J. Wijn Year of birth and nationality 1960, Dutch 1957, Swedish 1954, Dutch 1969, Dutch First appointed in 2015 2015 2010 2012 Knowledge areas 1. EU / Globalisation • • • 2. Aviation 3. Real Estate • 4. Retail / e-Business • 5. Finance / Accountancy / Risk Management • • • 6. Corporate Responsibility • 7. Marketing / Sales • • • 8. Human Resource Management • 9. Politics and Schiphol's Social Climate • 10. Corporate Governance / Company Law • • • 11. Expertise on Amsterdam and the Amsterdam • • region SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 96 Report of the Supervisory Board All the members of the Supervisory Board are independent within the meaning of the Corporate Governance Code, with the C. Other matters exception of Mr Galzy, who is International and Participations Director at Aéroports de Paris S.A., and Mr Wijn, who is a member (Re)appointments of the ABN Amro Group N.V. Management Board. There were no changes to the Schiphol Management Board during 2015. The second term of Mr De Groof comes to an end in 2016. Mr Galzy has French nationality, Mr Ohlsson has Swedish nationality He will be reappointed for a term of two months effective 1 February and Ms Clarke has British nationality. The other members of the 2016, after which he will be succeeded by Mr Van den Berg, who Supervisory Board have Dutch nationality. was previously director of Schiphol Real Estate B.V., effective 1 April 2016. Permanent education As part of the permanent education programme, various members At the nomination by the Supervisory Board and following a positive of the Supervisory Board attended training sessions organised by the recommendation by the Central Works Council, the General company. The aim of such training sessions is to provide the Meeting of Shareholders of April 2015 appointed Ms Clark, Mr van attendees with a detailed understanding of matters that are relevant de Kraats and Mr Ohlsson as Supervisory Board members. Mr Van to Schiphol, such as stakeholder management, capacity de Kraats was also appointed Chair of the Audit Committee. management and competition law. The Supervisory Board also attended a session on the topic of economic regulation. The three Mr Ruys, Mr Cremers and Mr Brouwer stepped down as members members who joined the Supervisory Board in 2015 took part in an of the Supervisory Board in April 2015. intensive introductory programme. Ms Gunning was appointed Chair of the Supervisory Board effective Evaluation 1 September 2015. Until that date, the role of Chair of the An extensive evaluation led by an external expert in 2014 was Supervisory Board had been assumed by Vice-Chair Mr Hazewinkel, discussed at length by the Supervisory Board in early 2015. The after the former Chair, Mr Ruys, stepped down in April 2015. evaluation proved useful in allowing the Supervisory Board to optimise its composition and role. The results of the evaluation were In December, Mr Galzy, Supervisory Board member on behalf of also considered in selecting the three new Supervisory Board Aéroports de Paris S.A., announced his intention to step down as a members appointed in 2015. member. Aéroports de Paris S.A. will nominate a replacement for Mr Galzy in the near term. In 2015, the Supervisory Board conducted another self-evaluation, which it will discuss in the first quarter of 2016. The changes in Supervisory Board membership have led to changes in the composition of the committees in 2015. These changes are represented in the diagram below. L. Gunning-Schepers H. Hazewinkel (Chair) (Vice-Chair) C. Clarke L. Galzy Supervisory Board • • • • Audit Committee • • Remuneration Committee •1 Selection & Appointments Committee •1 • • Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee • R.J. van de Kraats M. Ohlsson M. Scheltema J. Wijn Supervisory Board • • • • Audit Committee •1 • Remuneration Committee • • Selection & Appointments Committee • Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee • •1 1 Chair SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 97 Report of the Supervisory Board Meetings The Supervisory Board wishes to warmly thank the Management The Supervisory Board met nine times in 2015. The Management Board and the employees of Schiphol Group for their considerable Board attended all meetings of the Supervisory Board. Both prior commitment in 2015, both in operations and beyond. and subsequent to the regular meetings, the Supervisory Board held private consultations. The various subcommittees of the Supervisory Schiphol, 18 February 2016 Board held 17 meetings in total over the course of 2015. Please see the enclosed schedules for a full overview of the number of The Supervisory Board meetings per subcommittee and attendance of Supervisory Board Louise Gunning Schepers, Chair members. Herman Hazewinkel, Vice-Chair Caroline Clarke In addition to these meetings, the Chair and other members of the Laurent Galzy Supervisory Board discussed issues with the Management Board on Robert Jan van de Kraats numerous occasions. Various members of the Supervisory Board also Mikael Ohlsson had contacts on a number of occasions with stakeholders both Margot Scheltema within and outside Schiphol Group, including the shareholders. Joop Wijn Attendance in 2015 L. Gunning Attendance A. Ruys Schepers C. Clarke F. Cremers L. Galzy H. Hazewinkel Supervisory Board 2 9 7 2 7 9 Audit Committee n/a n/a n/a 1 2 3 Remuneration Committee n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4 Selection & 3 5 3 3 n/a 2 Appointments Committee Public Affairs & Corporate n/a 2 n/a n/a n/a n/a Responsibility Committee Total 5 16 10 6 9 18 R.J. van de Kraats M. Ohlsson M. Scheltema J. Brouwer J. Wijn Supervisory Board 6 6 9 2 7 Audit Committee 2 n/a n/a 1 2 Remuneration Committee n/a 2 3 2 n/a Selection & Appointments n/a n/a n/a n/a 6 Committee Public Affairs & Corporate n/a 1 3 1 1 Responsibility Committee Total 8 9 15 6 16 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 98 Report of the Supervisory Board Remuneration Committee Meetings of the committees of The Remuneration Committee met four times in 2015. During 2015, the Supervisory Board the Remuneration Committee focused on the progress of the Management Board targets for 2015 and on the definition of those targets for 2016. In early 2015, the committee established the Audit Committee outcomes of the Management Board targets for 2014. The The Audit Committee met three times in 2015, which was also the committee also discussed the consequences of new pension year in which Mr Van de Kraats joined the Audit Committee. He also legislation for the accrual of pension by Management Board assumes the chairmanship from Mr Cremers, who has stepped members. The chair of the Remuneration Committee and the chair down as Supervisory Board member. The Audit Committee spoke at of the Supervisory Board jointly conducted the annual appraisal great length with the CFO and the internal and external auditors interviews with the Management Board members. about the financial statements, the annual report, the interim report, the associated press releases, the Management Letter, the Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility annual report of regulated activities (Aviation, Security) and the Committee internal and external audit plan. The Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee met three times in 2015. The committee discussed the external auditor's In 2015, the Audit Committee looked specifically at the question of verification of Corporate Responsibility (CR) reporting and the information & IT security on the basis of the IT Security Roadmap progress of the CR objectives, as set for the Management Board for for 2015-2017. During the course of the year, the committee also 2015. In 2015, the committee took an detailed look at the status of devoted attention to the regulatory framework for airport charges the new Aviation Act as well as the matter of fine particles, focusing (Aviation Act) and the associated (reporting and other) risks. In line on potential future developments in this area. Schiphol Group's with previous years, the Audit Committee focused on policy and its media policy and stakeholder management were also the subject of implementation with respect to insurances, taxes, risk management, an in depth discussion. The committee examined, among other pensions and integrity policy. things, developments in the Schiphol Community Council (ORS). Prior to every Audit Committee meeting, the chair held a separate Meetings Number discussion with the external auditor (KPMG Accountants N.V.). In addition, the scope and materiality of the audits and the risks Supervisory Board 9 identified featured regularly as topics during the meetings. After Audit Committee 3 every meeting, the Audit Committee had final consultations with Remuneration Committee 4 the external auditor. These consultations were not attended by Selection & Appointments Committee 7 Management Board members. Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee 3 Selection and Appointments Committee Total 26 The Selection and Appointments Committee met seven times over 2015. The appointments of Ms Clark, Mr Van de Kraats and Mr Ohlsson were the subject of extensive discussions in the first months of 2015. The selection procedure was implemented with assistance from an external consultant and resulted in the nomination by the Supervisory Board of these three candidates for appointment by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The committee maintained regular contact with both the Central Works Council and the shareholders in relation to these appointments. Assisted by an external consultant, the Selection and Appointments Committee spoke with a number of candidates who were eligible to succeed Mr De Groof in the position of CCO. The committee eventually advised the Supervisory Board to appoint Mr Van den Berg as CCO effective 1 April 2016. Mr De Groof will step down on the same date. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 99 Supervisory Board H.J. Hazewinkel RA C. Clarke M.A. Scheltema R.J. van de Kraats, RA (chartered accountant) (1964, British nationality) (1954, Dutch nationality) (chartered accountant) (1949, Dutch nationality) (1960, Dutch nationality) Vice-Chair First appointed in 2009 First appointed in 2015 First appointed in 2010 First appointed in 2015 Second term expires in 2017 First term expires in 2019 Second term expires in 2018 First term expires in 2019 • Chair of the Supervisory Board • CEO of Personal Health • Member of the Supervisory • CFO and Vice-Chair of the of TKH Group N.V. Solutions and Executive ViceBoard of De Nederlandsche Management Board of • Vice-Chair of the Supervisory President of Philips Bank N.V Randstad Holding N.V. Board of Heisterkamp Beheer II • Former Senior Vice-President • Member of the Supervisory • Non-executive Director on the B.V. Europa & Africa of Sara Lee Board of TNT Express N.V. Board of Directors of OCI N.V. • Vice-Chair of the Supervisory Household & Body Care • Non-executive Director of • Member of the Corporate Board of Koninklijke Boskalis Lonza Group Plc, Basel Governance Code Monitoring Westminster N.V. • (Deputy) adviser to the Committee • Chair of the Supervisory Board Netherlands Enterprise Court • Former CFO and Member of of Sociaal at the Amsterdam Court of the Board of Management of Werkvoorzieningschap Appeal NCM Holding N.V. (Atradius) Centraal Overijssel Soweco • Member of the Supervisory N.V. Board of Warmtebedrijf • Chair of the Management Rotterdam Board of Stichting ING • Member of the Supervisory Aandelen Board of World Press Photo • Member of the Supervisory • Treasurer of Genootschap Board of the Orkest van het Onze Taal Oosten • Chair of the Pension Funds • Member of the Management Code Monitoring Committee Board of Stichting • Member of the Central Administratiekantoor Slagheek Planning Committee • Non-executive partner Baese • Former CFO of Shell Nederland Strategy & Finance B.V. B.V. • Former Chair of the Management Board of VolkerWessels SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 100 L.J. Gunning Schepers J.G. Wijn M. Ohlsson L.M. Galzy (1951, Dutch nationality) (1969, Dutch nationality) (1957, Swedish nationality) (1957, French nationality) Chair First appointed in 2012 First appointed in 2015 First appointed in 2014 First term expires in 2016 First term expires in 2019 First term expires in 2018 First appointed in 2014 First term expires in 2018 • Member of the Management • Member of the Management • Vice-Chair of the Board of • Executive Director Board of Stichting VSB Board of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Directors of Volvo Car (international and Vermogensbeheer • Member of the Supervisory Cooperation participations) Aéroports de • Member of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Jaarbeurs • Non-executive Director of Paris S.A. Board of Stichting VSB Fonds Utrecht B.V. Tesco plc • Member of the Supervisory • Crown-appointed member of • Member of the Executive • Member of the Supervisory Board of TAV Airport and TAV the Executive Board of the Board and Governing Board of Board of Ikano S.A. Construction Netherlands Social and the VNO-NCW Confederation • Member of the Board of • Member of the Supervisory Economic Council of Netherlands Industry and Directors of Lindengruppen AB Board of ADPM, ADPI, Hub • Chair of the Scientific Advisory Employers • Member of the Global Child One and SDA Board of the Aidsfonds • Member of the Supervisory Forum • Member of the Supervisory • Member of the Supervisory Board of Stadsherstel • Former President & CEO of Board of OMA Board of Concertgebouw N.V. Amsterdam IKEA Group/Ingka Holding B.V. • Chair of the Board of • Former Minister of Economic Governors of the Prins Claus Affairs Chair • Former State Secretary of • Member of the ERC Finance Identification Committee • Former State Secretary of Economic Affairs • Chair of the Board of Oranjefonds SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 101 Management Board B.I. Otto J.A. Nijhuis RA (chartered M.M. de Groof E.A. de Groot (1963, Dutch accountant) (1957, Dutch (1965, Dutch nationality) (1957, Dutch nationality) nationality) nationality) Member of the Management President Member of the Management Member of the Management Board and COO Board and CCO Board and CFO since 1 September 2014 since 1 January 2009 since 1 February 2008 since 1 May 2012 First term expires on 31 August Second term expires on 31 December Second term expires on First term expires on 30 April 2018 2016 31 January 2016 2016 Extended until 1 April 2016 • Chair of the Schiphol Security • Member of the Supervisory Board of • Member of the Supervisory • Member of the Supervisory and Public Safety Steering SNS Bank N.V. Board of Eindhoven Airport N.V. Board of Beter Bed Holding N.V. Group • Member of the Supervisory Board of • Member of the Supervisory • Non-executive member of the • Chair of the Schiphol Safety Aon Groep Nederland B.V. Board of Vesteda (effective Board of Directors of Aéroports Platform • Non-executive member of the Board August 2015) de Paris S.A. of Directors of Aéroports de Paris S.A. • Member of the Supervisory • Non-executive member of the Board Board of Vitens N.V. (effective of Directors of Brisbane Airport November 2015) Corporation PTY Ltd Aviation • Member of the ACI Europe Board Consumer Alliances & • Member of the Dutch National Opera Products & Services Participations and Ballet Board of Governors • Member of the Amsterdam Economic Real Estate Board • Co-Chair of the Schiphol Security and Public Safety Platform • Member of the Executive Board and Governing Board of the VNO-NCW Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Employers • Member of the Cyber Security Council SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 102 Corporate Governance General Each of these committees is subject to a regulatory code, published N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol (Schiphol Group) is a public limited liability on www.schiphol.nl under ‘Investor Relations’. The committees company with a full two-tier board regime. The Dutch government, meet independently and carry out preparatory work in a number of the Municipality of Amsterdam, Aéroports de Paris and the sub-areas for the Supervisory Board as a whole. The committees Municipality of Rotterdam are joint shareholders. The governance report on the outcome of their meetings in a Supervisory Board structure is based on Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the Corporate meeting. The Supervisory Board as a whole takes decisions based Governance Code, the company’s Articles of Association and on these reports. various internal regulations. Corporate Governance Code Management Board In 2004, Schiphol Group began applying the principles and best The members of the Management Board of Schiphol Group share practice provisions of the Corporate Governance Code wherever responsibility for the management of Schiphol Group and for the possible and/or appropriate. Schiphol Group has implemented these general state of affairs both within Schiphol Group and at its group provisions in its Articles of Association and various internal companies. Each member has accepted responsibility for a particular regulations. area, as approved by the Supervisory Board. Since 2012, Schiphol has applied, in full, the Code's provisions Supervisory Board regarding remuneration to all Management Board members. The The Supervisory Board of Schiphol Group consists of at least five and employment contracts with each of the Management Board at most eight members and meets at least four times a year. members contain a 'claw-back' clause (Corporate Governance Code Supervisory Board members are tasked with monitoring the provision II. 2.11) and the possibility for the Supervisory Board to Management Board of Schiphol Group and the general state of adjust variable remuneration in retrospect in certain cases affairs. The Supervisory Board also advises the Management Board. (Corporate Governance Code provision II. 2.10). An updated version of Schiphol Group's ‘comply or explain’ overview was approved by Committees of the Supervisory Board the Supervisory Board in 2013. The Supervisory Board has four subcommittees: • The Audit Committee has the task of monitoring the internal In 2014 Mr Galzy joined the Supervisory Board. He is not classified risk management and control systems, the annual and half-year as independent within the meaning of the Corporate Governance financial reports, and financing. Matters relating to taxation, Code (provision III.2.1). Mr Wijn currently serves on the treasury policy, insurance and pensions also fall within this Management Board of ABN AMRO Bank, a business relation of committee’s portfolio. Schiphol Group. With the appointment of Mr Wijn and Mr Galzy as • The Selection and Appointments Committee carries out Supervisory Board members, Schiphol no longer applies the activities connected to procedures for the appointment of principle that no more than one member may be exempted from Supervisory Board and Management Board members, including the independence requirement as defined in the Code. It has been drawing up selection criteria. agreed with Mr Wijn that he will not take part in discussions and • The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the decisions at ABN AMRO which relate to Schiphol Group and vice remuneration policy and the remuneration of members of the versa. Schiphol Group is of the opinion that this sufficiently Management Board. It also prepares the Remuneration Report addresses the non-independence of Mr Wijn. With Mr Galzy, too, it and, together with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, has been agreed that he will not take part in discussions and carries out periodic performance assessments of individual decisions at Schiphol Group which relate to Aéroports de Paris or be Management Board members and reports its findings to the involved in other subjects that could potentially result in a conflict Supervisory Board. of interests. • The Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee has a dual task. On the one hand, it advises the Management Board A detailed explanation of the above points, including a ‘comply or and Supervisory Board on the communication strategy in the explain’ overview, has been published on www.schiphol.nl under public domain (Public Affairs) while, on the other, it plays an ‘Investor Relations’. The site also provides the internal regulations important role in defining the socio-economic aspects of to which Schiphol Group is subject, including the Regulations Schiphol Group’s business. governing Inside Information and the Holding of Securities and Securities Transactions, the Whistleblower Scheme and the rules SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 103 Corporate Governance governing the Supervisory Board, its committees and the Members of the Management Board and Supervisory Board must management. refrain from buying and selling these bonds and/or any Aéroports de Paris S.A. shares. Mr Nijhuis and Ms De Groot both hold a board Securities transactions position at Aéroports de Paris S.A. In that capacity, they are under Even though Schiphol Group shares are not listed on a stock an obligation to hold at least one share in the capital of Aéroports exchange, the company does have a limited set of Regulations de Paris S.A. The director of Corporate Legal is the central officer governing Inside Information and the Holding of Securities and referred to in the Regulations governing Inside Information and the Securities Transactions. The company has issued bonds under the Holding of Securities and Securities Transactions. EMTN Programme. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, 18 February 2016 The Supervisory Board The Management Board Corporate Governance Structure Aviation business area Shareholders Audit Committee Selection& Appointment Committee Supervisory Consumer Products & Remuneration Committee Board Services business area Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee Staff Departments & Management Real Estate business area Support Units Board Alliances & Participations business area External Auditor Internal Auditor SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 104 Corporate Governance Organisation of Corporate Responsibility In 2015, the position of CR programme manager in the organisation The President and CEO of Schiphol Group is primarily responsible was transferred to the Corporate Development Department. The for Corporate Responsibility. The Management Board is responsible programme manager comes under the direct responsibility of the for the integrated annual report. The Management Board defines Corporate Development director, and reports directly to the CEO. the Corporate Responsibility vision and policy. Its members are The aim of this organisational adjustment is to integrate CR more assisted by the Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee quickly and more effectively into the strategic choices made. of the Supervisory Board. The achievement of CR targets is one of the elements of the remuneration policy. The material aspects of regional significance, accessibility, noise levels, CO2 emissions, air quality, circular economy and employment The COO acts as the airport manager. The main task of the airport practices have been clustered in five socio-economic themes: manager is to ensure that national and European laws and climate-friendly aviation, sustainable employment, raw materials regulations, in particular those relating to safety, security and the and waste flows, accessibility and local community, noise levels and environment, are complied with. The laws and regulations that air quality. Organisation-wide theme coordinators are linked to the apply at the airport are often unique. On a number of points, themes to ensure that ambitions that transcend individual business Schiphol itself has implemented additional rules aimed at further areas are realised. Each quarter, the Management Board discusses improving the monitoring of order and safety on the airport the relevant CR developments, dilemmas and the report on nongrounds. These are the Schiphol Rules. The airport manager financial objectives. exercises primary supervision of compliance with the Schiphol Rules and can, to a limited extent, impose sanctions on people and In addition to its integration with strategy, CR is a fixed component companies in the event of non-compliance with these rules. in the investment documentation. In tendering procedures potential suppliers are also asked to indicate what contributions they can The objectives, tasks, responsibilities, authorisations and working make to the five themes. Workshops focusing on the five CR themes agreements relating the control of safety and environmental risk are can also be arranged for projects carried out by the project set out in the environmental management system, airside safety department. management system, terminal safety management system and health and safety management system. The CR programme manager is responsible for the integration of Corporate Responsibility within Schiphol Group and is supported by external experts and controllers. They ensure that vision and focus are incorporated in the CR policy and advise on the CR ambition level. They make sure that Schiphol's activities are aligned with this vision. They stimulate the collaboration with stakeholders, ensure that awareness and action are promoted within the organisation and work on integrating CR in the thinking and behaviour of Schiphol employees. This is achieved by promoting the conscious weighing of the interests of people, planet and profit – both with regard to the choices for the future and in day-to-day operations. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 105 Corporate Governance Material aspect Final responsibility Challenges Concrete actions see 1 Regional significance CEO Maintain Mainport position Regional significance Continue our intensive dialogue with stakeholders Network of CCO Competition from other airports Network of destinations destinations Capacity COO Maintain operations during renovations Capacity Development of Lelystad Airport Accessibility Director of Airport Improve accessibility by road and rail Accessibility Operations Customer CCO Maintain and enhance quality perception Customer appreciation appreciation (despite renovations) Noise Strategic Stakeholder Transfer of Alders Platform agreements to Noise Management Schiphol Community Council Manager Safety Director of Safety, Security More stringent security requirements Safety & Environment CO2 emissions COO Initiatives in the chain promoting innovation Emissions and sustainability Contribute to (further) development of biofuels Air quality COO Initiatives in the chain promoting innovation Emissions and sustainability Research/developments in fine and ultra-fine particles Circular economy Director of Asset Business models must change Circular economy Management Water Director of Airport Effect of de-icing products on surface water Circular economy Operations quality Supply chain Director of Corporate Selection of suppliers Supply chain responsibility Procurement responsibility Employment practices Director of Human Diversity Employership Resources Internal development and mobility Financial solidity CFO Maintain good credit ratings Financial solidity 1 This overview is not exhaustive SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 106 Remuneration This remuneration report sets out the remuneration policy for the Schiphol Group Management Board and Supervisory Board in 2015. The members of the Management Board of N.V. Luchthaven conditions. For example, the maximum variable remuneration may Schiphol are appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term of four not be higher than 20% of the annual salary and (as also stipulated years, after which the members may be reappointed. All by the Corporate Governance Code) it must be possible for the Management Board members are employed by N.V Luchthaven Supervisory Board to retroactively adjust the variable remuneration Schiphol on the basis of a permanent employment contract. via a claw-back scheme should the remuneration prove to have been awarded on the basis of incorrect information. In 2015, the Management Board of Schiphol Group was composed of the following persons: Furthermore, Schiphol observes the new government participation with regard to severance payments. Upon termination of Position Term End of term employment of the board member, Schiphol pays a maximum of one year's salary as a severance payment, unless the board member J.A. Nijhuis CEO Second 31 December 2016 resigns voluntarily or the termination is the result of their actions. If E.A. de Groot CFO First 30 April 2016 a board member does not work during the notice period, this period B.I. Otto COO First 31 August 2018 will be deducted from the payment to be made. The conditions M.M. de Groof CCO Second 31 January 2016 relating to the adjustment of the variable remuneration and severance pay apply to all board members, regardless of the year of appointment or reappointment. General Remuneration package The main goal of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol's remuneration policy is structure to remunerate the Management Board members at a level and with a structure which will attract and retain qualified and capable A detailed summary of the employment arrangements and the directors (including those from within the organisation). The amounts constituting the total remuneration of each Management remuneration policy – and in particular the variable remuneration – Board member in 2015 are provided below. The CEO and CCO, who is also intended to effectively stimulate the achievement of were appointed in 2008, come under the remuneration policy which Schiphol's objectives, as adopted each year by the Supervisory Board was in effect in that time. Consequently, they are subject to other on the basis of the approved budget and the Management Agenda. contractual arrangements, which are specified in further detail In addition to the financial objectives, the non-financial objectives below. in the Management Agenda play an important role in assessing performance. In addition to financial objectives, non-financial Fixed salary objective are also important in evaluating performance. Most of the In 2015 the fixed gross annual salary, including holiday allowance, non-financial objectives are linked to how Schiphol seeks to fulfil its of the Management Board members was as follows: socio-economic role. Position Fixed salary (EUR) The remuneration policy of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol meets the best-practice provisions on remuneration defined in the Corporate J.A. Nijhuis CEO 395,461 Governance Code. Since the majority of shares in N.V. Luchthaven E.A. de Groot CFO 349,500 Schiphol are held by the State of the Netherlands, Schiphol's B.I. Otto COO 349,500 remuneration policy (for board members who were subsequently M.M. de Groof CCO 308,909 newly appointed or reappointed) falls within the scope of the new '2013 Government Participation Policy' for Board members who were subsequently first appointed or reappointed. Variable remuneration, in particular, is subject to a number of strict SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 107 Remuneration As mentioned above, the current remuneration policy does not 2. Quantitative apply to the CEO and CCO. Based on the current remuneration The remaining 6% of the maximum variable remuneration available policy, the CEO's fixed remuneration would amount to 412,902 depends on the financial results. The degree to which the after-tax euros. This applies in the case of new and re-appointments. Based return on equity (ROE) approaches or exceeds the agreed objective on the remuneration policy, the fixed remuneration for the other determines (based on the table below) the level of the variable board members is a maximum of 85% of that amount, i.e. a gross remuneration for this component. annual salary of 350,967 euros. ROE (achievement percentage) STI percentage As of 1 April 2015, the fixed remuneration of the board members rose by 1.7%, in accordance with the general pay rise agreed by the Less than 80% 0% parties to the collective labour agreement for Schiphol. 80% 90% 2% 90% 95% 3% Variable remuneration 95% 105% 4% General 105% 110% 5% The remuneration structure also has a variable component. The 110% or more 6% variable remuneration is intended to increase the commitment of Management Board members in Schiphol's results, stimulate results-oriented thinking and acting and reward outstanding performance. The variable remuneration has a further goal of The targets set by the Supervisory Board in advance are assessed at striking an ideal balance between sustainable financial and public the end of the first quarter of the reporting year in light of the latest performances. transport figures and special developments, and adjusted where necessary. This is to ensure that its budgetary and other objectives According to the remuneration policy introduced in 2014, the remain as challenging and realistic as possible. maximum variable remuneration amounts to 20% of the total fixed income. The Supervisory Board determines the level of the variable In summary, the Supervisory Board sets the annual variable remuneration, which depends on the extent to which the annually remuneration to be earned based on the following components: defined targets have been achieved. Those objectives are both (1) 1. financial targets, comprising the after-tax return on equity (ROE) qualitative/substantive in nature and (2) related to the financial in accordance with the budget approved by the Supervisory results achieved (quantitative). Board for that year; 2. one or more personal qualitative targets (including overall 1. Qualitative performance) derived from the portfolio of the individual The qualitative objectives are set each year and comprise both teammember of the Management Board that bear a relationship with related and personal performance targets. the targets as formulated in the Management Agenda; 3. one or more collective (team) objectives derived from the The team-related objectives are derived from the Management Management Agenda. Agenda which is approved by the Supervisory Board at the start of each year and contains targets that contribute to: This can be summarised in figures as follows: • The progress and achievement of the long-term strategic objectives of Schiphol Group. Target STI percentage • The public significance of Schiphol for the Netherlands. Quantitative financial 6% Qualitative personal/team 14% The objectives as included in the Management Agenda comprise the Total maximum 20% team-related objectives for the variable remuneration for the Management Board as a whole. The personal performance targets of the Management Board members are derived from the portfolio Non-standard arrangements of the individual board member concerned and are also related to The variable remuneration system as described above applied to the the objectives as formulated in the Management Agenda. CFO and COO in 2015. The CEO and CCO have a non-standard fixed salary and a non-standard variable remuneration component, The team-related objectives and personal performance targets based on the contractual agreements made upon their jointly represent 14% of the maximum 20% (of the total fixed appointments (and derived from the remuneration policy in effect salary) that can be paid as variable remuneration. The extent to at the time of their appointments). Their variable component which the qualitative objectives are deemed to have been achieved comprises a short-term incentive (STI) and a long-term incentive and the way they are assessed is at the discretion of the Supervisory (LTI). Board. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 108 Remuneration The STI consists – like the variable remuneration based on the Pension arrangements remuneration policy adopted in 2014 – of qualitative objectives and Schiphol Group's pension plan for all its employees, including a quantitative objective. The qualitative objectives are determined Management Board members, is administered by the Algemeen on the basis of the objectives as included in the Management Burgerlijk Pensioenfonds (ABP). The ABP scheme is an average Agenda and the overall performance of the Management Board earnings scheme. The premium, which the ABP calculates each year, member concerned. The quantitative objective is related to the consists of an employer's share and an employee's share. The financial result achieved (the result divided by the average equity pension base used to calculate the premium is made up of fixed pay (ROE)) and to the annual budget approved by the Supervisory Board elements only. As opposed to the arrangement for other employees, for that year. Exceeding the financial targets by more than 10% can the variable portion of the income does not count toward the result in an increased STI (swing) percentage. This allows for the STI pension base for Management Board members. percentages below of the total fixed salary to be achieved: For the CEO and CCO, the following non-standard pension CEO CCO agreements apply: • A paid-up pension (at any rate the agreement that the Financial target 20% 15% employee's share of the pension premium is paid by the Personal targets 7.5% 15% employer). Overall performance 7.5% 5% • The agreement that the employment contract will end no later Total (excluding swing) 35% 35% than on the attainment of the age of 62. As such, it has been Maximum swing percentage 12.5% 10% arranged that they will receive an annual fixed salary supplement which they can put towards a life-course savings Total (including maximum swing) 47.5% 45% scheme. The level of the supplement was determined through an actuarial calculation based on the assumption that the retirement age was 62 and the fact that between the ages of 62 and 65 no pension accrual will take place during active Mr Nijhuis (CEO) has taken the initiative to adjust his contractual STI employment with N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol. agreements (max. 47.5%) with effect from 2015. The current remuneration policy has a maximum (total) variable remuneration Effective 1 January 2015 no pension is accrued for the portion of component of 20%. Mr Nijhuis is voluntarily relinquishing his STI the pensionable income that is in excess of 100,000 euros. In entitlements to the extent these exceed the achieved STI percentage conformity with the generally applicable practice in the Netherlands, for the year concerned, based on the current remuneration policy Schiphol has decided to compensate the employees concerned (maximum 20%). (including the Management Board members) for this erosion in pension entitlements. The sum total of this pension compensation The LTI is based on the multi-year Tactical Plan approved by the scheme equals the reduction in pension contributions Schiphol pays Supervisory Board and on the Economic Profit (EP) target laid down as a result of the capping of pension accrual for tax purposes, and in this plan. Payment of the LTI depends on the extent to which the therefore does not affect the budget. The individual gross cumulative EP has been achieved over a period of three financial compensation is determined annually for each employee (and years. If the cumulative EP exceeds the 'budgeted' EP by more than therefore also for each Management Board member) based on the 10%, the payment level may be raised to 52.5% of the total fixed employee's age and salary. salary. This can be summarised as follows: Other benefits CEO and CCO The secondary benefits comprise appropriate expense allowances, a company car and allowances for a chauffeur and telephone costs. LTI target 35% The company has also taken out personal accident insurance and Maximum swing percentage 17.5% directors' and officers' liability insurance on behalf of the Total (including maximum swing) 52.5% Management Board members. No loans, advances or guarantees were or will be granted to members of the Management Board. A restrictive policy applies with regard to other offices, whose acceptance requires the explicit approval of the Supervisory Board. Claw-back The variable remuneration (under both the old and current remuneration policy) is subject to a claw-back clause (Corporate Governance Code provision II.2.11) and the possibility for the Supervisory Board to adjust variable pay retrospectively in certain cases (Corporate Governance Code provision II.2.10). SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 109 Remuneration Retiring and new board • CCO arrangement: 18.75% of a maximum of 25% (swing factor of 1.25) members With respect to the (qualitative) personal targets, the Supervisory Board was generally positive. The management team has done a Mr De Groof's term of appointment ends as of 1 February 2016. good job and has made good progress with several crucial dossiers Following two four-year terms, Mr de Groof will no longer stand for that are of vital importance to the future of Amsterdam Airport reappointment. However, to ensure a smooth transfer of duties, his Schiphol. Nevertheless, the Supervisory Board has determined that current appointment term has been extended to 1 April 2016. not all agreed qualitative targets have been achieved and, advised Effective 1 April 2016, Mr De Groof will be succeeded by Mr A. van by the Remuneration Committee, has set the score for the entire den Berg. Mr Van den Berg is currently employed by Schiphol package of qualitative targets at (approx.) 2/3. Nederland B.V. in the position of director of Schiphol Real Estate. Mr Van den Berg's remuneration package will be based on the 2015 was marked by a strong focus on the transition to central remuneration policy that has been in effect since 2015 and will thus security in the non-Schengen area (CSNS). The Supervisory Board be identical to the packages for the CFO and COO described above. was positive about the timely completion of CSNS, but less so as regards the delayed completion of Lounge 2 and Holland Boulevard In connection with the termination of the employment contract, Mr and as regards project management. Good progress has been made De Groof will receive the contractually agreed severance payment on the five Corporate Responsibility themes, though it seems there of 310,205 euros gross. This payment is equal to one year's fixed is room for further development in this area. The Asset Wise! salary and will be increased by an amount of 14,246 euros gross for programme has resulted in an increased focus on costs optimisation. buy out of the salary supplement that Mr De Groof receives each 2016 will see a further 11.6% reduction of the airport charges, as year for the financing of a life-course savings scheme. Consequently, a result of the growth in passenger numbers in 2014 and 2015 and the total severance payment will amount to 324,452 euros gross. strict cost control. There is room for improvement however in the fields of project and contract management. Management Board Good progress has been made in the development of the new terminal and pier. The definitive decisions on these projects will be Remuneration for 2015 made in the first few months of 2016. This represents a major step towards increasing the capacity and quality of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and strengthening its competitive position. Based on the 2015 financial results, the members of the Management Board are eligible for a short-term incentive (STI) Because of the different remuneration schemes for the CEO and the relating to financial (quantitative) targets that exceeds the target but CCO, on the one hand, and the CFO and COO, on the other, a is lower than the maximum incentive: schematic overview is provided below of the STI percentages • new policy arrangement: CEO, CFO and COO 5% of a achieved. This overview includes, for each, the weighting of the maximum of 6% extent to which he or she attained the qualitative targets. STI in 2015 J.A. Nijhuis M.M. de Groof Potential Realised Potential Realised Financial target 20% n/a 15% 15% Personal and overall performance 15% n/a 20% 14.25% Swing percentage 12.5% n/a 10% 3.75% Totaal 47.5% n/a1 45% 33% 1 Not applicable because of voluntary agreement to a lower (short term) variable pay by Mr Nijhuis. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 110 Remuneration J.A. Nijhuis E.A. de Groot B.I. Otto Potential Realised Quantitative financial 6% 5% 5% 5% Qualitative personal/team 14% 10% 10% 6% Total (max. 20%) 20% 15% 15% 11% Due to the fact that Ms Otto was not fully available, her STI has been adjusted downward. The Supervisory Board, advised by the Remuneration Committee, has set the swing factor for the long-term remuneration (LTI) for the CEO and COO over the 2013–2015 period at 1.5, based on the 'economic profit' achieved in the period and in accordance with the contractually agreed calculation principles. The other members of the Management Board are not entitled to any LTI. More detailed information on the remuneration of the Management Board for 2015 can be found in the financial statements section of this annual report, under 'Related parties'. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board General The remuneration of the Chair of the Supervisory Board amounts to 36,500 euros per annum. The ordinary members’ remuneration is 24,000 euros per annum. All members of the Supervisory Board also receive an annual expense allowance of 1,600 euros. Members of a Supervisory Board committee are entitled to an additional fee. Each member of the Audit Committee receives 6,000 euros per annum, and each member of one of the other committees is entitled to 5,000 euros per annum. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board for 2015 Information on the remuneration of the Supervisory Board for 2015 can be found under Related parties in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Schiphol, 18 February 2016 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 111 Risk management As a result of its socio-economic role and its enterprising business model, Schiphol is subject to a range of strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks. Risk management is an integral part of our business processes supported by a uniform policy which has been developed to manage these risks. Risk management in 2015 Sub-standard information security and cybercrime continue to pose a significant threat. In light of our strategy to further develop our digital capabilities we must pay particular attention to the risk Schiphol operates in a dynamic environment which offers associated with IT infrastructure and information security and now opportunities as well as presenting various challenges. On the one consider it one of our main risks. Becoming a more digital airport hand, the aviation industry is enjoying strong growth as the will also require more mature IT security capabilities. A programme propensity to fly in, for example, China and India has increased to enhance IT security has been implemented this past year and will substantially. On the other hand, geopolitical developments and continue in 2016. concerns about security may negatively affect demand for air travel in the short term. The strong recovery of passenger growth despite the economic crisis of recent years, highlights the risk associated with higher than Although global economic development is positive, the recovery in expected growth and the pressure this can place on existing assets. Europe is far from robust. Europe's position relative to other parts This is particularly true for Schiphol where the lead time for of the world is still under pressure. The consequences of this also developing new assets is long. This has lead us to place greater extend to trade routes between Asia and the United States. emphasis on the link between fluctuations in demand and capacity European network carriers are already facing stiff competition from development. airlines in the Middle East. Large hubs in Istanbul and the Gulf region have been developed in direct competition with European hubs. This The refugee crisis in Europe and the terrorist attacks in Paris have is also affecting our home carrier. At the same time low cost carriers lead to discussions about increased border controls and the are developing their networks and expanding their focus to include reduction or abolition of the border free Schengen area. Any new business travellers. legislation from inside or outside Europe leading to increased border controls could have significant impact on our operational processes On the positive side, traffic at Schiphol continues to grow despite as well as potentially affecting demand for air travel and spending the competitive environment. This growth is increasing pressure on in the retail and food and beverage outlets if passengers are required existing capacity. Our non-aviation activities are also being subjected to spend more time in border control processes. We will continue to structural shifts in market dynamics. Traditional retail concepts no to closely monitor developments with regard to new legislation. longer meet the needs of the modern consumer who is spending more online and less in shops. Real estate markets are also changing Schiphol Group's most important risks and control measures were and we can no longer assume that past growth will continue in the discussed by the Supervisory Board at the meeting in October 2015. same way in the future. These developments have lead to a modest deterioration of Schiphol Group's risk profile in 2015. Key developments Changes in market dynamics and increased competition could have significant implications for all aspects of our business including Masterplan investments such as Area-A and of course for our financial position. We regularly monitor and assess developments in the aviation sector and the position of our most important airlines and competitors. A solid financial position and modular investment plans ensure that we have the flexibility to adapt to changing market dynamics. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 112 Risk management Framework for risk management Taking risks is an integral part of business. By carefully balancing our objectives against the risks we are prepared to take, we strive to conduct business operations that are both sustainable and socioeconomic responsible. This approach will help us attain our strategic objectives. Our policy is based on the following principles: • The Management Board and management are responsible for developing and testing internal risk management and monitoring systems. These systems have been designed to identify significant risks, monitor the achievement of targets and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and regulations; • Effective risk management and internal monitoring systems will reduce the likelihood of errors, wrong decisions and surprises due to unforeseen circumstances; • Risk management has been integrated into line-management activities and into the planning and control cycle; • In order to thrive, an enterprise must take risks. The Management Board is responsible for determining the limits of what is acceptable (referred to as 'risk appetite'). Risk Appetite The extent to which Schiphol Group is prepared to take risks to achieve its objectives differs according to each objective and risk category. Risk limits are set out in various policy documents, handbooks and company regulations that define the specific limits and tolerances of the various operational activities. Risk Category Risk Appetite Description Strategic moderate Schiphol Group is prepared to take moderate risks to realise its ambitions. In doing so, we aim to strike a balance between our socio-economic role (low risk acceptance) and our commercial targets (higher risk acceptance). Operational very low Schiphol Group focuses primarily on ensuring the continuity of aviation activities, regardless of circumstances. We aim to reduce the risks that threaten this continuity as much as possible. Our risk acceptance in this regard is therefore very low. In the area of safety and security, we do all we can to avoid risks that could put passengers, internal and external employees, visitors or local residents in danger. Financial low We maintain a solid financial position in order to guarantee access to the financial markets. Schiphol is not prepared to take risks that could jeopardise its credit rating of at least 'A' (Standard & Poor's). Compliance zero Schiphol Group strives to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, with a particular focus on safety and security, environmental, competition, tendering and privacy/ information security laws. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 113 Risk management Risk management and internal • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial assets, liabilities, financial position and profits of Schiphol Group control • as well as the combined consolidated enterprises; the annual report gives a true and fair view of the situation on the balance sheet date and of developments over the course of Our risk management and internal control system is based on the the financial year; and COSO ERM guideline and the Corporate Governance Code. The • the principal risks facing Schiphol Group are described in this system identifies, analyses and monitors strategic, operational, annual report. financial and compliance-related risks; Line managers are responsible for the implementation of risk management and report on their activities twice a year to their Sensitivity analysis directors, who in turn report to the Risk & Compliance Committee which comprises the members of the Management Board, the By making our dependencies transparent, we gain insight into the Finance & Control Director, the Sr Internal Audit Manager, risks that can be transferred within the chain. This enables Schiphol Corporate Compliance Officer and Risk & Insurance Manager. These Group to anticipate chain reactions at an early stage. reports form the basis for the In Control Statement provided by the directors of the business and support units twice a year as well as We do this in various ways, for example by integrating sensitivity being an important element underpinning the Letter of analyses for key value drivers in our Tactical Plan for 2016-2019 and Representation provided semi-annually by each business and Strategic Plan for 2016-2020. This helps us to determine the impact support unit director and controller to the Chief Financial Officer. of key risks. The Management Board of Schiphol Group also meets four times a The table below outlines the sensitivity level for Schiphol Group's year to discuss the integral progress and results of the Corporate key value drivers, specifying their most important risk factors. Responsibility objectives. Risk management is a fixed aspect within our monthly planning and control cycle and is fully integrated in our strategic planning process (every three years with a five-year horizon) and tactical planning process (annually with a four-year horizon). The Management Board reports on and accounts for the risk management and internal control system to the Supervisory Board. We aim to reduce the likelihood of errors, wrong decisions and surprises due to unforeseen circumstances as much as possible. However, there are no absolute guarantees, and we cannot exclude the possibility of being exposed to risks of which we are currently unaware, or which may not yet be considered important at this time. No risk management or internal control system can provide an absolute safeguard against failure to achieve corporate objectives, nor fully prevent any possible loss, fraud or breach of rules and regulations. To name one example, Schiphol Group is particularly susceptible to adverse weather conditions and other natural phenomena; we simply cannot prevent or influence these. We can, however, ensure that the consequences remain as limited as possible. In light of the above, we believe that the risk management and internal control systems provide a reasonable degree of assurance concerning financial reporting risks, and that the financial reporting does not contain any material misstatements. The Management Board declares that, to the best of its knowledge: SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 114 Risk management Assessment of the most and an estimate of the impact of the consequences on the achievement of our business objectives. The impact is based not just important risks on the financial consequences but also on the impact on our reputation. We have plotted the ten most important risks, which are described below, in the risk matrix, following implementation of We use a risk matrix to assess and compare our risks, with the risks control measures. arranged based on an estimate of the likelihood of the risk arising Classification of Schiphol’s risks following the implementation of control measures Risk = Probability x Impact (Impact is both financial impact and impact on reputation) Probability Very small Small Large Extremely Large A B A Fluctuations in demand Extremely B severe Competition C Developments in the real estate market F E D D Political context Severe E IT infrastructure and information security H F Large projects G C J G International business Considerable H Aviation operational risk I Market risk, liquidity risk and I Impact counterparty risk Minor J Violation of laws and regulations and breaches of integrity The order of the letters within a box is irrelevant Small Extremely Large Baseline value for Risks Value 2015 Change Effect Impact on: Assumptions A, B Number of 58 million +/1% 11.8 million Total turnover Impact on revenues from airport passengers at euros charges and retail and catering sales: Schiphol based on the assumption of a stable OD/transfer passenger ratio and unchanged passenger spending and costs A, B, H Number of flights 450,679 1 day without 3.2 million euros Total turnover Based on average airport charges and flights passenger spending in the terminal A, B, D Revenue from 869 million +/1% 8.7 million euros Total turnover airport charges euros A, B Average spending EUR 14.45 +/1% 1.0 million euros Total turnover Unchanged passenger numbers per departing passenger D, E, H Operating 804 million +/1% 8.0 million euros Operating Baseline value is comprised of total expenses euros result operating expenses, not including depreciation and impairment losses C Net initial yield 1,065 million -10% +118 million Value of real A 10% rise/decline (as at year-end from offices and euros euros estate 2015) in the net initial yield from real industrial +10% estate, applied to the value of the buildings, not -97 million euros current real estate portfolio of 1,065 including land million euros SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 115 Risk management Most important risks Strategic risks Increased Unchanged Decreased A > Changes in demand and capacity development Risk management measures Unexpected changes in demand, in our case especially the number of air • Intensive contact and cooperation with transport movements, passenger numbers and cargo volumes, can lead to stakeholders a shortage or excess of capacity. Economic, geopolitical and demographic • Short-term and long-term scenario planning developments may result in unexpected fluctuations in passenger numbers, • Monitoring of external trends and developments lower passenger spending, changes in airline capacity levels and changing • Improved flexibility as a result of outsourcing dynamics in the sector. Schiphol is particularly vulnerable to this risk due to activities and a modular investment plan the long lead times, our fixed cost structure and the complexity associated • Adjustment of commercial offering to stimulate with capacity expansion. demand for retail, catering services and parking • Drafting of operational plan to tackle capacity Our plans to embark on significant capacity expansion in the coming years issues have increased this risk, especially in view of the challenges posed by fierce competition from Turkey and the Middle-East. A structural decline in demand could also affect the strength of our network of destinations. B > Competition Risk management measures A lack of investment in quality and capacity increases our risk of being • Timely investments in infrastructure, in close unable to maintain a healthy competitive position. consultation with airlines • Competition analyses Schiphol continues to face competition from strong airline/airport alliances • Client Relationship Management in Turkey and the Middle East. The airport's retail activities are under • Expansion of retail offering, ranges and facilities pressure as a result of changing consumer patterns driven by the and pricing policy adjustment possibilities offered by multimedia applications, such as omni-channel retailing. C > Developments in the real estate market Risk management measures As market conditions change, occupancy levels in our real estate portfolio • Monitoring of market conditions and current may fall, rents may drop and we may see an increase in rental incentives, prospects all resulting in lower profits and values. This risk is increased by the high • Perform valuations of the real estate portfolio concentration of aviation-specific real estate and our dependence on a every six months using different surveyors number of large customers. • Develop projects solely on the basis of minimum pre-sale requirements Although the recovery of the real estate market continued in 2015, we are • Timely renovation and redevelopment to keep the observing a dichotomy developing between high quality locations which location and portfolio attractive are performing very well and lower quality locations which are are • Increased focus on high quality locations performing less well. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 116 Risk management D > Political context Risk management measures Political developments, policy changes and European or national laws and regulations can significantly influence our business. The current political debate and the development of long-term capacity at Schiphol and the regional airports, including Lelystad Airport, have lead to increased uncertainty regarding long-term capacity. • Participation in various consultation bodies • Ongoing dialogue with all stakeholders • Monitoring political and other decision-making Border control legislation processes and regulatory developments The refugee crisis and the terrorist attacks in Paris have renewed political discussions in Europe and abroad concerning increased border controls, visa requirements and the reduction or abolition of the border-free Schengen area. Changes in border control legislation could give rise to significant operational changes as well as affecting demand and passenger spending. Economic regulation • Close contact with the Dutch Authority for Our aviation activities are subject to economic regulation, which means that Consumers and Markets, which monitors the there is a cap on our investment returns. Regulatory changes may affect implementation of aviation charges and terms Schiphol's ability and/or flexibility to make investments in capacity and and conditions at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol quality, which in turn could impact Schiphol’s competitive position and • Participation in discussions with the government service levels. on the subject of regulation • Modular investment plans E > IT infrastructure & information security Risk management measures Our business operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems and • Resilient IT infrastructure applications. Failure of critical IT systems or unauthorised access can • Business continuity plans including IT disaster negatively affect our business and our reputation. This risk has become even recovery plans more relevant as we are realising our ambition to expand our digital • Regular testing and audits of critical systems capabilities. • Stimulation of security awareness throughout the organisation • Dedicated IT security team • Information security policy, standards and baselines • Monitoring of external cybersecurity trends and developments F > Major projects Risk management measures The simultaneous implementation of several large-scale Master Plan • Specialised project management department projects involves substantial project risks, such as delays or budget overruns. • External benchmarks for the execution of major As a result, the original project objectives could potentially become projects obsolete, reducing the project's ability to meet our needs or pay back the • Development of internal cost expertise centre investment. • Standardised methods for the execution of major projects SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 117 Risk management G > International business Risk management measures International enterprise opens up opportunities and potential benefits, but • Limit risks to local subsidiaries also brings specific risks that would not arise in a domestic setting. • Bring in competent local management and expert local advisers • Maintain good relationships with local airport authorities • Detailed attention to financial instruments and investment valuations Operational risks H > Operational risks in aviation Risk management measures Safety and security • Safety management systems including Inadequate safety and security measures increase the risk of disruptions to supervision airport operations as well as incidents or accidents that could have serious • Training and drills consequences for passengers, local residents and the employees of • Invest in innovations, such as the security scan companies located at Schiphol. • Random checks to assess the performance of Heightened levels of geopolitical tension in the world could lead to an security control increased security risk. • Operational security training for staff • The Schiphol Security Platform, in which all parties involved participate Unexpected business interruptions • Company emergency plans and procedures Extreme weather events or natural phenomena, fire, pandemics, aircraft • Emergency measures Well-trained and prepared accidents, technical faults or power cuts can all lead to business staff interruptions. These can significantly impact business processes, results and • Insurance policies prognoses. Dependence on third parties • Ensure that covenants and agreements are in As an airport, we are highly dependent on inputs and materials from third place, and maintain good relationships and parties, such as governments, statutory bodies, the Royal Netherlands contact with external parties Marechaussee, Dutch Customs and sector partners such as airlines and • Screening of external contract parties ground handlers. Any industrial action, business interruptions or unethical • Proper coordination and contract management behaviour on the part of these external parties can disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and negatively affect results. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 118 Risk management Financial risks I > Market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk Risk management measures Schiphol Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks, such as currency, • Retain guaranteed credit facilities price and interest rate risks, liquidity risks and counterparty risks. • Pursue a proactive refinancing strategy Maintaining creditworthiness is also of paramount importance: the loss of • Balanced distribution of loans and repayments the A rating can result in reduced access to financing as well as higher • Monitor creditworthiness of Schiphol Group financing costs. (Standard & Poor’s A rating) to ensure good access to the capital market. The higher than expected revenues and related cash flows as a result of the • Limit currency, interest-rate and counterparty risks higher than expected growth in passenger numbers mitigate the need for external financing thereby mitigating the financial risk. Compliance risks J > Violations of laws and regulations, and integrity violations Risk management measures Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly in terms • Compliance policy of noise, safety and security, environment, competition, tendering and • Compliance awareness training for staff privacy/information security, can damage our reputation and have negative • Compliance and risk management procedures, financial and operational consequences. management systems and reporting structures • Sanctions Committee, Integrity Committee Schiphol Regulations and procedures • Hotline for reporting violations of the codes of A lack of integrity and corporate responsibility can damage our reputation conduct and lead to regulatory violations. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 119 Socio-economic accountability SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 120 Reporting guidelines Both results demonstrate that our business activities and our pursuit of an integrated way of thinking have not gone unnoticed. This recognition has encouraged us to continue our present approach to Integrated annual reporting is a growing area of focus worldwide. reporting and to further increase the sustainability of our business Schiphol Group was one of over 100 international participants in a processes. pilot programme launched by the International Integrated Reporting Council, which was completed in 2014. Integrated As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we have presented a thinking continues to develop within our company, a fact that is progress report on the Global Compact's ten principles. This is clearly visible in the evolution of our annual reporting since 2009. included in Global Compact Communication on Progress. In 2015, in collaboration with social enterprise True Price we took the first steps towards gaining insight into the impact of our Scope of the report operations on the various types of capital. Read more on this issue Our socio-economic role is to maintain a multi-modal hub that in 'The value of our impact'. connects the Netherlands with the world's most important cities and centres of activity. Five themes underpin our strategy for This annual report was drawn up with due regard for the most accomplishing this: Top Connectivity, Excellent Visit Value, relevant international guidelines and best practices, with the Global Competitive Marketplace, Development of the Group and Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guideline being the most important Sustainable & Safe Performance. We have recalibrated our strategy guide. The GRI reference table has been appended, and also shows relative to the previous reporting period. The Corporate where in this report information can be found about the indicators Responsibility themes have remained unchanged, but in 2015 we that are relevant to our business operations. The GRI sector recalibrated the set of CR performance indicators. We expect to be supplement for airports has also been applied. able to further develop this set in the future into a strategic tool that will allow us to measure the material aspects. The Dutch ministry of Finance has determined that annual reports of state shareholdings must at least comply with GRI 3.0 level C as The results with regard to our financial, operational and social of 2010. With a G4, Schiphol not only satisfies this requirement but performance are presented in a single annual report. Over 90% of also meets its own targets in this respect. Furthermore, annual our activities take place at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. The reports of state shareholdings are required to be included in a survey national and international subsidiaries and participations (airports of the Transparency Benchmark study group. In 2015 this and other activities) carry out their own initiatives, geared towards benchmark study, commissioned by the ministry of Economic their local environment and consistent with Schiphol Group’s vision. Affairs, was conducted by EY. We have been participating in this In 2015, where possible the definitions and reporting manuals of study since 2006. A total of 485 organisations submitted their 2014 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Rotterdam The Hague Airport and annual reports for the Transparency Benchmark, in which Schiphol Eindhoven Airport were brought into line so as to enhance their Group's report ranked 7th (14th in 2014). We also won the prize comparability. Any remaining differences are explained in the for Most Innovative Annual Report. The jury awarded this prize to section on performance indicators. Differences in definitions have Schiphol for the following reasons: 'The integrated report opens only been maintained where this was necessary in order to avoid with the value creation model even before presenting the key limited measurability. This was an instructive exercise that forced us results. This forms a common thread throughout the report. In to consider how we can raise Corporate Responsibility to the next addition, the principal characteristics of the organisation, its level as a group, with due regard for our mutual differences and the environment and the 2014 results are presented in the first pages initiatives taken in our respective operations. of the report. Schiphol Group has succeeded in concisely presenting the aspects that are truly important. This has resulted in a report In the 2015 annual report, Schiphol Group limits its reporting to the which is both innovative and accessible to a wide audience.' results achieved for the material themes. In 2013 we drew up a materiality analysis based on information obtained through Like our 2011 Annual Report, the 2014 Annual Report earned us dialogues and interviews. In 2014 we subsequently assessed the the Henri Sijthoff Prize for best reporting in the category of nonmaterial aspects with the relevant departments and with colleagues listed enterprises. 'Schiphol tops the ranks thanks to its highly who maintain direct contact with our stakeholders. For the purpose transparent and concrete style of reporting, which involves clear and of this assessment we also made use of media analyses and our own comprehensive descriptions of dilemmas and choices made.' analyses of trends, developments and risks. We additionally looked According to the jury, the economic analysis in the company's at material aspects of fellow airports such as Aéroports de Paris, financial reporting showed room for improvement and the Report Heathrow Airport and Frankfurt Airport. The results are summarised of the Supervisory Board, while good in terms of content, was not in a materiality matrix which confirms that we have set the right particularly critical. We followed up on these comments in our 2015 priorities in our business strategy. In 2015 we recalibrated our Annual Report. strategy and once again tested material aspects in relevant departments, in combination with internal and external studies into trends and developments. This led to the matrix's modification. In SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 121 2016, the material aspects will be subject to a broad assessment no longer be consolidated. As at 31 December 2014, the assets and through the use of questionnaires and interviews. liabilities of SAR were classified as 'held for sale'. Acquisitions are recognised in the consolidation of both financial and non-financial Scope data from the date on which the company gains control. Disposals The subjects in the matrix relate to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, are removed from the company data from the actual date of the Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport alike. With the disposal. Deconsolidation takes place at the time control is lost intended development of Lelystad Airport, these topics are expected through a sale. to also play a role there as well. Lelystad Airport falls outside the scope of the matrix, at least until it begins operations for nonIn 2015, no special economic conditions or developments occurred Mainport-related commercial passenger traffic. within the sector or within the value chain that had any significant effect on the policy pursued. The content of this annual report was derived from the materiality aspects outlined in the materiality matrix. This helps us interpret the In addition to this report, information is also available online on the available information, so that we can clarify its impact and relevance following websites: schiphol.nl en schiphol.nl/cr. to readers. Drafting of the annual report In the chain Schiphol Group begins drafting its annual report each autumn. All aspects included in the matrix are relevant to our airports and Based on the internal materiality analysis and media check, the other parties in the Chain. This annual report includes information business controllers are charged with compiling draft texts or on all material aspects over which Schiphol Group has full control, providing input for each material theme. A team of Schiphol Group with the exception of the network of destinations, operating employees and an external copywriter compile the text of the capacity, accessibility, noise and safety. Performance reported in annual report, which is discussed several times by the annual report these areas also concerns our partners in the chain. committee. That committee consists of the CFO and representatives from Corporate Treasury, Corporate Legal, Corporate Development, Developments in 2015 Corporate Affairs, Group Control and the controllers of the various In this report, the following material aspects are discussed as they business areas. In December a well advanced initial draft is relate to five Corporate Responsibility themes: Regional submitted to the Management Board. Subsequently the review Significance, Accessibility, Noise, CO2 Emissions, Air Quality, Circular process by the external auditor commences. After the results Economy and Employment practices (see Corporate Governance adopted in January have been fed into the report, the texts and CR organisation). In 2015, the targets were extended to the entire financial statements are submitted for approval to the Management organisation, where possible. This process will continue in the Board and the Supervisory Board. coming years. If you have any comments or questions about this report, please As described under Creating value, the interrelatedness of activities send an email to crhelpdesk@schiphol.nl. We look forward to within the aviation sector means the annual report also includes hearing from you. performance details of areas in which Schiphol Group does not exercise full control and the results of sector partners, such as the External auditor numbers of transported passengers and spending at concessionaires KPMG is Schiphol Group’s independent external auditor. The auditor or the number of bird strikes. has been asked to provide a limited degree of assurance regarding the reliability of the Corporate Responsibility information presented On 30 April 2015, Schiphol Group sold 60% of its shares in Schiphol in this report. The information relates to Schiphol Group's Airport Retail B.V. (SAR) to Gebr. Heinemann SE & Co. KG. Schiphol performance, excluding noise levels or safety, that also involves Group and Gebr. Heinemann have since set up a joint venture for supply chain partners. The auditor performed the audit in the sale of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and chocolate in the compliance with the Netherlands Institute of Chartered shopping area beyond the security filters at Amsterdam Airport Accountants (NBA) N.V. COS3810N guideline ‘Assurance Schiphol. Gebr. Heinemann has acquired a 60% interest in SAR and opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen' (assurance Schiphol Group retains 40% of the shares. Through the sale of 60% engagements concerning CR reports). The Assurance report is of the shares, Schiphol Group has lost its controlling interest. From included in this annual report. 30 April, the assets and liabilities as well as the results of SAR will SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 122 Material aspect Performance indicator 2015 2015 2014 result target result CO2 emissions CO2 emissions from group 1.65 2.01 1.72 activities (Kg CO2/Pax) Circular economy Separated operational waste 28.2% 40.0% 25.9% Employment practices Absenteeism due to illness 3.6% 3.6% 3.6% Safety Work-related accidents LTIF: 0.3 LTIF: 3.0 LTIF: 1.6 followed by absence LTIF SNBV Fire Service: 27.1 LTIF Fire Service: 40.0 LTIF Fire Service: 22.7 Supply chain responsibility Corporate responsibility 83% 100% N/A, new KPI consultation during tenders Accessibility Public transport to airport for 40.4% 40.0% 39.1% O&D passengers1 Safety Bird strikes (number per 8.3 <5.8 6.1 10,000 air transport movements) Safety Runway incursions1 41 22 17 1 Relates only to the Schiphol location Performance indicators until 2014, only accounted for 5% and was not available during the year. We are now able to monitor the performance indicators more actively. Energy efficiency and the number of degree days are critical Notes to performance indicators evaluated success factors in this regard; they explain any deviations. A by external parties nationally established source for the uniform determination of Reporting frequency emission factors was used for monitoring CO2 emissions. The The performance indicators of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, emissions factor for the generation of electricity rose due to Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport are reported increased use of coal-fired power stations. as components of existing periodic management information and are discussed by the Management Board with the relevant senior 2. Separated operational waste managers. A waste processor collects waste at various locations at Schiphol. Agreements have been reached with the waste processor as to how Period the waste is processed and recycled after collection. The information presented here concerns the 2015 calendar year. For practical reasons, the indicator for CO2 emissions from group The group aims to continue raising the recycling rate of its own activities is based on the operating year. operational waste. At Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and Eindhoven Airport, the waste is therefore separated before it is delivered to the 1. CO2 emissions from group activities processors. Rotterdam The Hague Airport plans to follow suit in Amsterdam Airport Schiphol calculates and reports on CO2 2016. emissions on the basis of the Greenhouse Gas protocol. This means that it reports the CO2 emissions in scope 1 and 2. The emission The scope of this performance indicator does not correspond factors are based on those applied by Stichting Klimaatvriendelijk entirely to the Environmental permit. This is because some tenants Aanbesteden & Ondernemen (SKAO). Though the absolute CO2 are free select their own waste collection company. As a result, our emissions figure is known (2015: 98,635 tonnes, 2014: 97,616 waste collector does not collect waste at all locations within the tonnes), Schiphol aims to reduce CO2 emissions per passenger scope of the environmental permit. relative to 1990 levels. The long-term target is 1.35 kg CO2/ passenger by 2020. This is therefore the only figure used as a Read more about our activities in the section on Circular economy. performance indicator with effect from the 2015 reporting year. 3. Absenteeism due to illness With effect from 2015, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol's emissions Schiphol Nederland B.V., Rotterdam The Hague Airport and from energy consumption will be reported on the basis of the Eindhoven Airport calculate absenteeism due to illness by Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1 for emissions from airport comparing the number of calendar days lost to illness with the activities and scope 2 for indirect emissions from energy purchased number of available calendar days. Eindhoven Airport uses the net together account for 95% of emissions. Scope 3, which was used absenteeism rate, which is calculated by adjusting the absenteeism SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 123 rate for partial reintegration, FTE factor and safety net cases. The Each airport has supplemented the definition above to suit its own staff average is adjusted for the FTE factor. Further information on requirements. our employment policy is featured in the section on Employment practices. The following altitude restrictions apply for Amsterdam Airport Schiphol: an upper limit of 200 feet for aircraft during landing and 4. Work-related accidents followed by an upper limit of 500 feet for aircraft during take-off. Each month, absence Amsterdam Airport Schiphol compares its registered number of bird Schiphol Nederland B.V. (SNBV), Rotterdam The Hague Airport and strikes with that registered by KLM. The incidents registered by the Eindhoven Airport register the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) to two parties are discussed every quarter by the Schiphol Bird Strike determine the number of work-related accidents followed by Committee, which also discusses policy and the various bird absence per million hours worked. SNBV distinguishes between fire dispersal resources and their effectiveness. The average bird strike service staff and all other Schiphol Nederland B.V employees. We figure was calculated by dividing the total number of bird strikes will strive to obtain a 0 LTIF rate for Schiphol Nederland B.V., reported by KLM and the number of bird strikes reported by Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport and to achieve Amsterdam Airport Schiphol involving KLM aircraft and occurring a downward trend at the fire service. Information on safe working within the relevant airspace zone by the number of KLM air practices is included in the section on safety. transport movements. The resulting average figure is thus calculated on the basis of reports covering approximately 50% of the total 5. Corporate responsibility consultation number of air transport movements. This approach was applied in during tenders view of the fact that the reports provided by home carrier KLM pilots In 2015, a performance indicator was created to monitor the degree are more reliable than those provided by other airlines. When it to which Corporate Responsibility is included in the European comes to the registration of bird strikes, Schiphol largely depends tendering process. In 2015, Schiphol Group opted for an approach on KLM, which – in turn – depends on its own pilots. which involves the collection of information internally that is required to reach a sound decision in the selection and contract In the case of Rotterdam The Hague Airport, the registration of bird award phase. In 2016, Schiphol Group strives to provide strikes only counts those reported by Rotterdam The Hague Airport, transparency about the degree to which the recommendations regardless of the airline involved. The registration of bird strikes at received were actually considered in the tendering. Our policy on Eindhoven Airport covers all air transport movements of both civilian suppliers is featured in the section on Supply chain responsibility. and military traffic. 6. Public transport to airport for O&D We aim to achieve a downward trend in the long term. More passengers information on airside safety and the increase in the number of bird Amsterdam Airport Schiphol strives to maintain the percentage of strikes recorded in 2015 is featured in the section on Safety. passengers travelling to the airport by public transport to board departing flights at at least 40%. The airport policy is aimed at 8. Runway incursions raising the number of passengers parking at Schiphol (resulting in Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL), Amsterdam Airport two transport movements per flight) relative to the number of Schiphol and Rotterdam The Hague Airport each register runway passengers who are dropped off or picked up (resulting in four incursions. LVNL plays a leading role in this process. The airport transport movements per flight) by someone else. Throughout the reports on this performance indicator but relies on LVNL for year, an external market research agency conduct surveys to compiling a complete notification and incident report. determine how passengers travel to the airport before boarding their flight. Air traffic control at Eindhoven Airport falls under the responsibility of the ministry of Defence and is therefore outside the jurisdiction 7. Bird strikes of LVNL. The number of runway incursions at Eindhoven Airport Bird strikes are incidents in which dead birds or remains thereof are covers both civilian and military traffic. found on an aircraft or on a runway and in which it can reasonably be assumed that the strike occurred within the airport boundaries. Reporting a single group figure would be misleading, due to the Bird strikes include suspected bird strikes reported by Air Traffic different systems used. See the section on safety for an overview of Control the Netherlands (LVNL) or the pilot, an incident involving the reported runway incursions at Eindhoven Airport and Rotterdam remains of a bird being found on an aircraft following a report by a The Hague Airport. pilot or a ground mechanic, or an incident involving a report by a pilot or a ground mechanic where it can reasonably be assumed that We aim to achieve a downward trend for this performance indicator. there was physical contact with the aircraft. The number of bird For more information on airside safety, see the section on Safety. strikes is expressed per 10,000 air transport movements. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 124 GRI table GRI G4 guidelines for sustainability reporting External assurance Ref. Description Chapter Information and reference section Strategy G4-1 Statement from most senior decision-maker of Message from the CEO the organisation about the relevance of No sustainability to the organisation and its strategy G4-2 Key effects, risks and opportunities Changing business environment No Corporate profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Financial Statements Yes G4-4 Primary products, and/or services About us No G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters Evert van de Beekstraat 202, 1118 CP Schiphol No G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation About us No operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance No G4-8 Markets served About us No G4-9 Scale of the organisation About us No G4-10 Workforce composition Employment practices FTEs per region & division: Business Areas: Aviation: 1.134 Consumers Products & Services: 85 Real Estate: 68 Operating Unit: ICT: 140 PLUS: 100 Staff: 216 Yes Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (total): 1.743 Entities: Schiphol Telematics: 96 Lelystad Airport: 16 Eindhoven Airport: 40 Rotterdam The Hague Airport: 114 Type of employment contract not available G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by CLAs 93.3% Yes G4-12 Value chain description Creating value No G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Socio-economic accountability Yes period: size, structure, ownership, chain G4-14 Precautionary principle Risk management Also see: www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup1/ No CorporateResponsibility1.htm G4-15 Externally developed economic, Global Compact, 'Inclusive Employers' programme, Multi-Year environmental, and social charters, principles, Agreement, Diversity Charter, 'Aviation Inclusive' collaboration No or other initiatives project, 'The Netherlands as a Circular Hotspot', Ellen MacArthur Foundation participation G4-16 Membership of associations and/or national or Supervisory Board Management Industry association Airports Council International, Amsterdam No international interest organisations Board Economic Board Stakeholders and materiality No Yes Material aspects G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial Statements Yes statements G4-18 Process for defining report content and scope Stakeholders and materiality Yes Socio-economic accountability SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 125 External assurance Ref. Description Chapter Information and reference section G4-19 Overview of material aspects to determine Stakeholders and materiality report content and scope Yes Socio-economic accountability G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation for Stakeholders and materiality each material subject Yes Socio-economic accountability G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation for Stakeholders and materiality each material subject Yes Yes Socio-economic accountability No Creating value G4-22 Re-statements of information provided in Socio-economic accountability Changes in the calculation of CO2 emissions at Amsterdam Airport previous annual reports Schiphol Yes Recalculation of the 2014 group figure for average time of service and figure for Eindhoven bird strikes G4-23 Significant changes in scope relative to the Socio-economic accountability In 2015, where possible the definitions of the CR KPIs and previous reporting period reporting manuals of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport were brought into line so as Yes to enhance their comparability. Any remaining differences are explained in the section on performance indicators. Stakeholder involvement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholders and materiality Yes organisation Corporate Governance No G4-25 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholders and materiality Yes with whom to engage G4-26 Approach taken to engaging stakeholders Stakeholders and materiality Yes G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Stakeholders and materiality Yes through stakeholder engagement Reporting details G4-28 Reporting period Socio-economic accountability 01/01/2015 31/12/2015 Yes G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 01/03/2016 www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/InvestorRelations/Financial Yes Information/AnnualReports.htm G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual Yes G4-31 Contact information www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/InvestorRelations/ IRServicesContact.htm www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/ Yes CorporateResponsibility1/ FurtherInformationAndContactInfo.htm G4-32 GRI table of contents Socio-economic accountability GRI G4 Core Yes G4-33 Assurance report Socio-economic accountability Yes Governance G4-34 Organisational governance structure Supervisory Board report Corporate Governance No Supervisory Board Management Board G4-35 Process for delegating responsibility for Corporate Governance economic, environmental and social aspects to No the highest governing body and executive management G4-36 Manager responsible for economic, Corporate Governance environmental and social aspects and whether No they report to the highest governing body G4-38 Composition of highest governing body Supervisory Board Management No Board G4-39 Task of the Chair of the highest governing Corporate Governance No body SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 126 External assurance Ref. Description Chapter Information and reference section G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body's Corporate Governance review of economic, environmental and social No risks and opportunities G4-48 Most senior committee or individual that Corporate Governance No reviews and approves the sustainability report G4-51 Remuneration policy for the highest Remuneration No governing body G4-52 Procedure for determining remuneration Remuneration No Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organisational values, principles, standards Profile The CLA features codes of conduct, use of email and contact with No and codes of conduct Employment practices external parties. In addition, the company has anti-fraud Yes regulations and a whistleblower scheme. Material aspects: Financial solidity Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Financial performance No Corporate Governance No G4Direct economic values Financial Statements yes EC1 G4Development and impact of infrastructure Financial performance We invested 439 million euros in 2015. A substantial portion of EC7 investments and services provided primarily this is invested in improving, maintaining and optimally deploying for public benefit the airport-related infrastructure. The long-term investments contribute to the quality, accessibility and development of the No airport. Additionally, regular substantial investments have been made to improve parking facilities and airport-related real estate such as hotels, offices and cargo buildings. G4Insight into and description of significant Financial performance The investments result in a substantial boost to economic activity EC8 indirect economic consequences, including and an increase in employment at and around the airport, their scale. particularly in the areas of construction and installation. The facilities built attract new companies to the airport which project their own economic influence on the surrounding area. The No aviation sector offers direct or indirect employment to 290,000 people. Altogether, this represents a total added monetary value of around €26 billion (Boston Consulting Group and McKinsey, 2011). Network of destinations Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Network of destinations No Corporate Governance No AO1 Number of passengers handled over the Network of destinations Amsterdam Airport Schiphol course of one year, categorised according to • Passengers (incl. transit-direct): 58,284,864 international and domestic flights and O&D • European: 40,703,958 and transfer passengers, including transit• Intercontinental: 17,580,906 direct passengers. • O&D passengers (total): 35,212,953 • European O&D: 27,181,029 No • Intercontinental O&D: 8,031,924 • Transfer (total): 23,032,592 • European transfer: 13,502,186 • Intercontinental transfer: 9,530,406 • Transit-direct passengers: 39,319 AO2 Number of air transport movements over the Network of destinations Amsterdam Airport Schiphol course of one year, categorised into day and • Air transport movements (total): 450,679 night-time flights, and commercial, non• Cargo flights (commercial): 16,775 commercial, cargo and military flights • Passenger flights (commercial): 433,904 No • General aviation (non-commercial): 14,842 • Night-time flights (total): 22,058 AO3 Cargo volume Network of destinations Amsterdam Airport Schiphol: 1,620,969,517 kg No Capacity Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Operational capacity No SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 127 External assurance Ref. Description Chapter Information and reference section Corporate Governance No Accessibility Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Accessibility No Corporate Governance No G4‐ Significant environmental impact of Accessibility EN30 transporting products and other goods and CO2 emissions No materials used for the organisation's Yes operations, and for transporting members of the workforce CO2 emissions Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes CO2 emissions Yes Corporate Governance No G4‐ Saving energy CO2 emissions Yes EN6 G4‐ Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 CO2 emissions Yes EN15 Socio-economic accountability G4‐ Greenhouse gas emissions scope 2 CO2 emissions Yes EN16 Socio-economic accountability Water Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Circular economy Yes Corporate Governance No A06 Amount of de-icing agent used to de-ice Circular economy In 2015, Schiphol used 926,489 litres of potassium formate to aircraft and remove ice from runways and remove ice from runways and taxiways. Aircraft are de-iced by Yes taxiways handling agents, so there is no exact information available on the volumes of glycol used. AO4 Rainwater quality Circular economy Rainwater is captured using the rainwater drainage system. If it is contaminated, it is purified before being added to the surface Yes water. Air quality Management approach Stakeholders and materiality We use leading performance indicators such as the installation of Yes Corporate Governance Fixed Electrical Ground Power in the aircraft stands and the Yes electrification of the vehicle fleet. No AO5 Air quality composition Air quality Air quality composition is monitored by the government through the National Air Quality Cooperation Programme. We do not apply other lagging indicators, because the causal link between regional Yes activities and air quality is not always one to one. Circular economy Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Circular economy Yes Corporate Governance No G4‐ Total weight of waste by type Circular economy Percentage of waste separated for processing; other information Yes EN23 Socio-economic accountability not material Supply chain responsibility Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Supply chain responsibility Yes Corporate Governance No G4‐ Percentage of new suppliers in tenders that Supply chain responsibility Yes EN32 were screened using environmental criteria Employment practices Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Employment practices Yes Corporate Governance No SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 128 External assurance Ref. Description Chapter Information and reference section G4‐ Number of new employees and staff turnover Employment practices Yes LA1 Safety Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Safety Yes Corporate Governance No AO9 Number of animals involved in wildlife strikes Safety Bird strikes are material Yes per 10,000 air transport movements Socio-economic accountability G4‐ Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) Employment practices There were no work-related deaths in 2015. Yes LA6 Socio-economic accountability Noise Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Noise Yes Corporate Governance No AO7 Number of people living in noise-affected Noise In the 2015 Operating Forecast, it was anticipated that 139,500 areas people would experience severe noise disturbance at levels of 48 Yes dB(A) Lden or higher. Ultimately, the actual number was 119,000. The operating forecast for 2015 is also available online. Regional significance Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Significance for the region No Corporate Governance No G4‐ Percentage of activities that affect the local Significance for the region 100% SO1 community No G4‐ Operational activities with a significant Significance for the region The local environment are especially likely to encounter noise No SO2 (potentially) negative impact on the local Noise disturbance Yes environment See also: www.bezoekbas.nl AO8 (Estimated) number of people to be voluntarily Significance for the region Expansion of the airport in 2015 did not require any relocations or involuntarily relocated in connection with No the development or expansion of an airport Customer appreciation Management approach Stakeholders and materiality Yes Customer appreciation No Corporate Governance No G4‐ Customer satisfaction Customer appreciation No PR5 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 129 Global Compact Global Compact principles Included in Human rights 1. Schiphol supports and respects human rights Codes of conduct Procurement regulations Integrity Committee 2. Schiphol is certain that it does not partake in any activity that violates human rights Codes of conduct Procurement regulations Integrity Committee Working conditions 3. Schiphol promotes the freedom of association of employees and their right to Employees are free to unite in associations. Schiphol makes an annual payment to the collective bargaining. trade unions as a contribution and to help cover training costs. Furthermore, employees who are active on behalf of the trade union and/or the Works Council receive a certain amount of free time to conduct these activities. 4. Schiphol eliminates all forms of forced labour Type of work, working conditions and working times are set out in the CLA Procurement regulations 5. Schiphol eliminates child labour Schiphol does not conclude employment agreements with people under the age of 18 Procurement regulations 6. Schiphol eliminates discrimination based on profession Equal remuneration for men and women Code of Conduct on Undesirable Behaviour Integrity Committee Procurement regulations Environment 7. Schiphol focuses on environmental challenges as a precautionary measure Climate-friendly aviation Accessibility and air quality Commodity shortages (incl. Ellen McArthur Foundation) theGROUNDS ACI ACA benchmark Climate KIC SIM Innovative Mainport Alliance Knowledge and Development Center (KDC) Procurement regulations 8. Schiphol takes initiatives to enhance responsibility for the environment Climate-friendly aviation Accessibility and air quality Commodity shortages (incl. Ellen McArthur Foundation theGROUNDS ACI ACA benchmark Climate KIC SIM Innovative Mainport Alliance Knowledge and Development Center (KDC) Schiphol Quality of Life Foundation (Stichting Leefomgeving Schiphol) Local Community Contact Centre (Bas) Procurement regulations 9. Schiphol promotes the development and introduction of environmentally friendly Climate-friendly aviation technologies Accessibility and air quality Commodity shortages theGROUNDS ACI ACA benchmark Climate KIC SIM Innovative Mainport Alliance Knowledge and Development Center (KDC) Anticorruption 10. Schiphol combats all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion Code of conduct Internal reporting regulations Procurement regulations Integrity Committee SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 130 Tussenpagina SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 131 Tussenpagina Independent auditor’s assurance report To: the readers of the Annual Report 2015 of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol Conclusion We have reviewed the socio-economic reporting in the sections Stakeholders and materiality, Community engagement (section of Regional significance), Accessibility, Noise, Safety, CO2 emissions, Air quality, Circular economy, Supply chain responsibility, Employment practices, The value of our impact, and Socio-economic accountability of the Annual Report 2015 of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol (further ‘Schiphol Group’), which are also referred to as ‘Assured by KPMG’ (hereafter: ‘the socio-economic reporting’). Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the socio-economic reporting is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Our report on consistency We report, to the extent we can assess, that the information on socio-economic matters in the rest of the Annual Report 2015 is consistent with the information in the socio-economic reporting. Basis for our conclusion We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N: “Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports”. Our responsibilities under Standard 3810N and procedures performed have been further specified in the paragraph titled “Our responsibility for the review of the socio-economic reporting”. We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of Schiphol Group. We are independent of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO) and other relevant independence requirements in The Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA). We believe that the assurance infomation we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board for the socio-economic reporting The Management Board is responsible for the preparation of the socio-economic reporting in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines and internally developed reporting criteria as described in the section Socio-economic accountability. The information in the socio-economic reporting should be viewed in the context of these criteria. As part of this, the Management Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the socio-economic reporting that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing Schiphol Group’s reporting process. Our responsibility for the review of the socio-economic reporting Our objective is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance information for our conclusion. We apply the “Nadere voorschriften accountantskantoren ter zake van assurance opdrachten (RA)” and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our engagement has been performed with a limited level of assurance. Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are different in nature and timing from and less extensive than a reasonable assurance engagement. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 132 Tussenpagina The procedures selected depend on our understanding of the socio-economic reporting and other engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where possible material misstatements may arise. The following procedures were performed: • Conducting a risk analysis, including a media search, to enhance our understanding of relevant issues for Schiphol Group in the reporting period; • Evaluating the suitability and application of the internal reporting criteria used in the preparation of the socioeconomic reporting and accompanying notes; • Evaluating the design and implementation of reporting processes and controls regarding the qualitative and quantitative information in the socio-economic reporting; • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for strategy, policies, communication, implementation and reporting in relation to the socio-economic reporting; • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for the socio-economic reporting and carrying out internal control procedures on data; • Visits to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and Rotterdam The Hague Airport to review source data and the design and implementation of controls and validation procedures at local level; • Analytical review of data and trend explanations submitted by Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport for consolidation at group level. Amstelveen, 18 February 2016 KPMG Accountants N.V. E. Eeftink RA SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 133 Financial Statements SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 134 Contents Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 December 2015 136 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2015 137 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 138 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 140 Consolidated statement of cash flow for 2015 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 143 • General information 143 • Accounting policies 143 • Critical judgements and estimates 151 • Changes in the scope of consolidation 153 • Segment information 155 • Notes to the consolidated statement of income 160 • Notes to the statement of financial position 164 • Related Party Disclosures 196 • Events after the balance sheet date 199 Company financial statements Company income statement for 2015 200 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 201 Notes to the company financial statements 202 Other Information 206 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 135 Consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 December 2015 (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Revenue 1 1,423,152 1,438,076 Other income and results from investment property 2 66,687 -1,199 Other income 3 49,847 35,841 Other income and results from investment property 116,534 34,642 Cost of outsourced work and other external costs 4 616,233 630,138 Employee benefits 5 184,695 188,426 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 6 230,305 232,323 Other operating expenses 7 3,507 18,735 Total operating expenses 1,034,740 1,069,622 Operating profit 504,946 403,096 Financial income 8,120 14,540 Financial expenses -96,674 -100,131 Financial income and expenses 29 -88,554 -85,591 Results of equity-accounted associates and joint ventures 13 60,474 27,360 Profit before income tax 476,866 344,865 Income tax 12 -98,510 -71,281 Profit 378,356 273,584 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 4,193 1,689 Shareholders (net result) 374,163 271,895 Earnings per share (in euros) 2,010 1,461 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 136 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2015 (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Result 378,356 273,584 Foreign operations – foreign currency translation differences 21 3,310 7,723 Changes in fair value on hedge transactions 21 16,675 17,310 Result of equity-accounted associates after taxes 13 2,421 -15,990 Other comprehensive income, net of tax, to be reclassified to 22,406 9,043 profit or loss in subsequent periods: Remeasurements of defined benefit liability 21 963 -3,670 Other comprehensive income, net of tax, not to be reclassified 963 -3,670 to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Total comprehensive income 401,725 278,957 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 4,193 1,689 Shareholders (net result) 397,532 277,268 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 137 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 (in thousands of euros) Note 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 78,623 74,199 Assets used for operating activities 9 2,802,499 2,498,769 Assets under construction or development 10 211,425 456,224 Investment property 11 1,377,161 1,283,402 Deferred tax assets 12 193,330 198,034 Equity-accounted associates and joint ventures 13 857,814 796,922 Loans to associates 14 66,596 60,511 Other non-current receivables 15 58,608 43,705 5,646,056 5,411,766 Current assets Trade and other receivables 17 225,781 202,565 Current income tax assets 12 3,293 20,749 Cash and cash equivalents 18 394,045 177,663 Assets held for sale 16 135,486 17,416 758,605 418,393 6,404,661 5,830,159 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 138 (in thousands of euros) Note 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Equity and liabilities Issued share capital 19 84,511 84,511 Share premium 19 362,811 362,811 Retained profits 20 3,319,818 3,084,111 Other reserves 21 -83,032 -106,401 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,684,108 3,425,032 Non-controlling interests 22 31,601 27,631 Total equity 3,715,709 3,452,663 Non-current liabilities Loans and borrowings 23 1,847,520 1,800,360 Employee benefits 24 38,446 39,532 Other provisions 25 17,399 17,484 Deferred tax liabilities 12 22,666 16,369 Other non-current liabilities 26 150,824 170,142 2,076,855 2,043,887 Current liabilities Borrowings 23 283,909 4,957 Current income tax liabilities 12 383 1,374 Trade and other payables 27 315,987 320,165 Liabilities held for sale 16 11,818 7,113 612,097 333,609 6,404,661 5,830,159 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 139 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (in thousands of euros) Attributable to shareholders NonIssued share Share Retained Other controlling Note capital Premium profits reserves interests Total Balance as at 1 January 84,511 362,811 2,948,497 111,774 25,221 3,309,266 2014 Profit after income tax 271,895 1,689 273,584 Other comprehensive income 21 5,373 5,373 Comprehensive income 271,895 5,373 1,689 278,957 Acquisition of NCI without a 22 932 932 change in control Dividend paid 20 135,349 211 135,560 Balance as at 31 December 84,511 362,811 3,084,111 106,401 27,631 3,452,663 2014 Profit after income tax 374,163 4,193 378,356 Other comprehensive income 21 23,369 23,369 Comprehensive income 374,163 23,369 4,193 401,725 Dividend paid 20 138,456 223 138,679 Balance as at 31 December 84,511 362,811 3,319,818 83,032 31,601 3,715,709 2015 dividend for 2014, dividend for 2014, paid in 2015 paid in 2015 Dividend attributable to shareholders (in euros) 138,456,138 135,349,823 Average number of shares in issue during the year 186,147 186,147 Dividend per share (in euros) 744 727 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 140 Consolidated statement of cash flow for 2015 (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Result 378,356 273,584 Corporate income tax expense 12 98,510 71,281 Results of equity-accounted associates and joint ventures 13 60,474 27,360 Financial income and expenses 29 88,554 85,591 126,590 129,512 Operating result 504,946 403,096 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 6 222,796 228,121 Impairment 6 7,510 4,202 Result on sales of investment property 2 92 1,183 Result on sales of joint ventures 3 49,847 5,395 Fair value gains and losses on property 2 66,595 2,382 Other non-cash changes other receivables and liabilities 4,503 916 Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 181 105 Change in other provisions and employee benefits 1,276 6,095 107,812 233,201 Operating result after adjustments 612,757 652,036 Changes in working capital 25,969 15,739 Cash flow from operations 638,727 652,036 Cash flow from operating activities Income tax paid 79,270 57,827 Interest paid 78,800 116,552 Interest received 1,438 3,718 Dividends received 25,646 26,889 Cash flow from operating activities 507,741 508,264 Cash flow from investing activities Investment in intangible assets 8 13,021 12,134 Investment in property, plant and equipment 10 425,623 383,880 Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 181 105 Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 13 18,812 Sale of subsidiaries 3 29,226 5,932 Share capital contributions to associates 13 1,523 1,442 Repayment on other loans 134 133 Cash flow from investing activities 410,626 410,098 Free cash flow 97,115 98,166 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 141 (in thousands of euros) Note 2015 2014 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 23 316,803 379,970 Repayment of borrowings 23 17,105 607,326 Settlement derivative financial instruments 4,167 32,528 Dividend paid 20 138,679 135,560 Proceeds from other non-current liabilities 1,821 Finance lease instalments paid 1,717 1,735 Cash flow from financing activities 156,956 397,179 Net cash flow 254,071 299,013 Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents 18 183,253 482,182 Net cash flow 254,071 299,013 Exchange and translation differences 16 84 Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents 437,308 183,253 Cash from continuing operations 18 394,045 177,663 Cash equivalents presented as other receivable 17 40,000 Cash held for sale 16 3,263 5,590 437,308 183,253 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 142 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information property under construction or development is presented under the N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol is a public limited liability company (twoinvestment property line item. Both changes have no impact on our tier status company) with its registered office in the Municipality of result or equity as presented. The comparative figures have been Haarlemmermeer at Evert van de Beekstraat 202, 1118 CP, Schiphol, restated. Schiphol Group has not adopted any other new standards, Netherlands. N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol trades under the name of amendments or interpretations which have a significant influence Schiphol Group. on the disclosures or other financial data in these financial statements. Schiphol Group has not voluntarily applied any new Schiphol Group is an airport business with Amsterdam Airport standards, amended standards or interpretations in advance that Schiphol as its main airport. Schiphol Group wants to create will not be mandatory until later. sustainable value for its stakeholders, taking account of the wide range of their interests. Central to how it conducts its business are New standards and amended standards that are mandatory the core values of reliability, efficiency, hospitality, inspiration and with effect from 2016 or later sustainability. Schiphol Group's mission is Connecting the Schiphol Group has not voluntarily applied in advance new or Netherlands. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol aims to be and remain amended standards or interpretations that will not be mandatory Europe’s Preferred Airport: the airport that is valued for its quality, until the 2016 financial year or later. Schiphol Group is currently capacity and extensive network of destinations and aims to serve examining the consequences of the following new standards and travellers, airlines and handlers as efficiently as possible, with a wellinterpretations and amendments to existing standards, the positioned airport and modern facilities. application of which is mandatory as from the 2016 financial year or later, as stated below. The following new standards and On 18 February 2016 the Supervisory Board authorised the financial amendments have been adopted by the European Union: statements for issue as prepared by the Management Board. The • IAS 27 Amendments: Equity method in separate financial Management Board will submit the financial statements for statements (effective as of 1 January 2016) adoption by the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on • IAS 16 and IAS 41 Amendments: Bearer plants (effective as of 12 April 2016. 1 January 2016) • IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments: Sale or contribution of assets This document is a translation of the Dutch original. In the event of between an investor and its associate or joint venture (effective any discrepancies between the English and the Dutch text, the latter as of 1 January 2016) will prevail. • IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation (effective as of Accounting policies 1 January 2016) Schiphol Group's accounting policies on consolidation, • IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Consolidation exemption for measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of results investment companies (effective as of 1 January 2016) are set out below. These policies are in accordance with • IAS 1 Disclosures initiative (effective as of 1 January 2016) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by • IFRS 11 Amendments: Accounting for acquisitions of interests the European Union (EU), and are applied consistently to all the in joint operations (effective as of 1 January 2016) information presented. The applicable statutory provisions on • Amendments within the framework of the Annual annual reporting as included in Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Improvements Project 2012-2014 (effective since 1 January Code have also been applied consistently. Schiphol Group applies 2016). the historical cost convention for measurement, except for land and buildings in the investment property portfolio and derivative The following new standards and amendments have not yet been financial instruments, which are recognised at fair value through adopted by the European Union: profit or loss. • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective as of 1 January 2018) • IFRS 14 Regulated activities (effective as of 1 January 2016) New and amended standards that are mandatory with effect • IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers (effective as of from 2015 1 January 2018) Schiphol Group has elected to implement a change in accounting • IFRS 16 Leases (effective as of 1 January 2019) policies for the classification the components of revenue which will improve insight into the total revenue. Extraordinary income and income outside the core activities of Schiphol Group are no longer presented as part of net revenue, but rather as a separate classification entitled other income. Furthermore, investment SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 143 Intangible assets Assets under construction or development Intangible assets include the cost of goodwill, contract-related All capital expenditure is initially recognised as assets under assets and software. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of construction or development, if it is probable that the Group will subsidiaries is recognised under intangible assets. Goodwill arising derive future economic benefits and the amount can be measured on the acquisition of associates and joint ventures is recognised as reliably. There are three categories of these assets: part of the carrying amount of the associate and joint ventures, • (a) software under development presented under Intangible using the equity method. The initial carrying amount of goodwill is assets; subsequently reduced by accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill • (b) assets under construction or development for operating is not amortised. Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cashactivities presented under Assets under construction or generating unit (subsidiary, joint venture or associate). This development; allocation is explained in detail in the note on intangible assets. • (c) assets under construction or development for investment property presented under Investment property. Contract-related assets concern the interest in JFKIAT acquired upon the acquisition of activities from third parties. These contracts are Software under development (category a) is measured at historical measured at fair value on the acquisition date less accumulated cost. Software under development is not amortised. amortisation and impairment. Contracts are amortised over the remaining contract period. Assets under construction or development for operating activities (category b) are measured at historical cost including: Software includes software licences and internally developed ICT • borrowing costs during construction of all capital projects, i.e. applications. Internally developed software is capitalised at the cost interest payable to third parties on borrowings attributable to of internal and external hours spent on the development and the project; implementation phases of ICT projects as recorded on the time • time charged at cost to capital projects by Schiphol Group sheets. Time spent in the proposal and definition phases is not employees during the construction stage. capitalised. Software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful life. Assets under construction or development for future operating activities are not depreciated except for impairments. The same See note 8. Intangible assets for a more applies to assets under construction or development as future detailed numerical explanation. investment property (category c) for as long as the fair value can be measured reliably. After that, these assets are recognised at fair Assets used for operating activities value through profit or loss under ‘other income and results from In accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, assets investment property’. used for operating activities include runways, taxiways, aprons, car parks, roads, buildings, installations and other assets. These assets When the assets of category a are ready for use, they are transferred are measured at historical cost less grants received, straight-line at historical cost to ‘assets used for operating activities’, which is depreciation and impairments. Subsequent expenditure is also when the straight-line depreciation at the expense of the capitalised to the carrying amount of these assets if it is probable income statement commences. Assets of category b are transferred that Schiphol Group will derive future economic benefits and the on completion to ‘investment property’ at fair value. See the amount can be measured reliably. accounting policies for these items for the way in which investment property is subsequently recognised. Assets used for operating activities, with the exception of land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset, See notes 8, 10 and 11 for a more detailed numerical explanation. which depends on its nature and components. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each Investment property reporting date and adjusted if appropiate. Investment property is measured at fair value in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property. This also applies to investment property The net result on the disposal of assets used for operating activities included in the assets under construction or development, provided is recognised in the income statement as other income. that the fair value can be measured reliably at that time. If this is not possible, the property is measured at historical cost. On completion, Costs of day-to day maintenance are recognised in the income the property is transferred at fair value to ‘investment property’. Any statement and cost of planned major maintenance is capitalised. difference between the fair value and the historical cost is recognised in the income statement under ‘other income and results See note 9. Assets used for operating activities for a more from investment property’. detailed explanation. Property purchased is initially measured at cost. Cost incurred after initial recognisition is capitalised if it can be measured reliably and SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 144 it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to Schiphol Intangible assets Group. Other expenditures are recognised immediately in the Contract-related assets 33 years income statement. ICT hours charged to application development 3-5 years Software licences 3-5 years All properties in the portfolio are appraised at least once a year by independent valuers. The fair value of investment property as Assets used for operating activities presented in the balance sheet includes lease incentives. Gross rental Runways and taxiways 15-60 years revenues from operating leases are recognised on a straight-line Aprons 30-60 years basis over the period of the lease. Rent holidays, discounts on rent Paved areas etc.: and other lease incentives are recognised as an integral part of the Car parks 30 years gross rental revenues. Service charges relate to the costs of energy, Roads 30 years concierges and maintenance which may be charged to the tenant Tunnels and viaducts 40 years under the lease. The part of the service charged to property Drainage systems 40 years investments which have not been let is recognised in the income Buildings 20-60 years statement. These costs and cost charges are not presented Installations 5-30 years separately in the income statement. Other assets 5-20 years Land within the investment property portfolio is measured at fair See note 6. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment for a more value. Land is appraised based on internal valuations and by detailed explanation. independent external valuers. A different part of the land positions is appraised by independent external valuers each year. The market Impairments value of long-leased land is calculated by discounting the value of The Group reviews the carrying amounts of non-current assets to the future annual ground rents and the residual value under the determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such contracts concerned (DCF method). indication exists, then the non-current assets recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The Fair value gains and losses on investment property are recognised in recoverable amount is the greater of an asset's net realisable value the statement of income in the year in which they arise. Gains or and its value in use. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price losses realised on disposal of assets, i.e. differences between in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of carrying amount and net selling price, are recognised in the income completion and the estimated selling costs. Value in use is based on statement. Investment property is not depreciated. the present value of the estimated future cash flows from continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. See note 11. Investment property for a more These tests are performed at cash-generating unit level, with detailed numerical explanation. Aviation and Consumer Products & Services treated as a single separate cash-generating unit. If the carrying amount exceeds the Depreciation and amortisation recoverable amount, the difference is recognised as an impairment Intangible assets and assets used for operating activities are loss in the statement of income and the carrying amount of the asset amortised and depreciated on a straight-line basis according to the is reduced to the recoverable amount. Where applicable, the schedule below. Goodwill is not amortised or depreciated on straight-line depreciation over the remaining useful life of the asset investment property, assets under construction or land. The section concerned is adjusted accordingly. If circumstances indicate the under Critical judgements and estimates contains information need to reverse an impairment loss, the carrying amount of the asset about the adjustment to the estimated useful life. is increased to the recoverable amount. Impairment losses on goodwill purchased on the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures are not reversed. See note 6. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment for a more detailed explanation. Subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements (a) General Where necessary, the accounting policies of subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements are adjusted to be in line with the Schiphol Group accounting policies. See note 13. Associates and joint ventures for a more detailed numerical explanation. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 145 (b) Subsidiaries acquiree and the equity interests issued by the acquirer. For The financial information of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and its acquisitions of associates and joint ventures this also includes the subsidiaries is fully consolidated. Subsidiaries are those companies related transaction costs. The identifiable assets, liabilities and that are controlled by N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol. The group controls contingent liabilities acquired are initially measured at their fair value an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the acquisition over returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to the company’s interest in the net fair value of the acquired assets affect those returns through its power over the entity. The other and liabilities is recognised as goodwill in the consolidated financial shareholders’ share in consolidated equity and results is presented statements under intangible assets (in the case of subsidiaries) or as in the balance sheet as non-controlling interests (part of equity) and part of the carrying amount in the case of associates and joint in the income statement as profit after income tax attributable to ventures. If the net fair value exceeds cost, the difference is non-controlling interests. The results of subsidiaries acquired are recognised immediately in the income statement. Costs relating to consolidated from the date on which control commences. The an acquisition of a subsidiary are recognised directly in the income financial information relating to subsidiaries disposed continues to statement. be included up to the date on which control ceases. In the event the company loses control of a subsidiary while retaining a financial If the acquisition is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying interest, all assets and liabilities are deconsolidated and the value of the acquirer’s previously held remaining interest is initially recognised at fair value. The remaining equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the difference is recognised in the income statement. acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in the income statement. (c) Associates An associate is an entity over which the company has significant When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the influence. Investments in associates are recognised using the equity entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, method, meaning that the investment is initially recognised at cost with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income and subsequently adjusted for the company’s post-acquisition share statement. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the in the change in the associate’s net assets. The carrying amount of purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an these investments in associates includes goodwill. The company’s associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts share in the results of associates over which it has significant previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of influence is recognised in the statement of income (share in results that entity are accounted for as if it directly disposed the related of associates). Cumulative movements in the net assets of associates assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously are recognised in proportion to Schiphol Group’s interest as recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the investments in associates. The company ceases to recognise its share profit or loss. in the results of an associate in the income statement and its share in the net asset value of that associate immediately if this would lead (f) Eliminations to the carrying amount of the investment becoming negative and if Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries, associates the company has not entered into any commitments or made and joint arrangements are eliminated, in the case of joint payments on behalf of the associate. Investments in associates are arrangements and associates in proportion to the company’s interest measured as other financial interests from the date on which the in those entities, along with any unrealised gains and assets and company ceases to have significant influence or control. liabilities arising. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence (d) Joint arrangements of impairment. The financial data of entities that qualify as a joint arrangement are recognised as either joint ventures or joint operations, depending Loans to associates and other loans on the statutory and contractual rights and obligations of each Loans to associates and other loans recognised under non-current individual investor. All existing contractual agreements qualify as receivables are initially measured at cost, being the fair value of the joint ventures. Joint ventures are entities over which Schiphol Group loans less transaction costs, and subsequently measured at and one or more other investors have joint control, and are amortised cost, with differences between the redemption value and accounted for using the equity method. the carrying amount being amortised over the remaining term to maturity using the effective interest method. (e) Acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements See note 14. Loans to associates for a more detailed explanation. An acquisition of a subsidiary, an associate or a joint arrangement is accounted for according to the purchase method, under which Non-current receivables the cost of such an acquisition is the sum of the fair values of the In the case of prepaid ground leases, the amount paid to buy out assets and liabilities transferred by the acquirer on the acquisition the leasehold is measured as a lease asset in the balance sheet and date, the liabilities incurred by the acquirer to former owners of the SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 146 recognised as an expense in the statement of income periodically Inventories over the lease term. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The lower net realisable value is determined by an individual See note 15. Non-current receivables for a more assessment of the inventories. Cost includes the purchasing costs of detailed explanation. the product. The net realisable value is based on the expected selling price less selling costs to be incurred. Financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments Trade and other receivables The company classifies financial instruments in the following Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and categories: loans and receivables, fair value through profit or loss subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest and assets held for sale. The company uses derivative financial method, less any impairments. In view of the generally short period instruments to hedge the risk of changes in future cash flows to maturity, the fair value and amortised costs of these items tend connected with periodic interest payments and repayments or to be virtually identical to the face value. funding resulting from movements in market interest rates and exchange rates. In addition, the company uses derivative financial See note 17. Trade and other receivables for a more instruments to a limited extent to hedge exchange rate risks incurred detailed explanation. on received dividends. The instruments used to hedge these risks are interest rate swaps and currency swaps. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include all cash balances and short-term Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months on the date when the derivative contract is concluded and then at or less that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash. Bank fair value at each reporting date. The method for recognition of the overdrafts are included in the short-term payables. Cash and cash result depends on whether hedge accounting is applied and if so, equivalents are are measured at fair value, which is normally the on whether the hedging relationship is effective. A hedging nominal value. relationship is effective if the actual effectiveness is within a bandwidth of 80% and 125%. If the hedging relationship is See note 18. Cash and cash equivalents for a more effective, hedge accounting is applied to those derivatives. In such detailed explanation. cases the effective portion of fair value changes on derivative financial instruments is recognised in the hedge reserve, which is Assets and liabilities held for sale part of the equity. The non-effective part is recognised in the result. Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and The cumulative amounts recognised in equity are recycled to the liabilities are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable that result in the same period in which the hedged transaction is they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through recognised in the result. continuing use. At the inception of a hedge, the hedging relationship is formally The sale is highly likely if, on the reporting date, management has documented. The effectiveness of hedging transactions is measured committed to detailed sales plans, is actively looking for a buyer and periodically to determine whether the hedge has been effective over has set a reasonable selling price and the sale is highly likely to occur the preceding period and whether it is probable that it will be within a year. effective over the period ahead. Such assets or disposal groups are measured at the lower of their If a hedging instrument expires, is sold or ends, is exercised or ceases carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Once classified as to satisfy the hedge accounting criteria, hedge accounting is held for sale the non-current assets will no longer be depreciated. discontinued immediately. The fair value gains and losses accumulated up to that date continue to be carried in the hedging See note 16. Assets and liabilities held for sale for a more transactions reserve for as long as the initially hedged transaction is detailed explanation. considered to be likely to occur, and are subsequently recognised in the statement of income simultaneously with the realisation of the Shareholders' equity hedged cash flow. If the initially hedged transaction is no longer (a) Issued share capital deemed likely to occur, the gain or loss is recognised in the hedging The issued share capital is the amount paid up on the shares issued, reserve via the overall result in the statement of income. up to their nominal value. See note 29. Management of financial risks and financial See note 19. Issued share capital for a more detailed explanation. instruments for a more detailed explanation. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 147 (b) Share premium reserve recognised in the income statement when the service is rendered or The share premium reserve is the amount paid up on the shares the rights to benefits are accrued (e.g. holiday pay). issued in excess of their nominal value. (b) Post-employment benefits (c) Retained earnings These are employee benefits that may be due after completion of Retained earnings are the net results (i.e. that part of the result employment. They include pensions and other retirement benefits, attributable to shareholders) accumulated in previous years minus job-related early retirement benefits, payment of healthcare distributed dividends. insurance costs for pensioners and supplementary disability benefits. Schiphol Group’s pension plan is administered by the See note 20. Retained profits for a more Algemeen Burgerlijk Pensioenfonds (ABP). The pension plan is detailed numerical explanation. regarded as a group scheme involving more than one employer that qualifies as a defined-contribution plan because: (d) Other reserves • the members bear the actuarial and investment risks practically Other reserves are the foreign exchange differences reserve, the in full; hedging transactions reserve, the other comprehensive income for • the affiliated employers have no supplementary obligation to associates reserve and the reserve for actuarial gains and losses. make additional contributions in the event of a deficit at the ABP, nor are they entitled to any surpluses in addition to paying The policies on the hedging transactions reserve are disclosed in the premium set by the ABP; ‘derivative financial instruments’. The policies on the exchange • each year the premium is set by the ABP board on the basis of differences reserve are disclosed under (c) in the policy on ‘foreign its own file date, with due regard for the prescribed parameters currency’. and requirements. See note 21. Other reserves for a more detailed explanation. Accordingly, in measuring the obligations arising from the pension plan, Schiphol Group merely recognises the pension contributions Loans and borrowings payable as an expense in the income statement. This item relates to bonds, private placements and amounts owed to credit institutions. Borrowings are initially measured at fair value The other provisions for employee benefits covering job-related less transaction costs, and subsequently measured at amortised early retirement benefit, payment of healthcare insurance costs for cost, with differences between the redemption value and carrying pensioners and supplementary disability benefits are calculated amount being amortised over the remaining term to maturity using according to actuarial principles and accounted for using the the effective interest method. method described in 1, 2 and 3 below. In these cases, a net asset or liability is recognised in the balance sheet, comprising: Borrowings expected to be repaid within a year of the reporting date 1. the present value of the defined-benefit obligation at the are presented as current liabilities. reporting date, measured using the projected unit credit method, under which the present value of the pension See note 23. Borrowings for a more detailed explanation. obligation for each member is determined on the basis of the number of active years of service prior to the reporting date, the Employee benefits estimated salary level at the expected date of retirement and There are four categories of employee benefits: the market interest rate; • (a) short-term employee benefits; 2. less any past service cost not yet recognised. If, owing to • (b) post-employment benefits; changes in the pension plans, the expected obligation based on • (c) other long-term employee benefits; future salary levels with respect to prior years of service (past • (d) termination benefits. service costs) increase, the amount of the increase is recognised in full in the period in which the rights are granted; These categories are explained below, along with descriptions of the 3. less the fair value at the reporting date of plan assets (if any) out Schiphol Group employee benefits falling under them. of which the obligations are to be settled directly. (a) Short-term employee benefits (c) Other long-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are benefits payable within a year of These are employee benefits which do not fall wholly due within a the end of the year in which the employee rendered the service. year of the end of the period in which the employees render the Within Schiphol Group, this category includes wages and salaries related service. At Schiphol Group, this includes long-term variable (including holiday pay) and fixed and variable allowances, social remuneration for the members of the Management Board and security contributions, paid sick leave, profit sharing and variable senior executives in charge of corporate staff departments and the short-term remuneration. The costs of these employee benefits are business areas, supplementary income for employees in receipt of SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 148 disability benefits, long-service awards, sustainable employment Leases budget and paid sabbatical leave. (a) Classification Assets where the company or one of its subsidiaries has beneficial The long-term variable remuneration is performance-related ownership under a lease contract are classified as finance leases. remuneration which is conditional on the recipient having satisfied The company, or a subsidiary, has beneficial ownership if certain performance criteria (economic profit) cumulatively over a substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are period of three years (the reference period) from the time of award transferred to it. Leases where beneficial ownership of the asset of the variable remuneration. Payment is only made if the executive remains with third parties are classified as operating leases. Whether is still employed by the company at the end of that period. If the a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease depends on the contract of employment is ended by agreement, the award is made economic reality (substance of the transaction rather than the form on a pro rata basis. An estimate is made of the variable remuneration of the contract). payable at the end of the three-year period at each year-end. A proportionate part is charged each year to the result for the relevant (b) Schiphol Group as lessee in a finance lease year during the reference period. These assets are measured as either assets used for operating activities or investment property. The borrowings associated with The expected costs of income supplements for employees in receipt such lease contracts are accounted for as lease liabilities. The related of disability benefits are recognised in full in the statement of assets and liabilities are initially measured at the lower of the fair income from the date on which an employee is declared disabled. value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum A provision for paid sabbatical leave entitlements is recognised in lease payments at the inception of the lease. The assets are the balance sheet. The costs are recognised in the year in which the depreciated, using a method consistent with that used for identical associated sabbatical entitlement was granted. assets owned by the company. The depreciation period may be shorter if the lease term is shorter, if it cannot be extended and if The liabilities with respect to long-service awards and under other ownership will not be obtained. The lease payments are divided long-term employee benefits are measured at present value. between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability to present a periodic effective rate of interest on the (d) Termination benefits remaining balance. These are employee benefits payable as a result of either a decision by Schiphol Group to terminate an employee’s employment before (c) Schiphol Group as lessee in an operating lease the normal retirement date or an employee’s decision to accept As regards leases where beneficial ownership is held by a third party, voluntary redundancy in exchange for such benefits. Benefits under only the lease payments are recognised in equal instalments, the scheme supplementing the statutory amount of unemployment allowing for lease incentives, as expenses in the income statement. benefit are another example of termination benefits. The costs are recognised in full in the income statement as soon as such a decision (d) Schiphol Group as lessor in a finance lease is made. Assets that qualify as a finance lease are measured in the balance sheet as a lease receivable at the present value of the minimum lease Benefits are recognised at the present value of the obligation. payments receivable at the inception of the lease. The lease payments receivable are apportioned between the finance income See note 24. Employee benefits for a more detailed explanation. and the reduction of the outstanding receivable so as to present a periodic effective rate of interest on the remaining balance. Other provisions Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash (e) Schiphol Group as lessor in an operating lease flow that reflects current market assessments and of which the Assets that qualify as an operating lease are recognised in the amount is reliably determined. balance sheet and measured according to the type of asset. The lease payments receivable under such leases are recognised as See note 25. Other provisions for a more detailed explanation. income in equal instalments, allowing for lease incentives, in the income statement. Other non-current liabilities In the case of surrendered ground rents, the amount paid to buy Trade and other payables out the leasehold is included as a lease liability in the balance sheet The trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and and recognised as income in the income statement in equal subsequently measured at amortised cost. In view of the generally instalments over the lease term. This is a deferred liability arising short period to maturity, the fair value and amortised costs of these from Schiphol Group being a lessor. items tend to be virtually identical to the nominal value. See note 26. Other non-current liabilities for a more Liabilities from municipal taxes such as certain types of property detailed explanation. taxes are measured at the obligating event. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 149 See note 27. Trade and other payables for a more Income taxes are recognised in the income statement unless they detailed explanation. relate to items credited or charged directly to equity or total revenue, in which case the tax is charged or credited directly to equity or total Total revenue revenue. Many of Schiphol Group’s activities generate revenue that qualifies as revenue from the provision of services (airport charges, Current tax payable or recoverable in respect of the reporting period concession fees, rents and leases and parking charges). This revenue is the tax that is expected to be paid on the taxable profit for the is recognised in proportion to the service supplied at the reporting reporting period and adjustments to the tax payable for prior date, provided that the result can be reliably estimated. Revenue is periods. measured at the fair value of the fees received or to be received. Revenue from retail sales is generated by the sales of goods and is Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of recognised when these transactions take place. temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities according to tax rules and the accounting policies used in The charges are regulated on the basis of the mandatory annual preparing these financial statements. consultation of users by the operator concerning the proposed charges and conditions for the forthcoming tariff year. In submitting Deferred tax assets, including those arising from tax loss carryits proposal, the operator provides the users with a statement of the forwards, are recognised if it is probable that there will be sufficient level of service to be provided as measured by the indicators future taxable profits against which tax losses can be set off, stipulated in the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Operation Decree. The allowing the assets to be utilised. charges for all of the airport activities should be transparent. This also applies to the revenue from activities that are directly associated Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary with the aviation activities at the airport which are factored into the differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates, charges. For this purpose, the operator is required to keep separate joint ventures and contract-related intangible assets unless Schiphol accounts for the airport activities, including subaccounts for the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary costs of security relating to passengers and their baggage and the difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not revenue generated by security charges. For the income and reverse in the foreseeable future. No deferred tax liabilities are expenses of these activities, the operator has implemented an recognised for: industry-standard allocation system that is proportionate and 1. temporary differences resulting from transactions that do not comprehensive. Surpluses and deficits eligible for settlement under qualify as a takeover and do not influence the result for the Aviation Act are not presented as assets or liabilities, but are reporting purposes and for tax purposes at the time of the settled in future airport charge rates. transaction; and 2. the initial recognition of goodwill. Total revenue represents the income from the services provided less discounts and tax (VAT and excise duty). Revenue equals total The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities are revenue less the revenue from intra-group transactions. calculated at the tax rates expected to be applicable to the period in which an asset is realised or a liability is settled, using the tax rates See note 1. Revenue for a more detailed explanation. (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if Financial income and expenses they relate to the same fiscal unity and the company at the head of Interest income and expense is recognised on a basis that takes into this fiscal unity has a legally enforceable right to do so. account the effective yield on the loans granted or liabilities. Royalties are recognised on an accrual basis. Dividends are See note 12. Income tax in the financial statements for a more recognised when Schiphol Group’s right to receive payment is detailed explanation. established. Foreign currency See note 29. Management of financial risks and financial (a) Functional currency and presentation currency instruments for a more detailed explanation. The primary economic environment of Schiphol Group is the Netherlands and so the euro is both its functional currency and Income tax presentation currency. Financial information is presented in Income tax on the result represents income tax payable and thousands of euros except where otherwise stated. recoverable and deferred tax for the reporting period. These are computed on the basis of applicable tax rates and laws. Income (b) Transactions, assets and liabilities taxes include all taxes based on taxable profits and losses including Transactions (capital expenditure, income and expenses) non-deductible taxes payable by subsidiaries, associates or joint denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for at the ventures. exchange rate on transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 150 (receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents) in foreign operating acivities. Paid dividends are classified as cash flows from currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the reporting date. financing activities. Exchange differences arising on translation and settlement of these items are recognised in the statement of income under financial The acquisition of a group company or subsidary is classified as cash income and expenses, with the exception of exchange differences flows from investing activities for the part that relates to a cash on financial instruments in foreign currencies against which payment. Available cash and cash equivalents within the acquired derivative financial instruments are held with the object of hedging company or subsidary are eliminated. This also applies in the case exchange risks on future cash flows. Exchange differences on these of the sale of a group company. financial instruments are recognised directly in equity provided the hedge is determined to be highly effective. The ineffective portion Non-cash transactions are not included in the cash flow statement. is recognised in the income statement under financial income and Payments of lease instalments of a financial lease contract are expenses. classified as cash flows from financing activities as regards the part relating to redemption and as cash flows from operating activities (c) Subsidiaries as regards the part relating to interest. Income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the transaction date, which in See the Consolidated statement of cash flow for 2015 for a more practice is usually approximated using an average exchange rate. detailed explanation. Assets and liabilities are translated at the rate on the reporting date. Goodwill and changes in fair value arising on the acquisition of Company statement of income investments in associates are treated as assets and liabilities of the The option of presenting the company statement of income in a entity concerned and are similarly translated at the rate on the form pursuant to Section 402 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has reporting date. Exchange differences arising on the translation of been exercised. balance sheets and income statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates outside the euro zone are recognised directly in See the Company financial statements for a more equity under the exchange differences reserve. On disposal of detailed explanation. subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates outside the euro zone, the accumulated translation differences initially recognised in the Critical judgements and estimates exchange differences reserve are recognised in the income The assumptions and estimates made in the financial statements statement as part of the result on disposal. often concern expected future developments. Since the actual developments may deviate from the assumptions used, the actual Segment information outcomes may significantly deviate from the current measurements An operating segment is a clearly identifiable part of a company that of a number of items in the financial statements. As a result, the engages in business activities with associated revenues, costs and assumptions and estimates used may significantly influence operating results, and about which separate financial information is Schiphol Group's equity and results. Assumptions and estimates available that is regularly reviewed by the Management Board in used are tested periodically and adjusted where necessary. To a order to assess the performance of the segment and make decisions significant degree, these assumptions and estimates are based on about the resources to be allocated to it. Schiphol Group identifies past experience and on Schiphol Group's management's best fourteen operating segments, which have been combined into nine estimate of specific circumstances which – in the management's segments for reporting purposes in view of the size and view – apply in the given context. This section discusses the principal characteristics of the operating segments. Group overhead costs are areas where the measurement of items is strongly influenced by the allocated to the segments largely on the basis of their relative share assumptions and estimates used. in the direct costs of Schiphol Group. Useful life, residual value and impairment of property, plant See Segment information for a more detailed explanation. and equipment The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is calculated on Cash flow statement the basis of estimates of depreciation periods derived from the The cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect method. Cash expected technical and useful life of the asset concerned, and and cash equivalents within the cash flow statement exist of cash residual values. The expected technical and useful life of the asset and deposits freely available. concerned and its estimated residual value may change under the influence of technological developments, market circumstances and Cash flows from short-term credit facilities are classified as cash changes in the use of the asset. These factors may also give rise to flows from financing activities. Cash flows arising from foreign the need to recognise an impairment on assets. currencies are translated at an estimated average rate. Differences will be separately disclosed. Income tax, interest received and interest paid and dividends received are classified as cash flows from SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 151 Determining the fair value of investment property and land Management Board policy. This policy is based on Schiphol Group’s positions aim to be a trustworthy taxpayer through the application of The fair value of buildings and land recognised under investment professional tax compliance procedures. property is appraised each year by independent external valuers and on the basis of internal valuations. A different part of the land Claims and litigations positions is appraised by independent external valuers each year. Schiphol Group is subject of various claims and litigations, which are The best evidence of fair value are current prices in an active market part of its business operations. The Schiphol Group management for similar investment property. In the absence of such information, assesses the claims and litigations instituted against it on the basis Schiphol Group determines the amount within a range of of facts and seeks legal advice when required. This involves reasonable fair value estimates. subjective elements and projected outcomes. However, it is not possible to obtain certainty about the final outcome and any Impairment of goodwill and non-current assets negotiations on claims and litigations. Goodwill is not amortised, but an annual impairment test is carried out to identify if there are any changes or events that could lead to Estimates an impairment of the goodwill. Other assets are tested in the case Further information is presented in the notes on these items. No of any events or changes that call for an impairment test. other critical assumptions on measurement were made in applying the accounting policies except for those disclosed in the notes to Capitalisation and allocation of costs to specific assets the financial statements. Estimates and the related assumptions are All capital expenditures are initially recognised under assets under based on management’s experience and insights and developments construction if they can be expected to generate future economic in external factors which can be regarded as reasonable. benefits. A distinction is made between operating activities and Judgements and estimates are subject to change as facts and investment property. Operating activities can be subdivided into the insights change and may be different in another reporting period. following categories: The differences in outcome are recognised through the balance • Runways, taxiways and aprons sheet or income statement depending on the nature of the item. • Paved areas and roads Actual results could differ from previously reported results based on • Buildings estimates and assumptions. • Installations • Other non-current assets Taxes When preparing the financial statements, Schiphol Group makes every effort to assess all relevant tax risks and process up-to-date tax position details in the financial statements to the best of its ability. Evolving insights, for example following final tax assessments for prior years, can result in additional tax burdens or benefits, and new tax risks may arise. In the valuation of deferred tax assets, particularly those concerning differences between the values of property, plant and equipment for reporting and tax purposes in the financial statements, assumptions are made regarding the extent to which and the period within which such assets can be realised. This is done, for instance, on the basis of business plans. In addition, when preparing the financial statements assumptions are made regarding temporary and permanent differences between the values for reporting and tax purposes. The actual situation may deviate from the assumptions used to determine deferred tax positions, due for instance to diverging insights and changes in tax laws and regulations. The management programme for these tax risks (also known as the ‘tax control framework’) is part of Schiphol Group’s overall risk management programme. This programme serves to identify tax risks and monitor internal control with the aim of mitigating the tax risks. Schiphol Group has also developed and implemented a tax planning framework. Tax risk management is facilitated by the central control department (Group Control) and is part of approved SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 152 Changes in the scope of consolidation 30 April all assets and liabilities, as well as the results of SAR, are no 2015 disposal of controlling interest in SAR B.V. longer consolidated. The assets and liabilities were presented as On 30 April 2015 Schiphol Group sold 60% of its interest in Schiphol 'held for sale' in the 2014 financial statements. Aiport Retail B.V. (SAR) to Gebr. Heinemann SE & Co. KG. Schiphol Group and Gebr. Heinemann established a joint venture for the retail As a consequense of the sale Schiphol Group realised a positive operations of liquor, tobacco and confectionary in the shopping area result of 50 million euros, which was included in other income. The behind security filters at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Heinemann consideration received amounts to 34 million euros. The positive holds 60% and Schiphol Group holds 40% of the shares. Due to result consists of the initial recognition of the 40% joint venture at the sale Schiphol Group lost its controlling interest. As of from fair value and the result on the sale of 60%. (in thousands of euros) 30 April 2015 31 December 2014 Intangible assets 57 79 Assets used for operating activities 1,349 1,591 Inventories 7,300 7,616 Cash and cash equivalents 4,330 5,590 Trade and other receivables 3,138 2,540 Assets held for sale 16,174 17,416 Provisions 157 104 Trade and other payables 9,937 7,009 Liabilities held for sale 10,094 7,113 Net assets and liabilities held for sale 6,080 10,303 Consideration received in cash 33,556 Cash and cash equivalents disposed -4,330 Net cash inflow 29,226 Other income Consideration received in cash (60% interest) 33,556 Initial recognition of joint venture Schiphol Airport Retail B.V. (40% interest) 22,371 Disposed net assets and liabilities adjusted for intercompany assets and liabilities -6,080 Total income on disposal of controlling interest 49,847 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 153 2014 acquisition of AREB C.V. As a result of the acquisition, the following assets and liabilities were In 2014 the following acquisition lead to a change in the acquired: consolidation group of Schiphol: (in thousands of euros) On 17 March 2014, Schiphol Group acquired the remaining 38.85% of the shares in AREB C.V., thus increasing its interest to 100% and Investment property 73,303 thereby obtaining control over AREB C.V. This property fund invests Assets used for operating activities 221,602 in 17 properties, primarily comprising offices and logistics centres at Other non-current assets 4,188 and around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. One shareholder Current assets 2,565 exchanged its shares for a profit-sharing loan of 25.6 million euros Cash and cash equivalents 4,688 with a term of six years. Payment on this loan will depend on the development of AREB C.V.’s property portfolio. Total assets 306,346 Following the acquisition of the remaining shares, the existing Loans and borrowings 178,697 interest in AREB C.V. was first restated at fair value. This resulted in Financial instruments 9,506 a pre-tax book profit of 30.4 million euros, which was included in Current liabilities 12,170 the other income. The acquisition implicitly included the settlement of an existing contractual agreement between AREB C.V. (lessor) Total liabilities 200,373 and Schiphol (lessee) of the Schiphol Building. This resulted in a settlement loss of 7.9 million euros. Due to the applocation of hedge Sum of net identified assets 105,973 accounting, changes in the value of the derivatives concerned were included in the hedging transactions reserve through the other Paid in cash 23,500 comprehensive income. Following the acquisition, the pre-tax Loan 25,575 amount of 7.1 million euros thus realised was included as an expense under financial income and expenditure. Consideration 49,075 Settlement loss Schiphol Building 7,904 The fair value of the investment property was determined on the basis of the fair value in leased state, taking account of the ground Total consideration after contract settlement 41,171 lease. These valuations were carried out by independent external Fair value of 61,15% stake held before transaction 64,802 valuers, in accordance with Schiphol Group's valuation policies. The Total 105,973 fair value of the other assets and liabilities was determined on the basis of the market value at which these assets and liabilities were Paid in cash 23,500 or are being settled with the contracting party concerned, including Cash and cash equivalents acquired -4,688 financial institutions. An amount of 7.4 million euros in transfer tax Total consideration, net of acquired cash 18,812 was paid as a result of the transaction, and was included in the costs of outsourced work and other external charges. No goodwill was created upon the purchase of the remaining interest of 38.85% in AREB C.V. (in millions of euros) Revaluation of share before acquisition 30.4 Contractloss on Schiphol Building -7.9 Settlement of interest rate swap -7.1 Transfer tax -7.4 Result on acquisition of AREB C.V. 8.0 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 154 Segment information The Management Board and Corporate Treasury review liabilities Schiphol Group has identified fourteen operating segments, which and financial income and expenditure at group level rather than have been combined into nine reporting segments for reporting segment level. Transactions between the segments have been purposes. consistently conducted at arm’s length over the years. The Aviation business area operates at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Since Schiphol Group’s current activities are concentrated almost and provides services and facilities to airlines, passengers and entirely in the Netherlands (approximately 99% of consolidated handling agents. The Aviation business area has been subdivided revenue in 2015), there is no geographical segmentation. Around into two segments: Aviation and Security. Aviation generates most 35% of revenue relates to one external customer and is generated of its revenue from airport charges (charges related to aircraft and primarily in the Aviation and Security segments. passengers) and concession fees (paid by oil companies for the provision of aircraft refuelling services). The source of revenue for Security consists of airport charges (security-related charges). The activities of the Consumer Products & Services business area consist of granting and managing concessions for shops and food service outlets (Concessions segment, generating revenue from concessions and leasing retail locations), operating car parks (Parking segment, generating revenue from parking charges) and shops, marketing advertising opportunities at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and operating management contracts at airports outside the Netherlands (Other segment, generating revenue from retail sales, leasing advertising space and management fees respectively). The Real Estate business area, which is also a segment, develops, manages, operates and invests in property at and around domestic and foreign airports. The major part of the portfolio, comprising both airport buildings and commercial properties, is located at and around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Sources of revenue include income from developing and leasing out land and buildings. The business area also makes a major contribution to Schiphol Group results with other income from property (sales, fair value gains or losses on property and granting land leases). The Alliances & Participations business area comprises the Domestic Airports, Foreign Airports and Other Subsidiaries segments. Airport charges and parking charges are the main sources of revenue of the regional airports (Rotterdam The Hague, Eindhoven and Lelystad). The airports abroad contribute to the Group result through performance fees and dividends as accounted for in share in results, through the interest paid on loans and through intellectual property fees. This involves stakes in airports such as Aéroports de Paris S.A., Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Ltd and JFK IAT LLC (as a contract-related asset). Other subsidiaries include Schiphol Telematics and Utilities. Schiphol Telematics provides telecommunication services at and around the airport. Utilities generates revenue from the transmission of electricity and gas and from the supply of water. Information relating to alliances specifically associated with a particular business area is presented under the segments of that business area. The information relating to other alliances is presented under the reporting segments of the Alliances & Participations business area. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 155 Consumer Products & Alliances & 2015 Aviation Services Real Estate Participations Total (in thousands of euros) Airport charges 810,028 58,652 868,680 Concessions 13,680 155,411 1,613 6,021 176,725 Rent and leases 96 15,741 159,049 3,888 178,774 Parking fees 89,975 4,104 16,129 110,208 Retail sales 25,733 3,199 28,932 Other activities 20,448 27,081 7,816 98,899 154,244 Total revenue 844,252 313,941 172,582 186,788 1,517,563 Elimination of intercompany revenue 1,306 11,149 25,125 56,831 94,411 Revenue 842,946 302,792 147,457 129,957 1,423,152 Other income and results from 49,847 66,368 319 116,534 investment property Depreciation and amortisation 161,392 23,874 18,750 18,780 222,796 Impairment 6,660 850 7,510 Operating result 104,113 238,252 128,605 33,976 504,946 Share in results of associates1 1,150 724 3,513 62,880 66,819 Total assets 2,526,166 407,923 2,327,202 1,143,370 6,404,661 Total non-current assets (excl. income 2,200,613 355,353 1,901,073 995,687 5,452,726 tax) Investments in associates and other 3,685 21,585 106,769 725,775 857,814 financial interests Capital expenditure 131,879 65,300 212,071 29,394 438,644 1 The share in results of associates includes the share in results of associates presented as such in the profit and loss account and the share of interest income and dividends presented as part of financial income and expenses that is attributable to investments in associates, lease receivables and other financial interests. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 156 Consumer Products & Alliances & 2014 Aviation Services Real Estate Participations Total (in thousands of euros) Airport charges 807,834 56,031 863,865 Concessions 13,622 144,706 1,301 5,174 164,803 Rent and leases 97 17,874 160,447 3,729 182,147 Parking fees 86,284 4,079 15,282 105,645 Retail sales 82,246 3,053 85,299 Other activities 17,364 29,602 8,862 95,191 151,019 Total revenue 838,917 360,712 174,689 178,460 1,552,778 Elimination of intercompany revenue 1,163 32,366 25,953 55,220 114,702 Revenue 837,754 328,346 148,736 123,240 1,438,076 Other income and results from 5,395 30,503 1,256 34,642 investment property Depreciation and amortisation 163,322 26,563 19,649 18,587 228,121 Impairment 4,202 4,202 Operating result 110,365 181,479 78,580 32,672 403,096 Share in results of associates 712 465 11,109 42,410 32,478 Total assets 2,473,351 332,398 1,969,140 1,055,270 5,830,159 Total non-current assets (excl. income 2,213,073 297,419 1,761,921 941,319 5,213,732 tax) Investments in associates and other 2,491 61 102,563 691,929 796,922 financial interests Capital expenditure 292,215 25,928 58,965 18,906 396,014 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 157 Aviation Aviation Security Total (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Airport charges 516,512 521,262 293,516 286,572 810,028 807,834 Concessions 13,680 13,622 13,680 13,622 Rent and leases 95 97 1 96 97 Other activities 18,931 16,277 1,517 1,087 20,448 17,364 Total revenue 549,218 551,258 295,034 287,659 844,252 838,917 Elimination of intercompany revenue -941 -883 -365 -280 -1,306 -1,163 Revenue 548,277 550,375 294,669 287,379 842,946 837,754 Depreciation and amortisation -124,473 -123,285 -36,919 -40,037 -161,392 -163,322 Operating result 83,857 105,297 20,256 5,068 104,113 110,365 Share in results of associates 1,150 712 1,150 712 Total assets 2,170,622 2,156,908 355,544 316,443 2,526,166 2,473,351 Total non-current assets (excl. income tax) 1,890,889 1,929,930 309,724 283,143 2,200,613 2,213,073 Investments in associates and other financial interests 3,685 2,491 3,685 2,491 Capital expenditure 81,660 192,058 50,219 100,157 131,879 292,215 Consumer Products & Services Concessions Parking Other Total (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Concessions 150,713 140,818 4,698 3,888 155,411 144,706 Rent and leases 15,234 17,392 507 482 15,741 17,874 Parking fees 89,975 86,284 89,975 86,284 Retail sales 25,733 82,246 25,733 82,246 Other activities 340 305 1,937 1,690 24,804 27,607 27,081 29,602 Total revenue 166,287 158,515 97,117 92,344 50,537 109,853 313,941 360,712 Elimination of intercompany -9,358 -30,489 -1,265 -1,199 -526 -678 -11,149 -32,366 revenue Revenue 156,929 128,026 95,852 91,145 50,011 109,175 302,792 328,346 Other income and results from 49,847 5,395 49,847 5,395 investment property Depreciation and amortisation -10,661 -11,645 -10,367 -10,776 -2,846 -4,142 -23,874 -26,563 Operating result 125,785 115,237 55,893 54,709 56,574 11,533 238,252 181,479 Share in results of associates -724 465 -724 465 Total assets 213,882 136,421 176,404 180,855 17,637 15,122 407,923 332,398 Total non-current assets (excl. 186,318 122,065 153,671 161,823 15,364 13,531 355,353 297,419 income tax) Investments in associates and 21,585 -61 21,585 -61 other financial interests Capital expenditure 54,645 19,946 5,125 3,000 5,530 2,982 65,300 25,928 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 158 Real Estate (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Concessions 1,613 1,301 Rent and leases 159,049 160,447 Parking fees 4,104 4,079 Other activities 7,816 8,862 Total revenue 172,582 174,689 Elimination of intercompany revenue -25,125 -25,953 Revenue 147,457 148,736 Other income and results from investment property 66,368 30,503 Depreciation and amortisation -18,750 -19,649 Impairment -6,660 -4,202 Operating result 128,605 78,580 Share in results of associates 3,513 -11,109 Total assets 2,327,202 1,969,140 Total non-current assets (excl. income tax) 1,901,073 1,761,921 Investments in associates and other financial interests 106,769 102,563 Capital expenditure 212,071 58,965 Alliances & Participations International airports Domestic airports Other subsidiaries Total (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Airport charges 58,652 56,031 58,652 56,031 Concessions 6,021 5,174 6,021 5,174 Rent and leases 3,888 3,729 3,888 3,729 Parking fees 16,129 15,282 16,129 15,282 Retail sales 3,199 3,053 3,199 3,053 Other activities 13,430 14,503 4,297 4,238 81,1721 76,450 98,899 95,191 Total revenue 13,430 14,503 92,186 87,507 81,172 76,450 186,788 178,460 Elimination of intercompany -48 -70 -1,487 -1,329 -55,296 -53,821 -56,831 -55,220 revenue Revenue 13,382 14,433 90,699 86,178 25,876 22,629 129,957 123,240 Other income and results from 319 -1,256 319 -1,256 investment property Depreciation and amortisation -1,372 -5,452 -7,723 -6,791 -9,685 -6,344 -18,780 -18,587 Impairment -850 -850 Operating result 11,217 6,482 17,590 15,547 5,169 10,643 33,976 32,672 Share in results of associates 62,714 42,160 166 250 62,880 42,410 Total assets 955,344 881,625 138,723 127,291 49,303 46,354 1,143,370 1,055,270 Total non-current assets (excl. 832,226 785,824 120,511 113,896 42,950 41,599 995,687 941,319 income tax) Investments in associates and 724,287 690,666 1,488 1,263 725,775 691,929 other financial interests Capital expenditure 4,337 1 14,415 11,928 10,642 6,977 29,394 18,906 1 The other activities include revenues from Utilities (supply of gas, electricity and water) and telecommunication services. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 159 Notes to the consolidated statement of income 1. Revenue years (2014: about 12%) and about 11% more than five years Airport charges (2014: about 18%). The activities of the Aviation business area (at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol) are regulated. This means that the annual process of Revenue of 13.7 million euros from concessions included in the setting the airport charge rates is subject to supervision by the Dutch Aviation segment (13.6 million euros in 2014) and 4.7 million euros Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM) and that the aviation in the Parking segment (3.9 million euros in 2014) relates to industry must be consulted as part of this process. When setting the concession agreements for the third-party supply of aviation fuel aviation charges, the Aviation business area’s profitability is also and the use of drop-off roads by taxi and car rental services capped at an average weighted cost of capital for regulated assets; respectively. both must be determined in compliance with the Aviation Act. (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Settlement Under the Aviation Act, Schiphol Group must settle surpluses and Shops Retail Airside 93,355 67,234 deficits from specified income and expenses with the industry. In Shops Plaza 7,438 6,470 principle, a settlement will take place after the respective financial Oil companies 13,458 13,326 year and preparation of the financial statements of the Aviation and Food and beverage 32,601 29,311 Security reporting segments, in accordance with the Aviation Act Other 21,262 19,703 and the applicable new airport charge rates. In accordance with the Intercompany revenue 8,611 28,759 accounting policies, surpluses and deficits eligible for settlement in the airport charge rates are not yet presented as assets and liabilities Total concessions 176,725 164,803 in the balance sheet. This procedure does not apply to the airport charges of Rotterdam, Eindhoven and Lelystad airports, which are Rents and leases accounted for in the Domestic Airports reporting segment. There (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 was a surplus for the 2014 financial year of 28.3 million euros for the Aviation segment and 7.0 million euros for the Security Investment property: buildings, 87,498 88,089 segment. This (net) surplus of 35.3 million euros will be included in including service charges the charges as from 1 April 2016. For the 2015 financial year a Investment property: land 24,367 25,347 surplus of 55 million euros is expected, which will be included in the Operating property, including service 43,442 43,442 charges in force from 1 April 2017. costs Intercompany revenue 23,467 25,269 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Total rent and leases 178,774 182,147 Aircraft-related fees 201,886 206,614 Passenger-related fees 339,829 332,865 Occupancy in the Real Estate segment was 88.8% as at Security service charges 320,708 316,614 31 December 2015 (88.4% as at 31 December 2014). Aircraft parking fees 6,257 7,772 Approximately 14% of the leases (measured by income from rents Total airport charges 868,680 863,865 and leases) expire within one year (5% in 2014), 45% between one and five years (49% in 2014) and 41% after more than five years Concessions (46% in 2014). Schiphol Group's Concessions reporting segment, which is part of the Consumer Products & Services business area, has 98 concession contracts (2014: 104) for a range of commercial activities at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. A concession grants the holder non-exclusive rights to operate and manage a commercial activity in a specific location designated by Schiphol Group. The concession charges are calculated on a percentage scale of the sales generated by the concession holder. A separate contract is entered into with concession holders for the space, for which a fixed rent is payable. The concessions have an average duration of three to five years. At the reporting date, about 61% of the concessions had a remaining term of less than three years (2014: about 70%), about 28% had between three and five SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 160 Property management expenses divided into occupied and Other activities unoccuppied buildings can be analysed as follows: (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Advertising 16,750 19,065 Services and activities on behalf of third 21,716 19,248 Occupied buildings 37,334 34,718 parties Unoccupied buildings 4,922 6,377 Electricity, gas and water 6,417 6,945 Other operating income 48,383 46,387 Total property management 42,256 41,095 Intercompany revenue 60,978 59,374 expenses Total other activities 154,244 151,019 If buildings are partially leased, the property management expenses have been apportioned based on floor area. 2. Other income and results from investment property (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Parking fees (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Sales of property 92 3,101 Cost of sales of property -1,918 Parking at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol: Result on sale of property 92 1,183 Short-stay parking 48,738 44,061 Long-stay parking 23,496 25,700 New long leases granted 1,662 Business parking 19,831 18,645 Fair value adjustments for land 8,850 755 Fair value adjustments for buildings 56,083 -3,137 92,065 88,406 Total fair value gains and losses 66,595 -2,382 Parking at other locations 16,129 15,283 Intercompany revenue 2,014 1,956 Total other revenues from 66,687 -1,199 investment property Total parking fees 110,208 105,645 Fair value gains and losses Parking revenues at other locations relate to Rotterdam The Hague, The gains from granting new ground leases were connected with Eindhoven and Lelystad airports and are included in the Domestic the change in measurement of leasehold land from historical cost Airports segment. to fair value upon release. The market value is calculated by discounting the value of the future annual ground rents and the Retail sales residual value under the contracts concerned (DCF method), using Retail sales generated 28.9 million euros in 2015, of which 3.2 a discount rate based on the interest rate on Dutch government million was realised by Rotterdam The Hague Airport. Of this bonds plus a risk premium. amount, 25.7 million euros (2014: 82.2 million euros) represents revenue from liquor, tobacco and chocolate sales at Schiphol. The The fair value of all the investment properties is assessed each year related cost of sales of 13.5 million euros (40.4 million euros in 2014) and is adjusted when necessary. This assesment takes into account is presented under operating expenses in ‘Cost of contracted work the lease incentives granted. The resulting adjustments to fair value and other external costs’. The decrease in retail sales is caused by are included in market value adjustments for land and buildings. The the sale of Schiphol's controlling interest on 30 April 2015 to Gebr. assumptions applied in determining the market value are explained Heinemann SE & Co. KG. Schiphol and Heinemann collaborate in a in note 11. Investment property. joint venture for the retail operations of liquor, tobacco and confectionary in the shopping behind security filters at Amsterdam The fair value adjustment to buildings was 56.1 million euros in Airport Schiphol. 2015. This is attributable to positive market developments and lower vacancy rates regarding logistics property and offices at A locations. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 161 3. Other income 5. Employee benefits (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2015 Result on sale of SAR 49,847 Short-term employee benefits 147,014 150,748 Revaluation of AREB 30,446 Post-retirement benefits 21,917 23,361 Result on sale of Arlanda 5,395 Other long-term employee benefits 3,553 2,447 Termination benefits 1,665 1,158 Total other revenues 49,847 35,841 Other staff costs 10,546 10,712 The other income in 2015 includes the one-off effect from the sale Total employee benefits 184,695 188,426 of SAR of 49.9 million euros. In 2014 the other income was attributable to the acquisition of the remaining shares in AREB C.V. (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 (30.4 million euros) and the sale of the interest in Arlanda Schiphol Development Company A.B., which generated 5.4 million euros in Short-term employee benefits sales proceeds. See the section on Changes in the scope of Salaries 144,522 146,063 consolidation for more details. Social charges 14,205 14,879 Internal hours capitalised -11,713 10,194 4. Outsourcing and other external costs (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Total 147,014 150,748 Cleaning 34,651 31,082 Post-retirement benefits Security 182,670 196,197 Pension charges (defined contribution 19,098 22,206 Maintenance 101,838 101,696 plans) Other subcontracted activities 108,800 99,369 Pension charges (defined benefit plans) 119 Energy and water 19,613 21,885 Early retirement benefits 2,819 1,036 Cost of retail sales 13,521 40,383 Hired temporary staff 31,795 20,206 Total 21,917 23,361 Commercial expenses 23,951 25,868 Insurance 21,594 20,409 Other long-term employee Advisory and audit fees 17,425 14,695 benefits Costs related to investments 14,662 11,865 Jubilee benefits -167 641 Other expenses (such as general 45,713 46,483 Long-term management bonuses 1,180 1,196 expenses, rents and leasing) Other employee benefits 2,540 610 Total cost of outsourced work 616,233 630,138 Total 3,553 2,447 and other external costs The average number of employees at N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and Auditor’s fees its subsidiaries on a full-time equivalent basis was 2,000 (2014: (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2,039). Audit of the financial statements 662 662 The internal hours capitalised relates to time spent by employees in Other audit services 531 437 the development phases of investment projects. Other staff costs Tax advisory include training costs and travel expenses. The costs of postOther non-audit services employment benefits, other long-term employee benefits and redundancy payments are explained in more detail in note 24. Total auditor's fees 1,193 1,099 Employee benefits. For an explanation of the remuneration of Supervisory and Management Board members under Section The auditor’s fees concerned activities carried out at Schiphol Group 2:383c of the Dutch Civil Code, reference is made to the section and the consolidated group companies by the audit firm as referred entitled Related Party Disclosures. to in Section 1(1) of the Audit Firms Supervision Act and represent the fees charged by the entire network of which the audit firm is part. The fees of KPMG Accountants N.V. amounted to 1.1 million euros (2014: 1.0 million euros) while the activities performed by other members of the KPMG network amounted to 0.1 million euros (2014: 0.1 million euros). SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 162 6. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Intangible assets Contract related assets 1,365 5,441 ICT development 5,464 6,462 Software licences 4,672 5,543 11,501 17,446 Assets used for operating activities Runways, taxiways and aprons 22,588 22,555 Paved areas and roads 12,789 12,207 Buildings 41,633 42,620 Installations 101,449 100,924 Other assets 27,872 28,803 206,331 207,109 Depreciation and amortisation 4,964 3,566 in relation to disposals Impairments 7,509 4,202 Total depreciation, 230,305 232,323 amortisation and impairments See note 8. Intangible assets for information on the amortisation of contract-related assets and note 11.Investment property for information on impairments. 7. Other operating expenses Other operating expenses in 2015 include 2.2 million euros in relation to the pre-opening costs for the newly built Hilton hotel. Other operating expenses in 2014 included the 7.4 million euro provision relating to an onerous contract. In addition, this item also included a settlement loss of 7.9 million euros in respect of the settlement of a lease that was not in line with current market practice; reference is made to the section on Changes in the scope of consolidation SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 163 Notes to the statement of financial position 8. Intangible assets Contract Software related ICT Software under (in thousands of euros) Goodwill assets development licences development Total Carrying amount as at 31 December 849 17,174 14,199 5,817 38,039 2013 Movements in 2014 Additions 12,134 12,134 Completions 5,172 4,272 9,444 Amortisation 5,441 6,462 5,543 17,446 Reclassification 40,505 40,505 Disposals 109 43 152 Exchange differences 1,198 1,198 Reclassification to assets held for sale 79 79 Total movements 36,262 1,399 1,393 2,690 36,160 Analysis as at 31 December 2014 Cost 849 41,703 65,889 41,380 8,821 158,642 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 5,441 50,114 28,574 314 84,443 Carrying amount as at 31 December 849 36,262 15,775 12,806 8,507 74,199 2014 Movements in 2015 Additions 13,021 13,021 Completions 5,654 3,617 9,271 Amortisation 1,365 5,463 4,673 11,501 Impairment 849 849 Reclassification 74 506 580 Disposals 2 -2 Exchange differences 4,333 4,333 Total movements 849 2,968 119 1,564 3,750 4,424 Analysis as at 31 December 2015 Cost 849 46,036 71,471 44,488 12,571 175,416 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 849 6,806 55,577 33,247 314 96,793 Carrying amount as at 31 December 39,230 15,894 11,242 12,257 78,623 2015 The reclassification in 2014 includes the share in JFK IAT (contractrelated assets). ICT application development relates to in-house and external hours charged to ICT projects in the implementation and completion phases. Software licences and software under development relate to third-party packages. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 164 9. Assets used for operating activities Runways, taxiways Paved areas, (in thousands of euros) and aprons roads etc. Buildings Installations Other assets Total Carrying amount as at 31 December 347,525 448,640 776,988 780,884 95,380 2,449,417 2013 Movements in 2014 Completions 35,981 22,102 26,822 75,088 29,171 189,164 Depreciation -22,555 -12,207 -42,620 -100,924 -28,803 -207,109 Impairment -27 -975 -1,002 Disposals -907 -271 -1,544 -691 -3,413 Reclassification -217 1,311 -1,094 Acquisition AREB C.V. 54,978 18,325 73,303 Reclassification to assets held for sale -93 -5 -1,493 -1,591 Total movements 13,209 10,299 38,789 11,129 1,816 49,352 Analysis as at 31 december 2014 Cost 730,510 661,440 1,435,167 2,023,152 427,194 5,277,463 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 369,776 202,501 619,390 1,253,397 333,630 2,778,694 Carrying amount as at 31 December 360,734 458,939 815,777 769,755 93,564 2,498,769 2014 Movements in 2015 Completions 20,805 24,220 304,823 227,408 95,574 672,830 Depreciation 22,588 12,789 41,633 101,448 27,873 206,331 Changes in the consolidation 4 7 2 233 246 Disposals 49 183 354 3,163 1,214 4,963 Reclassification 27,931 85 2,044 29,889 Costprice adjustment 3,265 3,265 Reclassification to assets held for sale 11,320 65,423 30,939 17,216 124,898 Total movements 1,832 27,999 194,155 91,945 47,460 303,730 Analysis as at 31 December 2015 Cost 751,266 646,230 1,670,955 2,216,546 502,527 5,787,524 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 392,364 215,290 661,023 1,354,845 361,503 2,985,025 Carrying amount as at 31 December 358,902 430,940 1,009,932 861,700 141,024 2,802,499 2015 During the year, the following projects were completed: Central Security Non-Schengen 192,286 182,259 8,213 382,758 Hilton Hotel 8,297 65,423 30,939 17,216 121,875 Major maintenance Zwanenburg runway 8,973 2,180 1,397 12,550 Electric buses 8,714 8,714 Other 11,832 13,743 47,114 12,813 61,431 146,933 Total completions 20,805 24,220 304,823 227,408 95,574 672,830 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 165 10. Assets under construction or development Assets under construction for (in thousands of euros) operating activities Carrying amount as at 31 December 2013 256,970 Movements in 2014 Capital expenditure 376,723 Capitalised construction period borrowing cost 4,748 Completed assets and investment property 189,164 Reclassification 6,947 Total movements 199,254 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 456,224 Movements in 2015 Capital expenditure 406,860 Capitalised construction period borrowing cost 5,650 Completed assets and investment property 672,830 Reclassification 15,521 Total movements 244,799 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 211,425 Capital expenditures relate to the following projects: Central security non-Schengen 195,495 Major maintenance 35,234 Construction Hilton Hotel 27,064 Redevelopment Lounge 2 18,695 Gate proces innovation 9,360 Other 121,012 Total capital expenditures in the year 406,860 The capitalisation of construction period interest is calculated by applying a percentage rate determined quarterly according based on the leverage ratio. In 2015, the rate varied between 2.0 and 2.2% per annum reflecting that ratio. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 166 11. Investment property Assets under (in thousands of euros) Buildings Land construction Total Carrying amount as at 31 December 2013 625,534 349,324 93,909 1,068,767 Movements in 2014 Capital expenditure 7,157 7,157 Capitalised construction borrowing cost 323 323 Completions 6,546 -17 -6,529 Acquisition of AREB C.V. 221,602 221,602 Fair value gains and losses -3,137 755 -2,382 Impairments -3,200 -3,200 Sales -1,918 -1,918 Reclassification -6,947 -6,947 Total movements 225,011 738 -11,114 214,635 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 850,545 350,062 82,795 1,283,402 Movements in 2015 Capital expenditure 18,763 18,763 Capitalised construction borrowing cost 18 18 Completions 4,827 -1,307 -3,520 Fair value gains and losses 56,083 10,512 66,595 Impairments -6,660 -6,660 Reclassification 1,126 22,306 -9,064 14,368 Other 271 404 675 Total movements 62,307 31,511 -59 93,759 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 912,852 381,573 82,736 1,377,161 Measured at Cost model 82,736 82,736 Fair value model 912,852 381,573 1,294,425 Investment property under construction property can be sold on the valuation date between a buyer and a Assets under construction for the development of investment seller willing to do business in an arm's length, objective transaction properties mainly consist of land positions held for future investment preceded by proper negotiations in which the parties were well property development or land with undetermined future use informed. The calculation of the cash flows, which is a factor in (operational or commercial development). The plans for determining the fair value at which investment property is stated in development are subjected to annual changes and are therefore the balance sheet, takes into account the lease incentives given. inadequate to determine the fair value on a continuing basis. This category is therefore measured in accordance with the cost model. As at 31 December 2015, 100% of the buildings and 39% of land is appraised by independent external valuers. The remaining fair The impairment of 6.7 million euros in 2015 relates to an value of land is based on internal valuations with reference to impairment on land positions at Schiphol-East of 3.6 million euros externally validated input variables. (2014: 3.2 million euros) and Nieuwe Meer for 3.1 million euros. Buildings includes an amount of 107 million euro (31 December Buildings and land positions 2014: 88.4 million euros) in respect of the fair value of assets (The Investment proprties consist of buildings and land. All properties are Base) where the company has the risks and rewards incidental to measured at fair value. The fair value is based on the market value ownership but no legal title (finance lease). Land includes land (costs payable by the buyer, so adjusted for purchase costs, such as leased under long-lease contracts. transfer tax), that is, the estimated amount for which investment SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 167 Details of the result on property sales and fair value gains and losses Valuation method for buildings on investment property can be found in note 2.Other income and The valuation method used is a combination of the net initial yield results from investment property. Further information on the (NIY) method and the discounted cash flow method (DCF). The NIY acquisition of the investment property in 2014 can be found in method uses a net market rent which is capitalised with a NIY and Changes in the scope of consolidation under the section entitled is adjusted with all elements that differ from the market 'Acquisition of AREB C.V.'. assumptions. The NIY is determined on the basis of comparable market transactions supplemented with market and object-specific All investment property classifies as a level 3 valuation. The Valuers knowledge. Deviating assumptions include contractual rent, and Accountants Platform (Platform Taxateurs en Accountants vacancy information, deferred maintance and rent holidays. The (PTA)) compiled 28 recommendations to promote the quality and DCF method estimated net cash flows are discounted at a risktransparency of appraisals. Our external valuers fully complied with adjusted discount rate which includes specific object and location all the for them necessary recommendations in 2015. In October assumptions. 2015 the Dutch Register of Real Estate Valuers (Nederlands Register Vastgoed Taxateurs (NRVT)) was established, with the task to Significant assumptions for buildings increase and maintain the quality of valuers. The AFM regards the NRVT as the new market standard for valuers to comply with. These standards are based on IFRS, international valuation guidelines and best practices of PTA. All our valuers are NVRT members. Average effective contractual Average market rent per m2 Average net initial yield rental income per m2 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Schipho-Centre Offices 291 250 321 298 5.96% 6.50% Business premises n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Schiphol-North/East Offices 137 140 160 167 8.04% 8.00% Business premises 118 114 98 100 7.20% 7.73% Schiphol-Southeast Offices 112 109 167 166 9.38% 9.15% Business premises 130 128 112 113 6.36% 7.01% Schiphol-South Offices 157 160 156 156 7.00% 7.85% Business premises 100 98 100 101 6.79% 6.97% Rotterdam The Hague Airport Offices 163 155 166 159 7.82% 7.96% Business premises 49 46 82 95 7.21% 7.91% SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 168 The significant assumptions used in the valuation model comprise: • an inflation development between 1.40% and 1.90%; • an average market rent development between 0% and 1.75%; • an average period of vacancy of 11.4 months; • an average rent holiday of 8.8 months; • and a net initial yield between 5.45% and 11.40%. Relationship between significant unobservable input and fair value determination The estimated fair value will increase or decrease to the extent that the expected market rent growth is higher (lower), the periods of vacancy are longer (shorter), the occupancy rate is lower (higher), the rent holidays are shorter (longer) and the NIY is higher (lower). Valuation method for land For land positions that generate revenues through ground rent, the valuation technique used is the DCF method. The estimated net cash flows are discounted with a risk-adjusted rate plus risk surcharges. Land positions that are leased out for long periods and whose instalments are prepaid are measured at: • the prepaid instalment minus an annual redemption; • the annual redemption is equal to the total instalment divided by the lease period plus the discounted value of the estimated instalment for the next lease period. Significant assumptions used in the valuation model are: Land 2015 2014 Inflation rate 0.60% 1.90% 0.90% 2.10% Discount rate 6.75% 8.25% 6.85% 8.20% SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 169 12. Income tax in the financial statements recognised in the statement of financial position, current tax This note contains further details on all the items of the financial positions in the statement of financial position and income tax statements with regard to income tax. This tax can be divided into recognised in equity. income tax recognised in the statement of income, deferred taxes Reconciliation of effective tax rate (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Profit before tax 476,866 344,865 Income tax calculated at the domestic tax rate 119,217 25.0% 86,216 25.0% Results of associates 15,118 -3.2% 7,205 -2.1% Results of associates in limited partnerships that are not independently taxable 972 0.2% 1,926 -0.6% Participation exemption on disposal of subsidiaries 12,462 -2.6% 1,349 -0.4% Participation exemption on RPS dividend 0.0% 1,539 -0.4% Different rate for foreign subsidiaries / associates 1,765 0.4% 426 0.1% Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1,838 0.4% 2,299 0.7% Change in recognised temporary differences 2,199 0.5% 0.0% Tax gain previous years 181 0.0% 6,607 -1.9% Other 82 0.0% 966 0.3% Income tax expense in profit or loss (effective) 98,510 20.7% 71,281 20.7% The effective income tax rate in 2015 of 20.7% is unchanged Income tax in the statement of income compared to the 2014 rate. Both are lower than the standard (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 domestic income tax rate of 25%. The lower tax burden in both years is mainly attributable to the application of the participation Current income tax exemption on the results of associates. Also two one-off results Income tax current year 79,103 74,896 contributed to a lower tax burden; the results on the sale of SAR in Tax gain prior year RPS case -6,031 2015 for 50 million euros and the sale of Arlanda in 2014 for 5 Adjustment for prior years 182 -576 million euros are exempt. Without these participation exemptions the tax burden for 2015 amounted to 26% (2014: 24%). Total current income tax 79,285 68,289 The tax burden is increased due to non-offsettable income tax on Deferred income tax impairment losses of 8 million euros (2014: 9 million euros) which Origination and reversal of temporary 19,225 2,992 orginated in Italian companies, among others. The amount in differences offsettable losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised is 28 million euros (2014: 21 million euros). Total deferred income tax 19,225 2,992 Total income tax 98,510 71,281 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 170 (in thousands of euros) The Netherlands The United States Italy Total Profit before tax 475,709 8,459 7,302 476,866 Income tax calculated at the nominal 118,927 25.0% 3,880 45.9% 2,293 31.4% 120,515 25.3% rate Results of associates 14,146 -3.0% 0.0% 0.0% 14,146 -3.0% Participation exemption on disposal of 12,462 -2.6% 0.0% 0.0% 12,462 -2.6% subsidiaries Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has 0.0% 0.0% 2,293 -31.4% 2,293 0.5% been recognised Change in recognised temporary differences 0.0% 2,199 26.0% 0.0% 2,199 0.5% Tax results from previous years 182 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 182 0.0% Other 474 0.1% 544 -6.4% 0.0% 70 0.0% Income tax expense in profit or loss 92,975 19.5% 5,535 65.4% 0.0% 98,510 20.7% (effective) (in thousands of euros) The Netherlands The United States Italy Total Profit before tax 349,800 4,661 9,596 344,865 Income tax calculated at the nominal 87,450 25.0% 2,138 45.9% 3,013 31.4% 86,576 25.1% rate Results of associates 9,131 -2.6% 0.0% 0.0% 9,131 -2.6% Participation exemption on disposal of 1,349 -0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 1,349 -0.4% subsidiaries Participation exemption on RPS dividend 1,539 -0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 1,539 -0.4% Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has 55 0.0% 0.0% 3,013 -31.4% 3,068 0.9% been recognised Tax results from previous years 6,607 -1.9% 546 -11.7% 0.0% 7,153 -2.1% Other 810 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 810 0.2% Income tax expense in profit or loss 69,689 19.9% 1,592 34.2% 0.0% 71,281 20.7% (effective) SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 171 Deferred tax in the statement of financial position (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Schiphol Group has been subject to income tax since 1 January 2002. The following differences in valuation for tax and reporting Deferred tax assets purposes can be distinguished: (fiscal unity) Assets used for operating activities 147,660 134,861 • Assets used for operating activities and assets under Assets under construction or 55,876 70,357 construction are measured at cost both for reporting purposes development and for tax purposes. The balance sheet for tax purposes Derivative financial instruments and 25,013 8,906 equates the cost with the market value as at 1 January 2002, borrowings whereas the balance sheet for reporting purposes equates the Employee benefits 5,709 5,610 cost with the (lower) historical cost. Investment property -41,278 -21,700 • For tax purposes, the depreciation of both commercial buildings and operational buildings is limited to the so-called base value. 192,980 198,034 The base value is 50% of the WOZ value (i.e., the value under Deferred tax assets the Valuation of Immovable Property Act) of operational (outside fiscal unity) buildings and 100% of the WOZ value of commercial buildings. Investment property 350 • Property investments are depreciated for tax purposes (with a residual value of 25%) but not for reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities • Borrowings in foreign currencies are measured at the closing (outside fiscal unity) rates on the balance sheet date for commercial purposes and at Contract related assets -20,789 -16,065 cost at the rate applicable at the time of borrowing for tax Investment property -315 -304 purposes. Derivative financial instruments and -1,561 • The valuation of employee benefits is different for tax purposes borrowings and reporting purposes because of differences in the actuarial assumptions applied. -22,666 -16,369 • Property investments and derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value for reporting purposes and at cost for tax Total deferred tax 170,664 181,665 purposes. • The valuation of the contractual interest in JFK IAT is different Non-current (settlement is not 83,274 83,274 for tax purposes (measured at cost) and commercial purposes expected) (revalued at the time of expansion). Non-current (expected to be recovered 84,868 97,547 or settled after more than 1 year) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of all Current (expected to be recovered or 2,522 844 these differences. settled within 1 year) Under IAS 12, Income Taxes, a deferred tax asset has to be 170,664 181,665 recognised if it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised. However, it is impossible to estimate the moment when the deferred tax assets relating to certain operating assets (83.3 million euros) will be realised because the difference in the values for reporting and tax purposes will be realised only in the event of a sale (resulting in a lower profit for tax purposes and a lower income tax liability), impairment (resulting in higher costs for tax purposes and a lower income tax liability) or termination of the aviation activities (resulting in higher costs for tax purposes because compensation will only be obtained up to the carrying amount for reporting purposes). Schiphol Group is not authorised to sell the land for operating activities, forecasts of future cash flows do not suggest that impairment losses will be necessary and it is unlikely that the activities will be terminated. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to the same fiscal unity and the company at the head of this fiscal unity has a legally enforceable right to do so. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 172 The movements in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities during the year were as follows: Assets under Assets used for construction Derivative operating or Investment financial Employee Contract (in thousands of euros) activities development property instruments benefits related assets Total Carrying amount as at 143,498 66,052 24,234 10,572 3,944 14,134 185,698 31 December 2013 Movements in 2014 Deferred tax recognised in the 1,067 2,226 393 92 2,992 income statement Deferred tax recognised in equity 1,728 1,223 505 Reclassification 7,570 4,305 4,456 62 50 1,303 Other movements 1,839 1,839 Total movements 8,637 4,305 2,230 1,666 1,666 1,931 4,033 Carrying amount as at 134,861 70,357 22,004 8,906 5,610 16,065 181,665 31 December 2014 Movements in 2015 Deferred tax recognised in the 1,665 18,516 52 467 2,789 19,225 income statement Deferred tax recognised in equity 6,245 321 6,566 Reclassification 11,826 16,146 724 20,843 47 15,752 Assets held for sale 973 973 Other movements 1,935 1,935 Total movements 12,799 14,481 19,240 14,546 99 4,724 11,001 Carrying amount as at 147,660 55,876 41,244 23,452 5,709 20,789 170,664 31 December 2015 In 2014 the tax effect on the settlement of hedgde transactions was estimated as a current tax position. Based on the filed tax return over 2014 these tax effects were qualified as temporary differences and therefore reclassified from current to the deferred tax position. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 173 Income tax recognised in equity The tax effects of the movements in equity, via comprehensive income, are as follows: (in thousands of euros) Before tax Deferred tax Current tax After tax Exchange differences 3,310 3,310 Changes in fair value on hedge transactions 22,920 -6,245 16,675 Remeasurements of defined benefit liability 1,284 -321 963 Share in other comprehensive income of associates 2,421 2,421 Total unrealised 2015 29,935 -6,566 23,369 Exchange differences 7,723 7,723 Changes in fair value on hedge transactions -3,314 -1,728 22,352 17,310 Remeasurements of defined benefit liability -4,893 1,223 -3,670 Share in other comprehensive income of associates -15,990 -15,990 Total unrealised 2014 -16,474 -505 22,352 5,373 Current income tax positions The income tax liability is calculated on the profit for reporting (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 purposes, allowing for permanent differences between the profit as calculated for reporting purposes and for tax purposes. The income Income tax receivable tax liability on fair value gains and losses which are not processed Fiscal unity 3,293 20,683 immediately in the income tax return is recognised in deferred tax Dutch subsidiaries outside the fiscal unity 66 assets and liabilities. Of the income tax receivable recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 with regard to the fiscal unity, Total income tax receivable 3,293 20,749 an amouint of -0.3 million euros relates to 2015 and 5.2 million euros to 2014. The 2014 income tax return for the N.V. Luchthaven Income tax liability Schiphol fiscal unity has been discussed with the tax inspector and Dutch subsidiaries outside the fiscal unity -253 recognised accordingly in these financial statements. Final tax Income tax in foreign jurisdictions -130 -1,374 assessments have been imposed and settled for the tax years prior to 2014. The foreign income tax payable relates to local American Total income tax liability -383 -1,374 taxes. Total income tax 2,910 19,375 Differences between the income tax paid according to the cash flow statement and the income tax recognised in the statement of income concern additions to and withdrawals from deferred tax assets and liabilities, estimation differences between taxable amounts in provisional and final tax assessments and settlements in respect of previous years. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 174 13. Associates and joint ventures Schiphol has two material associates: (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Investments in associates 784,001 748,238 Investments in joint ventures 73,813 48,684 Aéroports de Paris S.A. (ADP) Paris 8% 8% Brisbane Airport Corporation Brisbane 18.72% 18.72% Balance 31 December 857,814 796,922 Holdings Ltd. (BACH) Associates Schiphol Group has significant influence over both ADP and BACH, (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 even though its indirect interest is smaller than 20%. In Brisbane, this influence is expressed in the form of rights to appoint members Carrying amount as at 748,238 780,141 of the Board of Directors, rights to block key strategic and financial 1 January decisions and cooperative and exchange arrangements. Where ADP is concerned, the parties hold shares in each other, both the CEO Movements in the year and the CFO of Schiphol Group are members of the Board of Result for the year 58,454 36,424 Directors, ADP has a representative in Schiphol Group's Supervisory Dividends 24,815 18,367 Board and a long-term cooperation agreement is in place providing Sales 448 for cooperation in various areas. Below is a breakdown of the assets Capital contributions 214 305 and liabilities, as well as a reconciliation with the recognition in Share of OCI 2,420 15,990 Schiphol Group's financial statements. The accounting policies Reclassification 40,505 applied are based on the Schiphol Group's accounting policies, or Exchange differences 510 6,678 figures have been adjusted where necessary. Total movements in the year 35,763 31,903 Carrying amount as at 784,001 748,238 31 December Associates Aéroports de Paris Brisbane Airport1 (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Income statement Revenues 2,916 2,791 407 403 Interest income and expenses 106 115 88 100 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 456 445 67 56 Result from discontinued operations Income tax 256 210 46 25 Result from continuing operations 431 402 152 82 Other comprehensive income 30 43 30 Financial position Fixed assets 7,977 7,780 2,767 2,495 Current assets 729 725 55 67 Cash and cash equivalents 1,729 1,266 23 27 Non-current liabilities 5,253 4,843 2,404 2,243 Current liabilities 1,056 969 172 134 Equity 4,126 3,980 269 212 Group's share % of equity 330 318 50 40 Goodwill 244 244 34 34 Other adjustments 57 55 9 -1 Carrying amount as at 31 December 631 617 93 73 1 Based on the financial statements as of June 30, 2015 The carrying amount of the associates at 31 December 2015 The share in the results of associates in 2015 includes a contribution includes 244 million euros of goodwill relating to Aéroports de Paris of 20.2 million euros from BACH (2014: 11.0 million euros). This and 34 million euros relating to Brisbane Airports Corporation Ltd. result was affected primarily by the positive developments of 1.4 million euros in BACH’s derivatives portfolio in 2015 (in 2014 this SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 175 was still a negative contribution of 7.0 million euros) caused by of associates and joint ventures has been filed with the Amsterdam derivative positions relating to the funding of the investment of an Chamber of Commerce. additional runway. There are no early settlements or early payment obligations for these derivatives. From 1 July 2014, BACH applies Schiphol Group owns a 25% interest in the land development hedge accounting to these derivative positions. company Schiphol Area Development Company N.V. (SADC), whose object is to develop business locations and support infrastructure ADP’s contribution to Schiphol Group’s financial result for 2015 was projects around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. SADC owns 33.33% an income of 36.3 million euros (income of 26.2 million euros in interests in GEM A4 Zone West C.V. and in GEM Badhoevedorp Zuid 2014). The other adjustments relate primarily to the differences in C.V. Apart from this indirect interest of 8.33%, Schiphol Group the accounting policies in respect of property. The fair value of ADP, owns direct interests of 33.33% in both C.V.s. The land positions derived from the market price of the share at 31 December 2015, included in these C.V.s were impaired by 15.8 million euros. This is 10.6 billion euros (31 December 2014: 9.9 billion euros). Schiphol negative result is recognised under ‘Share in results of associates’. Group’s share in this is 849 million euros (31 December 2014: 792 In 2015 no further impairments were recognised on these land million euros). positions. Schiphol Group is not directly liable for other material obligations of Details on the acquisition of AREB C.V. in 2014 are included in associates. Changes in the scope of consolidation. Joint Ventures 14. Loans to associates (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Carrying amount as at 1 January 48,684 90,354 Carrying amount as at 60,511 59,543 1 January Movements in the year Result for the year 2,021 9,064 Movements in the year Dividends 831 1,144 Accrued interest 6,146 5,582 Acquisition of SAR B.V. 22,370 34 Exchange differences hedging 1,816 2,623 Sales 89 transactions Capital contributions 1,309 1,137 Other exchange differences 1,877 141 Revaluation of AREB C.V. 30,446 Dividend received 7,378 Acquisition of AREB C.V. 64,802 Exchange differences -422 Total movements in the year 6,085 968 Other 260 1,390 Carrying amount as at 66,596 60,511 Total movements in the year 25,129 41,670 31 December Carrying amount as at 73,813 48,684 The loans to associates relate exclusively to the Redeemable 31 December Preference Shares in Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Ltd (BACH) held by Schiphol Group, which carry entitlement to a In 2015 Schiphol Group acquired a 40% interest in the joint-venture cumulative dividend. The maturity date of this loan is formally of Schiphol Airport Retail B.V. for 22.4 million euros. This acquisition 30 June 2022. Under the contractual terms the Redeemable was a result of the sale of 60% by Schiphol andthe subsequent loss Preference Shares of AUD 99 million (66.6 million euros including of control of its subsidiary. For more detailed information see accumulated dividend) are classified as a long-term loan to an Changes in the scope of consolidation. Schiphol Group entered into associate and the dividend on these shares is treated as financial a concession agreement with SAR for a period of ten years. After income. In 2015 Schiphol did not receive any proceeds on this loan. this period the concession for operating these shops will return to The issued debt of BACH is rated BBB. Schiphol. The revenues for this concession agreement, after the disposal of 60% in SAR, amount to 21.1 million euros in 2015. The currency risk relating to the nominal value of this long-term loan and the accrued interest is hedged by annual forward transactions The interest in the joint venture with Arlanda was sold in 2014 and which hedge the Australian dollar position against euros. All is therefore no longer presented under joint ventures. At year-end hedging transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges while 2015, there are no material joint ventures that are stated separately. the exchange differences relating to part of the loan and the accrued The outstanding loans to associates and joint ventures as at interest that is not hedged and the period between the successive 31 December 2015 amount to 76.0 million euros. A complete list annual forward transactions are recognised in the income SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 176 statement. Other exchange differences are recognised in the reserve For information of derivatives, see note 29. Management of for hedging transactions through other comprehensive income. financial risks and financial instruments. The fair value of the loans to associates at 31 December 2015 is 70 16. Assets and liabilities held for sale million euros (AUD 105 million) and the effective interest rate is In december 2015, management committed to a plan to sell the 10%. The fair value is estimated by discounting the future hotel activities of SHH B.V. including the related assets and liabilities. contractual cash flows at current market interest rates available to These activities are part of the Real Estate segment included in the the borrower for similar financial instruments. Real Estate business area. Management has the intention to sell 100% of the shares at a short notice and expects to finalise this 15. Non-current receivables transaction in the first six months of 2016. (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 In 2014 the assets and liabilities of SAR were presented as held for Loans to third parties 883 1,018 sale and 60% were sold in 2015. More details on this transaction Derivatives 13,895 are included in the section on Changes in the scope of consolidation. Loans to associates 8,782 9,491 Purchased long leases 3,384 3,141 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Lease incentives 26,204 29,842 Prepayments on fixed assets 5,460 213 Intangible fixed assets 79 Assets used for operating activities 124,898 1,591 Total other non-current 58,608 43,705 Inventories 7,616 receivables Cash and cash equivalents 3,263 5,590 Trade and other receivables 7,325 2,540 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Assets held for sale 135,486 17,416 Carrying amount as at 9,491 10,128 1 January Non-current liabilities 104 Deferred tax liability 973 Movements in the year Trade and other payables 10,845 7,009 Redemptions -709 -637 Liabilities held for sale 11,818 7,113 Total movements in the year -709 -637 The assets and liabilities held for sale are measured at carrying value, Carrying amount as at 8,782 9,491 because the fair value less costs to sell is not lower than this carrying 31 December value. The current portion of the loans to associates, amounting to 0.6 17. Trade and other receivables million euros (31 December 2014: 2.4 million euros), is presented (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 under current assets. The loans to associates include a loan of 5.7 million euros to SRE Altaï, which is a joint venture with ADP involving Trade receivables 92,247 98,843 collaboration in the area of property development. The remaining Accrued income 37,291 30,315 loans to associates were provided to Villa Carmen B.V. and Value-added tax 12,497 17,017 EnergyGrounds B.V. for 3.3 million euros and 0.4 million euros Prepayments 11,855 11,565 respectively. Inventories 2,319 2,279 Lease incentives 7,441 7,670 Purchased long leases are the rent instalments which Schiphol Receivable from associates 82 21 Group paid in advance in respect of land acquired on a long lease. Cash equivalents 40,000 Other receivables 22,049 34,855 Lease incentives are the cost of benefits which Schiphol Group granted tenants at the start of their lease. These are charged to the Total trade and other receivables 225,781 202,565 income statement over the term of the underlying contracts. The existence of lease incentives is taken into account in establishing the As in the previous year, other receivables include an amount of 19.0 cash flows underlying the determination of the fair value of million euros which Schiphol Group paid to Chipshol. property. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 177 18. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents were 394.0 million euros at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: 177.7 million euros), including deposits of 160 million euros with original maturities of between one and four months (31 December 2014: 90.4 million euros). The average interest rate on these deposits as at 31 December 2015 is 0.09% (31 December 2014: 0.11%). Cash and cash equivalents are freely available. 19. Issued share capital The authorised share capital as at 31 December 2015 is 142,960,968 euros divided into 300,000 class A shares and 14,892 class B shares, with a nominal value of 454 euros each. 171,255 of the class A shares and 14,892 of the class B shares have been issued. The class A and class B shares carry the same rights, except for the right to amend the Articles of Association. An amendment to the Articles of Association can only be adopted at a General Meeting of Shareholders at which all the class A shares in issue are represented, by a majority of at least four/fifths of all the votes cast. The General Meeting of Shareholders may resolve to withdraw all the class B shares in issue by an absolute majority of the votes cast. The shareholders’ interests are as follows: (in EUR (number) 1,000) (in %) Shareholder: State of the Netherlands 129,880 58,966 69.77% Municipality of Amsterdam 37,276 16,923 20.03% Aéroports de Paris 14,892 6,761 8.00% Municipality of Rotterdam 4,099 1,861 2.20% Total 186,147 84,511 100% There were no changes in the issued share capital in 2015. 20. Retained profits On a resolution proposed by the Management Board and approved by the Supervisory Board, the General Meeting of Shareholders voted to declare a dividend of 138.5 million euros over 2014. This amount was deducted from retained earnings when paid in 2015. The dividend for 2013, which amounted to 135.3 million euros, was paid out and deducted from retained earnings in 2014. The net result for 2015 was added to retained earnings, which, at 31 December 2015, therefore included the proposed dividend distribution for 2015, as detailed in the section entitled Proposed profit appropriation. The proposed dividend is 187 million euros or 1,006 euro per share. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 178 21. Other reserves Exchange differences Hedge Share in OCI of Actuarial gains (in thousands of euros) reserve reserve associates and losses Total Balance as at 31 December 2013 2,759 110,617 242 3,674 111,774 Movements in 2014 Exchange differences 7,723 7,723 Exchange differences on hedged borrowings 455 455 Deferred tax on fair value changes on hedged borrowings 114 114 Exchange differences on hedged loans to associates 2,623 2,623 Fair value movements on derivative financial instruments 811 811 Deferred tax on fair value movements on derivative 185 185 financial instruments Recycling of cash flow hedges to profit and loss 10,747 10,747 Deferred tax on recycling of cash flow hedges 2,250 2,250 Settlement of hedge transactions 17,950 17,950 Tax effect on hedge settlement 23,173 23,173 Other comprehensive income associates 15,990 15,990 Reclassification 123 123 Actuarial gains and revaluations 4,893 4,893 Tax effect on actuarial results 1,223 1,223 Total movements in the year 7,846 17,310 16,113 3,670 5,373 Balance as at 31 December 2013 10,605 93,307 16,355 7,344 106,401 Movements in 2015 Exchange differences 3,310 3,310 Exchange differences on hedged borrowings 15,628 15,628 Deferred tax on fair value changes on hedged borrowings 3,907 3,907 Exchange differences on hedged loans to associates 1,816 1,816 Fair value movements on derivative financial instruments 31,174 31,174 Deferred tax on fair value movements on derivative 7,794 7,794 financial instruments Recycling of cash flow hedges to profit and loss 9,725 9,725 Deferred tax on recycling of cash flow hedges 2,358 2,358 Settlement of hedge transactions 4,167 4,167 Other comprehensive income associates 2,421 2,421 Actuarial gains and revaluations 1,284 1,284 Tax effect on actuarial results 321 321 Total movements in the year 3,310 16,675 2,421 963 23,369 Balance as at 31 December 2015 13,915 76,632 13,934 6,381 83,032 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 179 Exchange differences reserve to be highly effective. Further information on the restrictions on the The exchange differences reserve recognises exchange differences distribution of reserves can be found in note 32. Shareholders' arising on the translation of the net investments in subsidiaries, joint equity in the company balance sheet. The tax effects of the ventures and associates outside the euro zone. movements in equity, via other comprehensive income, are explained in note 12. Income tax in the financial statements in the Hedging transactions reserve financial statements. This reserve recognises movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments used in cash flow hedges, net of deferred tax In the hedging reserve the following hedging instruments and assets and liabilities. It also includes the differences arising on the relationships are recognised. The impact on the income statement translation of loans at closing rates. In both cases, recognition in the is stated in the table below. hedging transactions reserve requires that the hedge is determined recycling > 1 and < 5 (in EUR 1.000) Total 2015 < 1 year > 1 year year > 5 year Forward Starting Rate Swap refinancing 2013/2014 -55,694 -7,077 -48,617 -28,307 -20,310 Lehman derivative settlement 2008 -6,566 -291 -6,275 -1,163 -5,112 Exchange difference on hedged YEN loan -24,846 -24,846 -24,846 CCIRS derivative hedge Yen loan 10,421 10,421 10,421 AUD derivative 124 124 Other -71 -71 Total -76,632 -7,315 -69,317 -29,470 -39,847 recycling > 1 and < 5 (in EUR 1.000) Total 2014 < 1 year > 1 year year > 5 year Forward Starting Rate Swap refinancing 2013/2014 -62,770 -7,077 -55,693 -28,307 -27,387 Lehman derivative settlement 2008 -6,856 -291 -6,566 -1,163 -5,403 Exchange difference on hedged YEN loan -13,125 -13,125 -13,125 CCIRS derivative hedge Yen loan -10,917 -10,917 -10,917 AUD derivative 433 433 Other -71 -71 Total -93,307 -7,006 -86,301 -29,470 -56,831 22. Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests at 31 December 2015 represent the shares of third parties in the net assets of the group company Eindhoven Airport N.V. An abridged balance sheet for this company is presented under Subsidiaries. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 180 23. Borrowings Carrying amount Fair value (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Year of Interest rate maturity EMTN programme 1,249,739 932,559 1,415,395 1,114,729 2016-2038 0,31%-5,16% Namensschuldverschreibung 24,720 24,681 32,306 33,407 2023 5.07% Schuldschein 194,501 194,255 215,136 224,198 2016-2019 5,16%-5,75% European Investment Bank 509,500 518,500 563,305 587,545 2024-2031 2,12%-3,95% KfW IPEX-bank 99,697 99,659 110,727 113,319 2024 2.80% Other borrowings 53,272 35,663 53,272 35,663 Total 2,131,429 1,805,317 2,390,141 2,108,861 Face value Carrying amount Fair value (in thousands of 2015 2014 2015 2014 Year of Interest Currency euros) maturity rate XS0495479555 50,000 49,988 49,972 52,232 54,261 2016 4.46% EUR XS0459479472 15,000 14,993 14,979 15,642 16,224 2016 4.28% EUR XS0167622454 30,000 29,983 29,976 34,427 35,585 2018 5.16% EUR XS0459479399 50,000 49,922 49,902 58,820 60,498 2019 4.94% EUR XS0459442710 85,000 84,935 84,918 100,088 102,969 2019 4.97% EUR XS1050663506 80,000 79,991 79,979 80,424 80,511 2016 0.67% EUR XS0621167732 438,447 419,311 415,723 517,788 531,398 2021 4.43% EUR XS0378569247 20,000,000 152,881 137,242 173,742 152,458 2038 3.16% JPY XS0983151282 40,000 39,934 39,928 45,211 46,471 2025 3.08% EUR XS0997565436 30,000 29,944 29,940 33,448 34,354 2025 2.94% EUR XS1301052202 300,000 297,857 303,573 2026 2.00% EUR EMTN programme 1,249,739 932,559 1,415,395 1,114,729 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 181 The fair value is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash Schiphol Group has access to a 300 million euro syndicated and flows at current market interest rates available to the borrower for committed facility with a term to June 2020. Schiphol Group also similar financial instruments. For loans that are actively traded in a has access to a bilateral committed facility of 100 million euros with public market the quoted prices are used to calculate the fair value. a term to 1 January 2017 agreed with Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, and two bilateral uncommitted facilities of EUR 75 Schiphol Group has a Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme, million each. During a short period in 2015 Schiphol made use of making it possible at present to raise funds of up to 2.0 billion euros these facilities to set off the effects of a lower liquidity position as a as required, provided the prospectus is updated annually. The result of seasonality. These facilities have since been redeemed. In prospectus was updated in 2015. In 2015 Schiphol subsituted the 2015 Eindhoven Airport obtained for a facility for 26 million euros, EMTN programme from Schiphol Nederland B.V. to N.V. Luchthaven which has been drawn for 19 million euros. Schiphol. The covenants of the EMTN programme provisions that a 'change of control' in combination with a 'downgrade below Of the total loans, an amount of 152.9 million euros has been drawn investment grade' triggers early redemption. in Japanese yen (JPY 20 billion). In line with the financial risk management policy, a combined cross-currency swap has been At year-end 2015, borrowings under the programme totalled 1,250 contracted on the JPY loan to hedge the exchange rate risks relating million euros (31 December 2014: 932.6 million euros). Under the to this loan. In principle, the transactions concerned correspond to EMTN programme, Schiphol Group could be obliged to redeem the all relevant characteristics of the respective loans, such as maturity notes prematurely in the event of specific circumstances commonly and amount, and hedge the positions with respect to the euro and/ stipulated for this type of instrument. There was no obligation to do or fixed interest rates. All hedging transactions are accounted for as so in 2015. During the year one so-called private placement was cash flow hedges. effected under the EMTN programme for 300 million euros with a maturity period of 11 years. The current portion of borrowings at 31 December 2015, of 283.9 million euros (31 December 2014: 5.0 million euros), is recognised In addition to the existing EMTN programme, Schiphol Group has a under current liabilities. Euro-Commercial Paper (ECP) programme with a limit of EUR 750 million. On 31 December 2015, no short-term loans were In 2015 Schiphol Group met the agreed convenants included in the outstanding under this programme. various contracts. Schiphol Group has drawn a Namensschuldverschreibung The average interest rate of the outstanding borrowings in 2015 (registered bond) that guarantees funding of 25 million euros at a amounts to 5.0% (2014: 5.2%). fixed rate of interest (5.07%). Schiphol Group has issued Schuldschein notes (fixed-interest loans with terms of 7 and 10 years) with a nominal value of 194.5 million euros. In principle, the Schuldschein documentation includes the same covenants as the EMTN programme. Schiphol Group obtained two facilities from the European Investment Bank for a total of 550 million euros, which has now been drawn in full (of which 40.5 million euros has since been repaid). Schiphol Group could be obliged to redeem the loan early if (in addition to the usual circumstances) other loans are repaid early or equity declines below 30% of total assets. Additional security will be demanded if the credit rating drops to is BBB or lower (S&P) or to Baa2 or lower (Moody’s). The loan agreement also contains a ‘change of control’ clause. Schiphol Group also entered into an agreement with KfW IPEX-Bank for a facility of 100 million euros, which is fully drawn at year end. Borrowings under the EMTN programme, the ECP programme, the EIB facility and the KfW facility are not subordinate to other liabilities and are eligible for voluntary early redemption. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 182 The remaining terms of the borrowings as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: > 1 year and <= 5 (in thousands of euros) Total <= 1 year > 1 year years > 5 years EMTN programme 1,249,739 141,099 1,108,640 149,575 959,065 Namensschuldverschreibung 24,720 39 24,759 155 24,913 Schuldschein 194,501 133,835 60,666 60,666 European Investment Bank 509,500 9,000 500,500 36,000 464,500 KfW IPEX-bank 99,697 37 99,734 150 99,884 Other borrowings 53,272 53,272 19,000 34,272 Total 2,131,429 283,858 1,847,570 264,937 1,582,634 The movements in borrowings during the year were as follows: (in thousands of euros) Borrowings > 1 year Borrowings <= 1 year Total Carrying amount as at 31 December 2013 1,401,206 420,146 1,821,352 Movements in 2014 New borrowings 379,970 379,970 Transferred to current liabilities 9,331 9,331 Repayments 607,326 607,326 Acquired borrowings 178,697 178,697 Exchange differences 455 455 Loans as result of acquisition 25,575 25,575 Other movements 3,395 4,109 7,504 Total movements in the year 399,154 415,189 16,035 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 1,800,360 4,957 1,805,317 Movements in 2015 New borrowings 316,803 316,803 Fair value movement 6,069 6,069 Transferred to current liabilities 291,340 291,340 Repayments 17,106 17,106 Exchange differences 15,628 15,628 Other movements 4,718 4,718 Total movements in the year 47,160 278,952 326,112 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 1,847,520 283,909 2,131,429 Further information on the acquired loans can be found in the section entitled Changes in the scope of consolidation, subsection 'Acquisition of AREB C.V.' SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 183 24. Employee benefits PostOther long-term employment employee Termination (in thousands of euros) benefits benefits benefits Total Carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 Liability defined contribution 28,511 12,366 2,856 43,733 Fair value of plan assets 4,201 4,201 Liability in the balance sheet 24,310 12,366 2,856 39,532 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 Liability defined contribution 22,720 13,586 2,140 38,446 Fair value of plan assets Liability in the balance sheet 22,720 13,586 2,140 38,446 Post-employment benefits consist of pension plans, job-related early Effective from 2014, the abolition of the life-course savings scheme retirement benefits, payment of healthcare insurance costs for resulted in the job-related early retirement scheme being turned into pensioners and supplementary disability benefits. Other long-term a more flexible scheme allowing for the possibility of working past employee benefits consist of long-service awards, long-term retirement age. The effects of this on the job-related early retirement variable pay, paid sabbatical leave and disability benefit scheme are limited. supplements. Termination benefits consist of redundancy pay and unemployment benefit supplements. The movements in post-employment benefit liabilities during the year were as follows: Schiphol Group’s pension plan is administered by the Algemeen Burgerlijk Pensioenfonds (ABP). Based on the formal terms of the (in thousands of euros)) 2015 2014 pension scheme, it qualifies as a defined-contribution plan. Schiphol Group recognises the pension contributions payable to ABP as an Carrying amount as at 24,310 20,235 expense in the income statement. Further information on this point 31 December can be found under Accounting policies. Movements The ABP pension regulations do not contain any provisions on Total net benefit expense for the year 1,403 1,155 additional contributions to the fund and/or withdrawals from it in Benefits paid during the year 1,700 1,653 respect of Schiphol Group’s share in surpluses or deficits of the Actuarial changes presented in other 1,284 4,893 pension fund. Consequently, any surpluses and deficits will only comprehensive income result in changes in the amount of the contributions payable by Payment of contributions 320 Schiphol Group in the future and these will depend on the actual Other movements -9 and expected financial position of the pension fund as reflected in the funding ratio. The expected contribution payment for 2016 is Total movements in the year 1,590 4,075 16.3 million euros. ABP’s funding ratio was 98.7% as at 31 December 2015. Carrying amount as at 22,720 24,310 31 December SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 184 Actuarial assumptions and estimates 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Discount rate 1.80% 1.50% Return on plan assets 1.50% 1.50% Inflation 1.50% 1.50% General salary increase 1.50% 1.50% Life expectancy Forecast table 2014 with adjustment Forecast table 2014 with adjustment factors factors geared to the company’s average geared to the company’s average salary level salary level Individual pay rises, depending on 3.00% (to age 39), 2.00% (to age 49), 3.00% (to age 39), 2.00% (to age 49), 1.00% (to age 1.00% (to age 59), 0.00% (to age 65) age 59), 0.00% (to age 65) Age difference Men 3 years older than female partners Men 3 years older than female partners Incapacity risk In and outflow of WIA, based on 2006 to In and outflow of WIA, based on 2006 to 2011 2011 Termination probability, 4.20% (age 25) to 0.10% (age 60) 4.20% (age 25) to 0.10% (age 60) depending on age Continued service probability (job100% 100% related early retirement scheme) 25. Other provisions have to pay to Chipshol with regard to the Groenenberg site or other (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 claims will exceed the provision for this. Carrying amount as at 1 January 17,484 10,658 The 7.4 million euro provision for onerous contracts relates to a onerous contract regarding a future obligation to contribute land at Movements in the year a fixed price to a common land bank. Withdrawals during the year 58 573 Addition for onerous contracts 7,399 Addition for claims Release to the income statement 27 Total movements in the year 85 6,826 Carrying amount as at 17,399 17,484 31 December Schiphol Group faces liabilities in connection with certain other claims and disputes. The overall provision of 10.0 million euros recognised for these claims and disputes was unchanged in 2015. The most significant claims concern the consequences of the ban on the development of the Groenenberg site in place from 19 February 2003 to 28 June 2007. Proceedings against Chipshol about the consequences of the imposition and lifting of the ban on development of the Groenenberg site are still ongoing. It is not clear when the Amsterdam Court of Appeal will deliver a final judgment. In addition, Chipshol submitted a claim to the ACM in 2012. This claim was dismissed by the ACM and also by the Court of Rotterdam. The Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal confirmed this decision in 2015. The Management Board is of the opinion that no adjustment is required to the estimate it made of Schiphol Group’s net liabilities towards Chipshol. The Board does not expect that the remaining amount of the compensation which Schiphol Group will eventually SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 185 26. Other non-current liabilities 27. Trade and other payables (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Purchased long leases 85,773 86,091 Trade payables 107,911 110,495 Lease liabilities 51,358 52,643 Payable in respect of wage tax and 2,185 5,310 Derivatives 14,556 social security contributions Unrealised profit on contribution in 3,303 3,395 Payable in respect of pensions 27 kind Schiphol Logistics Park C.V. Lease liabilities 2,336 2,768 Lease incentives 3,298 2,787 Derivatives 654 3,377 Other movements 7,092 10,670 Interest payable 37,825 36,919 Accruals 109,221 99,180 Total other non-current 150,824 170,142 Deferred income 47,380 46,934 liabilities Purchased long leases 1,804 1,804 Lease incentives 2,575 3,163 Long leases received in advance are rent instalments which Schiphol Other payables 4,096 10,188 Group has received in advance on land leases to third parties. This item is recognised through profit or loss over the term of the Total trade and other payables 315,987 320,165 underlying contracts. Further details of the derivative financial instruments can be found Lease liabilities includes the lease of office building The Base with in note 29. Management of financial risks and financial instruments. ABP, which runs for 40 years with options to cancel after 25 years and 30 years. If the lease is cancelled before the end of the 40-year period, Schiphol Group will be liable to pay a lump sum and penalty interest, with the premises becoming the property of Schiphol Group. The rent is increased annually in line with the consumer price index. The leasehold of the land on which The Base stands has been granted to ABP for the duration of the lease. (in thousands of euros) The Base Vehicles Total Liability < 1 year 1,421 915 2,336 Liability 1 year and < 5 year 6,732 4,955 11,687 Liability > 5 year 39,671 39,671 Carrying amount of 47,824 5,870 53,693 financial lease liabilities In 2006, Schiphol Real Estate B.V. contributed land to Schiphol Logistics Park C.V. and acquired a 38% interest in this company. The difference between the fair value of the site at the time of its contribution of 23.7 million euros and its total historical cost of 11.7 million euros is 12 million euros. In accordance with the accounting policies, 38% of this profit, representing Schiphol Real Estate B.V.’s share in Schiphol Logistics Park C.V., or 4.6 million euros, should be treated as unrealised. Of this profit, 1.3 million euros was realised when a part of the land was sold. Lease incentives are the cost of benefits which Schiphol Group granted to tenants at the start of their lease. These are recognised in the income statement over the term of the incentives. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 186 28. Contingent assets and liabilities programmes to be deployed. Schiphol Group’s contribution in the Contamination by extinguishing water second tranche will again focus primarily on the most distressing In July 2008, the Rijnland Water Board collected contaminated cases, but contributions to area-specific projects in the most extinguishing water released during an incident at a KLM hangar in affected nearby areas are not excluded in advance. Schiphol-Southeast and stored it in reservoirs made available by Schiphol. The Water Board had been granted a permit for this by Reduction of groundnoise the province of North-Holland. Although the contaminated The parties to the Alders platform agreed to reduce groundnoise extinguishing water was removed and decontaminated in 2009, it levels by 10dB. At this stage a reduction of 7dB has been realised. was later discovered that the soil and groundwater around the Schiphol Group will implement sound ribbs to reduce the reservoirs had also been contaminated. As the owner of the land groundnoise by 1dB. The total reduction will then be 8dB. To achieve concerned, Schiphol Group suffered damage as a result. The Water the remaining 2dB, Schiphol Group will acquire land from the Board removed the sludge from the reservoirs in 2011, as a result Municipality of Haarlemmermeer for 2.5 million euros. The total cost of which no further contamination could take place through that of the implementation of the sound ribbs is estimated to amount to sludge. In 2012 the Water Board, KLM and Schiphol took control 3.8 million euros. Schiphol and the Municipality of Haarlemmermeer measures aimed at preventing the further spread of contamination expect that the additional reduction of 2dB can be realised with through groundwater by placing a screen around the contaminated aircraft innovations by the airlines. In that event, the purchase of the area. Monitoring has shown that the screen is effective. land and the implementation of the sound ribbs are conditional. The watercourses at Schiphol that were contaminated during this Investigation ACM incident will be cleaned up within the framework of the regular In May 2015, the Netherlands Authority for Consumers and Markets dredging programme. The additional costs incurred on top of the (ACM) published policies regarding the consultation and regular dredging programme for the transport and processing of the determination for the use of Schiphol. Schiphol informed the ACM contaminated material will be charged to KLM. that, as per 3 June 2015 (opening Central Security Non-Schengen), the so-called bus@gate procedure was introduced for the handling Evides, a water decontamination company, is taking measures in of incoming flights for non-EUR destinations. This new procedure consultation with the municipality of Haarlemmermeer to deal with has necessitated a change in the allocation rules for aircraft stands. the technical facilities, soil and groundwater that were also Changes in allocation keys need to be consulted in accordance with contaminated by this incident. Evides contacted Schiphol Group and ACM policies. Due to the inflexibility of the policies, Schiphol was KLM to discuss further action to manage the contamination. not in the position to consult this change in accordance with the Consultations with the competent authorities were started at the prescribed rules before the introduction on 3 June 2015. In end of 2013 with the aim to check the plan against laws and November 2015 the ACM expressed its intention to issue a report regulations. against Schiphol on the possible breach of the Aviation Act. The ACM is expected to publish its judgement and possible To protect the quality of the surface water in the ditch next to the consequences at the end of the first quarter of 2016. In the waste water purification plant, the Water Board instructed Evides, meantime Schiphol consulted its revised allocation rules for aircraft KLM and Schiphol Group to take measures in 2014/2015. The stands with a positive outcome. No complaints were filed. impact of the plans will be evaluated. Schiphol Area Development Company N.V. (SADC) Covenant on local environmental quality in the medium term Schiphol Group participates directly, and indirectly through the The arrangements to be made under this covenant concern areacollaborative venture Schiphol Area Development Company N.V. specific projects (improvement of the quality of the local (SADC), in land holdings in the vicinity of Amsterdam Airport environment in particular areas) and individual measures (mitigation Schiphol. SADC's objective is to develop business locations and in individual cases of noise-related distress). Schiphol Group supporting infrastructure projects around the airport. provided 10 million euros for the first tranche in 2006 for the near term to 2010, which amount was earmarked for the funding of One of these land holdings concerns the A4 Zone West area. individual measures in distress cases and area-specific projects. The Schiphol Group has the future obligation to contribute 17.6 million State and the province of North-Holland also provided 10 million euros as a limited partner's contribution, to be increased by euros each. financing and acquisition costs, to fund the contribution of land to GEM A4 Zone West C.V. by the Municipality of Haarlemmermeer. A second tranche was committed in the Alders recommendations of October 2013 in connection with which Schiphol Group is again Other contingent assets and liabilities making 10 million euros available. It has been agreed that in 2016, A bank guarantee amounting to 2.3 million euros relating to before this second phase is implemented, the parties will discuss payment commitments connected with the ‘Storage in their experiences from the first phase to determine how to enhance Underground Tanks’ order has been granted to the province of the quality of life in the surrounding areas most effectively and the North-Holland. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 187 Commitments arising from long-term contracts (in thousands of euros) Total 2015 < 1 year > 1 year and < 5 year > 5 year Commitments relating to: Security, maintenance and cleaning 906,526 246,605 647,702 12,219 Electricity and gas 6,782 6,782 Rents and leases (operating lease) 3,213 1,593 1,620 Development A-Area 38,600 32,130 6,470 Development Lelystad Aiport 25,268 3,000 22,268 Other capital projects 49,667 49,667 Total 1,030,056 339,777 655,792 34,487 (in thousands of euros) Total 2014 < 1 year > 1 year and < 5 year > 5 year Commitments relating to: Security, maintenance and cleaning 1,175,340 443,547 672,578 59,215 Rents and leases (operating lease) 5,836 5,836 Electricity and gas 7,165 4,154 3,011 Other capital projects 30,400 30,400 Total 1,218,741 483,937 675,589 59,215 Various other claims against N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and/or its subsidiaries have been filed, and there are disputes which still have to be settled. All claims and disputes are being contested and the company has taken legal advice on them. However, as it is impossible to predict the outcomes with any certainty it is not yet clear whether any of the cases will result in actual liabilities for the company and/or its group companies. Accordingly, no provisions have been recognised in the balance sheet in respect of these claims and disputes. The company has also brought claims against third parties and has disputes pending in which it is the claimant. Since it is not yet clear whether these cases will be resolved in the company’s favour, no related receivables have been recognised in the balance sheet. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 188 29. Management of financial risks and financial instruments a cash flow hedge while the associated exchange differences are Financial income and expenses recognised in the reserve for hedging transactions. The other The table below contains a breakdown of financial income and exchange differences are recognised in the income statement. expenses. Capitalised construction interest is interest charges incurred during the construction phase of large investment projects. Financial risk factors Due to the nature of its activities, Schiphol Group faces a variety of (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 risks including market risk, counterparty risk and liquidity risk. The financial risk management programme (which is part of Schiphol Interest and other financial Group’s overall risk management programme) focuses on the income unpredictability of the financial markets and on minimising any Receivables from associates 6,146 4,856 adverse effects this may have on Schiphol Group’s financial results. Interest on tax due 1,193 2,415 Cash and cash equivalents 278 1,412 Schiphol Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge Exchange differences on other assets 195 certain risks. Financial risk management is carried out by the central and liabilities treasury department (Corporate Treasury) and is part of approved Exchange differences receivables from 2,764 Management Board policy. In addition to drawing up written associates guidelines for financial risk management, the Management Board Other financial results 2,735 determines the policy for specific key areas such as currency risk, Exchange differences on cash and cash 83 interest-rate risk, credit risk, the use of derivative and non-derivative equivalents financial instruments, and the investment of temporary liquidity Other 309 275 surpluses. The contracts relating to derivative financial instruments are shown in the table on the next page. 8,121 14,540 Market risk Interest and other financial Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, price risk and expenses interest-rate risk. Borrowings -79,885 -87,553 Capitalised borrowing costs 5,668 5,071 (a) Currency risk Derivative financial instruments -11,473 -10,747 Currency risk arises if future business transactions, assets and Fair value movement loans -6,069 437 liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and net investments in Lease liabilities -4,068 -4,229 activities outside the euro zone are expressed in a currency other Exchange differences on loans to -61 than Schiphol Group’s functional currency (the euro) and so the euro associates is both its functional currency and presentation currency. Schiphol Exchange differences on cash and cash -15 Group operates internationally and faces currency risks on several equivalents currency positions, in particular in Japanese yen (borrowings) and Exchange differences on other assets -3,110 US and Australian dollars (net investments in activities outside the and liabilities euro zone). Other -772 Schiphol Group manages the currency risk on borrowings by using -96,675 -100,131 forward and swap contracts. The financial risk management policy is that virtually all expected cash flows are hedged. As at Total financial income and -88,554 -85,591 31 December 2015, 7.2% of group financing had been drawn in expenses foreign currency (one loan with a carrying amount of 152.9 million euros (JPY 20 billion nominal value)) compared with 7.6% of total Exchange differences on loans to associates concern the borrowings (one loan with a carrying amount of 137.2 million euros Redeemable Preference Shares of Brisbane Airport Corporation (JPY 20 billion nominal value)) a year earlier. In accordance with the Holdings Ltd held by Schiphol Group. The terms and conditions policy, this position is fully hedged by means of currency swaps. A require repayment of the nominal value to the shareholders within movement in the exchange rate will not affect the results relating a period of ten years and therefore the shares are not considered to to these borrowings. The effect on equity is temporary (only for the be part of the net investment in the associate. Consequently, duration of the hedging transaction) and amounts to 11.7 million exchange differences should be accounted for in the income euros negative in 2015 (after deferred tax). statement rather than in the exchange differences reserve. The currency risk relating to this long-term receivable is hedged by Schiphol Group has a number of strategic investments in activities annual forward transactions which hedge the Australian dollar outside the euro zone and of these the net investments recognised position against the euro. The hedge transactions are recognised as in the balance sheet under ‘associates’, ‘loans to associates’ and SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 189 Notional Interest amount Maturity Fair value in thousands of euros 31 December 31 December Type Counterparty rate Currency (x1000) date 2015 2014 Currency swap JPMorgan 3.16% JPY 20,000,000 2038 13,895 14,556 Forward JPMorgan n/a AUD 90,500 2016 654 3,377 13,241 17,933 Recognised in the balance sheet under: Non-current assets 13,895 Non-current liabilities 14,556 Current liabilities 654 3,377 13,241 17,933 'contract related assets' are affected by a translation risk. In The remaining portion of the derivative financial instrument serves accordance with the policy, the currency position relating to to hedge the translation differences on the Redeemable Preference Schiphol Group’s net investments in activities outside the euro zone, Shares recognised as loans to associates. totalling 204 million euros as at 31 December 2014 (174.5 million euros as at 31 December 2014), is not hedged, with the exception The interest rates shown against the various currency, interest-rate of the Redeemable Preference Shares which Schiphol Group owns and cross-currency swaps are the fixed rates at which interest is in Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Ltd. The currency risk on payable to the counterparty, for which interest at the variable (or this receivable and the accrued dividend, which had a carrying fixed) rate that Schiphol Group in turn has to pay on the loans amount of 66.6 million euros as at 31 December 2015 (60.5 million concerned is receivable from the counterparty. euros as at 31 December 2014), is largely hedged with forward exchange transactions. Consequently, a movement in the exchange (b) Price risk rate will have only a minor effect on the results relating to this Price risk is the risk of fluctuations in the value of assets and liabilities receivable. Exchange differences on the unhedged position relating as a result of changes in market prices. Schiphol Group is affected to investments in associates are recognised in the exchange mainly by the price risk on property investments which it recognises difference reserve and do not directly affect the result. The effect on at fair value. This fair value is influenced by supply and demand and equity in 2015 is 3.3 million euros, which leads to a increase in the movements in interest rates and the rate of inflation. An average exchange difference reserve from 10.6 million euros as at increase of 10% in the net initial yield (NIY) on offices and 31 December 2013 to 13.9 million euros as at 31 December 2015. commercial buildings demanded by property investors would reduce the value of those properties by a total of approximately 96 Schiphol Group’s risk in respect of the cross-currency swap is million euros. A 10% decrease of the NIY will lead to an increase of mitigated by a cash collateral agreement with JPMorgan, which approximately 117 million euros. Under the accounting policy, in results in a maximum net position for both parties that depends on that situation profitability before tax would fall by the same amount. the parties’ credit rating. If the credit rating of either party is reduced, the maximum net position for that party will also decrease. Schiphol Group purchases electricity and gas for its own use by Under the cash collateral agreement, the difference between the Aviation on long-term contracts. market value of the swap and the applicable maximum net position is paid weekly through the bank. (c) Interest-rate risk Interest-rate risk is divided into a fair value interest-rate risk and a As at 31 December 2015, the maximum net position of both parties cash flow interest-rate risk. amounted to 10 million euros (10 million euros as at 31 December 2014) while the market value of the swap was approximately 13.9 Fair value interest-rate risk million euros negative (14.5 million euros as at 31 December 2014) Fair value interest-rate risk is the risk of fluctuations in the value of at Schiphol Group’s expense. As at 31 December 2015, Schiphol a financial instrument as a result of movements in the market Group had no obligation to JPMorgan. If the EUR/JPY exchange rate interest rate. Schiphol Group has no significant financial assets that decreases by 10%, Schiphol Group will receive 26 million euros from attract a cash flow interest-rate risk but is affected by fair value JPMorgan. If the exchange rate rises by 10%, Schiphol Group is not interest-rate risk on its fixed-interest borrowings. If market interest required to deposit any collateral. rates fell by an average of 0.5%, this would lead to an increase of 80.0 million euros (3.4%) in the fair value of borrowings. An average increase of 0.5% in market interest rates would lead to a fall of 62.3 million euros (2,6%) in the fair value of borrowings. Schiphol SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 190 Group’s policy is to draw at least 50% of borrowings at fixed interest An amount of 12.0 million euros of the trade receivables (which rates, if necessary by using derivatives. As at 31 December 2015, amounted to 97.8 million euros before deduction of the provision 96% of borrowings were fixed-interest, excluding subsidiaries and for doubtful debts of 2.8 million euros and security deposits received associates (31 December 2014: 96%). of 2.8 million euros) was past due but not provided for. The debtors concerned have no default history and the payments were received Cash flow interest-rate risk in January 2016. The cash flow interest-rate risk is the risk of fluctuations in the future cash flows of a financial instrument as a result of movements in Parties using services from Schiphol Group are first assessed for market interest rates. Except for cash and cash equivalents, Schiphol creditworthiness. Depending on the outcome of this assessment, Group has no significant financial assets that attract a cash flow they may be required to provide security in the form of a bank interest-rate risk. If the average interest received on deposits had guarantee or deposit to limit the credit risk. As at 31 December been 0.5% lower during 2015 (and had therefore been 0%), the 2015, Schiphol Group holds 41.7 million euros in bank guarantees interest income relating to deposits would have been 0.1 million and security deposits (31 December 2014: 44.7 million euros). euros lower (2014: 0.5 million euros). Koninklijke Luchtvaartmaatschappij N.V. (KLM) has an individual balance in excess of 10.0 million euros. In addition, Schiphol Group runs a cash flow interest-rate risk in respect of group financing at a variable interest rate. This position is limited by Schiphol Group’s policy of not drawing more than 50% of the funds borrowed at a variable interest rate (and at least 50% at a fixed interest rate), if necessary by using derivatives. As at 31 December 2015, the figure for variable-interest borrowings was 4% (31 December 2014: 4%). The cash flow interest-rate risk is managed by using interest-rate swaps, under which a variable interest rate can be changed into a fixed interest rate, and interest rate caps, which limit any increase in interest rates. As part of an interest rate swap, Schiphol Group agrees with a counterparty to effect swaps, at predetermined times, of the difference between a fixed contract rate and a variable interest rate. This difference is calculated on the basis of the agreed underlying principal sum. If the average variable interest rate had been 1% higher during 2015, there would have been no interest expense effect relating to group financing (2014: no effect). Counterparty risk Counterparty risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument fails to fulfil its obligations, causing the other party to suffer a financial loss. Schiphol Group’s counterparties in derivative financial instruments and liquidities transactions are restricted to financial institutions with high creditworthiness (a minimum S&P credit rating of A) and the net position for each counterparty may not exceed 150.0 million euros. The maximum net position as at 31 December 2015 was 150 million euros (115 million euros as at 31 December 2014). At 31 December 2015, trade receivables was 92.2 million euros (31 December 2014: 98.8 million euros), after a provision for doubtful debts of 2.8 million euros (3.3 million euros as at 31 December 2014) and including 2.9 million euros in security deposits received (31 December 2014: 2.7 million euros). The provision covers all receivables owed by debtors that are in bankruptcy or have applied for a moratorium on payments, receivables older than one year and larger receivables younger than one year which are expected to be uncollectible. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 191 The movements in the provision for bad debts and ageing analysis are as follows: (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 Carrying amount as at 1 January 3.3 4.1 Redemption 0.6 0.7 Withdrawal during the year 0.1 0.1 Carrying amount as at 2.8 3.3 31 December Ageing analysis Less than 60 days 92.6 99.6 Older than 60 days 2.8 3.1 Older than 360 days 1.2 1.1 Bankruptcies 1.2 1.0 97.8 104.8 Provision for bad debt 2.8 3.3 Security deposits received 2.8 2.7 Total trade receivables 92.2 98.8 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Schiphol Group will have difficulty in raising the funding required to honour its commitments in the short term. Careful liquidity risk management means that Schiphol Group maintains sufficient liquid resources and has access to sufficient funding in the form of promised (and preferably committed) credit facilities and the EMTN programme. The financing policy is also aimed at reducing the refinancing risk. See note 23. Borrowings for further information on the margin and facilities. In connection with liquidity risk, Corporate Treasury manages the cash pool through which several of the subsidiaries’ bank balances are managed and netted for optimum balance management. All the items below are shown at the amounts at which they are recognised in the balance sheet and with a remaining maturity based on the date of redemption or settlement agreed with the counterparty. Schiphol Group’s policy is that no more than 25% of liabilities may have a term of less than one year. As at 31 December 2015, this figure was 13.3% (31 December 2014: 0.3%). SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 192 The remaining term of the net liabilities relating to financial instruments and the composition of the expected cash flows are as follows: Contractual > 1 year but <= (in thousands of euros) Total 2015 cash flows <= 1 year > 1 year 5 years > 5 years Borrowings 2,131,429 2,115,936 283,909 1,847,520 264,553 1,582,967 Finance lease liabilities 53,694 53,694 2,336 51,358 11,687 39,671 Derivative financial instruments 654 654 654 Trade payables 107,911 107,911 107,911 Interest payable 37,825 37,825 37,825 Total 2,331,512 2,316,019 432,634 1,898,878 276,240 1,622,638 Contractual > 1 year but <= (in thousands of euros) Total 2014 cash flows <= 1 year > 1 year 5 years > 5 years Borrowings 1,805,317 1,813,163 4,957 1,800,360 532,717 1,267,643 Finance lease liabilities 55,411 55,411 2,768 52,643 11,118 41,525 Derivative financial instruments 17,933 17,933 3,377 14,556 14,556 Trade payables 110,495 110,495 110,495 Interest payable 36,919 36,919 36,919 Total 2,026,075 2,033,921 158,516 1,867,559 543,835 1,323,724 Financial instruments can be classified, according to the measurement policy applied, as follows: Level1 Total 2015 Amortised cost Fair value Fair value Fair value through equity through profit disclosure (in thousands of euros) and loss Borrowings 2 2,096,824 2,096,824 2,355,537 Borrowings 3 34,604 34,604 Finance lease liabilities 2 53,694 53,694 53,694 Derivative financial instruments 2 654 654 Trade payables n/a 107,911 107,911 107,911 Interest payable n/a 37,825 37,825 37,825 Liabilities 2,331,512 2,150,518 654 180,340 2,554,966 Loans to associates 2 66,596 66,596 -70,000 Other loans 2 883 883 -883 Derivative financial instruments 2 -13,895 -13,895 Loans to associates 2 8,782 8,782 -8,782 Trade receivables n/a 92,247 92,247 -92,247 Cash and cash equivalents n/a 394,045 394,045 -394,045 Assets -576,448 76,261 -13,895 486,293 565,957 Total 1,755,064 2,074,257 -13,241 305,952 1,989,009 1 If a financial instrument is not measured at fair value the level of fair hierarchy, used to the determine the fair value disclosure, is disclosed. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 193 Level1 Total 2014 Amortised cost Fair value Fair value Fair value through equity through profit disclosure (in thousands of euros) and loss Borrowings 2 1,776,781 1,776,781 2,080,325 Borrowings 3 28,536 28,536 Finance lease liabilities 2 55,411 55,411 55,411 Derivative financial instruments 2 17,933 17,933 Trade payables n/a 110,495 110,495 110,495 Interest payable n/a 36,919 36,919 36,919 Liabilities 2,026,075 1,832,192 17,933 175,950 2,283,150 Loans to associates 2 60,511 60,511 -63,600 Other loans 2 1,018 1,018 -1,018 Derivative financial instruments 2 9,491 9,491 -9,491 Trade receivables n/a 98,843 98,843 -98,843 Cash and cash equivalents n/a 177,663 177,663 -177,663 Assets 347,526 71,020 276,506 350,615 Total 1,678,549 1,761,172 17,933 100,556 1,932,535 1 If a financial instrument is not measured at fair value the level of fair hierarchy, used to the determine the fair value disclosure, is disclosed. The tables above present the financial instruments measured at fair The nominal value is assumed to approximate the fair value of loans value by the method used. Measurement is undertaken for each to associates, trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents and trade reporting period. payables. • Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical For information purposes, the fair value of financial assets and assets or liabilities; liabilities is estimated by discounting future contractual cash flows • Level 2: Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active at the market interest rate applicable to Schiphol Group for markets or information based on or supported by observable comparable financial instruments at that time. market inputs; • Level 3: Unobservable inputs used to determine the fair value of an asset or liability. There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 measurements. Level 2 measurements are determined using various methods and assumptions based on market conditions on the reporting date. The fair value of these financial instruments is determined on the basis of the present value of the projected future cash flows converted into euros at the relevant exchange rates and the market interest rate applicable to Schiphol Group on the reporting date. The Level 3 measurement is a profit sharing loan based on fair values of a specific real estate portfolio. The cash flows are determined on the basis of the expected value on the expiration date. The expected value is based on the valuation of external appraisers. For more information see Investment property. Due to the positive movement in the fair values of the specific real estate portfolio the profit sharing loan will show a similar move in the opposite direction. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 194 Capital management (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Schiphol Group’s long-term capital strategy and dividend policy iare geared towards improving shareholder value, facilitating sustainable Non-current liabilities long-term growth and preserving an appropriate financial structure Borrowings 1,847,520 1,800,360 and sound creditworthiness. With its current shareholder base Lease liabilities 51,358 52,643 (public-sector shareholders), Schiphol Group only has access to the debt market and maintains a continued focus on further optimising Current liabilities its capital structure and cost of capital. Borrowings 283,909 4,957 Lease liabilities 2,336 2,768 Schiphol Group uses certain financial ratios, including cash flowbased metrics, to capture the dynamics of capital structure, dividend Total debt 2,185,123 1,860,728 policy and cash flow generation and monitors its capital structure in line with credit rating agencies and comparable best practices. In For capital management purposes, debt consists of non-current and this context, key financial ratios employed include: current liabilities as shown under ‘Total debt’. For capital management purposes, equity is equal to equity in the consolidated • Funds From Operations (FFO) Interest Cover: the FFO plus balance sheet. At 31 December 2015, equity was 3,716 million interest charges divided by the interest charges. euros (3,453 million euros at 31 December 2014). • Leverage: interest-bearing debt divided by equity plus the interest-bearing debt. The FFO/total debt ratio and leverage at 31 December were: • Funds From Operations (FFO)/Total Debt: the FFO divided by the total debt. 2015 2014 Funds From Operations FFO / Total debt 22.0% 26.5% (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Leverage 37.0% 35.0% Leverage 6.7x 6.4x Operating result 504,946 403,096 Depreciation and amortisation 222,796 228,121 The FFO interest coverage ratio is calculated by dividing the FFO plus Impairment 7,510 4,202 the interest charges relating to borrowings and lease liabilities, Proceeds from disposals of property, 181 105 amounting to 83.9 million euros in 2015 (91.3 million euros in plant and equipment 2014), by those interest charges. The FFO interest coverage ratio for Result from the sale of joint venture 49,847 5,395 2015 was 6.8x (compared with 6.4x for 2014). The ratios at Other income, from property 66,687 1,199 31 December 2015 are consistent with Schiphol Group’s policy of Costs related to sales of property maintaining at least a single Acredit rating (S&P). Other non-cash changes in other 4,504 916 receivables and liabilities Change in other provisions and 1,276 6,095 employee benefits Income tax paid 79,270 57,827 Interest paid 78,800 116,552 Interest received 1,438 3,718 Dividend received 25,646 26,889 Funds From Operations 481,771 492,525 ‘Funds From Operations’ is calculated specifically for the purpose of determining the financial ratios and differs from the cash flow from operations calculated in the consolidated cash flow statement in accordance with the reporting policies, in the Consolidated statement of cash flow for 2015. FFO is the cash flow from operating activities adjusted for operating capital. In 2015 FFO decreases from 493 million euros to 482 million euros. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 195 Related Party Disclosures Related parties Related parties Nature of relationship and transactions Relevant disclosure Directors remuneration Remuneration for Management Board Management board members Remuneration for members of the Supervisory Supervisory board Remuneration of committees Board Schiphol Airport Retail B.V. Concession income Associates and joint ventures ABP Pension contributions Employee benefits Aéroports de Paris Associate / dividends Associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures and Loans to Brisbane Airport Associate / dividends and interest on RPS receivable associates Ministry of Finance Shareholder/ distribution of dividends Retained profits There are a number of subsidiaries and joint ventures in which The other line of supervision involves the ministry of Infrastructure Schiphol Group holds an interest which results in either significant and the Environment and relates to the operation of Amsterdam influence but no decisive control or exercising joint operational and Airport Schiphol, for which a licence has been granted pursuant to policy control. Transactions with these parties, some of which are Section 8.25 of the Aviation Act. The operator reports to the significant, are executed at arm's length conditions and terms minister on the operation of the airport at least once every three comparable with transactions with third parties and prices no more years, with special reference to capital expenditure that is important favourable than if they had been negotiated with independent third to the development of the airport. The ability to foster the Mainport parties. These subsidiaries and joint ventures are designated as status of the airport, to the extent that the operator is able to related parties. influence that status, is particularly dependent on the development of the airport infrastructure in the medium and long term. Operation of the airport In its legislative capacity, the government (State of the Netherlands) is responsible for the legislation governing the operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, which is provided for indefinitely in law in Chapter 8, Part 4 of the Aviation Act and other legislation. Sections 8.7 and 8.17 of the Aviation Act impose constraints on the development and use of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. The Airport Traffic Decree lays down rules for airport use and stipulates limits for noise levels, air pollution and risks to public safety. The Airport Planning Decree defines the airport zone and the restrictions governing the use of the area at and around the airport. The Aviation (Supervision) Regulations define the rules concerning safety on the airport grounds. There are two lines of supervision of the operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. One line of supervision concerns preventing abuse, by the operator, of its position of economic strength. The body responsible for this supervision is the ACM. The supervision relates to the charges and conditions fixed by the operator pursuant to Section 8.25d of the Aviation Act to be met by the airport users in the forthcoming year. The charges are regulated on the basis of a mandatory annual consultation of users by the operator concerning the proposed charges and conditions for the forthcoming year. When making its proposal, the operator provides the users with a statement of the level of service to be provided as measured by the indicators stipulated in the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Operation Decree. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 196 Remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board Remuneration Committees Total 2015 Selection and Public Affairs (x EUR 1) Audit Remuneration Appointments and CR L.J. Gunning-Schepers 26,582 5,000 5,000 36,582 (chairman) H.J. Hazewinkel CPA 30,519 6,000 5,000 3,640 45,159 C. Clarke1 17,473 3,640 21,113 L. Galzy R.J. van de Kraats CPA1 18,000 4,500 22,500 A.B.M. Ohlsson1 17,473 3,640 3,640 24,753 M.A. Scheltema 24,000 5,000 5,000 34,000 J.G. Wijn 24,000 4,368 5,000 1,360 34,728 Resigned on 8 April 2015 A. Ruys 9,927 1,360 11,287 F.J.G.M. Cremers 6,527 1,632 1,360 9,519 J.G.B. Brouwer 6,527 1,632 1,360 9,519 Total 181,028 18,132 15,000 20,000 15,000 249,160 1 from 8 April 2015 Remuneration Committees Total 2014 Selection and Public Affairs (x EUR 1) Audit Remuneration Appointments and CR A. Ruys (chairman) 36,500 5,000 41,500 H.J. Hazewinkel CPA 24,000 6,000 5,000 35,000 J.G.B. Brouwer 24,000 6,000 3,750 1,250 35,000 F.J.G.M. Cremers 24,000 6,000 5,000 35,000 L. Galzy L.J. GunningSchepers 18,000 3,750 3,750 25,500 M.A. Scheltema 24,000 5,000 5,000 34,000 J.G. Wijn 24,000 5,000 5,000 34,000 Total 174,500 18,000 13,750 18,750 15,000 240,000 All members of the Supervisory Board also receive an annual expense fee of 1,600 euros on top of the remuneration for Supervisory Board members referred to above. Mr Galzy stated that he did not wish to receive any remuneration and expense fee in connection with his membership of the Supervisory Board and its committees. No shares, share options, loans, advances or guarantees were or will be granted to members of the Supervisory Board. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 197 Remuneration for Management Board members (x EUR 1) Salary Short-term Long-term Pension costs Pension costs Other Total 2015 incentives incentives (supplementary) payments J.A. Nijhuis CPA 395,461 59,319 203,732 29,707 107,253 13,153 808,625 M.M. de Groof 308,909 101,940 158,141 26,994 88,983 337,7251 1,022,692 E.A. de Groot 349,500 52,425 22,593 34,399 13,153 472,070 B.I. Otto 349,500 38,445 22,593 36,622 13,153 460,313 Total 1,403,370 252,129 361,873 101,887 267,257 377,184 2,763,700 1 The other payments include a termination fee which will be paid at the end of the employment in April 2016. (x EUR 1) Salary Short-term Long-term Pension costs Pension costs Other Total 2014 incentives incentives (supplementary) payments J.A. Nijhuis CPA 389,039 165,342 204,404 98,634 33,068 12,979 903,466 M.M. de Groof 303,893 121,557 159,666 76,448 36,467 12,979 711,010 E.A. de Groot 343,825 65,327 59,061 12,979 481,192 B.I. Otto 1 115,033 21,856 20,624 4,276 161,789 A.P.J.M. Rutten2 202,220 80,888 159,665 50,965 8,703 502,441 Total 1,354,010 454,970 523,735 305,732 69,535 51,916 2,759,898 1 from 1 September 2014 2 till 1 September 2014 The remuneration of Management Board members is disclosed in The other payments concern allowances for representation accordance with Section 2:383c of the Dutch Civil Code. Periodic expenses and the employers’ share of social security contributions. remuneration comprises the total of gross salary and holiday pay. Part of the other compensation of Mr de Groof includes a termination fee for the amount of 324,452 euros which is further Based on the assessment by the Supervisory Board of the extent to disclosed under Retiring and new board members. which the targets were achieved, the following short-term incentives have been charged to the result for 2015. The short-term For further details, please read the Management Board incentive for Mr De Groof is set at 33% of his fixed salary. Mrs De Remuneration for 2015 section in the annual report. Groot and Mrs Otto are both covered by the new remuneration policy and are granted 15% of her fixed salary for Mrs de Groot and 11% of her fixed salary for Mrs Otto. The short-term incentive for Mr Nijhuis has likewise been set at 15% since he voluntarily renounced part of the short-term incentive to which he was enititled. In addition, Management Board members Nijhuis, De Groof and Rutten are also eligible for a variable pay scheme relating to the operating results over a longer period (long-term incentives). The LTI is measured over a reference period of three years and has an ontarget payment level of 35% of the fixed salary. As regards the LTI, the Supervisory Board's assessment of the development of Economic Profit gives rise to the recognition of an employee benefits provision as of 31 December 2015 covering the remainder of the LTI for 2013 (reference period 2013-2015) with a swing factor of 1.5, one third of the LTI 2014 (reference period 2014-2016) with a swing factor of 1.0 and one third of the LTI 2015 (reference period 2015-2017) with a swing factor of 1.0. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 198 Subsidiaries The income statement for this company: Direct / indirect (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Registered interest in in % Schiphol Nederland B.V.1 Schiphol 100.00 Revenue 23,700 21,694 Schiphol Australia Pty Ltd Schiphol 100.00 Other income, from property 86 2,942 Schiphol North America Holding Inc. Delaware 100.00 Eindhoven Airport N.V. Eindhoven 51.00 23,614 18,752 N.V. Luchthaven Lelystad1 Lelystad 100.00 Luchthaven Lelystad Vastgoed B.V.1 Lelystad 100.00 Total operating expenses 17,577 16,152 Schiphol USA Inc. New York 100.00 Rotterdam Airport B.V.1 Rotterdam 100.00 Operating result 6,037 2,600 Rotterdam Airport Supplies Services B.V. 100.00 Rotterdam 1 Financial income and expenses 453 20 Rotterdam Airport Holding B.V.1 Rotterdam 100.00 Rotterdam Airport Vastgoed B.V.1 Rotterdam 100.00 Result befor tax 5,584 2,580 Schiphol International B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Schiphol Real Estate B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Corporate income tax 1,391 891 Airport Real Estate Management B.V.1 Schiphol 100.00 Airport Property Management B.V.1 Schiphol 100.00 Result 4,193 1,689 Avioport SpA Lonate 100.00 Pozzolo Events after the balance sheet date Schiphol Telematics B.V.1 Schiphol 100.00 There are no events after the balance sheet date. Schiphol Consumer Services Holding B.V. 100.00 1 Schiphol 1 Section 403, Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code is applied to these companies The subsidiaries are consolidated. The full list has been registered with the Chamber of Commerce. The balance sheet for the minority interest in Eindhoven Airport N.V. exclusive of the interests of Schiphol Group. is presented below. (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Assets Non-current assets 38,973 36,368 Current assets 6,046 5,372 45,019 41,740 Equity and liabilities Total equity 31,584 27,634 Non-current liabilities 9,397 10,766 Current liabilities 4,038 3,340 45,019 41,740 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 199 Company income statement for 2015 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Net income after tax 27,891 24,122 Results of subsidiaries 346,272 247,773 Result attributable to shareholders (net result) 374,163 271,895 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 200 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Assets Note 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 (in thousands of euros) Non-current assets Subsidiaries 30 3,188,929 2,807,211 Associates 30 631,325 617,500 Derivatives 13,895 Deferred tax assets 8,282 3,842,431 3,424,711 Current assets Receivables 31 1,066,948 833 Cash and cash equivalents 188,471 874 1,255,419 1,707 5,097,850 3,426,418 Equity and liabilities Note 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 (in thousands of euros) Shareholders' equity Issued share capital 84,511 84,511 Share premium 362,811 362,811 Retained profits 2,497,008 2,379,826 Other reserves 83,032 106,401 Revaluation reserve 424,809 417,483 Other statutory reserves 23,838 14,907 Net result of the year 374,163 271,895 32 3,684,108 3,425,032 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 3,474 Employee benefits 602 646 Loans and borrowings 23 1,108,640 1,112,716 646 Current liabilities 34 301,026 740 5,097,850 3,426,418 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 201 Notes to the company financial statements General the profit appropriation, after allowing for corporate income tax. On the sale of investment property, the amount of the revaluation General reserve for the property in question is transferred to other reserves. The company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the statutory provisions of Title 9, Book 2 of the The reserve for intangible assets (Section 2:365(2) of the Dutch Civil Dutch Civil Code, exercising the option in Section 2:362(8) of the Code) is maintained in connection with research and development Dutch Civil Code to apply the same accounting policies for the costs (software) capitalised by companies forming part of Schiphol company financial statements as have been applied in preparing the Group. The reserve for investments in associates (Section 2:389(6) consolidated financial statements. of the Dutch Civil Code) is formed for the share in the positive results of the entities concerned and in fair value gains recognised directly The option of presenting the company statement of income in in equity. Amounts are not recognised in respect of entities whose condensed form pursuant to Section 402 of Book 2 of the Dutch cumulative results are not positive. The reserve is reduced by the Civil Code has been exercised. amount of dividend distributions, fair value losses recognised directly in equity and any distributions which Schiphol Group would Accounting policies be able to effect without restriction. General The accounting policies for the company financial statements are Equity in the consolidated balance sheet includes an exchange the same as those for the consolidated financial statements. Where differences reserve, an other financial interests reserve and a no specific policies are mentioned, see the accounting policies for hedging transactions reserve. These reserves (recognised collectively the consolidated financial statements. in the company financial statements under the heading of ‘Other reserves of Schiphol Group’) are also presented as part of company Subsidiaries equity since they similarly restrict the ability to distribute the Companies over which Schiphol Group is able to exercise control or reserves. which Schiphol Group effectively manages are stated at net asset value determined by measuring the assets, provisions and liabilities Notes to the company balance sheet and income statement and results according to the policies applied in preparing the Where the notes to the company balance sheet and income consolidated financial statements. If the share of losses attributable statement are not materially different from the notes to the to Schiphol Group exceeds the carrying amount of a subsidiary, consolidated balance sheet and income statement, they have not losses over and above that amount are not recognised unless been repeated. See the notes to the consolidated balance sheet and Schiphol Group has given guarantees to the entity concerned or income statement for the items concerned. other commitments have been entered into or payments have been made on behalf of that entity. In that case, a provision is made for the consequent liabilities. Results on transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated in proportion to the interest in the entities concerned, except where the results arise on transactions with third parties. Losses are not eliminated if there are indications of impairment of the assets concerned. Elements of equity Various statutory reserves are maintained in the company balance sheet and form part of the retained profits in the consolidated balance sheet. These reserves restrict the ability to distribute the equity. They are the reserve for property revaluations and the reserves for intangible assets and for investments in associates. The latter two reserves have been combined under other statutory reserves. The revaluation reserve (Section 2:390(1) of the Dutch Civil Code) is maintained for unrealised fair value gains on individual items of investment property (land and buildings) held by companies forming part of Schiphol Group. Additions to this reserve are made through SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 202 30. Non-current assets (in thousands of euros) Subsidiaries Associates Total Carrying amount as at 31 December 2013 2,669,507 611,381 3,280,888 Movements in 2014 Result for the year 247,773 26,265 274,039 Dividend 120,000 14,646 134,646 Translation differences 6,786 6,786 Other movements 3,144 5,500 2,356 Total movements in the year 137,704 6,119 143,823 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2014 2,807,211 617,500 3,424,711 Movements in 2015 Result for the year 346,272 36,336 382,608 Dividend 24,859 24,859 Other movements 35,446 2,348 37,794 Total movements in the year 381,718 13,825 395,543 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2015 3,188,929 631,325 3,820,254 Subsidiaries are the wholly-owned subsidiaries of Schiphol Nederland B.V. or Schiphol International B.V., with the exception of Eindhoven Airport N.V. Section 2:403 of the Netherlands Civil Code applies to Schiphol Nederland B.V. Associates are the 8% interest of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol in Aéroports de Paris S.A. 31. Current assets Cash and cash equivalents are freely available. Receivables, cash and cash equivalents are included at fair value, which is usually face value. (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 Corporate income tax 2,815 782 Intercompany receivable from 1,063,991 subsidiaries Other receivables 142 51 1,066,948 833 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 203 32. Shareholders' equity Issued RevaluaOther Net Result share Share Retained Other tion statutory Financial (in thousands of euros) capital premium profits reserves reserve reserves Year Total Balance as at 31 December 2013 84,511 362,811 2,288,101 111,774 412,941 19,963 227,492 3,284,045 Movements in 2014 Appropriation of result for previous year 92,657 4,542 5,056 92,143 Distribution of dividend 135,349 135,349 Transaction with minority shareholders 932 932 Exchange differences 7,723 7,723 Changes in fair value on hedging transactions 17,310 17,310 Net result 271,895 271,895 Other comprehensive income from associates 15,990 15,990 Actuarial gains and revaluations after taxation 3,670 3,670 Total movements in the year 91,725 5,373 4,542 5,056 44,403 140,987 Balance as at 31 December 2014 84,511 362,811 2,379,826 106,401 417,483 14,907 271,895 3,425,032 Movements in 2015 Appropriation of result for previous year 133,954 4,542 5,057 133,439 Reclassification 16,772 2,784 13,988 Distribution of dividend 138,456 138,456 Exchange differences 3,310 3,310 Changes in fair value on hedging transactions 16,675 16,675 Net result 374,163 374,163 Other comprehensive income from associates 2,421 2,421 Actuarial gains and revaluations after taxation 963 963 Total movements in the year 117,182 23,369 7,326 8,931 102,268 259,076 Balance at 31 December 2015 84,511 362,811 2,497,008 83,032 424,809 23,838 374,163 3,684,108 The other statutory reserves comprise the reserve for intangible 34. Current liabilities assets and the reserve for investments in associates. (in thousands of euros) 2015 2014 33. Employee benefits Group companies 140,011 58 The liabilities for employee benefits relate to the Management Board Loans and borrowings 141,099 of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and concern the net liabilities in respect Accruals 19,916 of the long-term incentives. See the notes on employee benefits in Other liabilities 682 the consolidated financial statements for further details. 301,026 740 See note 4. Outsourcing and other external costs to the consolidated financial statements for a breakdown of auditor's fees. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 204 Schiphol, 18 February 2016 For the company financial statements for 2015: Supervisory Board Management Board L.J. Gunning-Schepers, chair J.A. Nijhuis President & Chief Executive Officer H.J. Hazewinkel, vice-chair M.M. de Groof C. Clarke Chief Commercial Officer R.J. van de Kraats E.A. de Groot Chief Financial Officer M. Ohlsson B.I. Otto M.A. Scheltema Chief Operations Officer J.G. Wijn SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 205 Other Information Proposed profit appropriation Article 25 of the company’s Articles of Association contains the make profit distributions according to a proposal by the following provisions on profit appropriation: Management Board approved by the Supervisory Board. 1. Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 2:105 of the 2. The General Meeting of Shareholders shall decide the Netherlands Civil Code, the profit according to the financial appropriation of the amounts thus reserved according to a proposal statements prepared by the Management Board shall be added to by the Management Board approved by the Supervisory Board. reserves unless the General Meeting of Shareholders resolves to (in thousands of euros) Result attributable to shareholders 374,163 With due observance of Article 25 of the Articles of Association, it is proposed that the result for the year be appropriated as follows: Addition to the revaluation reserve 56,393 (fair value gains and losses on property recognised in the profit and loss account, after adjustment for fair value losses below cost and after deduction of corporate income tax) Addition to the statutory reserve 2,694 (sum of the results of associates, less dividend distributions, and investments in research and development less amortisation) Dividend distribution 187,236 246,323 Addition to retained profits 127,840 Events after the balance sheet date For details of the events after the balance sheet date, reference is made to the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 199. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 206 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 207 Independent auditor’s report To: the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol Report on the audit of the annual financial statements 2015 Opinion In our opinion: • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol as at 31 December 2015, and of its result and its cash flows for 2015 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code; • the company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol as at 31 December 2015, and of its result for 2015 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements 2015 of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol, Schiphol, as set out on pages 135 to 205. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flow for 2015 and the notes, comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The company financial statements comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015, the company income statement for 2015 and the notes, comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ of this report. We are independent of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA). We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 208 Audit approach Summary • Overall materiality of EUR 15 million • 3.1% of profit before income tax • Investments in • 92% of operational assets consolidated revenue • Investment property • 97% of consolidated • Sale of Schiphol total assets Airport Retail Materiality Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole at EUR 15 million (2014: EUR 15 million). Materiality is determined with reference to profit before income tax of which it represents 3.1%. Although profit before income tax has increased compared to 2014, we have not increased the overall materiality as an absolute number. This is based on our consideration that profit before income tax includes items which are not necessarily representative of the activity level of the entity, such as revaluation of investment property and the profit with respect to the sale of Schiphol Airport Retail. We also considered misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for qualitative reasons for the users of the financial statements. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of EUR 0.8 million (2014: EUR 0.8 million), which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. We have not reported any uncorrected misstatements in excess of EUR 0.8 million. Scope of the group audit N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol is head of a group of entities (group entities) with activities in the Business Areas Aviation, Real Estate, Consumer Products & Services and Alliances & Participations. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or on specific items therein. The group audit was mainly focused on the activities located at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, including Aviation, Real Estate and Consumer Products & Services. The central audit team performed audit procedures with respect to the activities located at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 209 Audit procedures with respect to a number of foreign activities in the Business Area Alliances & Participations were performed by local auditors. This includes procedures related to investments in and results from the equityaccounted associates Aéroports de Paris and Brisbane Airport. We have discussed the outcome of their procedures during telephone conferences. In addition, we have reviewed the findings that were reported to us, for which we specifically asked through instructions prepared for this purpose. For other group entities, including the activities at Terminal 4 of JFK IAT, the central audit team performed specified audit procedures. Our approach described above resulted in a coverage of 92 per cent of total revenue and 97 per cent of total assets. By performing the procedures mentioned above, together with analytical review procedures for activities located outside Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Total assets Total revenue Full scope audits Full scope audits Specified audit procedures Specified audit procedures Other procedures Other procedures Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Investments in operational assets – appropriateness of capitalisation Description Assets used for operating activities (assets in use) and Assets under construction for operating activities together comprise 47% of total consolidated assets. As part of the Masterplan, Schiphol is investing in operational capacity and quality through large-scale renovations and investments. As disclosed on page 166 of the financial statements, capital expenditure in 2015 capitalised as part of Assets under construction for operating activities amounted to EUR 407 million. In our audit, the distinction between capitalised expenditure and operating expenses is important: operating expenses have an immediate effect on profit before income tax, while capitalised expenditure affect profit before income tax in the longer term, through periodic depreciation charges as from the date of transfer from assets under construction to assets in use. Our response We have performed audit procedures aimed at the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal controls within the purchase and investment process. For Assets under construction for operating activities we assessed the accuracy of new investments, including the appropriateness of capitalisation (rather than recognition as operating expenses), through sampling on capitalised expenditure and associated registered goods received and invoices received. We audited transfers from assets under construction to assets in use, through specific item testing, amongst others based on internally approved delivery protocols. In addition, we performed audit procedures that enabled us to rely on application controls embedded in relevant IT systems, such as the approval of invoices and automated matching of invoices with purchase orders and goods received (the so-called “three-way-match”). We also reviewed certain aspects of the IT general controls, including the design of user profiles in the IT environment that should ensure segregation of duties within such IT environment. With respect to the project Central Security Non-Schengen we have given consideration to the increased intensity of project activities towards the date of transfer to assets in use, which occurred on 3 June 2015. Therefore, during our audit we have focused on internal controls around project expenditure, invoices for overruns and capitalisation of expenditure around the transfer date. Schiphol has implemented specific internal KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 210 controls aimed at controlling the total project expenditure. Based on experiences gained from the above activities, lessons learned have been identified with respect to the alignment of project accounting and financial accounting which, together with the evaluation as referred to on page 94 of the Report of the Supervisory Board, will be applied within the context of future projects. Investment property is valued at fair value, supported amongst others by valuation reports of independent valuators Description Investment property comprises 22% of total consolidated assets and is measured at fair value. The result from revaluation of investment property amounts to EUR 67 million positive. The determination of fair value involves using assumptions and estimates, to which a certain degree of subjectivity is inherent. This has been acknowledged by Schiphol, as disclosed on page 151 of the financial statements as part of the section on critical judgements and estimates. As disclosed on page 145 of the financial statements, fair values are supported by valuation reports prepared by independent valuators. Fair values involve estimates of expected future cash flows and risks. Our response We examined the process of determining fair values and the internal controls included therein. We aimed our audit procedures, amongst others, at the engagements between Schiphol and the valuators, the methods and definitions applied and the internal analyses of the valuation results. We have audited the information provided by Schiphol to the valuators and the final results of the valuation process. We have involved our own valuation specialists to assess the models and assumptions used. We also performed audit procedures focusing on logical access controls with respect to the investment property IT system, which supports the exploitation of the investment property portfolio. This IT system further contains underlying data, such as data with respect to lease contracts, that serve as input in the valuation process. With support of our IT auditors we have tested whether changes in the underlying data have been processed by authorised staff. Sale of shares in Schiphol Airport Retail (SAR) resulted in a book profit which includes a revaluation profit of the interest retained Description In 2015, Schiphol sold 60% of the shares in SAR and continues to hold an interest of 40%. This transaction resulted in a book profit of EUR 50 million and has been disclosed on page 153 of the financial statements. From the perspective of the financial statements, this is a complex transaction since this book profit includes an amount of EUR 20 million that is the result of a revaluation to fair value of the 40% interest retained. Our response Based on contracts we have verified that Schiphol sold 60% of the shares and as a consequence no longer has control over SAR, but joint control. We have ascertained that Schiphol, in accordance with relevant accounting standards, has recognised the interest retained at fair value as at the transaction date, and subsequently applied equity method of accounting. We evaluated the fair value of the interest retained by comparing it with the proportionate share of the agreed price for the sale of 60% of the shares. Finally, we ascertained that the effect of the sale, including the revaluation to fair value of the interest retained, and the resulting book profit of EUR 50 million, were accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies as disclosed on page 146 of the financial statements. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 211 Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Management Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code and for the preparation of the Report by the Management Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Furthermore, the Management Board is responsible for such internal control as the Management Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Management Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting framework mentioned, the Management Board should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Management Board either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Management Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud. For a further description of our responsibilities in respect of an audit of financial statements we refer to the website of the professional body for accountants in the Netherlands (NBA) www.nba.nl/standardtexts-auditorsreport Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Report on the Report by the Management Board and the other information Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about the Report by the Management Board and other information): • We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the Report by the Management Board, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code has been annexed. • We report that the Report by the Management Board, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements. Engagement We were appointed as auditor of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol for the audit of the 2014, 2015 and 2016 financial statements in the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on 10 February 2014. We have been the external auditor since that date. Amstelveen, 18 February 2016 KPMG Accountants N.V. E. Eeftink RA KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 212 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 213 Historical summary (in millions of euros, unless otherwise indicated) 2015 2014 20131 2012 2011 Profit and loss account Revenue 1,423 1,438 1,364 1,353 1,278 Other income and results from investment 117 35 3 13 property Total operating revenue 1,540 1,473 1,367 1,340 1,278 Total operating expenses before depreciation, 804 838 796 806 766 amortisation and impairment EBITDA 735 635 571 534 512 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 230 232 266 238 208 Operating result 505 403 305 296 304 Financial income and expenses 89 86 90 88 91 Taxation, share in operating result of associates 38 43 15 12 15 and minority interests Result on ordinary activities after tax 378 274 230 196 198 Minority interests 4 2 3 -2 3 Net result 374 272 227 198 195 Balance sheet Non-current assets 5,646 5,413 4,929 5,108 5,106 Current assets 759 415 772 681 681 Total assets 6,405 5,829 5,701 5,789 5,787 Equity 3,716 3,453 3,309 3,203 3,175 Provisions 56 57 46 44 51 Non-current liabilities 2,021 1,987 1,576 1,980 1,980 Current liabilities 612 334 770 562 581 Total equity and liabilities 6,405 5,830 5,701 5,789 5,787 Operating cash flow2 508 508 462 399 387 Ratios Operating result as % of revenue 35.5 28.0 22.4 21.9 23.8 Return on average equity in % (ROE) 10.4 8.0 7.0 6.2 6.2 Return on Net Assets in %3 11.1 8.8 7.8 7.4 7.4 Return on Average Capital Employed in % 4 10.1 8.4 7.2 7.4 7.5 FFO/Total debt in % 5 22.0 26.5 26.0 24.5 18.5 FFO interest coverage ratio6 6.7 6.4 5.8 5.6 4.5 Leverage7 37.0 35.0 36.2 37.8 37.9 Figures per share Earnings per share 2,010 1,461 1,222 1,068 1,045 Operating cash flow per share 2,728 2,730 2,446 2,143 2,081 Dividend per share 1,006 744 726 582 524 Personnel Average effective full-time equivalent employees 2,000 2,039 2,058 2,087 2,115 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 214 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 1,180 1,154 1,154 1,146 1,037 22 40 22 114 39 1,202 1,114 1,176 1,260 1,076 719 731 709 666 598 483 383 467 594 478 186 196 172 175 162 297 187 295 419 316 115 91 54 35 36 10 37 54 68 247 172 133 187 316 527 3 169 133 187 316 527 5,000 4,798 4,754 3,945 3,681 506 729 655 342 483 5,506 5,527 5,409 4,287 4,164 3,109 2,975 2,887 2,957 2,722 65 69 50 54 63 1,762 2,061 1,747 914 865 570 422 725 362 514 5,506 5,527 5,409 4,287 4,164 351 327 421 313 362 25.1 16.2 25.5 36.6 30.5 5.6 4.5 6.4 11.1 21.2 7.9 4.9 7.5 12.3 10.1 7.3 4.5 7.3 11.7 9.8 1 Comparative figures before 2012 have not been restated due to 17.0 18.5 19.3 34.3 39.0 adoption of IFRS 11 2 For analysis see the cash flow statement 3.8 4.4 6.5 7.7 8.3 3 As from 2006: Operating result + result and interest associates / 37.2 40.5 38.6 23.5 24.8 average non-current assets less deferred taxes. 4 As from 2006: Operating result + result and interest associates / average of equity and interest-bearing debt 5 As from 2006: see calculation FFO / Total debt and FFO/ Interest 908 710 1,083 1,844 3,077 coverage in the note on Financial Risk Management 6 As from 2006: see calculation FFO / Total debt and FFO/ Interest 1,883 1,756 2,439 1,830 2,114 coverage in the note on Financial Risk Management Up to and 409 347 371 543 462 including 2005: Funds from operating activities adjusted for working capital plus interest income / interest costs 7 As from 2004: Interest-bearing debt / equity plus interest-bearing debt in % 2,328 2,496 2,506 2,459 2,293 SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 215 Glossary ACI Aviation Act (Wet luchtvaart) governing the Airports Council International – international sector association of operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol airports Legislation laying down the terms of the operating licence and the sector-specific supervision of charges and conditions for using ACM Amsterdam Airport Schiphol; in force since July 2006 Dutch Authority for Consumers and Markets; supervises the establishment of aviation charges and conditions at Amsterdam Aviation Act (Wet luchtvaart) governing the Airport Schiphol organisation and use of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Air transport movements Legislation laying down standards for noise, air quality, odour and Commercial air transport movements (not carried out by the military, safety at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol; in force since February 2003 police, etc.) Aviation Policy Document Airport Carbon Accreditation Vision of developments in, and the growth of, aviation in the Benchmark for the ACI sector association This benchmark helps Netherlands, published by the Dutch government provide insight into airports’ efforts to reduce CO2 emissions Bas Airport charges The Local Community Contact Centre (Bas) is the information and Aircraft, passenger and security-related charges complaints centre to which local residents can address their questions and complaints concerning air traffic at Amsterdam Airport traffic ruling Airport Schiphol. Bas is a joint initiative of Air Traffic Control the The section of the Dutch Aviation Act (Wet luchtvaart) that governs Netherlands (LVNL) and Amsterdam Airport Schiphol the use of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Bird strike AirportCity concept Bird strikes are incidents in which dead birds or bird remains are An integrated development concept for aviation and non-aviation found on an aircraft or a runway and in which it can reasonably be activities offering businesses and users a full spectrum of services assumed that the strike occurred within the airport boundaries and facilities. The AirportCity concept comprises the activities of the business areas of Aviation, Consumer Products & Services and Real BREEAM Estate BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) certification is awarded by the Dutch Green Airside Building Council Area where aircraft take off, land and taxi, and where ground handling activities are carried out on aircraft Business area A functional cluster of activities within the Schiphol Group Airside retail organisation The shops in the area behind security control, which is only accessible to travellers at Schiphol Catchment area Area from which passengers travel to and from Amsterdam Airport Alders platform Schiphol by road or rail Consultative body for the aviation sector and regional partners, chaired by former minister and former Queen’s Commissioner Hans Comprehensive testing Alders The comprehensive fire-safety testing, under operating conditions, of fire alarm equipment, air treatment plants, baggage systems, lift AREB Fonds control equipment, shutters and evacuation systems in the terminal A real estate fund at the Schiphol location wholly owned by Schiphol Real Estate Concession income Income from activities for which a concession (i.e., a licence to conduct specific activities) has been granted, usually in the form of a percentage of revenue SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 216 Corporate Responsibility (CR) GRI Conducting business with respect for people, the environment and Global Reporting Initiative – worldwide guidelines for Corporate the local community Responsibility reporting CR-conscious supplier Ground handling A supplier who is able to produce a recent Corporate Responsibility The activities required for the arrival and departure of aircraft, policy document, an (integrated) Corporate Responsibility Report, passengers and cargo. This includes passenger check-in, loading an ISO 14001 or equivalent specific certificate for a product or and unloading baggage and cargo, aircraft cleaning, and catering product group and an EMAS certificate Ground noise CROS Ground noise is low-frequency noise producing vibrations that can The Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (Commissie cause nuisance. It is perceived differently from ‘regular’ noise, and Regionaal Overleg luchthaven Schiphol); a discussion platform is more often felt than heard. Low-frequency noise is produced by connecting the aviation sector and the region aircraft taking off on the runway EASA Home carrier European Aviation Safety Agency Main network carrier at a hub airport Economic profit HPO RONA (after tax) minus the WACC, multiplied by average fixed High Performance Organisation: an organisation that outperforms assets comparable organisations (financially) over a prolonged period of time. Enforcement point A calculation point to which a maximum permissible noise load Hub applies as set by the central government A central airport where continental and intercontinental flights are available Environmental permit Operating licence enabling the airport to carry out activities under ICAO the environmental conditions set out in the permit International Civil Aviation Organization, an agency of the United Nations. ICAO makes international agreements concerning safety, Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) environmental aspects, efficiency and the continuity of the aviation An umbrella programme under which investment-grade entities can sector issue unsecured certificates of debt (‘notes’) IFRS FFO International Financial Reporting Standards: a set of internationally FFO – funds from operations – is the cash flow from operating formulated and acknowledged accounting principles applied by activities before changes in working capital Schiphol Group Fixed Electrical Ground Power Industrial accident Power supply for on-board aircraft systems on the apron (airside) to An undesired, sudden work-related event causing almost immediate replace a GPU damage to an employee's health. Absenteeism due to an industrial accident takes effect when the employee does not report for work FTE on the day or shift after the accident Full-time equivalent; a full-time job IR-rate Full-freighter Irregularity Rate; the percentage of bags that do not arrive at their An aircraft that transports cargo only destination at the same time as the passenger General Aviation Ke The international designation for private and business flights using Unit costs: a measure used to express noise impact aircraft for no more than 20 passengers Landside Global Compact The landside (publicly accessible) area of the airport or airport A United Nations initiative in which the participating companies grounds commit to ten ethical and environmental principles SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 217 LEED Night time procedure LEED stands for ‘Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design’. Period of the night (from 23:00 to 7:00) during which the use of It is a voluntary hallmark based on BREEAM. At Schiphol-East, the runways is restricted and incoming aircraft must use silent TransPort building has been awarded the highest certificate for approaches while departing flights must make use of special night sustainability, Platinum LEED routes Lettable foor area O/D passengers Number of lettable square metres (LFA) Origin and destination passengers using Schiphol as their airport of departure or arrival Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) A measure of the frequency of work-related accidents that resulted Operating year in absenteeism (relative to the number of hours worked) The period that runs from 1 November to 31 October inclusive Low cost carrier Operational waste An airline that typically offers relatively cheap tickets in combination A collective term for all types of waste, except building and with the option for passengers to pay extra for certain additional demolition waste, waste products and water from de-icing activities. services Regular waste includes glass, paper, organic waste and mown grass Mainport Passenger Service Charge A Mainport is a hub of interlinked air, road and rail connections that A rate charged to each departing passenger for the use of airport plays a major role within, and contributes significantly to the facilities development of a region and the national economy ROE Masterplan Return on Equity; after-tax result (payable to shareholders) divided Directional plan which, in accordance with our ambition to be by average equity capital Europe’s Preferred Airport, lays down the spatial development of the airport infrastructure and translates that development into an RONA investment programme in response to demand for capacity and Return on Net Assets; operating results divided by the average fixed quality, socio-economic developments and trends in the aviation assets, less deferred-tax assets and receivables on derivatives older industry than one year Material aspect Royal Netherlands Marechaussee An aspect is material if it reflects the significant economic, social or The Royal Netherlands Marechaussee is responsible for passport environmental impact of the organisation or if it substantially control, border control and protecting civil aviation against attacks influences stakeholder decisions and hijacks. It is also responsible for issues such as human trafficking MTOW Runway incursion Maximum Take-Off Weight of an aircraft upon which take-off and A runway incursion is an incident on a runway involving an aircraft, landing charges are based vehicle or person not authorised to be there at that time (ICAO) NAPD2 Schengen countries NADP (Noise Abatement Departure Procedure). NADP2 is a take-off Countries in Europe that have agreed to allow unrestricted crossprocedure under which departing aircraft begin their ascent at a border movement of people and goods (named after the town in higher speed and with retracted flaps, resulting in lower fuel Luxembourg where this treaty was signed) consumption and with a beneficial effect on emissions Schiphol Local Community Council Net Promotor Score The Schiphol Local Community Council is a platform for A simple yet powerful instrument for measuring customer stakeholders to come together to address issues relating to the satisfaction, in which respondents are asked to indicate the extent development of Schiphol and the surrounding area. These to which they would recommend a company, product or service to stakeholders include government, residents, the aviation sector and others sector organisations. SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 218 Schiphol Safety Platform (VpS) WACC Parties in the aviation sector work together in the Schiphol Safety Weighted Average Cost of Capital as based on the capital asset Platform to guarantee and further improve aviation safety at pricing model (CAPM) Schiphol. All the parties that play a role in the aviation process at Schiphol are represented in the Schiphol Safety Platform. In its Work Load Unit (WLU) capacity as airport manager, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol chairs the A term used to measure production; equal to 1 passenger or 100 platform and is responsible for programme management kg of cargo Schiphol worker An employee of one of the businesses operating at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Security scan The security scan uses millimetre wave technology. The millimetre waves, which are harmless, do not pass through the body; instead, they bounce off the surface of the body and any objects. The scan shows the objects that a person is carrying Security Service Charge Charge that departing passengers pay in connection with security measures See Buy Fly The shops where traditional tax-free items such as perfume, cosmetics, beverages and tobacco are sold SkyTeam Worldwide alliance of airlines grouped around Air France-KLM and Delta Airlines Slot coordinator Government-appointed person tasked with allocating available slots (licences to take off and land at specific times) in accordance with international regulations Socio-economic theme Schiphol Group embraces five Corporate Responsibility themes which it implements at the strategic level. They are: noise and the local community, climate-friendly aviation, accessibility and air quality, commodity shortages and sustainable employment Top-level positions in the organisation All positions from scale 14 and above that exercise a certain degree of influence on strategy development, policy and/or decisionmaking in connection with our core activities Transfer passenger A passenger who changes planes at an airport Transit direct passenger A passenger who arrives at an airport and continues his or her journey on the same plane Visit costs The total costs an airline pays for calling at the airport SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 219 Published by Schiphol Group Postbus 7501 1118 ZG Schiphol www.schiphol.nl www.annualreportschiphol.com Published on 8 March 2016 Editors Schiphol Group, Schiphol, the Netherlands Bondt Communicatie B.V., Breda, the Netherlands Translation Metamorfose Vertalingen BV, Utrecht, the Netherlands Design and execution C&F Report, Amsterdam, the Netherlands Project support Report Company, Eemnes, the Netherlands Creation and publication software Tangelo Software B.V., Zeist, the Netherlands Photography Xander Richters, Abcoude, the Netherlands, and others SCHIPHOL GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 220
