CSR Report 2016 Love today, Love your life. CONTENTS Editorial Policy 01 About Lion Lion views its CSR Report as an important tool al04 Message from the Management lowing the company to present its CSR initiatives Company Motto/Management Philosophy/ and draw on stakeholder opinions while furthering 06 Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior corporate activities. [Editorial Policy for CSR Report 2016] 07 Lion’s CSR ● Since 2011, our CSR activities have been systematized in accordance with ISO 26000, an international standard con08 Overview of Lion’s Social and Environcerning social responsibility. The CSR Report and the CSR mental Contribution Activities website also reflect the above. 09 Thoughts Reflected in Corporate Message ● The Report discloses the major CSR issues and their progress 10 History of Lion Group’s Business Activities in 2015 towards the 2017 Medium-term Objectives corre12 Establishing the Group-wide CSR sponding to the Lion’s management plan. Management Structure ● Details of the activities that have especially demonstrated 14 Objectives of the Medium-Term Manprogress are provided as 2015 Highlights. agement Plan and Achievements in 2015 in Relation to CSR Material Issues ● At the bottom of the pages on each core subject of ISO26000, the URLs of the CSR website that includes details of the activi18 2015 Highlight 01 ties are given. Lion Group Educational Activities for ● The URLs of Lion’s primary web pages have been made into Oral Health in Japan and Overseas two-dimensional bar codes (smartphone-friendly website) so that the readers can more easily access to the pages. 24 2015 Highlight 02 ● A third-party review by outside expert has been included to Promotion of Toothbrush Recyprovide an objective assessment. cling Program (Educational Activities for Environmental Awareness) ● Information on standard disclosure items as required by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines is provided. 26 Organizational Governance [Reference Guidelines] ● The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the 29 Human Rights Japanese Ministry of the Environment ● G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 30 Labor Practices ● ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on social responsibility issued by the Japanese Standards Association [Comparative Table with Respective Guidelines] 34 The Environment URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/report/ [Coverage] 40 Fair Operating Practices ● Lion Corporation and all domestic consolidated subsidiaries are covered, as a rule. Overseas group companies are included in the CSR Medi42 Consumer Issues um-term Objectives and Achievements on p14-17. *When the coverage of reported activities and data is different, a description is provided. Community Involvement 47 and Development [Period Covered] 50 Third-Party Review ● January 1 to December 31, 2015 (Some parts of the activities include those of 2016.) 51 Lion’s Response/Editorial Note CSR Report 2016 About Lion Corporate Data Performance Transition Corporate Name Lion Corporation (consolidated) 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo Address 130-8644, Japan Net Sales Foundation Date October 30, 1891 （百万円） (million yen) 378,659 400,000 367,396 352,005 335,171 Capital ¥34,433.72 million (as of December 31, 2015) 350,000 327,500 300,000 Representative Itsuo Hama, Representative Director/President 250,000 Consolidated: 6,816 200,000 Employees Non-consolidated: 2,467 (as of December 31, 2015) 150,000 Consolidated: ¥378,659 million 100,000 Net Sales Non-consolidated: ¥253,887 million (as of December 2015) 50,000 0 Chiba Plant (Ichihara City), Odawara Plant (Odawara City), 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015（年） (year) Plants Osaka Plant (Sakai City), Akashi Plant (Akashi City) Research Hirai (Edogawa-ku), Odawara (Odawara City) Operating Income Facilities （百万円） (million yen) 20,000 Sales Offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka 16,374 [List of Major Subsidiaries and Affiliates] 15,000 URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0301f.htm 12,406 11,169 10,819 10,000 Net Sales Breakdown by Business 7,213 Consumer Products Business ¥273,486 million 5,000 Oral Care Products ¥59,414 million 0 Beauty Care Products ¥19,885 million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015（年） (year) Fabric Care Products ¥77,985 million Living Care Products ¥20,971 Ordinary Income million Pharmaceutical Products ¥38,754 million （百万円） (million yen) 18,099 18,000 Other Products ¥56,475 million 16,000 14,059 14,000 Industrial Products Business ¥56,104 million 12,183 12,300 12,000 Overseas Business ¥102,077 million 10,000 8,564 8,000 Other ¥29,166 million 6,000 Adjustment* ¥82,176 million 4,000 2,000 Consolidated Net Sales ¥378,659 million 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015（年） (year) *Intra-segment and inter-segment sales Location of Overseas Group Companies Net Income Overseas sales Ratio of （百万円） (million yen) 12,000 compared to previous year: 115% Overseas sales (consolidated): 23% 10,680 10,000 China (Lion Daily Necessities Hong Kong Chemicals (Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) 8,000 7,368 (Lion Corporation (Hong Kong) Ltd.) South Korea 6,097 Thailand (CJ Lion Corporation) 6,000 (Lion Corporation (Thailand) Ltd.) 4,077 4,235 Taiwan (Lion Chemical 4,000 Malaysia Industry (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.) (Southern Lion Sdn. Bhd.) Taiwan (Lion Home 2,000 Products (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.) Malaysia 0 (Lion Eco Chemicals Sdn. Bhd.) Philippines 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015（年） (year) (Peerless Lion Corporation) Singapore (Lion Corporation [IR Library] (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.) Indonesia (P.T. Lion Wings) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/invest/html/ inv0300f.htm CSR Report 2016 01 About Lion Main Business Segments [Product Lineup of Consumer Products Business] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/seg002.htm#01 Oral Care [Main Products] Toothpastes, toothbrushes, dental rinses and other dental care products, etc. Lion provides products for advanced oral care to support daily health. Beauty Care [Main Products] Shampoos, conditioners, hair-nourishing treatments, hand soaps, body washes, men's cosmetics, antiperspirants and deodorants, etc. Lion promotes comfort, health and wellbeing through its hair and skin care products. Fabric Care [Main Products] Laundry detergents, fabric softeners, bleaches, anti-static agents, etc. Lion provides safe, reliable products that make clothes not only clean but a pleasure to wear. Living Care [Main Products] Dishwashing detergents, household cleaners, cooking-aid products, etc. Lion offers products that promote clean and comfortable eating and living. 02 CSR Report 2016 Pharmaceutical [Main Products] Antipyretic analgesics, antidiarrheals, gastrointestinal medicines, eyedrops, health tonics, insecticides, etc. Lion offers an abundant lineup of products under quality brands to meet growing self-medication needs. Wellness Direct [Main Products] hair care products, etc. Health food products, functional food products, Lion offers direct-to-consumer sales products that meet a variety of consumer health and beauty needs. Gift and Special Order [Main Products] Gifts, novelties, etc. Lion provides a variety of gift and special order products for its customers. Pet Supplies [Main Products] Sanitary products, pet oral care, body care, pet laundry care and room care products, etc. (Lion Trading Co., Ltd.) Lion helps make the lifestyles of pet owners and their animals more enjoyable through products that promote cleanliness, health and comfort. CSR Report 2016 03 Message from the Management Representative Director, President and Executive Officer “Lion’s DNA to Benefit Society through Business Activities” The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced to our area of environmental responsiveness” and a “company founding spirit of “Benefitting Society through Business that continues to take on challenges, create and learn.” Activities.” Since its foundation in 1891, Lion has continWith the company motto of “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love,” ued to respond to social issues which have changed with Lion is aiming at helping to extend people’s healthy life the times over 120 years. expectancy and realize a sound material-cycle society in In Japan and other Asian countries, social conditions which resources are conserved and reused, in our business have been greatly and increasingly changing, including domains of “Health,” “Comfort,” and “Environment.” a slowdown in economic growth and an advance in the We will make efforts to further improve corporate aging society. Amid such social changes, Lion precisely value as a highly reliable company capable of respondidentifies problems, achieves “changes beyond changes” ing to expectations from all stakeholders. To this end, we through business activities, and makes efforts for solving develop products and provide services while putting a top the problems, because we have the DNA to do so. priority on customer satisfaction, promotion of environIn its Vision 2020, Lion clearly states that it aims to mental conservation activities, and further enhancement become a “company that creates value for lifestyle and of corporate governance systems. spiritual fulfillment,” a “company that is advanced in the 04 CSR Report 2016 Aiming to become a company that creates toothbrushes and recycle them for plant pots and planters, making an alliance with TerraCycle Japan for the value for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment first time in Asia. We hope to support activities to reduce environmental impacts in local communities by providing In 2015, Lion continued to put on publicizing “preventive opportunities to recycle things familiar to customers. Lion dentistry*.” will contribute to the realization of a sustainable society We conducted educational activities for proper selfwith development of advanced green technologies and care and professional care with provision of oral care through communication with stakeholders. products including highly functional toothbrushes for self-care, oral health promotion projects for each stage in Aiming to become a company that continues life conducted by the Lion Foundation for Dental Health, and operation of a dental clinic exclusively for preventive to take on challenges, create and learn dentistry. Consequently, such activities increased recognition and awareness of “preventive dentistry.” In 2015, marketing training and a cross-industrial In the functional food labeling system that started exchange training programs were continuously implein April 2015, as “Lactoferrin” has first been certified mented in order to foster human resources who volin Japan, it became easier to inform people of its high untarily take on challenges and create new values. The functionality. For industrial products, we have been push“Lion Challenge Cup-Innovation” was also introduced, in ing ahead with structural reform to create new value by which Lion’s future is directly proposed to management. establishing a new company through integration and In addition, we further enhanced abilities at workplaces reorganization of chemical products business. by introducing the “L-Compass Award,” a commendation As for the overseas business, products for personal care, program for the purpose of improving organizational such as “Systema,” “KODOMO,” and “KireiKirei” brands, learning ability with best practices shared. Meanwhile, largely grew with proactive marketing activities, as well we considered creation of an environment to support as educational activities for preventive dentistry and hand employees raising children and employees caring for the washing in each country. elderly and backed up diverse ways to work. In 2016, we Under the group-wide philosophy of contributing to have started operating this new system. the formation of clean, healthy and comfortable living I continued to hold the presidential sessions at Lion’s habits not only in Japan but also in Asian countries, we business offices nationwide in 2015. At the meetings with hope to continuously help forming such living habits by employees, I proactively shared our Management Vision, conducting educational activities for oral care and hand and kept discussing specific measures to achieve the vision. washing, in addition to providing products. Through “Lidea,” a website for lifestyle information *The idea that we should focus not on treatment after getting a established in 2014, we have been providing information cavity, but on prevention before it happens. that is useful for our customers’ daily lives. We will aim at achieving “Vision 2020” with a cycle in Aiming to become a company that is advanced which each of our employees predicts social trends, takes on challenges to pursue new creation, and learns somein the area of environmental responsiveness thing from the challenges. With the goal of achieving a “Low Carbon Society,” a Aiming at CSR Management “Sound Material-Cycle Society,” and “Harmonizing with Nature,” Lion formulated the environmental objective In order to remain a company that is trusted by society, “Eco Vision 2020,” and has worked on it to attain the tarit is important to integrate CSR within the managerial gets in 2020, including reductions in CO2 emissions and structure of the company. Hence, we reviewed our manwater consumption. As for the reduction in CO2 emissions, agement challenges in light of our understanding of the aspiring to achieve our target in 2020, which is higher requirements of society as included in the international than that of Japan set at COP 21, we have accomplished standard of social responsibility, ISO 26000, and identified our target of 2015. Furthermore, we have continued to CSR material issues. In the on-going “Vision 2020” V-2 support our customers’ ecological lifestyle by expanding period, we set the Group-wide medium-term objectives eco products fulfilling “Lion’s eco-standards” which were including those for overseas group companies, and are voluntarily established from the viewpoint of product lifeconducting CSR activities as a whole. cycles. With regard to the reduction in water consumpIn 2009, Lion announced its support for the UN Global tion, we have developed technology to recycle factory Compact: a global framework to realize sustainable effluent, and plan to largely reduce the consumption in growth. We will continue to support it and make efforts and after 2016. toward CSR management, strongly aware of “Health,” In 2015, Lion started a program to collect used “Comfort” and “Environment.” CSR Report 2016 05 Company Motto/Management Philosophy/ Lion-Group Charter for Corporate Behavior Company Motto Lion Corporation positions “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love” as fundamental to its management, and thus contributes to the enrichment of the happiness and lives of people. Management Philosophy We bring together the power of our personnel, the power of our tech1 nology and the power of our marketing, as we provide superior products that are helpful in the daily lives of people. We respect the “Spirit of Tenacity and Creativity” that we have maintained since 2 our founding, as we continue developing our business. We deeply appreciate all those who extend their valuable support to us, as 3 we prosper together through sincerity and mutual trust. Lion-Group Charter for Corporate Behavior Established January 1, 2003 and amended January 1, 2008 We, the Lion Group, shall, in addition to being an economic entity designated to pursue profits through fair competition, act as a social entity that contributes to society at large. We shall respect human rights and conduct ourselves with initiative in a socially responsible manner toward the creation of a sustainable society, observing both the spirit as well as the letter of all applicable laws and international rules and not harming the public interest, both in Japan and abroad, in accordance with the following 10 principles. 1. [Principal Mission] We shall earn the confidence and 8. [Contribution in Foreign Countries] In our overseas opsatisfaction of customers (consumers and users) by proerations, we shall not only observe international rules and viding excellent, safe goods and services useful for their the laws of relevant foreign countries, but also respect lodaily lives. cal cultures and customs and contribute to the develop2. [Compliance with Public Rules] We shall observe all ment of local communities with sincerity and mutual trust. relevant laws and regulations and engage in fair, trans9. [Practice of Corporate Ethics] Top management shall parent and free competition and proper transactions. assume responsibility for implementing the spirit of this We shall maintain sound and proper relationships with Charter and shall take the initiative to set a good examgovernmental and political bodies. ple and fully inform Lion Group employees of the Char3. [Disclosure] We, as a socially open company, shall acter. Top management shall strive to take in internal and tively engage in communication not only with our external opinions continuously to promote mutual unshareholders but also with members of society at large derstanding and the development and implementation of effective internal control systems while enforcing and disclose information generally regarding Company management in an appropriate and timely manner. thorough compliance with corporate ethics. 10. [Resolution of Problems] Should an incident contrary 4. [Environmental Issues] We shall play a positive and active role in creating a sustainable society that harmonizes to the principles of this Charter occur, top manageeconomic development and environmental protection. ment shall publicly clarify its position, taking responsibility to resolve the problem on its own initiative, and 5. [Improvement of Working Environments] We shall strive to investigate the facts, identify the causes of the promote fair treatment and respect the diversity, individincident and prevent recurrences. Top management uality and personalities of our employees. We shall enshall fulfill its responsibility to disclose accurate inforsure a safe and comfortable workplace to realize the mation promptly and explain the situation, and shall mental and physical well-being of our employees. resolve the problem in a manner fully understandable 6. [Contribution to Society] We shall actively contribute to society. After clarifying authority and responsibility to society as good cooperate citizens. for said problem, top management shall impose strict and impartial disciplinary actions upon any liable per7. [Opposition to Antisocial Forces] We shall firmly opsons, including the highest level of management. pose antisocial entities and organizations threatening the order and security of civil society. 06 CSR Report 2016 Lion’s CSR Lion's CSR Business Activities Supporting Healthy and Lion’s CSR Comfortable Society and Environment The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced to our founding spirit of “working for the benefit of Organizational Governance people and society.” With the robust business foundation established based on the Company Motto and the Management Philosophy, Lion has contributed to sustainable development of society through conducting business activities under the management vision and by integrating CSR material issues. Sustainable corporate and social development Human Rights In 2020 Management Vision (Vision 2020) A company that creates value for V-3 Plan lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment Ideal Vision long into the future by consisAiming to become a company that creates tently safeguarding health, comvalue for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment Aiming to become a company that is advanced fort, and the environment for Labor Practices in the area of environmental responsiveness people each and every day Aiming to become a company that continues to take on challenges, create and learn In 2017 The Environment V-2 Plan Health Business Promotion of PDCA Comfort Business Fair Operating Practices Environmentallyfriendly Business In 2014 V-1 Plan CSR Material Issues See Pages 14 to 17 Consumer Issues Foundation for Business Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior/Behavioral Guidelines Company Motto / Management Philosophy Community Company Motto/Management Philosophy Lion Group Charter for Corporate / BehaviorBehavioral Guidelines Involvement and Development http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0101f.htm http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/html/com0201f.htm CSR Report 2016 07 Lion’s CSR Overview of Lion’s Social and Environmental Contribution Activities Seeking to support people’s lives for creating future value for everyone, Lion promotes social and environmental contribution activities, in addition to its business activities. Business Activities Supporting people’s lives for creating future value for everyone Social and Environmental Contribution Activities Management Vision In the Health and Comfort Field In the Environmental Field (Educational activities for oral health) (Water resource conservation activities) (Educational activities for hygienic practices) Related information is on p48 and 49. Related information is on p49. Our Priorities (Co-existence with communities) (Involvement of employees) In the Health and Comfort Field In the Environmental Field While providing products useful for making better livWe strive to reduce the environmental load of our ing habits, such as oral care products including toothproducts to create a more eco-friendly lifestyle. pastes and toothbrushes, as well as cleanliness-related As our main products, such as laundry detergents, products such as hand soaps, we conduct educational toothpastes, hand soaps, and dishwashing detergents, activities for oral health and hygienic practices. are deeply related to water through “washing,” we also actively conduct water resource conservation activities. Our priorities As it is necessary to co-exist with relevant communities, such as communities where our business facilities are located, in order to continue our business, we work to solve the issues of local communities in cooperation with local residents, local government, and citizens’ groups. In addition, by providing each employee more opportunities to participate in social and environmental contribution activities related to business, we foster human resources who create new values based on a high degree of social and environmental awareness. 08 CSR Report 2016 Lion’s CSR Lion's CSR “life. love.” Thoughts Reflected in Corporate Message Organizational Governance The Heart of All We Do Lion has been a regular part of everyday life for more than 120 years. In that time, we have seen how ordinary days, one by one, add up to a lifetime. Moreover, we have come to believe that each new day is the first step into a bright future, Human Rights and that living every day positively and to the fullest is the essence of happiness. That is why we have made it our mission at Lion to contribute to ordinary life, every day, and reflected this commitment in our corporate slogan. Lion’s approach to the Labor Practices “life. love.” of consumers Corporate message Through products expressing Lion’s mission Lion develops products while desiring to and ideal vision closely support people to lead a healthy and comfortable life through daily activities such as brushing teeth, washing hands, cleaning up, and laundry. The Environment Fair Operating Practices Through social and environmental contribution activities We hope to contribute to the creation of healthy and comfortable society and environment through educational activities for forming healthy habits such as brushing teeth and Consumer Issues washing hands, as well as water resource conservation activities. Community Involvement and Development CSR Report 2016 09 Lion’s CSR History of Lion Group’s Business Activities Functions added to products in response Oral Hygiene Business to people’s needs, as well as awareness of and education about oral hygiene Founding Growth Mass Production (From 1896) (From 1913) (1960s to 1970s) Promoting oral hygiene/ Starting educational activiExpanding the market, and develThe root of social contrities to instill tooth brushing oping world-class products bution activities habits in children Lion Toothpowder Tooth paste were sold alongside such promotional gifts as picture books, helping to teach tooth brushing from an early age Completion of the Odawara Plant (Reinforcement of production system) White & White Charity coupons printed on the (Development of laminated tubes back of packets (The root of Lion’s which are easy to use) social contribution activities) Lion Dental Clinic for Children Culture of Cleanliness and Education about cleanliness and Environmentally-friendly Business measures for the global environment Promotion of awareContribution to improved Response to water ness of hygiene hygiene in post-war Japan environment issues (1891 to 1940s) (1950s) (1960s to 1980s) Promoted awareness about Contributed to eradication of Responded to the floating bubbles and washing with detergent parasites with a neutral detereutrophication which occurred in rivers gent for washing vegetables as the use of synthetic detergents became popular Manual on standard Lipon home laundry procedures (Japan’s first fatty (Education on laundry alcohol-based procedures) synthetic detergent) Lipon F (Earned the top recommendation of the Japan Food Hygiene Association) Dash Murin (phosphorus-free) TOP Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap (Japan’s first plant-derived soap) 10 CSR Report 2016 Lion’s origins lie in laundry soap and toothpaste. Since our founding, we have promoted a culture of cleanliness and oral hygiene by providing useful products and helping to fosLion's CSR ter good habits. Building on these strength, the Lion Group has been focusing on the areas of oral hygiene, cleanliness and environmental friendliness which represent important social issues. Organizational Governance Oral hygiene is Lion’s core area of business. Over the years, we have contributed to the improvement of people’s living habits by developing many products with new functions, and have disseminated accurate information about oral hygiene. Expansion (From 1970s onward) Present Responding to diversifying oral health issues From oral hygiene to systemic health Human Rights with more scientific research Promotion of “preventive dentistry” Clinica Clinica Advantage series (For prevention of cavities) (Promotion of “preventive dentistry”) Labor Practices Dentor (For prevention of pyorrhea) Dentor Systema series Educational activities for oral (For prevention of periodontal health in Asian countries disease) The Environment Through supplying many kinds of detergent, including laundry detergents and soaps, Lion has helped instill a culture of cleanliness in society from the days when notions about cleanliness were less well formed until the present day. In product development, we are currently tackling global environmental issues beginning with those relating to water. Response to petroleum Actions to meet increasing needs Present resources issues and for disinfectants that came out of Fair Operating Practices resource conservation food poisoning cases (1990s) (1990s to 2000s) Expanded a line of prodLaunched medicated soaps and Response to water resources ucts based on plant-dedeveloped educational activities issues and water use reductions rived materials for children Consumer Issues TOP SUPER TOP LOOK Bath Shokubutsu-Monogatari NANOX HYGIA Antimold Fogger (Plant Story) Educational activities to make hand washing a habit Contributing to a clean lifestyle in Asia Community Involvement and Development Spark KireiKirei KireiKirei Overseas NANOX The “Beat” brand laundry Medicated Liquid Medicated Foaming detergent sold in South Korea Hand soap Hand Soap CSR Report 2016 11 Lion’s CSR Establishing the Group-wide CSR Management Structure Setting objectives and managing progress We have promoted our CSR activities based on ISO 26000, Also, for each of the material issues, we have set a medithe global social responsibility standard, since 2011, and by um-term objective for three years which is consistent with listening to and incorporating the opinions of third party our management plan. In 2015, we conducted improvement organizations, we have confirmed and evaluated our activities through PDCA with the aim of achieving V-2 (2015achievements in our domestic group. 2017) medium-term objectives. By considering world CSR trends, our company’s unique Considering the confirmation and evaluation of achievebusiness characteristics, potential risks, opportunities and ments in our overseas group, we identified material issues their respective implications, we identified CSR material for the entire group including overseas companies in 2015. issues in 2012. Specific Processes of Identifying Material Issues International CSR initiatives including ISO 26000 and UN Global Compact Internal factors External factors Our ideal vision for 2020 and its alignment with Needs of stakeholders that can be addressed basic strategies leading up to it through dialogues with Lion ▶︎Management Vision (Vision 2020) ▶︎Medium-term management plan Lion’ s CSR Material Issues Value Chain and Material Issues (Activities in 2015 are described in related pages.) Stages of Procurement of Raw Materials, Major Initiatives Value Chain Packages, and Containers Undertaken by Lion ・Promoting Human Resource Development ▶ p30-31 /Revitalization Programs ・Establishing Good Working Environments ▶ p32 Opportunities ・Promoting Employees’ Health Management ▶ p33 CSR Material Issues ・Establishing a Group-wide CSR Management Structure ▶ p12-13 ・Formulating and Disseminating Human Rights Policy, Ensuring Human Rights Due Diligence＊ ▶ p29 ・Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances, Preventing Pollution ▶ p35-36 Risks ・Promoting CSR Procurement ▶ p40-41 ・Promoting Information Security ▶ p46 ・Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System ▶ p42 ・Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System ▶ p33 Business Partners Key Stakeholders Employees ＊Steps that an organization should take in order to recognize, prevent and address negative influences on human rights. 12 CSR Report 2016 Lion's CSR 2015 Lion Group Educational Activities Highlight 01 for Oral Health in Japan and Overseas Organizational Governance Aiming to create healthy and comfortable living habTooth Brushing for Children, started in 1932, is held its, Lion has been conducting educational activities for with elementary school children participating from all oral health focusing on prolonging the “healthy life over Japan and countries and regions in Asia. Overseas expectancy” not only in Japan but also at overseas group companies have also conducted educational bases in Asia. activities in cooperation with respective governments, Delivered via the Internet, the Oral Health Event of municipalities and communities. Related information p18-23 Human Rights Promotion of Toothbrush 2015 ht 02 Recycling Program Highlig Labor Practices Setting “Realization of an environmentally advanced By providing consumers with opportunities to recycle company” as one of our management objectives, we their toothbrushes easily, we aim to raise consumers’ have made efforts to reduce environmental impacts in environmental awareness and improve their dental business activities. Under this idea, we started a proand oral health by encouraging them to change their gram to collect used toothbrushes and recycle them to toothbrushes once a month. other products such as plant pots, in 2015. Related information p24-25 Society/ The Environment Use by Consumers Environment ・Providing Information Useful ・Offering Products and Information for Daily Life and Promoting ▶ p45 that Contribute to the Development ▶ p24-25,46 Educational Activities of a Sustainable Society Fair Operating Practices ・Engaging in Progressive Environmental Activities ▶ p34-39 ・Enhancing Social Contribution Programs Leading to Forming Healthy and Comfortable Living Habits ▶ p18-25,47-49 ・Promoting Risk Management, Penetration of Compliance/Internal Control ▶ p26-28 Consumer Issues -44 Community Customers Local Communities Environment Involvement and Development Shareholders/Investors CSR Report 2016 13 Lion’s CSR Objectives of the Medium-Term Management Plan (V-2:2015 to 2017) and Achievements in 2015 in Relation to CSR Material Issues For CSR material issues identified by Lion, we conducted activities to achieve the 2017 medium-term objectives. In Japan, new personnel measures and various kinds of training through e-learning were conducted, in addition to cross-department committee activities conducted every year. In overseas group companies, taking into account laws, cultures, and customs which vary depending on countries and regions, activities have been promoted based on the situation of each group company. Core Subjects Ideal Vision CSR Material Issues 2017 Medium-term Objectives Domestic Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior as a CSR policy Overseas Disseminating policies concerning CSR Establishing the Groupwide CSR Management Structure Domestic Managing progress toward objectives Maintaining a Sound Management System Overseas Organizational that is Continuously Setting objectives and managing progress Governance Trusted by Society Domestic Promoting Continuously operating Business Continuity Risk Management Plan (BCP) based on multiphase projections Domestic Raising awareness of compliance Embedding Compliance/ Internal Control Systems Overseas Enhancing internal control systems Formulating and DissemiDomestic nating Human Rights Policy Disseminating the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior as human rights policy Domestic Promoting self-assessment questionnaire of CSR Establishing a activities by suppliers and offering its feedback Framework for Human Rights Respecting Human Ensuring Human Rights Domestic Rights Disseminating information regarding the Due Diligence* hotline and strengthen the advice and whistle-blowing framework Overseas Setting up and operating internal contacts for reporting and consultations * Steps that an organization should take in order to recognize, prevent, and address negative influences on human rights. 14 CSR Report 2016 Lion's CSR Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The numbers in the column of material issues in the table shown below are numbers of SDGs which Organizational Governance Lion hopes to contribute to attain through its business. We will consider Lion’s objectives and KPI toward achievement of each SDG, taking into account our business direction. Cited from the website of the United Nations Information Centre. Human Rights Page of Related Achievement from 2015 Information in CSR URL of Lion Web Page Report 2016 (Websites are all in Japanese) Implementing e-learning on the Lion Group p28 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Charter for Corporate Behavior (Twice a year) Labor Practices Including policies concerning CSR in Employment Rules and disseminating them through training, posting on the bulletin board, and morning meetings Announcing progress through CSR Report (Once a year) p14-17 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/lion_csr/promotion/vision.php The Environment Setting objectives [Disclosing the medium-term objectives of V-2 (2015 to 2017) in CSR Report] p14-17 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/lion_csr/promotion/vision.php Announcing progress through CSR Report (Once a year) Confirming and reviewing BCP at Executive Committee (Once a year ) p27 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/risk/ Revising “Manual on countermeasures against new types of influenza and other infectious diseases” Implementing the Compliance Awareness Survey (Once a Fair Operating Practices year. Response rate was 98% in 2015) p28 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Providing education programs through e-learning with regard to compliance, sexual harassment, power harassment and insider trading Introducing the internal control on financial reporting and implementing the assessment Implementing e-learning on the Lion Group Charter for p29 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/policy/ Consumer Issues Corporate Behavior (Once a year) Having suppliers self-check their CSR activities and feeding p41 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/ assessment results back to the suppliers (Once a year) Dissemination through the Compliance Awareness Survey Community (Annually implemented, Dissemination rate in 2015 as 98%) p28 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ Responding to and sorting out all cases Setting up and operating internal and external contacts Involvement and Development http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ for reporting and internal contacts for consultations CSR Report 2016 15 Core Subjects Ideal Vision CSR Material Issues 2017 Medium-term Objectives Domestic Embedding measures for promoting PDCA through implementation of the target management system Promoting Human Global human resource development Resource Development/ Domestic Revitalization Programs Enhancing the “Diverse Human Resource Promotion Programs ” Implementing supporting measures for women to build their career Changing Awareness Domestic of Employees through Promoting work-life balance with measures for building an enviEstablishing Good Working ronment where employees can work healthily and energetically Labor Practices Raising Morale and Motivation Environments Overseas Enhancing opportunities for talks between employees and management Domestic Promoting Employees’ Improving the environment to allow employees to Health Management work healthily and energetically Domestic Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Improving occupational safety and safety of facilities based on Health and Safety Management System the“Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Management System” Engaging in Progressive Domestic Overseas Environmental Activities Promoting “Eco Vision 2020” and managing progContributing to the ress thereof Development of a Sustainable Society Preventing Pollution Domestic as an Promoting pollution prevention The Environment Environmentally Enhancing Group-wide ManageAdvanced Company ment of Chemical Substances Domestic Enhancing chemical substances management systems Domestic Promoting self-assessment questionnaire of CSR activiPromoting CSR Promoting CSR ties by suppliers and offering its feedback Activities throughout Procurement Domestic Fair Operating the Value Chain Promoting “Eco Vision 2020” and managing progress Practices thereof Offering Products and Information Domestic that Contribute to the DevelopPromoting environmental educational activities ment of a Sustainable Society for consumers through products Domestic Providing Information Useful Enhancing the provision of information that confor Daily Life and Promoting tribute to healthy and comfortable life according Educational Activities to lifestyle and life stages Pursuing Customer Satisfaction by Domestic Creating Safe and Enhancing group-wide quality assurance system Consumer Issues Trustworthy Products Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System Overseas Reinforcing compliance with regulations in each country and enhancing responses to customers Domestic Promoting Information Promoting information security Security Measures Overseas Enhancing information security management systems Domestic Overseas Co-existing and Promoting educational activities for oral health Co-prospering with Enhancing Social Contribution Programs Promoting preventive dentistry (recommending self-care Society and Communities/ and professional care) and education for health instrucCommunity Contributing to the Leading to Forming tors and children Involvement and Development of Society Healthy and Comfortable Domestic Overseas in the Areas of Health, Living Habits Development Comfort and the Promoting cleanliness activities “Promoting Education Activities for Children’s Environment Hand Washing and Gargling” 16 CSR Report 2016 Page of Related Achievement from 2015 Information in CSR URL of Lion Web Page Report 2016 (Websites are all in Japanese) Lion's CSR Promoting the Target Management System to enhance activities to promote PDCA toward attaining objectives and providing trainings thereon p30 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/development/ Developing Human Resources with an Aptitude for Marketing Completing establishment of objectives and action plans for practical measures in accordance with Measures for Women’s Promotion p31 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/various/ Making an approach to establishment of a special subsidiary for proOrganizational Governance moting employment of people with disabilities Achieving all objectives of the Next Generation Support Act Phase 4 Action Plan p32 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ Establishing and conducting Phase 5 Action Plan Periodically holding labor-management meetings Providing training on health management through e-learning p33 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/ Offering health checkups on a regular basis (Once a year) Human Rights Organizing Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention Meeting to p33 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/prevention/ promote PDCA for safety activities (Twice a year) Formulating goals for 2017 of the Environmental Objective “Eco p34-39 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecovision2020/ Vision 2020” and managing the progress thereof Thoroughly managing emissions and wastewater in accordance with statutory and voluntary criteria p35 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/prevention/ River water monitoring both by industrial groups and by Lion Establishing and operating a management system for information p36 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ Labor Practices on chemical substances Having suppliers self-check their CSR activities and feeding assessp41 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/ ment results back to suppliers (Once a year) Holding the Environmental Action Promotion Committee to manage p34-35, http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecovision2020/ environmental progress (Twice a year) The Environment Starting purchase of RSPO certified palm oil derivative 40 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/guide/ Attaching Environmental Label to eco products and providing p24-25, consumers with information http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/3r/ Promoting Toothbrush Recycling Program 46 Creation, Accumulation, and Provision of Living Information by “Meisters of Daily Life” Proceeding with Oral Care Solution Business (ORALYSIS, ORALCOM) p45 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/communication/ Holding Information Exchange Events for Consumers Fair Operating Practices Providing information through Lidea, a new website for lifestyle information Promoting PDCA for quality assurance activities conducted by CS/PL Committee (Twice a year) p28,35, Establishing and operating a management system for information on http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/quality/ chemical substances 42-44 Providing education on “Fundamental Quality Assurance” through e-learning Promoting response to GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals) Enhancing customer support by the customer support center and the Consumer Issues marketing department Enhance abilities to comply with laws and regulations of each country Providing training through e-learning with regard to information p46 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/info-security/ security, risks of social media, and information management systems Implementing various measures to prevent leak of personal and confidential information Holding an Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children Community Implementing tooth brushing educational activities in areas near http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ our business facilities p18-23, 48 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/highlight/2015/ Implementing tooth brushing educational activities at kindergartens and preschools Involvement and Development Implementing hand-washing educational activities in areas near our business facilities p49 http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing/ Implementing hand-washing educational activities at kindergartens and preschools CSR Report 2016 17 2015 High light Lion Group Educational Activi01 ties for Oral Health in Japan and Overseas ~ Aiming at lifelong dental and oral health ~ The meaning of “Healthy Life Expectancy” The world’s average life expectancy has been greatly [Table 1.] World Life Expectancy prolonged thanks to advances in medical technology, an Average of both sexes Average of males Average of females improvement in diet and nutrition conditions, and spread of hygienic habits [Table 1.] For most people, however, actual life expectancy is different from healthy life expectancy. It is important to focus on, rather than merely living long, staying healthy in body and in mind for a lifetime, 1990 2015 1990 2015 1990 2015 i.e., “healthy life expectancy.” The difference between the world’s average life expectancy and the healthy life Age 64 71 Age 62 69 Age 67 74 expectancy is eight years. [Table 2.] Meanwhile, in Japan, Source :WHO World Health Statistics 2015 a country where people have a long life expectancy, there WHO World Health Statistics 2016 is a similar gap between the average life expectancy and the healthy life expectancy, and prolonging the healthy [Table 2.] World Healthy Life Expectancy (Data for 2015) Average of both sexes life expectancy has recently become a global issue. Average life Healthy life Difference expectancy* expectancy* Oral health and healthy life expectancy Global average Age 71 Age 63 8 years In recent years, it has been clear that there is a close relation between oral health and the healthy life expectancy. Lion’s Business Areas In order to live healthily, it is essential to enjoy meals every day. To enjoy meals every day, it is said that at least 20 Japan Age 84 Age 75 9 years teeth are needed for the entire lifetime. Without day-today proper oral care, risks of losing teeth due to periodontal diseases and cavities would increase. China Age 76 Age 69 7 years It has been revealed that oral diseases have significant impact on health not only in the mouth but also throughout the body. If you do not have enough teeth remaining, Indonesia Age 69 Age 62 7 years it is said that it would become difficult to enjoy eating food and that risks of decreasing bone density and developMalaysia Age 75 Age 67 8 years ing dementia would increase. Furthermore, various studies have pointed out that periodontal diseases are highly related to systemic illness including diabetes and pneumoPhilippines Age 69 Age 61 8 years nia. In short, it is very important to maintain dental and oral health in order to prolong the healthy life expectancy. Republic of Korea Age 82 Age 73 9 years Lion’s approach Lion Group conducts educational activities for oral health Singapore Age 83 Age 74 9 years in Japan and overseas, aiming to enable consumers to lead healthy and comfortable lives for a lifetime. Some educational activities for oral health conducted in countries/ Thailand Age 75 Age 67 8 years regions where our overseas business offices are located are introduced in the following pages. *Source : WHO World Health Statistics 2016 Lion Group will contribute to prolonging the healthy life expectancy through educational activities for oral health, as well as provision of products. 18 CSR Report 2016 Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children Conducted throughout Asia Lion's CSR In order to keep dental and oral health for a lifetime, it is oral health from June 4 to 10 to teach children about how important to establish proper habits for oral care since childimportant oral health is in a fun manner in a one-hour class Organizational Governance hood. Placing emphasis on fostering elementary school stuvia the Internet. dents’ awareness of dental and oral health, Lion has held Presently, the event has developed into a nationwide the Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children since event in which about 70,000 elementary school students 1932, in cooperation with the Lion Foundation for Dental participate every year. It is held not only in Japan, but Health (LDH). The event is held during the week of dental/ across countries and regions in Asia. Countries and regions where Oral health event of the event was held in 2015 tooth brushing for children in South Korea Total Human Rights *Total number since 990,000* 1932 when the first event was held participants Labor Practices South China Korea Japan No. of participants No. of participants in 2015 in 2015 40 approx. 700 No. of participants in 2015 approx. 70,000 The Environment approx. Hong Kong No. of participants in 2015 Thailand approx. 80 No. of participants in 2015 180 Philippines Fair Operating Practices approx. No. of participants in 2015 Vietnam approx. 80 No. of participants in 2015 approx. 70 Singapore No. of participants in 2015 Consumer Issues approx. 200 Community Oral health event of tooth brushing for children in Thailand Involvement and Development CSR Report 2016 19 Educational Activities for Oral Health in Singapore Education on oral health for children Singapore Lion implemented an education program on oral advice and tips on tooth brushing were given, and Kodomo health jointly with the Singapore Health Promotion Board*. As Oral Care Packs (containing a set of a toothbrush and tootha part of the activities, the company works on the “Health on paste) were given to participating children. So far, the educaWheels (class in a bus)” campaign. In this campaign, the bus vistion on oral health has been provided to 15,000 children. ited kindergartens and elementary schools, and children from * Singapore Health Promotion Board is a governmental organization ages 5 to 8 had a class on oral health in the bus. In the class, that drive national health promotion and disease prevent programmes Bus for “Health on Wheels” campaign Oral health guidance by facilitators Education on oral health for underprivileged people Singapore Lion implemented a nationwide campaign for variety program in the free-to-air channel broadcasted all oral health (Systema Ting Ting-a-Smile Campaign) in coopover Singapore. In this program, guidance about proper oral eration with Singapore Dental Health Foundation* in order care for the elderly was given to caregivers. Singapore Lion to communicate the importance of oral health and also had also donated 5,000 sets of oral care products to underinform people that underprivileged people in Singapore privileged people, so far. lack proper oral care. As part of this campaign, education * An organization of volunteer dentists working to increase dental of oral health was provided through “The Joy Truck TV,” a awareness and promote dental health in Singapore Guidance about interdental cleaning in the TV program Guidance about tooth brushing in the TV program Voice Voice from employee of Singapore Lion Serene Koh, Senior Product Manager Seeing the children and the caregivers participating actively to learn about good dental care habits makes me smile as we are able to play a part in educating the public to improve their oral and general health. We will continue to promote the importance of oral health to the public and thereby improve their quality of life. 20 CSR Report 2016 Educational Activities for Oral Health in South Korea Lion's CSR Healthcare Center “Oral Care Consultation Room” Organizational Governance In South Korea, aiming at increasing local residents’ Then, guidance on self-care methods is given to them awareness of oral health, CJ Lion has held the “Oral Care according to individual dental and oral conditions. Consultation Room” jointly with public healthcare centers A total of approx. 6,800 people, including approx. 2,080 peosince 2012. Participants conduct a self-check on their own ple in 2015, took part in the “Oral Care Consultation Room.” oral conditions, and then receive individual examinations. Human Rights A lot of families participated Personal guidance on oral care methods according to individual dental and oral conditions Labor Practices Guidance on oral care at elementary schools and junior-high schools In cooperation with Seodaemun-gu Healthcare Center and (twice a year, for students in the fourth to the sixth grade Department of Preventive Dentistry and Public Oral Health, of elementary school, and in the first to the third grade of College of Dentistry, Yonsei University, CJ Lion has provided junior-high school). In order to have the students develop education on tooth brushing since 2014, with tooth brushhabits of proper oral care, dental hygienists visit schools ing facilities established (to offer dental health checkups and once a month and educate them on habits to brush their guidance on oral care) for elementary schools and juniorteeth after meals as well as on correct preventive dentistry. The Environment high schools within Seodaemun-gu in Seoul city. At the The number of schools with the tooth brushing facility tooth brushing facilities, dental examinations are conducted increased to six in 2016 from two in 2014. Approx. 4,000 stucontinuously for three years with follow-ups, as continudents in total have received education on tooth brushing. ous monitoring education by dentists and dental hygienists Fair Operating Practices Check if all the teeth are meticulously clean or not! Education on tooth brushing is provided for each class Voice from employee of CJ Lion Consumer Issues Voice Ji-Young Moon, Section Chief, Risk Management & CSR Team, CSR Specialist Hello! I am Moon, Ji-Young. I am in charge of social contribution in the CSR team. Just as corporations support consumers’ comfortable life through good products, I support it by working on social contribution programs. I am heartened by the smile of a lot of people whom I meet through the activities every day. At the “Oral Care Consultation Room,” I met Community an old woman who is gently smiling and shyly gave me a candy. At school, I can find a warm welcome by the children with full smiles. Encouraged by their smiles, I will plan and conduct various social contribution projects on which all employees can work together, sincerely Involvement and Development considering the roles of CJ Lion in the local communities. CSR Report 2016 21 Educational Activities for Oral Health in Thailand Education on oral health in academic society Thai Lion holds the Lion Oral Health Award every year. Thailand. Since the award commenced in 2009, 26 groups This award aims at fostering people conducting studies have received the awards through to 2015. On the day of and activities which could be beneficial to preventive denthe award ceremony, the Public Dental Hygiene Foundation tistry in Thailand, the company honors and offers a cash of Thailand held an academic conference and gave a lecture prize for excellent studies and activities related to prevenon preventive dentistry. tive dentistry, in cooperation with influential dentists in Lion Oral Health Award held in December 2015 Education on oral health in collaboration with the government The Thai government has held a “Health Fair” since 2012, tooth brushing in order to educate people on proper oral care. with the aim of increasing Thai citizens’ awareness of In 2015, the company coached 2,000 participants on health. In this Fair, volunteer physicians and nurses provide tooth brushing, and distributed toothbrushes and toothcheckups for participants and prescribe drugs. pastes to them in the Health Fair held at Suranaree Hospital Thai Lion runs a booth in this fair, and gives guidance about in Nakhon Ratchasima. Coaching participants on tooth brushing at Suranaree Hospital Voice Voice from employee of Thai Lion We are an oral health team in charge of the booth for coaching tooth brushing at the Health Fair. We listen to customers of various generations who drop by our booth to talk about their troubles, and give them advice on an appro(From left) Pornnapa Wimonrat, Ananya Muangkaew, priate way to brush their teeth. As such an event is a valuable opportuWanna Thamromdee, Karnjana Anurakkamolkul, nity to directly talk with customers, we will further improve its contents, Saovanee Ninlux, Ayumi Sakashita, responding to customers’ requests, in cooperation with the government. Phakpoom Suvarnaketaka 22 CSR Report 2016 Educational Activities for Oral Health in Japan Lion's CSR Lion has conducted educational activities for oral health awareness of the importance of preventive dentistry, each since 1913, aiming at maintaining people’s precious dental of our employees are working on the educational activities Organizational Governance and oral health. We have pushed ahead with educational as a whole, focusing on each life stage of people through activities to disperse “preventive dentistry,” that focuses alliance with external organizations such as governments, not on the treatment after getting a cavity or periodonschools, hospitals, and dental clinics. Lion also fully supports tal disease, but on prevention before it happens. With an activities of the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH). Pregnant Women Infants and Toddlers Human Rights Lion delivers leaflets to disseminate information on the imporAt “Oralcom,” a dental information website operated by Lion, tance of “preventive dentistry” and toothpastes with fluoride for Labor Practices we answer to the problems about oral health of expecting children at the time of a checkup conducted by municipalities for mothers and babies who have troubles with oral conditions. children at the age of one year and a half. So far, they have been delivered to approx. 200,000 infants. [Maternity Dental Consultation Room] (Japanese) URL http://www.oralcom.net/maternity/ Junior-high and high school students Elementary school students The Environment Fair Operating Practices We educate participants in the “National High-school Quiz Since 1932, Lion and LDH have jointly held the “Oral Health Championship,” a TV program sponsored by Lion, about the use Event of Brushing Teeth for Children“ every year during the of interdental cleaning tools in cooperation with LDH. “week of dental/oral health” in June. [Tooth brushing Study Website for Elementary School Students “Hamigakids”] (Japanese) URL https://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/hamigakids/ Adults The Elderly Consumer Issues Community LDH plans and produces the “Kenkobi” (Beautiful and healthy For employed workers, LDH conducts dental checkups focused mouth and teeth) exercise to maintain dental and oral health for on prevention of periodontal diseases, maintenance and a lifetime, and works to diffuse the exercise through the educaimprovement of dental/oral health. tional leaflets and videos. Involvement and Development [Kenkobi Exercise] (Japanese) URL https://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/kenkobi/ Related information p48 URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ (Japanese) CSR Report 2016 23 2015 High light 02 Promotion of Toothbrush Recycling Program In May 2015, Lion launched the “Toothbrush Brigade”; a program to collect and recycle used toothbrushes for the first time in Asia in collaboration with TeraCycle Japan (hereinafter referred to as “TeraCycle”). Objectives of the Program As toothbrushes are daily essentials for everyone, about time. At the same time, we have been making efforts to 450 million toothbrushes*1 are consumed per year. reduce environmental impacts from our business activities However, used toothbrushes have been sent to landfill in accordance with one of our management objectives areas or incinerated without opportunities to be recycled “becoming a company that is advanced in the area of envias a resource. ronmental responsiveness.” Under such ideas, aiming at As a leading company for oral care, we have supported the following objectives, we are promoting the program people to improve their dental and oral health for a long in Japan in collaboration with TeraCycle. Objective 1 Contribution by offering consumers opportunities to readily take part in recycling activities To help local communities and societies revitalize their activities to reduce environmental impacts by offering people from children to adults opportunities to voluntarily take part in recycling activities. Objective 2 Contribution to consumers’ oral health management To encourage people to change toothbrushes at an appropriate interval (once a month) to maintain and increase their dental and oral health. *1 The number of toothbrushes produced in Japan surveyed by All Japan Brush Industry Association Contents of the Program Educational/ Community support, etc. Applicants for participating in the program first enroll in advance as an individual, school or group, then collect Donation of Support recycled goods used toothbrushes. Schools and facilities can collect a lot of Toothbrushes toothbrushes by setting the collection boxes. Designated Plastic products transport operators pick up the collection boxes and the participants are given points according to the weight Recycling manufacturer of the collection. In exchange for the points, the participants can receive plasSending used Granting tic goods such as plant pots, made from toothbrushes points Obtaining recycled recycled toothbrushes or make it a goods Exchanging donation for educational and commupoints nity support. Participant Plant pot made from (Individual/School/Group) recycled toothbrushes 24 CSR Report 2016 Results of Activities in 2015 Lion's CSR In 2015, 115 collection bases in total*2 were set at, for example, community centers, schools, children’s center, and stores. Aiming to increase people’s awareness of recycling and oral health, we will continue to promote the program in the future. Organizational Governance *2 As of December 15, 2015 Collection box set at children’s center Human Rights Friendly Plaza Sumida Children’s Center Sakurabashi Community Center Labor Practices Collection box set at stores The Environment Drug Store CREATE S.D in Fujisawa Karasawa Drug Store CREATE S.D in Shin Kamoshida Fair Operating Practices Voice Voice from employee in charge of the program Jun Yokoyama Strategic Business Development Department I planned the content of activities for the program and have been conducting the activities in cooperation with members of TeraCycle. In 2015 which is the first year of the program, with the aim of increasing awareness of this program, PR events including the press conference and poster competition were held. In Sumida Ward, Tokyo, where Lion’s head office is located, we visited junior-high schools and chilConsumer Issues dren’s centers and called for participation in the collection activities in an effort to promote the activities in the local community. As toothbrushes are daily essentials that all people from children to adults use, we were told by participants, “the activity is familiar to and can be readily addressed by anyone.” Especially, it was our pleasure to hear school officials saying, “the activities can be addressed voluntarily by students, leading to ecological and health education.” We also obtained feedback saying “after taking part in this activity, I became Community aware of periodically changing my toothbrush.” We will continue to work on the program so as to help consumers to be more aware of the environment and improve their dental and oral health through a new Involvement and Development method, i.e., recycling toothbrushes. CSR Report 2016 25 Ideal Vision Maintaining a Sound Management Organizational System that is Continuously Governance Trusted by Society Basic Approach Lion’s top priorities for corporate governance are to compliance. By strengthening and improving its increase management transparency, improve the corporate governance system, Lion aims to enhance its efficiency of supervision and decision making and ensure corporate value. Corporate Governance System Approach to enhancing functions to audit and supervise management To evaluate our management objectively from the standCommittee consisting of external directors (two external dipoint of social acceptability, including social responsibilities rectors and two external corporate auditors) was set up. Regto be fulfilled by the company and stakeholders’ trust, the ular meetings are held between the Representative Director Management Evaluation Committee, run by outside experts, and all external directors to exchange information so as to was set up in October 2003 to ensure that the opinions of the enhance supervision and monitoring of management. Also, committee members regarding the concept of the corporate in January 2013, the Lion Corporation Standards Regarding governance system, directions of business and product develthe Independence of External Directors/Corporate Auditors opment are reflected in management. was instituted to clearly show that we bring personnel reThe number of directors was reduced when the System of sources who can ensure independence without special interExecutive Officers was introduced in March 2004 to reinforce est in Lion as external directors/corporate auditors. management decision making and execution, and hence the The countermeasures against large-scale purchase of Lion’s function of the Board of Directors. In March 2006, we inshares (takeover defense measures) were introduced with stalled two external directors in order to further enhance our the approval obtained at the ordinary shareholders meeting capacity to supervise the Board of Directors. In December in 2009 and the 3-year continuation was approved at the or2006, in order to increase the objectivity and transparency of dinary shareholders meeting in 2015. compensation for directors, the Compensation Advisory Corporate Governance System Shareholder Meeting Management Evaluation Reporting Senior Executive Proposals Board of Directors (Supervision of management) Auditing Corporate auditors Monitoring Committee ● Decisions on execution of important (Legality audit) Basic policies for mediumbusiness matters (Operational audit) Committee Opinions to long-term management ● Supervision of directors’ executive performance and advice plans and other major ● Supervision of executive officers Reporting corporate strategies (Chairperson: Representative Director and President) Accounting auditors Auditing Opinions and advice on legal compliance and management policies Auditing Reporting Delegation Reporting Recommendations on director compensation Compensation Advisory Committee (Internal controls relating Auditing Executive Committee (Execution of operations) to financial reports) Environmental Conservation (Chairperson: Representative Director and President) Committee Reporting Office (Legality, validity, and efficiency audits; compliance CS/PL Committee progress audits) Departments (Performance of operations) Safety, Hygiene and (Business, manufacturing, R&D divisions, and functional departments) Disaster Prevention Meeting ● Setting and management of CSR targets ● Pursuing customer satisfaction ● Building trusting relationships with shareholders and investors ● Creating fair and comfortable working environments ● Ensuring fair trade Auditing ● Promoting social action programs ● Protecting personal information Strengthening of legal compliance and ethics Corporate Ethics Committee Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior; Behavioral Guidelines Report on Corporate Governance (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/pdf/abo_gov.pdf *CS/PL Committee CS: Customer Satisfaction PL: Product Liability Cross-departmental committee to promote quality assurance activities. 26 CSR Report 2016 Promotion of Risk Management Improving systems to respond to various risks in business Lion's CSR In order to continue providing our customers with safe and Business Continuity Plan (BCP) reliable products, we have appointed a Director Responsible Lion is pushing ahead with establishment of its own systems to for Risk Management who exhaustively controls and supervisminimize damages and continue business so as to provide prodes the risk of the whole Lion Group. Particularly for the risk ucts to customers even in cases where a large earthquake, spread management of the environment, quality assurance, and acciof infectious disease (pandemic), or other contingencies occur. Organizational Governance dents and disasters, each committee discusses countermeaWe set up a task force according to the “Manual on countersures in advance and the Executive Committee deliberates if measures for seismic disasters” in cases where seismic disasters necessary. Each factory is certified with ISO14001 and eagerly occur, and the “Manual on countermeasures against novel influworks on quality management and environmental protection. enza and other infectious diseases” in cases where a pandemic In cases where physical emergencies such as natural disasters due to novel influenza viruses or other infectious diseases are exand accidents arise, in accordance with the Emergency Repected to occur, so as to respond to such situation. Whether BCP sponse System, we report the relevant facts to the president should be implemented or not is determined depending on the and corporate auditors, among others, and report how the size of the disaster and the degree of damages. If the BCP is imsituation is being handled to the Executive Committee and the plemented, we would give first priority to supply of consumer Board of Directors. products among our businesses. Human Rights Of many different risks that can occur in the course of our As part of risk management, the situation of BCP is annually business operation, the five points below have been disclosed reported to the Executive Committee. In consideration of recent in the Company’s Securities Report* as key areas that can have increasing risks of infectious diseases, we completely reviewed a major influence upon the judgment of our investors. and revised our existing “Guidance to respond to novel influenza (established in 2008),” and approved it as “Manual on counter1. product quality evaluation 2. fluctuation in raw materials costs measures against novel influenza and other infectious diseases” 3. fluctuation in foreign exchange rate at the Executive Committee in June 2015. 4. major lawsuits, etc. 5. natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes). * Securities Report (Japanese) Labor Practices URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/ir/library/yuhou/ Internal Control Systems Enhancing systems to audit the appropriateness of operations The Environment Systems have been put in place to ensure the appropriateInternal Audits ness of the Lion Group’s operations in accordance with JaThe Auditing Office that directly reports to the president impan’s Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement of plements audits of various business units in terms of their lethe Companies Act. With regard to systems for evaluating gality, validity, efficiency, and risk management in order to and auditing internal control over financial reporting as preestablish a foundation for healthy business activities. scribed in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, Results of inspections and findings are reported to the presiwe have been establishing controls at the company-wide and dent. The results at the corporate level are summarized and reFair Operating Practices business-process levels. Evaluations of internal control effecported to the Executive Committee twice a year for PDCA mantiveness are carried out by the Auditing Office, which reports agement of audit work and sharing of information with the findings to the president and corporate auditors, as well as business execution departments. to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. In 2015, as a result of the evaluation, we determined that Lion’s internal control over financial reporting is effective, and submitted the Internal Control Report to the Prime Minister together with the Securities Report in March 2016. UN Global Compact Consumer Issues The UN Global Compact (UNGC), in which Lion has participated since 2009, is a voluntary initiative of companies and organizations aiming at realizing ten principles relevant to the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Lion is also a member of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), and participates in subcommittee activities on a regular basis in order to promote the CSR activities of the memCommunity ber companies. UN Global Compact URL https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Involvement and Development Global Compact Network Japan (Japanese) URL http://ungcjn.org/ CSR Report 2016 27 Organizational Governance Embedding Compliance Efforts for legal compliance and enhancement of a sense of ethics The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the Director ReThe System of AL Heart Hotline sponsible for Corporate Ethics, proactively works to foster compliance awareness within the Lion Group. The basis for compliConsulter/Informer ance is the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior*1.”This (employees within Lion Group, temporary staff, or external business partners) is distributed in pamphlet form to all employees working for Consultations and Consultations and the Lion Group and is publicly available via Lion’s website. AcNotifications Feedback Notifications Feedback cording to an annual program, e-learning and other educations are periodically provided. Report contents Seeking solutions/Resolving problems In 2015, in addition to going through and committing to the Internal Contact of consultation/ External contact (general manager specialnotification (lawyer) “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior,” our e-learning ized in corporate ethics) program provided training regarding fundamental quality asReport results of investigation Instrucsurance, the basics of labor management, risks relevant to social Reporting tion and countermeasures media, information security, information management system, harassment at workplace, and basic knowledge about insider Director Responsible for Corporate Ethics Board of Directors trading. Report as needed Compliance Awareness Survey*2 All Lion Group employees are asked every year to complete a The Corporate Ethcompliance awareness survey. The survey of 2015 was the twelfth ics Committee survey conducted. The findings are reported to management Set up as needed and feedback is provided to individual divisions. This contributes to the maintenance and strengthening of compliance systems. The 2015 survey (about a 98% response rate from around The Ethics Evaluation Committee (consisting of external experts) 3,935 employees) solicited opinions on a range of issues including problems with work environments. Raising Awareness of the Hotline AL Heart Hotline Consultations To ensure full communication with temporary staff and all our and Notifications (2015) employees, an internal and external reporting system, the “AL (All Lion) Heart Hotline,” has been set up by the company. Power harassment behaviors 9 cases In 2015, there were twelve instances of consultation or reporting, but no instances of grave misconduct were found and Personnel/labor management issues 1 case all the cases were appropriately addressed and resolved. Other 2 cases AL Heart Hotline (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/index.php Percentage of Employees Introduction of websites Who Received Survey Feedback Structure to promote activities 0 20 40 60 80 100（％） (Corporate governance) (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/ 2011 87.7％ 12.0％ 0.3％ 2012 90.5％ 9.2％ 0.3％ 2013 91.6％ 8.1％ 0.3％ 2014 93.9％ 5.9％ 0.1％ 2015 94.7％ 5.1％ 0.2％ (year) Feedback Not received No response received *1 10 principles of the Lion Group Charter for *2 Compliance Awareness Survey Corporate Behavior Questionnaire survey in which respondents anony1. Principal Mission 6. Contribution to the Society mously answer questions on, for example, compliance 2. Compliance with Public Rules 7. Opposition to Antisocial Forces with the Lion Charter for Corporate Behavior, whether 3. Disclosure 8. Contribution in Foreign Countries or not feedback was received from the Compliance 4. Environmental Issues 9. Practice of Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey in the previous year, and awareness 5. Promotion of Working Environment 10. Resolution of Problems of the hotline. 28 CSR Report 2016 Ideal Vision Lion's CSR Establishing a Framework Human Rights for Respecting Human Rights Organizational Governance Basic Approach Lion has stipulated that we shall “respect human rights” labor and forced or compulsory labor, promoting equal and “observe both the spirit as well as the letter of all employment opportunities and fair treatment of applicable laws and international rules” in the “Lion employees, and human rights of suppliers. In 2009, we Group Charter for Corporate Behavior.” Moreover, the declared our intention to support the ten principles of “Behavioral Guidelines” refers to the refusal of child the United Nations Global Compact. Human Rights Disseminating Human Rights Policy Making the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines take root Lion has stated its policies regarding respect for human on an annual basis via e-learning or documents by which we rights in the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior” ensure the Charter is read and consented to. Also, we conLabor Practices and “Behavioral Guidelines” based thereon. To ensure thorduct a questionnaire survey every year to confirm the extent ough communication of the Charter to directors, Lion Group to which the Charter has taken root. employees, and temporary staff, we provide an opportunity Ensuring Human Rights Due Diligence Enhancing frameworks to ensure respect for human rights in The Environment light of stages of the value chain Lion has enhanced systems for reporting, correcting and following-up, and understanding the impacts of its activities on Introduction of websites human rights in light of stages of the value chain. Caring for mankind (Human rights) (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/ Fair Operating Practices An Overview of Our Initiatives for Protecting Human Rights Procurement of Raw Stages of Materials, Packages, Major initiatives Value Chain undertaken by Lion Use by consumers Society/Environment and Containers Business partners Employees Customers Residents around Efforts based on ProConfirmation of recruitment, Aggressive pursuit of our factories curement Principles evaluation, and remuneration at safety and functionalEnvironmental manMain Subjects and Each Approach and Lion Group Supeach point in time ities by using our own agement under Lion’s Consumer Issues plier CSR Guidelines Execution of human rights edu“product manageEnvironmental GuideRelated information p41 cation ment system” lines to prevent conCreation of an environment in Related information p42-44 tamination, and comEstablishment of which discrimination on the basis pliance with laws and the Hotline of religion, race, and other facConsideration for “ regulations Related information p28 tors is curbed vulnerable users” such Related information p34-36 as the elderly and chilEstablishment of the Hotline dren, by preparing a Implementation of enPalm oil farms p28 Community Related information “labeling manual” vironmental assessment Participation in ahead of construction RSPO activities Subjects for Clinical Trials of new factories Starting purchase of Respecting the Helsinki Declaration RSPO-certified palm Operation of the “regulations for imInvolvement and Development oil derivative plementation of clinical trials” in orRelated information p40 der to place top priority on the safety of subjects and ethical considerations CSR Report 2016 29 Ideal Vision Changing Awareness of Employees through Raising Labor Practices Morale and Motivation Basic Approach In the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, Lion calls balance and strive to maintain work environments that for “fair treatment respecting the diversity, individuality flexibly allow a variety of working styles,” “do our utmost and personalities of our employees” and “ensuring a safe to assist employees who strive to learn specialized skills and comfortable workplace to realize the mental and physand knowledge and aim for ambitious goals.” and “engage ical well-being of our employees.” Also included in the Besincerely in dialog and discussion with employees and their havioral Guidelines are “to promote a healthy work-life representatives.” Promoting Amicable nize freedom of lawful union activities by union memLabor-Management Relations bers; the company shall not unfairly treat union members Lion executes labor agreements with the Lion Workers’ by reason thereof; and the company and the union shall Union for the purposes of promoting sound labor-manhave labor-management meetings on a regular basis to agement relations based on mutual understanding and consult with each other on an equal footing. trust, observing the Lion Group Charter for Corporate BeOperating under a union shop agreement*1, Lion has havior by realizing the social mission and responsibilities of endeavored to build amicable labor-management relathe company and its workers’ union, and working togethtions, in which employees and management proactively er to achieve growth of the company’s business and mainconduct activities such as reporting on business conditain/improve working conditions of union members. tions and exchanging opinions about the working enviThe agreements provide that: the company shall recogronment at labor-management meetings. Human Resource Development Promoting PDCA through the target management system and providing opportunities for training and ability development Improving a Training System for Each Function LION CHALLENGE CUP Innovation In training for each job function, measures to reinforce speIn 2015, the “first LION CHALLENGE CUP – Innovation” was cialties in each business are offered. In 2015 we especially held, in which employees can directly make a “dream-inspirenhanced training for the marketing division for the second ing proposal for Lion” to management. This event aims to consecutive year. To date, human resources who are active in draw out innovative proposals leading to significant future their respective divisions have been appointed as staff of the growth of the entire company, increasing employees’ awaremarketing division. For further improvement, we have deness of personal development and identifying business dosigned and operated a program to discover human resources mains in which we should contribute to society. The contents who are enthusiastic enough to continue efforts and learnof the proposals which got through the preliminary round ing. This program provides systematic learning opportunities are presented to management at the final round. for mastering practical marketing theories and planning and In 2015, from among 42 entries, one team was awarded designing based on insights into consumers and competitive the gold prize, one team the silver prize, two teams the strategies, and fosters future marketing personnel by judgbronze prize, and one team the jury’s special prize. ing their qualifications. *1 Union shop agreement: A labor agreement in which a worker is employed by a company on condition of becoming a member of a specific labor union. 30 CSR Report 2016 Human Resource Diversity Using Personnel capable of responding swiftly to changes Lion's CSR in the business environment Lion has made efforts toward promoting “human resource Approach for the Promotion of Women’s Particidiversity” in light of the need to respond swiftly to changes pation and Advancement in the Workplaces in the business environment. Aware that it is essential for women to work actively in order Since we set up “the Diverse Human Resource Promotion Organizational Governance to create our corporate value, we have addressed measures Committee”* 2 in 2010, we started consideration on the to advance women’s success in their working life. theme “Diversity” by planning and formulating personnel Recently the Japanese government has set various goals measures to make diverse human resources more active with and pushed ahead with measures relevant to promotion of participation of employees. Currently a team for diversity set women’s empowerment so as to realize a gender-free society up within the Personnel Department has been implementing in which men and women can participate. measures to promote human resource diversity. Lion has improved childcare-related systems and implemented measures to support employees to maintain a balance between Offering an Opportunity to Gain Knowledge about work and childcare so that they can continue to work for a long Jobs in the Company (Holding a Career Forum) time. Consequently, as seen in Lion’s non-consolidated average Human Rights This measure was proposed by the Diverse Human Resource service years for men and female employees, which are respecPromotion Committee for the purpose of supporting the catively 18 years and three months and 16 years and six months, reer development of young employees. female employees have worked actively for a long time. We are Opportunities to learn about the operations of other dealso making efforts to increase the percentage of female manapartments are provided so that employees can obtain inspigerial officials* to 15% or higher in Japan by 2020. ration to design their career. Personnel in specific positions Lion’s action plans in accordance with the Act of the Prodescribe their departments and the content of their work. motion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Since 2012 when the forum started, departments of finance, Workplaces and declaration for women’s promotion are Labor Practices legal affairs, marketing, public relations, CSR, and sales have available on the “Positive Action (Women’s Promotion) Inforbeen taken up as topics. mation Portal Site,” a project commissioned by the Japanese In the fourth forum in 2015, under the theme of overseas Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. business, specific operations of expatriate personnel and how [Declaration for the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement to use one’s previous career experience were explained and in the Workplaces ] (Japanese) advice for the future was given. URL http://www.positiveaction.jp/declaration/add/search_detail/?id=1664 [Lion’s Action Plans in Accordance with the Act of the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplaces ] (Japanese) URL http://www.positiveaction.jp/pa/search/detail.php?company_id=1620id=1620 The Environment * In Lion, personnel in a managerial position, which is at the level of an assistant manager or higher, is considered as a managerial official. Fair Operating Practices Career Forum Implementation of Regionally Based Employees Program Since 2013, Lion has had in place the Regionally Based EmRehabilitation seminar prior to return to work ployees Program with the aim of finding and keeping excellent personnel from among our temporary employees, who Employing People with Disabilities are contributing greatly to the company, as well as enabling In order to take advantage of individual abilities regardless Consumer Issues regular employees to choose diverse working arrangements. of whether the persons in question have disabilities or not, The regionally based employees can select their workplace we proactively employ people with disabilities, developing a from seven regions in Japan that Lion has chosen for this procorporate culture to improve the working environment and gram. Their compensation and benefits are at a similar level to support such individuals in the entire workplace. regular employees in the same block. Under the program, We launched a team to prepare for establishing a special eight such individuals were hired from among temporary emsubsidiary to promote employment of people with disabiliployees in 2014 and nine in 2015 and 2016 respectively. ties in 2015. With the establishment of Lion Tomoni Co., Ltd. Community in March 2016, we are promoting the employment of and expanding opportunities for people with disabilities. *2 The Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee Involvement and Development With subcommittees established in relation to three categories, “female employees,” “re-hired employees who have reached the mandatory retirement age,” and “temporary workers,” on whom the Company puts emphasis, the committee plans and formulates measures to make each of them more active, and pushes ahead with the measures in management. CSR Report 2016 31 Labor Practices Promoting Work-Life Balance Building an environment where employees can deliver results while working flexibly Lion strives to build an environment where employees can deliver results, while placing value on balancing work life with private life. Act for Measures to Support the Building an Environment Where Development of the Next-Generation Employees Can Work Dynamically Children Phase 5 Action Plan Kurumin mark: Since 2010, Lion has worked to reduce prolonged work and A symbol of a company Four goals are set in the Phase 5 Action Plan for supporting childcare encourage employees to take paid leaves. In 2015, with three years from April 2015 to March 2018. weekly “No-overtime day” and monthly “No-overtime Within the period of the action plan, implement support meaweek” implemented, overtime work decreased on average in Goal:1 sures to create a working environment in which employees on Lion (including employees assigned to affiliated companies). childcare leave can smoothly return to work. Introduction of a website for supporting employees on childcare leave to In order to facilitate understanding of management of take a balance between their career and childcare (February 2016). working hours, e-learning is continuously provided for all Implementation of group training prior to return to work (October 2015, employees. Furthermore, under a labor-management agreeFebruary 2016). ment, we proactively encourage employees to systematically Launch of individual explanatory meetings for employees on childcare leave and their bosses (January 2016). take at least three days paid leave per year with the aim of having them take more than 60% of paid leaves. We will Within the period of the action plan, implement measures to Goal:2 foster corporate culture toward women’s participation and make continuous efforts in this regard. advancement in the workplaces. The 4th Career Forum was held (November 2015). Support for Childcare and Nursing Care As a result of enhancing various programs and increasing Goal:3 Within the period of the action plan, have 13 or more male employees take childcare leave. employees’ awareness, the ratio of female employees taking Six male employees have taken the leave (As of March 2016). childcare leave has been 100%. Male employees are also taking the leave in many departments. In addition, Lion is adGoal:4 Within the period of the action plan, facilitate understanding about and use of the Work-at-Home System, and implement dressing career development during the childcare period by measures to promote the adoption of the system. establishing a website to support childcare and supporting Explanatory meetings and individual hearings at workplaces were held. employees taking childcare leave to upgrade their skills. [Support for Childcare and Nursing Care (Japanese)] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ Employee Data (Non-consolidated, including employees assigned to affiliated companies) Measures to support employees engaged in nursing care 2013 2014 2015 Male 2,316 2,292 2,268 As part of creating the environment that allows employees to Employees Female 722 729 758 continue to work without anxiety, Lion has enhanced support Female employee ratio (%) 23.8 24.1 25.0 for employees engaged in nursing care. In addition to ordinary New Employees (New Male 55 59 56 annual paid leaves, we have in place systems for cases where it Graduates) Female 30 25 28 is required to take leaves for nursing care, including accumulatRe-hired Number of people 300 289 262 ed leaves for medical nursing care (accumulation of expired anRetirees % 9.9 9.6 8.7 nual paid leaves), acquisition of a half-day care leave, and nursTemporary employees 330 457 461 ing care leave expanded up to 365 days which can be taken Number of people 46 52 57 separately). The Short Flexible Time System, a new way to work Female managers*1 % 5.2 5.9 6.8 combining short-time and flex-time, was also instituted. At the Employees with Number of people 44 43 51 same time, with the introduction of website for employees disabilities % 1.9 1.8 2.0 aged 40 and up to support nursing care, e-learning on preparaEmployees who took Male 5 6 5 tion for nursing care has been provided. childcare leave Female 37 37 33 Employees who took Male 0 0 0 The Work-at-Home System reduced working hours for childcare Female 43 57 58 Lion has been making efforts to improve business productiviAverage overtime per month (hours)*2 10.8 11.7 11.0 ty and work-life balance. The “work-at-home” system was Annual paid leave used (%)*2 51.2 50.8 51.8 introduced in February 2015 as a flexible way to work, in Average service years Male 20.1 19.8 19.8 which the workplace is not limited to the office. In order to (excluding re-hired employees) Female 17.6 17.7 17.4 facilitate understanding and penetration of the system, we Employees who resigned Number of people 3 2 4 have been enhancing the system by repeatedly holding exwithin three years of entering the company % 1.3 1.0 1.6 planatory meetings and individual hearings at workplaces and confirming the effects of facilitating use of the system. *1 Position corresponding to section chief or higher *2 The data of 2015 covers the number of employees of Lion Corporation and employees assigned to affiliated companies (data until 2014 Approach to compliance covers the number of employees of Lion Corporation only) with Next Generation Support Act Employee Data related to affiliated companies is available on the following website. (Japanese) Lion has formulated and addressed action plans in accordance with the URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/various/ Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next-Generation Children by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. As a result, achieving all goals from phase 1 to 4, we have been certified as a company supporting childcare with the “Kurumin” mark. 32 CSR Report 2016 Promoting Employees’ Health Management Lion's CSR Supporting employees’ self-management and establishing a reliable and healthy working environment Based on the concept that the good health of employees Mental Health Initiatives serves as a business foundation to support sound corporate With our “Mental Health Basic Policy” established in2004, Organizational Governance growth, Lion has been conducting a variety of measures. Lion has taken proactive measures for the mental health of With the Guidelines for Health as our core basic principle, our employees, for example, consultation after periodical Lion conducts detailed health management activities. checkups for all employees and a stress level check test which Guidelines for Health started in 2006. In 2015, 98% of employees took the stress URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/health.php level check test*1. The results are compiled and analyzed by Organizational Approach to Health Mansection/department in such a way that individuals cannot be identified, fed back to responsible officers, and used for agement training for managers. In this way, Lion has continued orgaLion has conducted health management activities based on nizational mental health initiatives. discussions at a joint session called the “Health Management Human Rights Promotion Committee Meeting” attended by the employee Dental Prophylaxis Program (ALOHA) who is responsible for health management of the company In collaboration with the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (The Personnel Manager), the Health Insurance Society and (LDH), we have focused on the improvement of oral health the Health Support Office. by incorporating dental checkups into the annual health We will continuously make improvements through PDCA mancheckups for all employees since 2002. agement and accumulate know-how on industrial health. [ALOHA]All Lion Oral Health Activity Labor Practices Enhancing Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System Establishing systems to promote occupational safety and safety of facilities Based on the principle of “safety first,” Lion has established its Safety of Facility unique Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention Management We consider that most of the plant accidents that recently The Environment System for domestic group companies, which added our own happened at other group companies were attributed to the disaster prevention measures to the “Occupational Safety and diminished sense in safety management and shortfalls in Health Management System (OSHMS)*2” based on the guideworkers’ skills and awareness. lines of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. Therefore, Lion has worked to enhance equipment safety from a mediumto long-term perspective, with approaches from both Occupational Safety the hard (equipment management) and soft (operational manIn 2015, the number of labor accidents, including the number agement) sides. at affiliated companies, was 21, increasing 10 from the previous Fair Operating Practices year. As with the previous year, the number of lost time accidents was three. The reason for the increased number of acciIntroduction of websites dents is considered to be young workers lacking experience and For the sake of employees (Labor Practices)(Japanese) expertise on operations. We will increase awareness of safety by http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/ identifying problems and enhancing training on safety. The Lion Group including domestic and overseas affiliated companies, will be committed to prevention of critical accidents, by strengthening its structure based on the Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) and Consumer Issues Safety Design Guideline for Facilities, and promoting safety measures for production equipment. Community *1 Stress level check test *2 Occupational Safety and Involvement and Development Test to grasp psychological burdens on employees Health Management System (OSHMS) (to be obligatory in December 2015 with the revision A system to voluntarily conduct continuous safety and of the Japanese Industrial Safety and Health Act). health management through PDCA. CSR Report 2016 33 Ideal Vision Contributing to the Development of The a Sustainable Society as an Environment Environmentally Advanced Company Basic Approach 基本的な考え In 2011, Lion announced its Management Vision (Vision our environmental slogan, “Everyday. For the Earth,” de2020). As its Group-wide policy to become an “environ方 rives. We will work on communication by increasing cusmentally advanced company,” which is included in Vision tomers’ environmental awareness through our products, 2020, we formulated our new environmental objective in addition to achieving targeted values with the aim of “Eco Vision 2020” in 2013. “realizing a low carbon society,” “realizing a sound mateAs with “Eco Vision 2020,” our thoughts regarding enrial-cycle society”and “realizing a society harmonizing vironmental activities are represented in our environwith nature.” mental message “Lion and the Environment,” from which Everyday. For the Earth. (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ Environmental Guidelines Our stance toward voluntary and proactive environmental conservation activities performed throughout the value chain Lion’s Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of the accordance with the formulation of “Eco Vision 2020.” The “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior,” which states: revised Guidelines more clearly express our attitude toward “We shall play a positive and active role in creating a sustain“realizing a low carbon society,” “realizing a sound materiable society that harmonizes economic development and envial-cycle society” and “realizing a society harmonizing with naronmental protection.” In 2013, we revised the Guidelines in ture,” as well as our stance toward our efforts overseas. Environmental Guidelines Lion will act voluntarily and proactively to reduce its environ4 Developing Environment-Friendly Products mental burden to the global environment in all processes of Continue aggressively with product development in tune with Libusiness activities from the development of products to the on’s own “Lion eco-standards” and in light of lifecycle assessments. procurement of raw materials, production, distribution, 5 Reducing Environmental Impact Together with Our sales, use by customers, as well as disposal. This will be done Business Partners with due consideration to “realizing a low carbon society to Strive to reduce environmental burdens at all stages from purchase through provision of products to customers, in cooperaprevent global warming,” “realizing a sound material-cycle tion with suppliers of materials, outsourcing contractors, and society with maximum usage of recycled resources” and “resales companies. alizing a society harmonizing with nature to conserve peo6 Harmonizing with Nature ple’s health, natural ecosystems and biodiversity.” Conduct business activities while taking into account biodiversity and air and water environments, and proactively address natural 1 Aiming for a Sustainable Society environment protection activities. Promote an environmental management system, and through 7 Enhancing Environmental Protection Activities Based ongoing maintenance and improvement of that system, protect on Uniform Understanding of the Guidelines the global environment. Disseminate the Guidelines to all Lion employees, including 2 Complying with Legal and Other Requirements those of its affiliated companies, raise awareness of environComply with the system of legislation, regulations and arrangemental protection among them and bolster environmental manments pertaining to environmental protection, and establish agement activities throughout the entire Lion Group. and implement voluntary standards of conduct. 8 Promoting Disclosure of Information 3 Setting and Verifying Implementation of EnvironSeek to maintain and promote communication with stakeholdmental Objectives and Targets ers involved in Lion’s businesses. These Environmental Guidelines Correctly understand the environmental impact of our corporate are freely available to anyone upon request. activities, and as far as technically and economically possible, establish objectives and targets for improvement, while at the same Revised January 1, 2013 time formulating, implementing and regularly verifying the status of implementation of an environmental management program. 34 CSR Report 2016 Environmental Management Structure and Management System Lion's CSR Mechanism to promote cross-departmental environmental conservation activities Environmental Management System Environmental Management Structure The purpose of the Lion Group’s Environmental ManageExecutive Environmental Conservation Committee ment System is to identify, evaluate and remedy adverse efCommittee Organizational Governance Chairman : Director of the Board Responsible fects that our business activities, products and services have Secretariat : CSR Promotion Department, Group-wide on the environment, and to improve our environmental proManager of Environmental Conservation Office environment Members of Committee : tection activities on an on-going basis. management Directors of production, administrative, sales, (Director of Environmental Systems for environmental management and reporting acConservation Office) R&D and headquarters staff divisions tivities have been enhanced with the aim of responding to Production Administrative / R&D Division the environment globally. Data on overseas group companies Division Manager of Sales Division Manager of Manager of environment Affiliated is available on our website. environment management (General manager of productienvironment management (General manager of management (General manager of corporate management companies on management department) general affair department) department) Data on the environmental burden of group companies’ plants (overseas) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/2015/env_data_2015.pdf Each plant Each office Each laboratory Human Rights Status of ISO 14001 Certification Legal Compliance Lion acquired ISO14001 certification covering all its plants in In regard to revisions of environmental laws and regulations July 2001. Subsequently, the certification has been reviewed namely, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on Proand renewed by the Japan Management Association Quality motion of Global Warming Countermeasures, the Act on ConAssurance Registration Center (JMAQA) every three years. It has firmation, etc. of Released Amounts of Specific Chemical been verified that the management systems are continuously Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improveoperated in a proper manner, conforming to requirements of ments to the Management Thereof, the Act on the Evaluation the standards. Including the plants of group companies in and of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, Labor Practices outside Japan, the Lion Group has obtained ISO14001 certificaetc., and the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Act the Envitions and performed operations in compliance with ISO14001, ronmental Conservation Office collects information from adcontinuously pushing ahead with its management systems and ministrative agencies and industrial associations, and thereafter environmental conservation activities. registers the information with a system using Intranet for information on chemicals-related laws to keep the related departments updated about such information. In addition, with our “waste management regulations” voluntarily established, we have had in place a management system without omissions. The Environment There were no violations resulting in a fine or other penalties during 2015. Pollution Prevention Production activities conscious about air and water quality Fair Operating Practices Lion also implements voluntary initiatives for reducing emis[Data of environmental impacts of production sites in Japan] (Japanese) sions of chemical substances, including nitrogen oxides (NOx), URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/environment-Management.pdf sulfur oxides (SOx), particulate matter and volatile organic com[Data of environmental impacts of Overseas production sites] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/2015/env_data_2015.pdf pounds (VOC). We also strive to reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) with improvement in reliability of wastewater processing facilities and periodical maintenance. Data on management of chemical substances in compliance with the PRTR system* is available on Lion’s website. Consumer Issues Community Involvement and Development * PRTR system A system to measure, aggregate, and publicize emissions of toxic chemical substances, etc. CSR Report 2016 35 The Environment Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances Chemical substances are indispensable for people to lead to ensure strict management of chemical substances at all comfortable and fulfilling lives. Failure to properly manage stages from product development to use/disposal in accorchemical substances, however, can result in accidents that put dance with our own independent standards. human health and ecosystems at enormous risk. In addition Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances (Japanese) to compliance with related laws and regulations, Lion strives URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ Lion’s Chemical Substance Management 1 Product Development 2 Production 3 Transportation 4 Use and Disposal Safety verification and Measurement and Provision of safety informaProvision of information on management of chemical reduction of chemical tion during transportation safety and handling of substances contained in raw substance releases chemical products materials, packages, and containers Engaging in Progressive Environmental Activities Pursuing environmental targets ”Eco Vision 2020” in light of global issues Achievements of Eco Vision V-2 (from 2015 to 2017) in the first year and future plans thereof Eco Vision 2020 is conducted by dividing the nine years from vious years, all employees of Lion Group have been united in 2012 to 2020 into three periods, V-1 to V-3, each of three promoting environmental activities. Accordingly, plans for years. 2015 was the first year of V-2 following V-1 in which V-2 have been steadily performed in general. almost all the set targets had been attained. As with the preFive key items Greenhouse gas emissions from business Water use in domestic business activities activities in Japan In 2015, we reduced water used in domestic business activiIn 2015, we reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 41% (comties by 45 % (compared to 2000, water used per unit total pared to 1990, emission intensity per unit total revenue), revenue). The 2020 target of a 35 % reduction was attained more than 29% over the previous year, with integration of earlier than scheduled due to modification of the production production facilities and energy-saving activities conducted process, water-saving activities at all offices and plants, and at all offices and plants. We will continue to make efforts for recycling of factory waste water discharge stated below. achieving our targets for 2017 and 2020. Recycling of factory waste water discharge Greenhouse gas emissions from post-use In 2015, we completed construction of facilities to recycle productions in Japan factory waste water and started operation there at Chiba In order to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from postPlant, aiming to achieve the target of “recycling waste water use products, we are making products more compact and at multiple plants by 2020.” In 2016, we will begin the fullswitching from petroleum-based surfactant ingredients with scale operation of the facilities, expecting to further reduce plant-based ingredients that do not lead to an increase in waste water discharge and water consumption. CO2. In 2015, the emissions decreased by 49% (compared to 1990, emission intensity per unit total revenue), slightly increasing on a year-to-year comparison, due to temporary changes in the composition of our products. We will push with the same activities to achieve the set targets. Greenhouse gas emissions from overseas business activities We reduced greenhouse gas emission by 0.4% (compared to 2014, emission intensity per unit of production), failing to attain the target of a 1 % reduction for each year. This was because energy efficiency decreased due to the plants with lower production volume. We will work on more efficient production by ensuring production volume according to production capacity. 36 CSR Report 2016 Achievements of Eco Vision V-2 (2015 to 2017) and target values of Eco Vision 2020 Categories Achievements in 2015 Target values for 2017 Target values for 2020 Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Lion's CSR Greenhouse gases (domestic) Within the ①Reduction of total revenue total revenue total revenue greenhouse gases 24% reduction (compared to 2010) 23% reduction (compared to 2010) 34% reduction (compared to 2010) company from business 41% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) 49% reduction (compared to 1990) activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 43% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) Realizing a Low Carbon Society Organizational Governance Emission intensity per unit total Emission intensity per unit total Emission intensity per unit total Outside the ②Reduction of revenue revenue revenue greenhouse gases 2% reduction (compared to 2010) 7% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) company from post-use 49% reduction (compared to 1990) 52% reduction (compared to 1990) 53% reduction (compared to 1990) products Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 50% reduction (compared to 1990) 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) Within the ③Reduction of Emission intensity per unit of Emission intensity per unit of Emission intensity per unit of Greenhouse gases greenhouse gases production production production company from business 1% reduction year-on-year 0.4% reduction (compared to 2014) 1% reduction year-on-year activities, overseas (compared to 2014) Human Rights (overseas) Outside the ④Reduction of greenhouse gases Reduction of 58 thousand tons Reduction of 100 thousand tons company from post-use annually annually products, overseas Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Within the ⑤Reduction of 28% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) water use in 45% reduction (compared to 2000) 34% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) company Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society Labor Practices business activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 47% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) 23% reduction (compared to 2000) Water Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Outside the ⑥Reduction of 16% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) 17% reduction (compared to 2010) water usage at 45% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 45% reduction (compared to 2000) company household using our products Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 47% reduction (compared to 2000) 44% reduction (compared to 2000) 33% reduction (compared to 2000) The Environment ⑦Zero emissions Continued to attain zero emission Zero emissions at all domestic proWaste within the at all domestic production sites duction sites company*1 ⑧Recycle of factory Completed construction of Wastewastewater facilities to recycle waste water at Recycle factory waste water at water discharge*2 Chiba Plant multiple plants Fair Operating Practices ⑨Procurement of Harmonizing with Procureplant-derived oils Purchased RSPO*3-certified All palm oil derivative purchased ment that take biodiversipalm oil derivative to be RSPO-certified ty into consideration Nature ⑩Increase biodiversity Carried out in all Lion’s Biodiverconservation factories and at offices of Carried out in all domestic sites sity activities some affiliate companies Consumer Issues Awareness ⑪Environmental Education and awareness and 60% increase in consumer 80% increase in consumer 100% increase in consumer Education education for participation in our awareness participation in our awareness participation in our awareness in the consumers activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) Society *1 The recycling ratio of total waste generation is 99% or more, which does not include residues of recycling. *2 Wastewater from production processes Community *3 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Involvement and Development CSR Report 2016 37 The Environment Harmonizing with Nature Lion has assumed a leading role in tackling water-related environmental issues such as bubble floating occurred in rivers and eutrophication of waterways linked to the use of detergents, and has considered biodiversity conservation at each stage from raw material procurement to disposal. However, in order to receive and preserve the blessings of biodiversity into the future, it will be mandatory for us to coordinate with local communities to focus on conservation of biodiversity and promote sustainable use thereof. Also, it is important to promote a shift in lifestyle of consumers through products that take biodiversity into consideration, and to contribute to the realization of a society harmonizing with nature. To this end, Lion will contribute to the development of a sustainable society through its business by ascertaining the natural resources used in business activities and the impact on biodiversity throughout the value chain and carrying out biodiversity conservation activities that lead to the expansion of opportunities and reduce the risks. Also, by having each of our employees participate in activities to conserve biodiversity as part of our environmental education, we will spread awareness of biodiversity conservation to all our office sites. Overview of Our Business Activities Taking Biodiversity Conservation into Consideration Watershed*1 ecoWatershed ecoBiodiversity on system in raw matesystem where our Watershed ecosystem where consumers reside which Lion relies rial origination sites plants are located Corresponding stages Procurement of raw Disposal by of value chain materials, packages, Production Use by consumers and containers consumers Key natural Plants used as Cooling water and raw Service water at the time of raw materials (oil water used for equipusing our products resources used palms etc.) ment cleaning etc., by Lion which are used in plants Impact on natural Impact of underground Impact of water intake by Impact of wasteenvironments of water intake by plants consumers on surrounding water and waste palm oil growers on surrounding natural natural environments and packaging materials and local commuenvironments and local local communities from consumers on nities (water concommunities surrounding natural Possible major tamination and environments and impact on wildlife Impact of wastewater local communities impact of our from plants on surroundhabitats caused by activities on illegal logging of ing natural environments biodiversity tropical forests) and local communities Impact of light and odors from plants on surrounding natural environments and local communities Promotion of Conservation of rivers Development of water-savSurveying environprocurement of and other ecosystems ing detergents mental impact of sustainable palm by implementing purifiDevelopment of highly biosurfactants oils (participation cation technologies on degradable detergents Related information Activities in RSPO and purdischarged wastewater Related information WEB② WEB① Biodiversity conservation activities to reduce chase of RSPO-certified oils) Reduction of plant wastes risks Related information WEB② Related information p40 Reduction of water consumption at plants Related information WEB② Conservation and moniEducational activities rePromotion of 3Rs toring of habitats on the garding care of water and (Refills, condensing watershed where factonatural environments (forest of content to make ries are located (Activities improvement activities unproducts more to protect endangered der the name of Lion Forest, compact, and develActivities loggerhead sea turtles, conducting the Rainwater opment of containto expand activities to maintain Utilization Ideas Contest, and ers, e.g., recycled opportubiotopes, and activities to water-related environmental PET(polyethylene nities maintain domestic woodresearch support through the terephthalate)bottles lands (satoyama), etc.) Japan Society on Water Enviand containers with Related information WEB④ ronment). thin-wall molding) Related information p49,WEB③,④ Related information p46,WEB⑤ *1 Watershed: Ecosystems including forests, rivers, domestic woodlands (Satoyama), tidal flats and beaches that are connected by water. 38 CSR Report 2016 Realizing a Low Carbon Society/ a Sound Material-Cycle Society Lion has worked to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as recycling and effective use of resources at each stage from raw material procurement to disposal. Detailed data is available on our website. We will promote activities toward Lion's CSR realization of a low carbon society/ a sound material-cycle society. Overview of Our Business Activities Toward Realization of a Low Carbon Society/a Sound Material-Cycle Society Organizational Governance Corresponding stages Procurement of raw Disposal by of value chain materials, packages, Production Use by consumers and containers consumers Substituting Factories Education to increase conSubstituting plant-derived maImproving energy efficiency sumers’ environmental plant-derived mateterials for petroby reviewing production awareness through prodrials for petroleum leum resources processes, introducing eneructs (The environmental resources Related information gy-saving equipment at relabel is attached to prodnewing facilities, and downucts that meet the “Lion Promoting 3Rs WEB② sizing products eco-standards”) (Refills, condensing Human Rights Related information p46 Related information p46 of content to make products more comOffice/Facilities Reducing power consumppact, and developCompany-wide energy-savtion during use of our ment of containers, ing activities including the power-saving products e.g., recycled PET Activities for administrative & sales divi(polyethylene tere(involving decreasing the realizing a low sion and the R&D division number of times of rinsing phthalate) bottles and carbon society associated with the use of containers with thinDistribution after shipment detergents that only wall molding) Increasing the rate of modrequire one rinse) Labor Practices Related information al shift during transporp46,WEB⑤ tation of products such as shifting freight from truck to rail or ship. Improving logistics efficiency by increasing the transport loading rate, etc. Related information WEB⑥ The Environment Corresponding stages Procurement of raw Disposal by of value chain materials, packages, Production Use by consumers and containers consumers Using plant-derived Factories Education to increase conPromoting 3Rs materials (renewable Promoting zero emissions sumers’ environmental (Refills, condensing raw materials) within the company awareness through products of content to make Reducing factory wastewa(The environmental label is products more comUsing recycled mateter discharge attached to products that pact, and developFair Operating Practices Activities for rerials Use of recycled water meet “Lion eco-standards”) ment of containers, alizing a sound Related information p46 e.g., recycled PET material-cycle Office/Facilities (polyethylene teresociety Promoting company-wide Reducing water usage phthalate) bottles green purchases during use of our waand containers with ter-saving products thin-wall molding) Related information WEB② Related information WEB② Related information p46,WEB⑤ The websites below are all in Japanese. Web ① [Surveying the Environmental Impact of Surfactants “MES,” “MEE,” etc.] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/biodiversity/ Consumer Issues Web ② [Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/ Web ③ [Natural Protection Activities] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/conservation/ Web ④ [Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/biodiversity Web ⑤ [3Rs for Minimizing Containers and Packages] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/3r/ Web ⑥ [Reduction of Greenhouse Gases (Group Companies in Japan)] URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/climate/ Community Introduction of websites To Protect the Earth’s environment (The Environment) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ Everyday. For the Earth. http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ecolion/ Involvement and Development CSR Report 2016 39 Ideal Vision Promoting CSR Activities throughout Fair Operating Practices the Value Chain Basic Approach In accordance with the “Lion Group Charter for Corporate comply with laws and regulations. Behavior” and the “Behavioral Guidelines,” we have Furthermore, Lion has expressed its support for the ten made efforts to “engage in fair, transparent and free principles of the UN Global Compact since 2009, and has competition and proper transactions” while “maintaining made it clear that the company is serious about sound and proper relationships with governmental and preventing bribery and corruption. political bodies.” We also require business partners to Promotion of CSR Procurement Procuring sustainable raw materials, packages, and containers, and encouraging suppliers to conduct CSR activities In our initiatives across the value chain, we believe it is one migrant workers, and child labor. Lion has been a member of of our key issues to enhance our partnerships with material the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO*1), which atsuppliers and outsourcing contractors. In order to alleviate tempts to solve all the above-mentioned issues, since 2006. any negative impact of our business activities on the environIn 2012, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd.’s oleochemical production ment and society, and sustainably develop mutual operasite passed the supply chain certification system inspection tions, both our suppliers and our company need to enrich the and was certified as a plant that was allowed to handle RScontent of CSR activities. PO-certified palm oils. As a result of this, Lion started procurAlso, regarding the palm oils used in methyl ester sulfoning RSPO-certified palm oils in 2012. We set our target to ate (MES), which is an environmentally-friendly surfactant complete the switch of all palm oils to be used to certified and plant-derived detergent material independently develpalm oils by the end of 2015, and all the purchased palm oil oped by Lion, it is critical to promote procurement of susbecame certified in July 2014. Subsequently, we have set new tainable palm oils. targets toward 2020 as below and started purchasing RSExcellent features of “MES” (Japanese) PO-certified palm oil derivatives based on the target of 2015. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/resources/ Targets Aiming for Sustainable Procurement of 2015: Starting purchase of RSPO-certified palm oil derivatives Palm Oils 2020: All palm oil derivatives to be RSPO-certified We are actively promoting the utilization of plant-derived materials as carbon neutral materials. As one of the We will continue with our effort to procure sustainable palm plant-derived materials, we are using palm oil – the oil that is oils into the future. produced in the largest quantity globally. Palm oils are produced mainly in Malaysia and Indonesia. Palm oil plants are productive and the oils can be harvested throughout the CERTIFICATE CU-RSPO SCC-826807 year, with the production volume increasing year after year. Based on an audit according to the requirements stated in the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems, version November 2014 and a signed contract, Control Union Certifications herewith certifies that the facility(s) listed below are found to be in compliance with the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems, version November 2014. This guarantees that the criteria for processing RSPO certified palm oil products through one or more of the supply chain models as stated in the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems have been met. However, at the sites of production, as a result of the sudden Name of certified company Full address certified company LION CHEMICAL CO., LTD. OLEOCHEMICAL DIVISION 22-1, BANNOSUCHO 762-0064 SAKAIDESHI KAGAWA JAPAN explosion of production, a number of issues have arisen such RSPO Number (if applicable) Other sites certified (see annex 1) RSPO registered parent company (if applicable) Lion Corporation RSPO member number parent company 4-0012-06-000-00 as the logging of tropical forests for development of new Scope of assessment Procurement, blending, hydrogenation, and reselling of Fatty Acid Methyl Ester Start date certificate 20-12-2012 Expiration date certificate 19-12-2017 Date of first RSPO certification 20-12-2012 farms leading to a shrinking of wildlife habitats. Also, due to Certificate number CU-RSPO SCC-826807 Supply chain model Identity Preserved (IP) Mass Balance (MB) Segregation (SG) Authorised signatory name Issued by inappropriate farming operations, various labor-manageMs. N Atiqah Control Union Certifications Date of issue: 24-11-2015 Meeuwenlaan 4-6, P.O. Box 161, On behalf of the Managing Director 8000 AD ZWOLLE The Netherlands Authorised signature tel.: +31(0)38 426 01 00 http://www.controlunion.com ment issues lacking social fairness have been raised, includcertifications@controlunion.com Control Union Certifications is accredited to provide RSPO Supply Chain Certification on 06/06/2014 (RSPO-ACC-014) This certificate including the annex remains the property of Control Union Certifications and can be withdrawn in case of terminations as mentioned in the licensee contract, or in case changes or deviations of the above-mentioned data occur. The licensee is obliged to inform CUC immediately of any changes ing terrible labor conditions with very little consideration for in the above mentioned data. Only an original and signed certificate is valid. Certificate version: C826807CU-RSPO SCC-01.2015 RSPO supply chain certification for Lion health and safety, very low wages, improper treatment of page 1/1 Chemical Co., Ltd. *1 RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) URL http://www.rspo.org/ The RSPO sets forth 8 principles and 43 criteria that apply to sustainable palm oil production, including those with regard to “environmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources and biodiversity,” “responsible development of new plantings” and “responsible consideration of employees and individuals and communities affected by growers and mills,” and only certifies palm oils produced in compliance with the principles set forth for sustainable palm oil. 40 CSR Report 2016 Promotion of CSR with Material Suppliers and Outsourcing Contractors We require material suppliers and outsourcing contractors to In 2014, we made it possible to conduct all self-checks online carry out self-checks based on the “Lion Group Supplier CSR so that our business partners can conduct self-checks more Lion's CSR Guideline”*2 in order to facilitate responsible procurement efficiently. Also by sending feedback based on the results to activities. Accordingly, we have been promoting to develop a the respondents, systems to continuously promote CSR prosystem to prevent risks from occurring in supply chains with curement have been established. regard to human rights/labor practices, the environment, fair We will continue promoting CSR activities together with operating practices, consumer issues, and compliance. our business partners. Organizational Governance Timeline of approach to CSR procurement Instituted the Basic Policy Regarding Purchasing for appropriate procurement of raw materials, packages, and 2005 containers, as well as products. Established the Procurement Principles that clarified our social and environmental considerations. Conducted a questionnaire survey for domestic and overseas material suppliers and outsourcing contractors about their 2008 corporate activities regarding legal compliance, product service quality and safety, environmental considerations, labor and human rights, and fair business transactions. Human Rights Revised our Procurement Principles and clarified our stance to select business partners in light of legal compliance, environmental conservation, and respect for human rights. Established the Lion Group Supplier CSR 2013 Guideline that shows the CSR activities we expect material suppliers and outsourcing contractors to perform, and ask them to conduct self-checks on their own CSR activities. Procurement Principles URL http://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/procurement.php Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/eng.pdf Labor Practices Flow from asking for self-checks to sending feedback Aggregate Results of Overall Self-checks Based on the Lion Implementation of Group Supplier CSR Guideline Asking for self-checks self-checks Lion asks material suppliers Material suppliers and and outsourcing contracYet to outsourcing contractors respond tors to carry out self-checks. answer questions online. 11 % The Environment Requested improvement Feedback and Analyzing answers 9% Improvement of self-checks No need for Feedback is sent to all busiAnswers are analyzed to improvement ness partners and if necessary, identify business partners we ask for improvement. that need to be improved. 80 % Coverage: Total of 633 companies Fair Operating Practices ※We make efforts to help our business partners understand the importance of CSR (Domestic :544, Overseas :89) by explaining about trends of CSR when asking for self-checks. The self-checks consists of three-stage checking criteria in accordance with the level of each initiative. We also provide a glossary. Outline of Results 80% of material suppliers have no need for further improvements in any items. 9% need improvement in one or more items. 11% did not respond. For suppliers that did not respond, we will ask for their cooperation through conducting interviews to understand their status. Consumer Issues Introduction of websites For ethical business operations (Fair Operating Practices) (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/ Community *2 Lion Group Supplier CSR Guideline URL Japanese Involvement and Development Guideline including the following 5 subjects and 21 items http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/jpn.pdf 1. Human Rights/Labor Practices 4. Consumer Issues English http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/eng.pdf 2. The Environment 5. Compliance Chinese http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/cn.pdf 3. Fair Operating Practices CSR Report 2016 41 Ideal Vision Pursuing Customer Satisfaction by Consumer Issues Creating Safe and Trustworthy Products Basic Approach Lion carries out quality assurance activities at all stagDuring product development, the quality of develes, from the very beginning of the product creation oped products is verified in respect to seven metrics process until customer consumption of our products, in including function and performance. Furthermore, we order to provide products that will satisfy our customendeavor to provide clear and easy-to-read labeling ers. Specifically, by identifying key requirements for for our customers. each stage of corporate activities product planning, During manufacturing, thorough quality control is perproduct development, manufacturing, sales, and cusformed within each process, and products that have tomer support we are constantly pursuing new passed inspections are shipped with identifiable data for heights of customer satisfaction. each lot, which is effective for after-sale management. During product planning, valuable opinions received A variety of information is relayed through explanafrom customers are well understood to identify custions about our products and by providing samples to tomers’ needs. wholesalers and retailers. Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinions Maximization of customers' satisfaction Customers Customer support Management Flow of developing safe, high-quality products Product planning Product development Manufacturing Sales Customer opinions and market Products are developed by Raw materials and production Product information is survey findings are reflected in translating quality objectives processes are managed to communicated in an accessible planning in the form of quality into technical parameters for lead manufacture of products manner so that customers can objectives that will ensure design quality. with consistent quality. ascertain the product features customers are fully satisfied. and usage. All employees acknowledge customer satisfaction as the starting point for realizing a happier lifestyle for customers. By responding to customer opinions and making ongoing improvements to products, Lion creates products that heighten customer satisfaction. Enhancing Group-wide Quality Assurance System Enhancing the mechanism to develop safe and high-quality products in Japan and overseas To deliver on our promise of “offering superior products that maceuticals division and quality assurance division, in order are helpful in the daily lives of people,” we are promoting the to build quality assurance and development support strucmanufacturing of safe and high-quality products that can satistures across all functions of Lion including our overseas comfy our customers by putting in place a quality assurance strucpanies as well as a broad range of fields from consumables ture based on the Quality Policy that we established in 2008. and pharmaceuticals to food. In 2014, we established the “Pharmaceutical Affairs and Quality Assurance Department” by consolidating the phar42 CSR Report 2016 Developing Safe, High-quality Products Lion's CSR Product 1 Planning products that further satisfy our customers Planning Customer Analysis/ Lion's Deliberation and approval Opinions Deliberation proposal of the proposal Product planning meeting Organizational Governance Preparing of a product Executive Committee Marketing research proposal ・Marketing Market research results analysis ・Concept Customer ・Target quality level research Human Rights 2 Product Building safety and quality into products Development Deliberation on Deliberation on and Discussion and approval contents and containers checking of labeling of development results Quality verification Production Engineering Meeting Labor Practices Seven metrics ❶ Function/Performance Discussion and approval of development results ❷ Usability ❸ Safety Product Planning Meeting ❹ Product stability Discussion and approval of commercialization of the product ❺ Environmental friendliness ❻ Appearance (including design) Executive Committee ❼ Compliance with laws and regulations and self-imposed standards Decision of commercialization The Environment Quality Verification Meeting Process Safety When starting development, the suitability At the completion of development, Verification Meeting of quality objectives and matters deemed the validity of the developmental Safety assurance in the manufacturing crucial to development are confirmed. product is confirmed. process is confirmed. Fair Operating Practices 3 Manufacturing Quality confirmation under mass production Preparation for initial Manufacturing Storage (shipment) manufacturing Quality of raw materials, Quality in trial manufacturing is evaluated. Consumer Issues packages, and containers is confirmed. Market reception is surveyed. Quality control is performed in each process. Product freshness is managed. 4 Sales Provision of information about product quality Community Information is provided to wholesalers Information on products is and retailers to ensure communication made available via displays of product features and usage to and samples at stores, and Involvement and Development customers. newspapers, television, our website and other media. CSR Report 2016 43 Consumer Issues Approach to Safety and Reliability Initiatives to Listen and Respond We evaluate the safety of our products at the raw materials, to Our Customers packages, and containers stage and upon actual use so that The inquiries made by customers are registered in a database our customers can use our products without any concern. under a stringent personal information management structure and then shared at the corporate level via an informaSafety of Materials tion sharing system, with the exception of personal informaWe first examine the materials to determine their safety. As tion, so that such information becomes available for the next step, we determine whether to use a particular maimprovement in products and services and new product deterial after evaluating the sample and supplier in order to velopment. secure quality above a certain level. In using the materials, Among this information, the information considered to afthey are classified into “drugs and food,” “quasi-drugs and fect customer satisfaction is passed on to top management on cosmetics” and “miscellaneous,” and their quality is inspecta daily basis via a VOC Daily Letter, and efforts are made to ed based on the inspection items and testing methods apenhance quality by ascertaining the customers’ perspective propriate for each classification before they are actually acand through early consideration and handling of improvecepted for use. ment measures led by the product planning department. In 2015, we sent out 240 VOC Daily Letters. With a new Safety During Product Use system established, we also improved the environment to By considering the various uses of our products as well as widely collect and analyze consumers’ opinions not only product use by vulnerable customers, we perform safety through telephone and e-mail but also via the SNS, in order evaluation of our products from the perspective of avoiding to more proactively take advantage of customers’ perspecrisks at the stage of product design. tives in our business activities. Furthermore, an organization We use a checklist in our evaluation to determine whether exclusively for analyzing and disseminating customers’ voices the product design ensures safety from “normal use” cases to was set up to enhance our capability to transmit information “mistaken use” cases. We evaluate if risks can be alleviated to respective departments. even in the event of “irregular use,” and also evaluate [VOC] Voice of Customers whether risks can be tolerated. Such evaluations are reflect[SNS] Social Networking Service (Facebook, Twitter, etc.) ed in our measures to secure product safety, such as by providing sufficient warnings as needed. Also, in the Quality Verification Meeting for quality confirmation held with representatives of related divisions, we perform checks from the perspective of our customers during Current Status of Recall their actual use of our products in order to prevent damages of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet during product use as well as failure to confirm all safety Because the “Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Flying Insects” check items. and “Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Crawling Insects” led to In preparation for possible problems with our products, we fire-related accidents, Lion has been voluntarily rehave in place an internal system to quickly take countermeacalling such products since August 27, 2007. sures such as product recall. As of February 2016, 1.48 million of these products have been recalled (recall rate: 45.7%). We would Scope of Safety Confirmation like to ask our consumers who still have any of these products and reside in Japan to assist in the recall. Reckless Unforeseeable and Customer Support for Recall use unreasonable usage of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Sprays Toll-free: 0120-670-225 Foreseeable usage, but defying Open: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Japan time) Lower risk to acceptable Irregular accepted norms (overly excessive (Except Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays, yearend/ level and provide warnings use use, or use for purposes very new year’s holidays, and summer holidays) different to those intended) Usage not as intended Mistaken by Lion but which use must be expected Required Safety Assurance Recommendation on Advertising by Normal Usage as intended the Consumer Affairs Agency, Governuse by Lion ment of Japan With regard to its product “Tomato Su Seikatsu / Tomato Su Inryo,” Lion was deemed to have placed an advertisement which may have misled consumers in daily newspapers during the period from September 15 to November 27, 2015, and accordingly received a recommendation from the Consumer Affairs Agency, Government of Japan. Taking the recommendation seriously, Lion will further enhance its management system for placing advertisements and implement the system. 44 CSR Report 2016 Providing Information Useful for Daily Life and Promoting Educational Activities Lion's CSR Provision of information that contributes to a healthy and comfortable life The Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories proactively communicates with consumers, aiming to provide more informaOrganizational Governance tion that contributes to a healthy and comfortable life. Research data Opinions of consumers Information collection and accumulation Creation of useful information Human Rights Comfortable Lifestyle Meisters of Laboratories Daily Life Transmission Information of news Events Publications dissemination Labor Practices Experiment conducted by the Laundry Meister Media, etc. Consumers Documents Website Communication with customers using “Lidea,” a website for information used in daily life Lidea is a Lion’s website for delivering lifestyle information and sharing with consumers delightful ideas (tips and inforMeisters of Daily Life show how to Contents of Solutions resolve questions and problems in mation) that make their daily lives more comfortable and for Issues in Daily Life daily life. enrich their hearts. The Environment Lidea consists of two kinds of contents, in which accurate information that is useful for consumers’ daily lives is provided mainly by five “Meisters of Daily Life,” specialists with expertise on lifestyle information. Proposals on new lifestyles are made Contents of Life and ideas to make daily life fun are Entertainment provided in collaboration with local government and companies. Lion Lidea Search Fair Operating Practices Lidea Enriching lives and hearts. URL https://lidea.today (Japanese) To p ic s Publication of a CSR communication booklet for consumers What are the Important Consumer Issues Things in Daily Life? In March 2016, Lion published a CSR communication booklet Let’s Look at Them in “What are the Important Things in Daily Life? Let’s Look at Numbers! (Japanese) Them in Numbers!” aiming to communicate our CSR activities URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ to consumers in an easy and fun manner. Various social issues ja/csr/report/ that are closely related to consumers’ daily lives are indicated with numerical figures, and it is explained that Lion has made efforts to resolve such issues through products, educational Community activities, and provision of information. In addition, information useful for consumers’ daily lives is placed in the booklet. We deliver this booklet at a variety of events related to The page on cleanliness, health, and comfort, in which we come into consocial issue Involvement and Development tact with consumers. on oral health CSR Report 2016 45 Consumer Issues Offering Products and Information that Contribute to the Development of a Sustainable Society Development of products with less load on the society and environment, and educational activities As a focus to minimize the number of containers and Example of Environmental Label Attached to Products amount of packaging materials we use, Lion is proactively promoting the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle). For minimizing containers and packaging materials, we have evaluation items established for each stage of “procurement of packages,” “distribution,” and “disposal” based on Lion’s This container is made with eco-standard from the perspective of product lifecycle. approximately Lion’s eco-standard (Japanese) 10% (by weight) recycled plastic. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ “CHARMY Magica“ (dishwashing detergents) Conserve water with one rinse. Please visit our website for details. Reduction of Usage Reuse Recycle Wastes Make containers Increase refill Proactively use and packages products recycled materials more compact Plastic wastes can be reduced by approximately 83% by using “TOP SUPER NANOX” refill. (Compared with the container, by weight) Promotion of Environmental Communica“TOP SUPER NANOX” and its refill (super-concentrated liquid laundry detergent) tion through Products Since 2014, Lion has been attaching an “environmental label” on which an “environmental logo” and environmental explanation are printed to products that fulfill “Lion eco-standard,” in order to inform consumers of the importance of environmental considerations through products. Every Day. For the Earth. (Introduction of eco-friendly products)(Japanese) Approximately 67% of the content (organic ingredient) conURL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ sists of plant material. Please visit our website for details. “TOP Platinum Clear” (powder laundry detergent) Promoting Information Security Efforts for protecting personal information and preventing information leaks In order to thoroughly protect personal information and enbe observed to make sure that we can disseminate approprisure information security, Lion has established the “Personal ate information regarding our employees’ use of social meInformation Management Regulations” which are in confordia (social network service, blogs, etc.). mance with the “Act on the Protection of Personal InformaIn 2015, with the aim of enhancing internal information tion,” the “Basic Policy of Our Information Management,” management systems, all employees attended e-learning on the “Information Management Regulations,” and the “Inforrevision of related rules, risks of social media, information mation Security Regulations.” In addition, we have in place security, and the information management systems. the “Lion Group Social Media Policy” and basic guidelines to Lion Group Social Media Policy (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/smp.htm Introduction of websites In collaboration with our customers (Consumer Issues)(Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/ 46 CSR Report 2016 Ideal Vision Co-existing and Co-prospering with Society and ComLion's CSR Community Involvement munities/ Contributing to the Development of Society and Development in the Areas of Health, Comfort and the Environment Organizational Governance Basic Approach Championing the spirit of our founder Tomijiro Lion works to solve regional and social issues in Kobayashi, which is to “contribute to society through cooperation with local residents, government, and business activities,” Lion engages in activities that citizens’ groups. contribute to a healthy and comfortable society and In addition, by increasing opportunities for each environment with the aim of being helpful in daily lives employee to participate in business-related social and creating future value for everyone. As it is necessary to environmental contribution activities, we foster human co-exist with the locations of business facilities and other resources that create new values on the basis of a high Human Rights related communities in order to continue our business, level of social and environmental awareness. Lion’s Social and Environmental Contribution Activities Health and Comfort Field Environmental Field Activities by Meisters of Daily Life Water Resource Labor Practices LDH dental health activities Kidzania Educational activities Conservation Activities for oral health Oral Health Event Educational activities of Tooth Brushing for Children for preventive dentistry Forest maintenance activities (In Yamanashi and Odawara) Educational activities for Educational activities for hand washing and gargling rainwater utilization (Rainwater Educational activities (“KireiKirei City Sakaide” Project and Educational Utilization Ideas Contest, Japan for hygienic practices activities at kindergartens and/preschools in Ishinomaki Water Prize, and Japan Society City and near business sites) on Water Environment) Our Priorities The Environment Co-existence with communities Involvement of employees Kidzania, Lion Award (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ Fair Operating Practices Supports for water resource conservation, water environment researches, and civil activities (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/conservation/ Health and Comfort Environment Along with our provision of products that help build healthy As the company’s business is based on its deep relationship and comfortable living habits, we promote educational activwith water, we put emphasis on water resource conservation ities for oral health and sanitary practices. activities such as forest maintenance activities at Yamanashi Our major activities in this field are as follows: Educational Prefecture and Odawara City and educating society on enviConsumer Issues activities for preventive dentistry in which both “professional ronmental awareness through initiatives to use rainwater. care” at dental clinics. and daily “self-check” are continuously conducted; Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children intended for elementary school students; Supporting dental health activities for mothers and children, school children, and the elderly, which are promoted by the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH); and Education activities for Community hand washing and gargling which are implemented mainly by Lion’s employees. Involvement and Development CSR Report 2016 47 Community Involvement and Development Enhancing Social Contribution Programs to Create Healthy and Comfortable Living Habits Educational Activities for Oral Health via Foundation Lion has been consistently promoting awareness and education activities regarding oral health since 1913 as mandated by our philosophy of “returning profit obtained through corporate activities to the society,” which has never changed since the foundation of the company. In 1964, Lion established a foundation called the Lion Foundation for Dental Health (LDH), which was approved by the Ministry of Health and Welfare of Japan (as it was referred to at the time). In 2010, the Cabinet Office approved the change in the foundation’s status to a public interest incorporated foundation, and LDH commenced operations. Through the three public benefit services shown below, LDH has consistently been coordinating with the Japan Dental Association, universities, and administrations to keep and promote dental and oral Elementary school that participated in an Oral health of consumers, and is contributing to society at the Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children forefront of oral health to improve the quality of life of all people. Lion gives full support to its activities. Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children The Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children, started in Three Public Benefit Services of LDH 1932, is held every year for elementary school children during a week designated as the “week of dental/oral health (June 4th to 1. Oral health promotion projects 10th).” In 2015, a total of approximately 71,100 students of Promotion activities of oral health at all life stages 1,302 elementary schools from across Japan and seven countries/ 2. Research and investigative project regions in Asia participated in the 72nd event and learned toInvestigation/research into the importance of oral health gether about “healthy gums” in a very pleasant environment in prolonging health span, and provision of information through real-time distribution of images from the hall of the on research results obtained through business and other Tokyo Dental Association. activities to specialists and consumers Related information p19 3. Educational and training projects Holding of various seminars and lectures for health instructors and dental specialists in total About 990,000 participants The Lion Foundation for Dental Health, a public interest incorporated foundation URL http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/english/ Activities for oral health promotion Main Social Contribution Activifor adults (industry) Education focused on prevention of a periodontal ties of LDH in 2015 disease and instructions focused on maintenance/ improvement of teeth and oral health provided to Activities for oral health promotion employees of various companies for mothers and children Sites: 243 venues, 497 times Diagnosed: 28,326 people Childcare support programs in the area of “dental and oral health” for expectant mothin total About 2,040,000 participants ers, infants, preschoolers, and their parents Program: 69 venues, 70 times Activities for oral health promotion Participants: 1,942 infants and preschoolfor the elderly (From 2007) ers and 1,366 parents Provision of supports to help maintain oral funcin total About 1,140,000 participants tions to enable eating with one’s own teeth and mouth over a long time in the future Activities for oral health promotion Program: 15 venues, 24 times for school children Participants: 691 Face-to-face educational activities with stuin total About 10,000 participants dents and their parents and provision of support in activities run by health teachers Treatment activities Program: 28 venues, 290 times Implementation of highly-professional and qualParticipants: 16,115 students, ity treatment and preventive dentistry activities 702 parents, and 828 health teachers based on the concept of risk control dentistry in total About 23,260,000 participants Diagnosed: 11,691 people in total About 1,830,000 participants The total numbers are integrated values since establishment of the LDH (1964). Risk Control Dentistry: Customized dental treatment in which care methods are changed according to the risks of tooth decay or periodontal disease of individuals 48 CSR Report 2016 Educational Activities for Hygienic Practices Lion has been working on activities to have proper hand-washing practices take root mainly with the Lion's CSR “KireiKirei” brand, aiming at maintaining the healthy and comfortable lifestyles of consumers. Major areas where the activities are conducted are locations of business facilities all over Japan, Ishinomaki City, which is an earthquake disaster area and an area closely connected to our founder, and Sakaide City, where “KireiKirei” hand Organizational Governance soaps are manufactured. We conduct the educational activities for hand washing at kindergartens, preschools and public facilities. We launched the “KireiKirei City – Sakaide” Project in 2014 in cooperation with Sakaide City and Lion Chemical “Arautan” hand-washing workout Co., Ltd., the production base of our hand soap, and have (a character created by Lion that teaches hand washing) pushed ahead with the project aiming at penetration and establishment of the citizens’ hygiene practices. With a policy of “employees’ voluntarily conducting Introduction of websites activities,” Lion is aiming that 100% of employees will Together with Community (Community Human Rights participate in hand-washing educational activities by Involvement and Development) (Japanese) http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/ 2050. During the period between 2012 and 2015, 227 emLion’s Initiatives to Support the Reconstruction Work ployees (9%) took part in the activities. We will contribafter the Great East Japan Earthquake (Japanese) ute to the establishment of clean and sanitary practices. http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/reconstruction/ “KireiKirei City Sakaide” Project (hand-washing education activities)(Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing Labor Practices Water Resource Conservation Activities Through “washing,” we have always been deeply involved with water. Lion is actively involved in forest maintenance activities and in the promotion of and education on the utilization of rainwater, which is a familiar water resource, as part of our water resource conservation activities. Forest Maintenance Activities at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest 2015 Since 2006, Lion has engaged in improving the forest, The “Rainwater Utilization Ideas Contest” has been held which is a water source, at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi since 2011 with the aim of having elementary and midfor the purpose of increasing employees’ environmental dle school students across the country realize the imporThe Environment awareness. In 2015, a total of 188 employees participated tance of water by thinking about ways to use rainwater. in the forest maintenance activities as part of the new emIn addition to honoring individuals for their achieveployee training and voluntary forest improvement activiments, a rainwater tank is awarded as a school incentive ties (which took place three times). prize to one elementary school and one middle school that submitted many outstanding pieces. Number of employees who participated in the activities in total 1,096 employees Total sum of entries in total 29,532 entries Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues Lion Forest in Yamanashi (Japanese) Lion Rain’s Gift Forum (Activities report on promoting rainwater utilization) (Japanese) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/forest/ URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/rain/ Factory Tours We regard factory tours as an important contact between customers and Lion. In order to have Community customers feel familiar with Lion’s products and see our operations putting first priority on safety and environmental conservation, we welcome a number of visitors to the factories every year. Details of Plants Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi Total Involvement and Development Factory Number of study tours 82 118 54 77 331 Tours in 2015 Study tour participants 1,988 2,819 1,531 2,174 8,512 Factory tour at Chiba Plant CSR Report 2016 49 Third-Party Review As mentioned in the Message from the Management, From a viewpoint of risk management, countermeasures the spirit of “benefiting society through business activiagainst CSR issues should be taken before problems ties” and CSR management that is conscious about peohappen, just like “preventive dentistry,” in order to preple’s “Health,” “Comfort,” and “Environment” would vent environmental and social problems from occurring be greatly significant to allow everyone to live each day due to people’s and corporate business activities. While leading to a desirable future while solving various issues it may not be easy to comprehend and report the situain the chaotic global situation. In this Lion CSR Report tion of some points in complicated value chains espe2016, major issues regarding the entire Lion Group cially in overseas countries, I expect Lion to enhance CSR were identified, and the Group-wide activities including procurement of sustainable raw materials, as well as overseas companies were reported in such a way that confirmation and implementation thereof. readers can further understand them. Companies that continue to provide new, valuable As one of the effective communications, the Report and necessary services to society through their business shows activities in each phase of the value chain. It also have significant impacts. Human health is also related to discloses domestic and overseas group’s achievements health of the earth. As a first step toward “Changes beof the 2017 medium-term objectives set in the previous yond Changes” which allows people around the world year with the relevant pages of the Report and the to stay mentally and physically healthy, it is wonderful websites which enables readers to easily understand. that all employees can have more opportunities to take With expanded contents on CSR activities in overseas on a challenge, for example, by the introduction of countries, Highlights, and voices from employees in “Lion Challenge Cup-Innovation,” in which they can dieach region, a glimpse of how Lion brings a smile to rectly offer proposals to the management. each consumer by solving issues in their daily lives As ethical consumption has been recently one of the through its unique businesses can be gained. major topics in CSR, I suggest that products’ values be As for consumers’ issues, I can see Lion’s efforts to improved from various angles and that such improveproactively communicate with consumers through “Lidment be communicated to consumers, through manuea” and the new CSR communication booklet. While infacturing safety and reliable products in a broad sense, creasing the number of eco-friendly products meeting not only taking into account quality but also ecological “Lion eco-standards,” Lion is more actively conducting and ethical viewpoints from the phase of planning and activities in local communities by providing any generadeveloping products. tion with more opportunities to take part in, such as the As a matter of fact, it might be a kind of miracle to promotion of Toothbrush Recycling Program. As such, live each day. It goes without saying that Lion’s products the circle of significant activities is getting wider. that gently support us every day are part of our daily Establishment of a special subsidiary to facilitate emlives. Until such products reach us, the natural environployment of people with disabilities, and the formulament and various people that we do not directly touch tion of “Act for Measures to Support the Development or see exist in the background of the developing and of the Next-Generation Children Phase 5 Action Plan” manufacturing process. which requires collaboration with various parties show In CSR activities, companies are required to know the that Lion puts importance on improving labor practices facts and take action, considering not only each stakeand employees’ awareness, as well as efforts to create an holder and the surrounding environment, but also the environment in which each employee can actively work. world beyond them. I expect that Lion's hope, to apLion also discloses the target rate of taking annual paid proach each day in a positive and proactive manner, will leave and the target percentage of female managers. It promote among all the people of the world who value announced that it would aim to have female managers the quality of day to day life. accounting for 15% or more by 2020 in Japan and it reported that support measures therefore have been enhanced. In addition to this Report, I recommend readers to visit Lion’s website on which relevant detailed inforEnvironmental Expert, mation and voices of employees appear, in order to Ethical Life Advisor deepen their understanding about the activities. For “Eco Vision 2020,” bearing fruits such as reducManami Yamaguchi tions in greenhouse gas emissions and water consumpRepresentative Director of FEM Co., Ltd tion through business activities, the Group-wide efforts Chairperson of Environmental Business can be highly appreciated. I would recommend Lion Research Institute therefore to review approaches to achieving the current Director of Research Network for the goals and reset higher targets. Future of Woman and Agriculture 50 CSR Report 2016 From Lion The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced to eco products meeting our voluntarily established enviour founding spirit of “Benefitting Society through ronmental standard, so that consumers can select eco Business Activities.” Championing the spirit as our DNA, products. Furthermore, efforts have been made to inwe are aiming to contribute to continuous social develcrease consumers’ interest through various contacts, opment by pushing ahead with business activities under such as publication of a booklet that explains social and our management vision. In order to realize this, with environmental issues in consumers’ daily lives in an major CSR issues identified, we are conducting activities easy-to-understand way. We will manufacture products in light of the medium-term objectives in conjunction which will help to solve social and environmental issues with the management plan. We have disclosed results throughout the life cycle, and continue to provide releof the Group-wide medium-term objectives for 2017 invant information to consumers. cluding domestic and overseas companies, which has We received high evaluations on many of our efforts, been evaluated favorably in the Third-Party Review. We including proactive CSR communication with consumers, will continue to conduct our initiatives. providing various opportunities with employees to work It was pointed out that improvement in comprehenactively, and the results of environmental management sion and reporting about the situation is critical in order based on “Eco Vision 2020.” We will continue to conto prevent environmental and social issues from occurduct activities to protect healthy and comfortable lifering in corporate business activities, especially in overstyles toward desirable future for everyone, and aim to seas value chains. Lion has made efforts to achieve the solve social and environmental issues through dialogues objective of “all palm oil derivatives purchased to be and cooperation with stakeholders. RSPO certified.” In addition to enhancing measures using such an external mechanism, we will further encourage our business partners to participate in CSR activities by evolving the system of self-check for promoting CSR, which is presently conducted by outsourcing contractors and material suppliers. It was also pointed out that it is important to manufacture products from an ethical viewpoint and inform it to consumers. To communicate with consumers Director in charge of CSR through products, Lion has attached an environmental logo with environmental explanation on packages of Kenjiro Kobayashi Editorial Note The major social responsibility that the Lion Group activities for oral health in Japan and overseas countries should fulfill is to make a contribution to solve social and promotion of the toothbrush recycling program as and environmental issues in daily life through products, typical activities to fulfil the social responsibility. educational activities, and provision of information, so We hope that you will develop a deeper understandthat people in Japan and other Asian countries can lead ing of Lion through information on our CSR website healthy and comfortable lives for their entire lifetime. and “Lidia,” a website for lifestyle information used in In the “2015 Highlights,” we introduced educational daily life. Lion Corporation is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. CSR Report 2016 51 Published by Lion Corporation Published on: June 30, 2016 To be published next on: June, 2017 Inquiries CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Website (Japanese): http://www.lion.co.jp/ Tel: 03-3621-6611 Fax: 03-3625-8625 Website (English) : http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ Tel: +81-3-3621-6611 Fax: +81-3-3625-8625
