UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015-16 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 Company Name: International Industries Limited Date: 01.11.2016 Address: 101 Beaumont Plaza 10 Beaumont Membership date: 22.06.2006 Road, Karachi, 75530 Country: Pakistan Number of employees: Over 1000 Contact Name: Khalid Junejo Sector: Manufacturing Contact Position: Head of Human Resources Contact Number: +9221 35080451 to 5 Introduction to International Industries Limited International Industries Limited (IIL) is Pakistan’s largest manufacturer of steel, stainless steel and plastic pipes with an annual manufacturing capacity of 500,000 tons and annual revenues of over PKR 17 billion. IIL is part of a group of companies that also includes:  International Steels Limited (ISL): Pakistan’s largest manufacturer of galvanized, cold rolled and color coated steel sheets and coils. ISL has an annual manufacturing capacity of 500,000 tons and annual revenues of over PKR 20 billion.  Pakistan Cables Limited (PCL): Pakistan’s premium manufacturer of electrical cables, wires, copper rod, PVC compound and aluminum sections with annual revenues in excess of PKR 6.8 billion.  IIL Stainless Steel (Pvt.) Ltd: IIL’s wholly owned subsidiary that manufactures premium quality stainless steel tubes in various grades and finishes.  IIL Australia Pty Limited: IIL’s wholly owned Australian subsidiary which represents the Group’s interest in the Asia Pacific region. IIL is the proud recipient of numerous accolades including the Management Association of Pakistan’s ‘Corporate Excellence Award’ for the Industrial Metals & Mining Sector. Additionally, IIL has featured on the Karachi Stock Exchange’s listing of the ‘Top 25 companies’ consecutively for over 10 years. IIL was also awarded the ‘2015 Environment Excellence Award’ by the National Forum for Environment & Health. For its product lines, IIL is the market leader in Pakistan and also has a credible export pedigree with an everexpanding footprint in 55 countries across 5 continents. As a result, IIL has been awarded the “FPCCI Export Performance Award” consecutively for 16 years. With conscious focus on occupational health, safety & environment, IIL is a reputable corporate citizen as well as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. The Company is ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, API 5L, API 15LE and CE certified and manufactures its products according to the highest international standards and specifications (ASTM, BS, EN, API, SLSI, AS / NZS, DIN). Committed to innovation, quality and excellence, IIL continues to pioneer new products for the local and export markets. Most recently, IIL has introduced hollow structural sections (HSS) in round, square and rectangular shapes. These are available in varying thicknesses and can be used in the construction of virtually any type of structure. IIL has also expanded its HDPE water pipe range to include sizes up to 1600 mm (64”) – which is the largest HDPE pipe manufactured in Pakistan! In addition, IIL is the only Pakistani manufacturer of galvanized scaffolding pipes and stainless steel tubes. The Company’s focus on being environmentally responsible was continued with optimization being achieved through initiatives such as heat recovery from cooling water, efficient waste management, paper recycling, use of effluent treatment plant, use of fume scrubbers and environmentally friendly disposal of sludge, reduction in waste, periodic third party testing of emissions and effluents and trees plantation inside & outside the factory premises. 1 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 As part of the efforts to reduce environmental impact, waste generation was closely monitored and substantial reductions were achieved in generation of steel scrap waste, zinc dross, skimmed oil and solid waste. Additionally, electricity, gas and water consumption were also reduced. In addition to this, IIL contributes approximately 2.5% of its Profit after Tax each year towards CSR activities. The main focus of IIL’s CSR activities is towards education and health for the underprivileged. To this end, IIL supports two schools for underprivileged students as well as a primary health clinic in a low-income residential area in Karachi. With a strong track record behind it and an exciting future, IIL is optimistic about its continued growth in the local and international markets. For more information visit: www.iil.com.pk 2 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 Statement of Support International Industries Limited became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (“the UNGC”) on June 22, 2006 and has since remained an active participant. I am pleased to reaffirm our organization’s support of the 10 principles of the UNGC in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We continue to develop our reputation for being a trusted and respected company in the eyes of our people and all of our other stakeholders. With our commitment to the UNGC we continue to invest in the development of our Company, as well as our employees. Our employees receive ongoing training in the importance of compliance with laws and regulations and we focus on generating the awareness that all our employees can contribute to a safer working environment. We believe that an accident-free work place is a realistic and feasible goal. We recognize that for all of the above, measuring and reporting is a key requirement, and we continue to invest in further improvements in this regard throughout the year International Industries Limited is committed to supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact relating to Human Rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption as well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made to implement these principles. RIYAZ. T. CHINOY Chief Executive Officer International Industries Ltd. Pakistan 3 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Policy: IIL’s adherence to fundamental human rights is enshrined in its Code of Conduct. This policy is available on the Company’s website and confirms that “IIL supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human and employment rights” and confirms its commitment to respecting fundamental human rights and treating all employees and others with fairness, equality and respect to foster an open, transparent, and trusting environment which is free from prejudice, discrimination, bias, harassment and/or violation. IIL is a quality conscious company committed to economies of scale. It continually enhances effectiveness of its quality, environmental, occupational health and safety management systems. IIL is committed to be an ethical company and conforms to all applicable legal requirements, while striving to fulfill and exceed the needs and expectations of all stakeholders. Team work; continuous improvement; prevention of pollution; waste reduction; protection of environment; care for health and safety of people, property and equipment; safe practices; a fair return to shareholders; and fulfillment of social responsibility are the hallmarks of all activities of the Company. System: IIL’s business strategy is based on emphasizing the value of respect for human rights. This value is captured effectively in the systems of the following policies and standards:  Policy for Code of Conduct (IIL-CG-PO-01)  Health & Safety Management System (OHSAS-18001:2007)  Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) Activities:  The policy on Code of Conduct and Ethical Practices is reviewed and acknowledged each year by all Directors, Managers and staff of the Company. This ensures that respect for human rights remains fully integrated into their business activities. The Code of Conduct covers business ethics, respect for rights of stakeholders, conflicts of interests, accounting records, controls and statements, environment, regulatory compliance and personal conduct.  IIL is certified for Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS-18001) since 2007. The reviewed, revised and implemented OHS procedures & manual are followed strictly. Recertification audit for ISO-14001 & OHSAS-18001 carried out by M/s LLOYDs During 2-9 January 2016 and validated the certification till December 2018  To manage OHSE hazards and risks effectively, IIL has been divided into zones, based on administrative grounds. Each Zone has an OHSE Team and an OHSE Team Leader. This structure has increased both ownership of the OHSE system and responsiveness to risk situations amongst zonal team leaders and production managers. 4 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16  The OHSE function is governed and managed by a dedicated OHSE Section. The OHSE status of the Company is monitored by an OHSE Committee comprising senior managers and chaired by the CEO. This Committee meets on a monthly basis to analyze OHSE related issues, agree on interventions and thereby achieve and maintain a safe work environment.  Periodic mock drills are conducted to check effectiveness and adequacy of emergency preparedness & response. Monthly inspections and checks of life-saving & firefighting equipment are also carried out to ensure they are in proper working conditions.  OHSE department evaluates and assesses safety performance of service contractors on defined criteria each month. Contractors with excellent to good performance are rewarded while those with unsatisfactory and unacceptable ratings are counseled and trained.  To ensure public safety, safety cones are provided to dealers to be used during unloading activities. Proper use of these cones reduces the chances of passing vehicles accidentally colliding with parked trucks being unloaded.  Monthly Safety Walkthroughs are conducted by senior management and observations of unsafe acts and conditions are sent to respective department heads for analysis, and corrective and preventive actions.  IIL provides medical facilities to all employees through the Social Security Scheme and the Health Insurance Scheme. Additionally, a Doctor and a paramedical assistant are present in the factory 6 days a week on a part time basis to facilitate the employees.  IIL also facilitates provision of off-work quality medical facilities to its employees and their families at extremely nominal rates at a sponsored clinic in the residential colony adjoining the main manufacturing facility.  An equipped ambulance is available at all times at the Factory.  OHSE guidelines in the local language, in the shape of booklets, are given to all employees and visitors. This booklet identifies the hazards existing and the safety measures required.  Safety sign boards for drivers have been installed in the factory. Drivers are given in house trainings on safe driving.  Policies on Stop Work Authority & Fresh Eye Observation System are in place.  Use of safety belts while driving is mandatory for all employees and visitors.  Use of personal protective equipment at work is mandatory, including use of safety harnesses while working at heights. Measurable Results or Outcomes:  On June 28, 2016, the Code of Conduct was circulated to staff and an acknowledgement of having re-read and understood it was taken.  Two audits – one a surveillance audit and the other a complete recertification audit – were conducted by M/S Lloyds (a UK-based certification body) to provide assurance that the QA&HSE Management System 5 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 complies with ISO 9001, ISO-14001 & OHSAS 18001 global standards. No major non-conformities were observed  In July 2016, the newly established production unit named Plant S-325 was certified for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 global standards.  On August 29, 2016, the OHSE Zonal Team Leaders list was reviewed and revised inducting new members.  OHSE Performance Reports were prepared each month for the information of senior management.  During the year 95 trainings on Fire Fighting, First Aid & Rescue were conducted.  A total of 525 safety trainings were conducted and each employee went through a series of 5 sessions during the year. Overall attendance at the trainings was 5,631. The trainings included Safe Crane Operations, Hands Safety, Fire Fighting Operations, Permit to Work System, Industrial Hazards, First Aid & Rescue, Defensive Driving, Electrical Safety and Working at Heights.  OHSE Performance of service contractors was formally assessed and appropriate actions taken.  Road Safety training by the Motor Way Police was arranged and conducted on April 8, 2016.  During the period from July 2015 to June 2016, twelve safety walkthroughs were conducted by senior management and required actions were taken.  Monthly Inspections of the ambulance were conducted.  Safety awareness boards for drivers indicating critical safety rules related to speed limits, parking, loading, unloading, movements, non-cleaning of vehicles, were installed at different locations of the company.  OHSE department carried out round the clock monitoring for identification and correction of unsafe acts and unsafe conditions. During the year, 3786 unsafe acts & conditions were identified and rectified.  No complaint indicating violation of human rights / gender insensitivity received. 6 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy: IIL realizes that the collective strength of employees is pivotal to the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth. We provide freedom of association and effective recognition to the right to collective bargaining. We, at IIL, believe in harmonious relationships with our employees, and ensure fair and transparent HR Policies, leading towards a healthy and productive work culture. System:  Every two years, Management and Union enter into bilateral negotiations on Charters of Demands raised by either party and arrive at a mutually acceptable agreement in a mutually supportive environment.  Workers participation in Management and decision-making is ensured through Workers Management Council & Workers Participation in Management as per law.  Line managers have been empowered to manage the affairs of their workers and address any concerns in coordination with the Industrial Relations Section.  There is a dedicated Industrial Relations Manager leading an Industrial Relations Section which is the first port of call for the CBA / Union in case there are any matters that need to be addressed. Activities:  Terms and Conditions of employment (Wages, Compensation & Benefits) of workers are mutually agreed upon through collective bargaining every two years.  Collective Bargaining Agent elections are conducted every two years as per the local legal requirement.  Union office bearers are encouraged to participate in trainings / workshops whenever required, and given full opportunity to express their views freely on all fora. Measurable Results or Outcomes:  The latest bilateral negotiated settlement was achieved on August 08, 2016.  All employees, including unionized workers, received performance related incentive pay.  The company’s performance in 2015-16 was commendable as it achieved the highest production and sales figures ever and this could not have been possible without engaged employees 7 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy: IIL believes in conducting its business following not only all concerned local and international legislations, but also while adhering to its own ethical practices. As such, we abide by the local legislation on forced / compulsory labor and also willingly follow ILO conventions on labor, including Article 2 (1) of the ILO Forced Labor Convention, 1930 (C 29) ratified by Pakistan, and have built human resource systems to ensure abolition of unwanted work or service for any employee. System:  Placement of Offer. Job offers to the selected candidates are made through official letters.  Appointment letter. Appointment letter containing terms and conditions of employment are given to every employee.  Job Descriptions and Communication. Job descriptions are defined and communicated to employees and updated regularly incorporating change, if any.  Exit Interview. Employees leaving the company’s employment are encouraged in the exit interview to explain their experiences with the company so that any deviation from defined company policies may be detected and pursued for further improvement. Activities:  Every candidate is explained in detail the job requirements, well before placement at the job. If desired by the candidate, 2 to 3 days are also given to the candidate to carefully go through the job offer before accepting it.  Care is taken to ensure that jobs undertaken at other times like transfer or promotion are understood including performance expectations and work conditions.  Job Descriptions / Work Instructions are live documents at IIL which are not only made available for all employees but are also continuously being updated to match changing roles.  Exit interview report is shared with senior management by the Head of Human Resources. Suggestions / grievances, if any, are forwarded to concerned managers for required action. Separating employees are also requested to openly discuss drawbacks of HR policies and procedures and the same are assessed and revised, as required. Measurable Results or Outcomes:  All new employees formally accepted job offer, terms and conditions of the job and Job Descriptions. These records maintained by the Human Resources Department. 8 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy IIL supports effective abolition of child labor. This principle is also a local legislation whereby a minimum age of employment is defined. This principle is also enshrined in ILO’s Convention 59 on Minimum Age (Industry) Requirement subscribed to by Pakistan. IIL adheres strictly to the minimum age requirement and also ensures this is maintained by our service contractors. System:  IIL follows a stringent policy condemning Child Labor in all its forums. To avoid risk of any mishap, no minor is allowed to enter our factory premises.  Employment / Trainings in all its forms (including Apprenticeship Trainings) require candidates to submit their National Identity Card proving their age is at least 18 years. Activities:  Diligent checks and monitoring of job applicants’ age through our procedures is made to ensure that we comply with all legal age requirements.  Notices are prominently displayed at entry points and notice boards stating the restriction on child labor and announcing that no employment is offered to persons below 18 years of age. Measurable Results or Outcomes: There is no worker / employee in IIL below the minimum age, specified by law under which a minor is defined, in IIL. 9 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy IIL continues to support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. This commitment is strongly embodied in our explicitly written human resource policies on recruitment, code of conduct, etc. Our adoption of the “Code of Conduct for Good Governance”, and practices at IIL demonstrate our support for the elimination of discriminatory behavior in respect of employment. System:  As defined in our Recruitment Policy, the Company operates as an equal opportunity employer, and does not give any preference on the basis of gender, religious or ethnic background when employing or promoting employees. All employment and promotions are purely on merit and suitability for the position.  Our policy on Code of Conduct for Good Corporate Governance clearly states:  Employees shall not discriminate against any other employee, especially with regard to origin, religion, gender or language.  Sexual harassment shall result in serious disciplinary action and charges may be raised against any employee (irrespective of gender) if found guilty by the Management after an investigation of the matter. Activities: We manage our employees without discrimination, including the processes of recruitment, development and promotion. We strive to inculcate this value in our employees through training and other awareness campaigns. Measurable Results or Outcomes IIL has made conscious efforts to eliminate discrimination by following its policy guidelines. We have employees not only of both genders, but also from various religions, casts and origins and they are accorded fair treatment at all levels. 10 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy IIL fully supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Our Quality, Environmental Health & Safety policy states: “IIL is a quality conscious company committed to economies of scale. It shall continually enhance the effectiveness of its quality, environmental, occupational health and safety management systems. IIL is committed to be an ethical company and shall conform to all applicable legal requirements, as well as fulfill and exceed the needs and expectations of all stake holders. Team work, continuous improvement, prevention of pollution, waste reduction, protection of environment, care for health and safety of people and equipment, safe practices, a fair return to shareholders and fulfillment of social responsibility shall be the hallmark of all activities.” System  IIL has achieved certification of ISO-14001 in year 2000, and became the first company in Pakistan’s Steel Sector to achieve this Certification.  IIL has implemented the ISO 14001 Environment Management System and environmental protection remains one of the major priorities of the Company.  IIL’s environmental performance is managed through the implementation of its business planning process, compliance systems, risk management practices, governance programs and management review.  The company is committed to carry out its business in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner and promote preservation and sustainability of the environment.  All employees are required to adhere strictly to all applicable environmental laws and regulations that impact the company’s operations. Activities:  Occupational Health, Safety and Environment issues are addressed at the highest level. The OHSE Committee is composed of senior operational managers and chaired by the CEO. It is scheduled to meet once a month.  IIL is dedicated to reducing the impact of its operations to sustainable levels and in line with acceptable standards. It neutralizes its emissions prior to discharge by using 100 feet high fume scrubbers; all effluent waste is treated at its Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) prior to discharge; whereas sludge generated from the ETP is transferred responsibly to designated landfill sites for environment-friendly disposal.  IIL is registered with the Ministry of Environment under the Self-Monitoring and Report Tool (SMART) program.  IIL has documented, implemented and maintained the procedure of “Emergency Preparedness and Response” to handle any safety and environmental emergencies. 11 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16  IIL has developed, established and maintained procedures for identification of Environmental Aspects, Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Legal and Regulatory requirements, in which detailed mechanism and responsibilities are assigned to identify the environmental aspects and their impacts related to the activities / processes and products of IIL.  IIL has maintained the “Register of Aspect and Impact” for its activities, processes and products and conducts “Environmental Reviews” at prescribed frequency. The higher rated aspects are inducted in the main objectives of the Company for which plans are made in order to achieve targets.  IIL has also developed and implemented a procedure for “Incident Investigation, Non Conformance, Corrective and Preventive Action”. Incidents are comprehensively investigated and appropriate corrective and preventive actions have been taken as per procedure.  With our EMS system we conduct various regular, planned activities such as periodic environmental reviews, environmental risk assessment, internal and external audits, self-assessments, training and awareness programs and campaigns all in compliance with the local environmental standards like National Environmental Quality Standards and Environmental Protection Agency.  For stepping towards paperless environment we ensure optimal use of scanner and minimal use of printer thereby targeting a 25% reduction in paper consumption and printer ink consumption. Measurable Results  The OHSE Committee comprises eight permanent members with the CEO as Chairman; and General Managers for Operations and Projects & Engineering; Divisional Manager Supply Chain; Senior Managers OHSE, Security, and Industrial Relation & Administration, and Manager Projects as members. This committee meets each month.  Pursuing its commitment to the efficient use of resources, the Company utilizes all waste heat to generate chilled water, which in turn, fulfills the factory’s water-cooling and air-conditioning requirements. Furthermore, its Reverse Osmosis Plant helps meet additional water requirements at the factory premises.  IIL generates electricity though co-generation. Its own needs are met through this generation and excess electricity is transported to the K-Electric grid. Hence, there is full utilization of installed generation capacity and generation of additional revenues, whilst contributing to the alleviation of the chronic power shortage faced by the country.  Periodical testing of IIL’s effluents and factory and vehicular emissions was carried out through third parties and recognized laboratories for compliance with the National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). All results were within normal ranges.  Daily (6 times / day) in-house effluent testing and monitoring of various parameters are carried out before discharge.  IIL conducted 6 mock drills during the year at all locations.  Safety alerts on OHSE issues, such as heat stroke, rains, cyclones, earth quake, Dengue virus & Congo virus etc., circulated amongst all staff.  Anti-mosquito spray is conducted twice daily. 12 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16  Register of Aspect and Impact assessment of Steel Factory, Plastic Plant, Stainless Steel Plant, Head Office & North Office was updated during the month of March 2016.  Electricity, water and natural gas consumption were monitored on a monthly basis in various sections of the plant.  As a result of its efforts, IIL was awarded the 2015 Environment Excellence Award by the National Forum for Environment & Health  IIL participated in a nationwide contest to determine best OHSE practices arranged and organized by Employers Federation of Pakistan and was awarded the second position. 13 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy Our support to the environmental challenges is further affirmed through initiatives promoting greater environmental responsibility. This affirmation is re-demonstrated through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities and company’s values as mentioned below: Ethical: IIL is honest and ethical in its dealings at all times through compliance to the applicable laws & regulations. Excellence: IIL endeavors to exceed the expectations of all stakeholders. Innovation: IIL encourages its employees to be creative and seek innovative solutions. Respect : IIL values the self-esteem of all stakeholders, be it employees, suppliers, customers or shareholders. Fairness: IIL believes in fairness to all stakeholders. Responsibility: IIL considers quality health, safety and the environment an integral part of its activities and way of life. Reliability: IIL has established itself as a reliable and dependable supplier. System IIL’s written Quality and Environmental Policy ensures its commitment towards its environmental responsibilities. Activities:  We have laid the foundation of a sustainable business. All aspects of sustainability including efficient operational procedures, effective internal controls, ethical behavior and energy conservation are an integral part of our business model  IIL contributes approximately 2.5% of its Profit after Tax towards CSR activities. The primary focus of IIL’s CSR activities center around the arena of education and health for the underprivileged  Each month a Health, Safety & Environment presentation is made to Senior Management on the month’s incident trend and a brain storming session ensues for improvement and avoidance of similar incidents. Different statistical tools & parameters are used for better analysis of OHSE performance.  As required by our Quality Management System, we prepare annual Environment, Health & Safety Objectives and Targets along with the Plan of Action to achieve these targets. The status is reviewed on bi-annual basis in Q&HSE meeting.  Occupational Health Safety Environment Committee meeting is conducted on monthly basis which is headed by the Chief Executive Officer.  IIL appreciates employee suggestions for improvement of health, safety and environment procedures in production plants and other possible areas. On review when an employee’s suggestion is thought to be feasible, he is given a cash award and is declared employee of the month.  Internal/external environmental audits are carried out as per planned intervals.  Sludge being generated from Effluent Treatment Plant is disposed-off at a dedicated land fill site for environment friendly disposal 14 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 Measurable Results or Outcomes  Due to our regular monitoring, self-assessments and compliance with environmental regulatory standards, IIL has not ever been notified by environment governing agencies for any non-compliance and has received no complaints from its neighbors.  IIL contributes approximately 2.5% of its Profit after Tax towards CSR activities. It continues to fund all operating expenses for the TCF primary school IIL Campus located in Landhi next to the IIL funded mosque opposite Factory 1.  IIL also sponsored the Amir Sultan Chinoy (ASC) amphitheater at the Institute of Business Administration (IBA) main campus.  On CSR, IIL has linked up with The Citizens Foundation (TCF) and continues to support all operating expenses for a TCF primary school in the vicinity of the IIL factory. The TCF-IIL Campus provides free/affordable education to almost 400 students. IIL has also funded the construction and operating expenses of a mosque in the Landhi area.  In keeping with its legacy of being a responsible corporate citizen and contributing to society at large as well as the community in which it operates, IIL has funded the land purchase and construction costs of a primary healthcare clinic in the low income area of Majid Colony, Landhi in Karachi. On September 3, 2016, the IIL-SINA Clinic was formally inaugurated by the Chairman of IIL, Mr. Zaffar A. Khan  IIL’s recently commissioned Reverse Osmosis Plant helps meet additional water requirements at the factory premises and maintained it by high proficient professionals.  IIL generates electricity through co-generation. Its own needs are met through this generation and excess electricity is transmitted to the K Electric grid. Hence, there is full utilization of installed generation capacity and generation of additional revenues, whilst contributing to alleviate the chronic power shortage faced by the country.  During the year two teams comprising of five employees were declared Employees of the Month for their suggestions on improvement of health, safety and environment procedures in production plants and other areas.  Sludge being generated from Effluent Treatment plant is transferred to Landfill site for its accurate disposal on twice a month basis by third party and acknowledgment slip is issued by District Government after receiving the sludge. 15 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16 PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy IIL is committed to this UNGC principle against corruption, and strives to work against corruption, extortion and bribery in all its forms. This principle is enshrined in our policy on Code of Conduct System An elaborate policy requiring all employees to observe the Code of Conduct has been adopted. Relevant extracts with specific focus on elimination of corruption and bribery are indicated as under:  All employees must conduct themselves with the highest degree of integrity and professionalism in the workplace while on company business  All employees must avoid any kind of bribe, extortion and all other forms of corruption.  Any legally prohibited or controlled substances if found in the possession of any employee will be confiscated and where appropriate, turned to the authorities  The employees shall be careful while dealing with personal or business associates and not disclose, divulge or provide any information regarding the company to anyone except where the same is used as a part of her / his official obligations and as required for official purpose and shall abide by the Closed period announced by the company from time to time and also sign a NonDisclosure Agreement if the need arises.  Employees should always be cognizant of the need to adhere strictly to all safety policies and regulations.  All employees are required to comply with this code of conduct and are personally responsible for doing so. Employees must comply with any rules set out in this code of conduct. Breach of any principles within the code may result in disciplinary action and a serious breach – such as if any employee is found to be in wanton abuse of the code and their action cause reputational risk or damage or financial loss to the business – may amount to gross misconduct which may result in summary dismissal. Further, the company reserves the right to seek redress and damages from such individuals. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? This COP is also available to our stakeholders at our company website www.iil.com.pk. 16 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2015-16
