Yeşim Textile Progress Report 2015-2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 1 producing for the world... 2 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 3 Global Compact Global Compact Principles Agreement Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Yeşim Textile has pledged to conform to the Labor Standards principles of this international agreement on Principle 4 Businesses should effectively eliminate all forms of forced and human rights, labor standards, the environment compulsory labor. and the struggle against corruption. Yeşim Textile Principle 5 Businesses should effectively abolish child labor. transparently shares the details of its work under the Principle 6 Businesses should effectively eliminate discrimination in Global Compact Agreement in the global network respect of employment and occupation. since 2008. Also, it is in the Board of Managers of Global Compact Turkey since March 2014. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses shall undertake and encourage initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly. About the Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Report Yeşim Textile pledges to conform and to implement the principles of the agreement at each and every stage of 6 Message from CEO production and governance and to monitor compliance. The report briefly explains previous practices within the organization of the company under the Global Compact Index 8 14 Information about Yeşim Textile Achievements in 2015 Agreement and mainly highlights the work carried out in 2015. 16 Lean Management System The information provided in the report is supported by 28 Social Compliance statistical data, model practices and photographs. Yeşim Textile 34 Governance in Yeşim aims at diffusing sustainability efforts to all work processes and 44 Yeşim; the Green Factory making sure that its suppliers and contract manufacturers also adopt these principles. The efforts made by the company to this 54 CSR Activities Report end and the targets for the year 2016 and subsequent years are 78 Information is reproduced by sharing communicated in the report together with the relevant data. 4 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 5 “ We were the first Turkish company to obtain “OEKO-TEX STEP” certificate in 2015, a highly prestigious certificate on sustainability, marking our success and commitment ” on this issue. All for a better future... Global Compact, in March 2015. This signature represents on education, health and personal development. All activities our commitment to continuing and reporting our efforts for carried out under this project which was based on the thought empowering women in business life. Additionally, in the panel that development of women will improve the society, aim at Incorporated in 1983, Yeşim Textile currently operates in and invested time, financial resources and special effort organized jointly by Bursa Industrialists and Businessmen increasing female employment, disseminating gender equality the apparel and home textile industry. We have managed to on this work. We were the first Turkish company to obtain Association (BUSİAD) and Global Compact Turkey, we shaand ultimately improving the overall quality of the society. expand our business in both sectors since day by establis“OEKO-TEX STEP” certificate in 2015, a highly prestigious red information on reporting sustainability efforts of Yeşim This project was found eligible to receive a € 5,000.grant hing production partnerships with internationally renowned certificate on sustainability, marking our success and comTextile and explained our efforts on gender equality, as the from Soroptimist International Europe Action Fund in 2015, brands. It is beyond doubt that the level of success we have mitment on this issue. We are proud to have obtained a level industry leader in these areas. proving its success on a global scale. All details regarding achieved today is the result of innovative and high quality 3 certificate of OEKO-TEX STEP, which is the highest level these activities are provided in the Global Compact Progress On the other hand, we endeavoured our best efforts to production as well as full commitment to sustainability efforts of this integrated certification system covering not only one Report 2015, which was published by Yeşim for the seventh disseminate sustainability works performed by Yeşim Textile right from the start. area but all processes of the company, allowing a thorough time this year. throughout Turkey by having a seat in the board of directors assessment of all efforts on sustainability of the company Building “a sustainable world” is as important as innovative of Global Compact Turkey and by playing an effective role in Yeşim Textile will continue to attach importance to sustainaas well as production conditions. Needless to say that our and high quality production nowadays. This is exactly why we the women’s work group formed under the same organization. bility as it has always done since the first day. We will continue internationally renowned customers who have supported us at Yeşim Textile endeavour our best efforts to achieve sustaito lead change in social compliance and social responsibility throughout the process have the lion’s share in this success. Our work under the “Guidance for Developing and Implenability which is a top priority for our business principles and to this end. We are encouraged by the strength of thousands They have mentored us throughout the process and shared menting Workplace Policies Addressing Domestic Violence basic strategies. All our communications with our customers, of employees, hundreds of suppliers and business partners their experiences with us, enabling us to achieve this success. and Violence Against Women” was selected as one of the three suppliers and all other stakeholders are based on this commitwho trust and support our efforts and we produce to lead the best practices in Turkey last year. It is vital that this guidance ment. Yeşim Textile attaches specific importance to sharing all industry in this area. prepared by TÜSİAD’s Gender Equality Platform, one of the our efforts on sustainability with our stakeholders and the Signing Global Compact in 2006 marked a new era for our members of which is Yeşim Textile, and Sabancı University public. We have endeavoured another exemplary effort in the company. Manufacturing for internationally renowned branCorporate Governance Forum, is acknowledged and impleindustry to this end with the first Yeşim Social Compliance ds, Yeşim Textile has been long engaged in systematic work mented by the entire business world to protect women against Şenol Şankaya Summit in May 2015. Customers, stakeholders and suppliers on sustainability. All this work is being audited and measured violence. CEO of Yeşim Textile attended this summit which was a breakthby independent organizations. We found the opportunity rough in the industry as it was one of the first organizations We strongly believe that we need to focus on social probto disseminate all this good work on the global arena after made by a manufacturer in its field of activity. Many issues lems as well as production at Yeşim Textile. It is essential for becoming a Global Compact signatory. We strongly believe regarding sustainability were discussed at this summit, which sustainability that each and every company participates in that manufacturing in accordance with Global Compact was promoted by the slogan “We have gathered for a sustaisocial projects compatible with their own corporate values. principles is a driving force for all our efforts on quality, social nable world” with a view to raising awareness of the suppliers To this end, we are running The World of Butterfly projecompliance, environment, speed and cost improvement and in particular. ct since 2013 with the motto “If a woman changes, society sharing this work with the public is a great opportunity to changes”. The World of Butterfly project, launched jointly by raise awareness for sustainability. Our efforts for gender equality and empowering women in our Women and Children Club and Uludağ Soroptimist Club business life gained momentum in 2015. We signed Women’s We never interrupted the work on social compliance and aims at raising awareness among female employees of Yeşim Empowerment Principles (WEPs) set by UN Women and UN sustainability despite problems encountered by the industry 6 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 7 Yeşim Textile With a total operation area of 325 thousand square meters in Bursa, of which 144 thousand are indoor space, Yeşim Textile, which has knitting, dyeing, and confection departments, is one of the leading integrated facilities in the world. Our Vision • To set an example for other companies by always putting “People first”. To become the model strategic manufacturing partner to the world’s leading brands in both apparel and home textiles. Our Values • Achieve mutual & sustainable growth with our Our Mission key customers and manufacturing partners. • To be a pioneer in the textile sector, • Set the international benchmark for corporate manufacturing top-quality products and making responsibility in textile manufacturing. significant investments both in qualified people • Be an industry leader in innovation and and the latest technology. implementing new technologies & processes. • To ensure the highest levels of customer • Replying to our customers’ by increasing satisfaction. service needs integrating our all processes that • To protect the environment and foster take part in supply chain with the information environmental consciousness among staff, technologies. suppliers and the public at large. • Continue to partner with our customers to • To fulfill our obligations to the community and shorten end to end production times. always act in a socially responsible manner. Manufacturing for the internationally renowned brands, Yeşim Textile is in strategic partnership with Nike in apparel and Matheis-Schlafgut in home textiles sectors. Yeşim also produces for Zara, Pull&Bear, Bershka, Hugo Boss, Esprit, Calzedonia, Hurley, Tchibo, Converse, Tommy Hilfiger, Mavi, Uniqlo and Celio brands. 8 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 9 2015; Capacity of company Exports 256 Million USD Revenue 260 Million USD production knitting dyeing printing Our certificates and 50 tons / day 60 tons / day 100.000 meters / day global memberships apparel home textile • • SA8000 OEKO-TEX STeP 150.000units / day 100.000 units / day • BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) • Oekotex Standard 100 • GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) manifacture from %100 organic cotton • OCS (Organic Content Standard) • BCI (Better Cotton Initiative) • Bluesign • ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (Safety) 10 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 11 Besides being a pioneer in the Turkish textile sector, Yeşim Textile also guiding the youth, which will become our future. We support women’s Approximately 250 employee’s children in the 0-6 age group are cared for and educated free of charge in the daycare facilities of Yeşim. participation to economic life... Yeşim Textile employs 2201 individuals in house and provides employment opportunities to around 10.000 individuals in the aggregate including domestic and international subcontractor. Number of Female Number of Male Number of Employees Employees Interns 1026 1175 43 We value employment of women to achieve gender equality. For 28 years women produced and their children were raised in safety and love in the kindergarten of Yeşim. 12 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 13 Achievements in 2015 Yeşim Textile rewarded by various institutions and organizations according to its 2014 data and performance. • Yeşim Textile was entitled to receive a grant as Garment Exporters Union (UHKİB) together 5000 Euro from the European International with Uludağ Textile Exporter Union (UTİB) Soroptimists’ Action Fund with The World of Yeşim Textile has stepped up to the first place. Butterfly project, and has succeeded to make its In the award ceremony realized in 8th of April, activities in this field known also on the global Yeşim Textile CEO Şenol Şankaya received the arena. first place price on textile and apparel export category from Bursa Metropolitan Municipality • In the Anatolia’s Top 500 Companies research President Recep Altepe. of the Ekonomist magazine, based on the 2014 data, Yeşim Textile became 14th its own sector, • In the “First 250 big firms” research done by 10th in Bursa and 115th in the general list. Bursa Trade and Industry Chamber, Yeşim Textile was on the 5th place among firms doing • Yeşim Textile took place on 42nd rank in most export. research of the Capital magazine about ‘100Women friendly companies.’ • Yeşim Textile was on 270th rank in İSO’s (Istanbul Chamber of Industry) “500 big • On the “2015 Stars of Export Award industrial organizations list”. Ceremony” held by Uludağ Apparel and Yeşim Textile achieved to get award from Bursa Trade and Industry Chamber (BTSO) “Economy Value Adders Awards” in 2015 too. On the ceremony held at Merinos Atatürk Congress and Cultural Center on 7th November, Yeşim Textile shared the top with global giants of automotive. Yeşim Textile have become the only 100% Turkish capital firm that achieved to be placed in first five following Oyak Renault, Tofaş, Bosch and Componenta Foundry. While 74 awards were distributed in 8 different categories on the ceremony, CEO Şenol Şankaya received the award of Yeşim Textile from Minister of Youth and Sports, Akif Çağatay Kılıç. 14 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 15 Yeşim Textile has launched the Lean thinking project, which is one of the most effective production and management models today with respect to efficiency, quality, Human Resources, process improvement and profitability, back in 2006, which is currently being implemented fully in each and every stage of production and management. Lean thinking aims to generate a production companies need to be competitive, work in and management model which reduces a world with limited resources, reduce their processes that do not add value, as well as environmental footprint, reduce costs and meet wastes, by focusing on value in each process. customer demand. The road to sustainability Kaizen techniques which are continuous goes through being a company, which is lean, improvement with small steps play a very green and has empowered workforce. important role and significantly contribute to this process. The extension of management with targets, which is a major lean technique, Lean Gains throughout the workforce and the continuous Kaizen works of Yeşim Textile, which is monitoring of the performance indicators among its essential condition for continuous of each individual unit are key factors that improvement, also continued in 2015 with contribute to Yeşim Textile’s progress towards the enthusiasm for the improvement of the is “True North” business results. work of employees and the quality of work All our employees have fully adopted the environment. The number of kaizen in concepts of communication, sharing, team various departments such as apparel, knitting, work, team spirit and creating value as part of production, etc. reached 2401 with 12,306 lean production, which is a human focused participants as of 2015. management system. This is the major source In 2015 using the weekly kaizen calendar, of Yeşim Textile’s success in lean production. kaizen pioneers were selected by comparing the number of kaizens in each department. By this way, the participation to lean production Sustainability works and the awareness for being a part of The term “sustainability” comes forward continuous improvement are strived to be in today’s business environment, where increased. 16 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 17 week of each month. Kaizen comitee graded the received kaizens and the highest graded kaizens were chosen. Then in 7 Wastes Days events held periodically in the conference hall, the presenters to upper management and participants were awarded. Posters: Posters were done according to the waste subject determined each month and hang to visible locations within the company on the first month of each month. Slogan competition: Slogans on the determined waste issue were requested from the employees. The slogans were gathered and then the slogans placed in top three were determined by The fifth of “Nike Lean Forum” (Local Lean Forum) that is kaizen committee and awarded. The first place slogan was placed held once every six months, were realized at Düzce Delta Alfa on the relevant waste month poster. company on 11-12 November. Yeşim Textile Lean and Quality Director Tunç Aydoğan, Lean Office Chief Neslin Özkaya, Lean Bring your certificate, take away your gift: In order to Manufacture Expert Duygu Alınca and Egypt Lean Representative encourage the participation in kaizen, “Bring your certificate, take Abdelkhalek Mohamed Shehata participated in the meetings. The away your gift” activity was begun and in this scope, the ones that first day of the meeting passed by shares on quick changeover, would bring ten or more kaizen certificates shall be awarded by while on the second day, in order to see the best practices, Bursa Lean Office. Stain (%) COATS company was visited. 20 15 79% Improvement Lean briefing In the meeting a 4 person lean commitee was established for “Nike Lean Forum” and Yeşim Textile Lean Office Chief Neslin Kaizen trainings With the 7 Wastes Days process, kaizen trainings were started in Özkaya was appointed as chairman. In the organization, also an 10 Lean Office, continued to increase awareness on lean all departments. During 2015, 151.5 hours training was given to applied TPM – Autonomous Maintenance training was given to production of the employees of Yeşim, with activities carried 136 people in total. These trainings via Lean Office are continuing the participants by Can Yükselen from Lean Institute. 5 out at production departments and offices in 2015. The with regular intervals. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 trainings started in January and continued in July with 0 representative trainings and lean conversations. It is aimed to Benchmarking perform follow up of lean issues in departments and internal 7 Wastes Conversations audits via representatives selected from each department. Lean Office is continuing visits to compare lean applications in In the scope of 7 Wastes Days events, talk sessions were held in Repair (%) First of all, lean production techniques trainings were given to different companies and sectors and to share information with Yeşim Textile with experts on issues related to kaizen or wastage such companies. It was done benchmarking with Bursalı Havlu 89% 8 selected lean representatives. These trainings were performed types. In this scope these talks were realized: as workshops with learning by doing philosophy. Thus, the and Ozanteks Textile in 2015. 6 aim of the explained lean technique was tried to be thought 13th of May: “Attention to 7 Wastages!” with Lean Production and Improvement Management Specialist Gökhan Çelikliay. through experience. The applied trainings performed and lean 4 conversation sessions realized provided strengthening of the 7 Wastes Days 17th of June: “Individual in Lean Production” with Coats knowledge and establishing an awareness. The trainings ran for Lean Office started 7 Wastes Days in 2015 that would improve Continuous Improvement Director Mustafa Kemal Altay. 2 38 hours in total and 650 people have attended. work performing ways and add value to the work done via 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 15th of July: “IKEA supply chain, birth of Lean concept and Lean 0 different applications. The main objective of the organization is Production Principles” with IKEA Logistics Director Mevlüde to ensure that the employees learn to see the 7 basic wastes, focus Informing weeks Sezer. on the wastes, see the opportunities and to perform improvement The “informing week” series of which the first had been studies. The 7 basic wastes that are examined each month is as 12th of August: “Life is yours, what about common life?” with 2 nd Quality (%) follows: May: Time loss, June: Waiting, July: Transportation, KalDer Turkey Board of Directors Treasurer Emin Direkçi. 76% started in December 2012 by Lean Office, had continued in 6 2015 within the scope of 7 Wastes Days event. In the event August-October: Over Production, November-December: 9th of September: “Waste Management” with TOFAŞ Production that one waste type chosen each month is examined by all Inventory. The event will continue with other wastages in 2016. in World Class (WCM) Director Murat Koca. Improvement of Yeşim workers, informing was performed on the chosen Also the following activities were realized in the scope of “7 4 subject. In the weeks through out the year determined in this Wastes Days”. 4th of November: “3P for designing the processes with lean scope, it is aimed to raise the awareness via sending informing perspective” with Çoşkunöz Holding Lean Expension Section 2 mails on relevant subjects. In 2015, it was shared informations Director Nilay Çetiner. about 7 Wastes Days, time loss, waiting, transportation, over 23rd of December: “How can I create value in my job?” with 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 production and inventory wastes. Üstünberk Holding Commercial Vehicles Transformation Group Director Cüneyt Koçak. Nike Lean Forum meetings In all talk sessions, experts shared their knowledge and Efficiency (%) 29% Improvement Lean Office joined “4th Lean Forum” meetings held on 6 – 7 May. The first day of the two day 4th Lean Forum was held at experiences with Yeşim employees and drew attention to Lean wastages issue. 100 Tekirdağ Avery Dennison factory and the second at Düzce 80 İmteks factory. Lean and Quality Director Tunç Aydoğan from Informing Weeks: On first week of each month, it is aimed Yeşim and Egypt Lean Representative Abdelkhalek Mohamed to raise awareness on the chosen wastage via performing an 60 Shehata participated to the meetings. Participant firms shared informing on waste. On March it has started by “How Kaizen 40 all applications and learned/gained on the determined subject should be prepared?” and through out the year, 7 basic wastage 20 and exchanged knowledge in the meetings. issues were handled. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Monthly 7 Wastes Day: Kaizens were requested from all 0 departments regarding the waste issue determined in the first 18 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 19 Social Compliance 20 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 21 People First “Never forget that your colleagues and employees are human beings just like yourself, and that it is your duty to treat them well...’’ This paternal advice rang in the ears of Yeşim Textile’s founder Şükrü Şankaya when he first started the business, and remains at the heart of the company’s “People First” vision, its corporate culture and all its policies. Social compliance is an integrated part of our business processes Yeşim Textile has a Social Compliance Department all suppliers with a view to fulfilling expectations under its Directorship Social Compliance regarding social compliance. In addition, it shows the and Human Resources which ensures that all methods achieving the needs for social compliance. expectations regarding social compliance are notified There are activities to need the demands of customers and implemented. related with social compliance and sustainability. In addition, this department accompanies the customers This department conducts audits both at the an auditors during social compliance audits carried main plant and at the suppliers and reports the out by third party organizations and customers. improvement areas to the respective departments and companies and supports. Also, encourages 22 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 23 Main Strategies / Sub Strategies TRUE NORTH • Customer • Profitability • Speed • Innovation • Competence Yeşim Textile has BUSINESS allocated TRY RESULTS IN YESIM TRACKED BY TARGETS 1.070,000 from its Emergency situation total Corporate Social evacuation drills • Profitability • Revenue Responsibility budget • Loading Performance of TRY 1.289.578 to • Total Lead Time In 2015, Yeşim Textile continued doing emergency situation social compliance, MAIN • Competency evacuation drills, which is given great importance in the STRATEGIES • Stock occupational health company. The company readied its workforce to threats Finance, Quality, and safety in 2015. with drills made in June and December 2015. The company Loading Performance, has done a fire extinguishing drill in June 2015 and increaSocial Compliance, sed awareness. Employee Satisfaction, IE S Lead Time, G Corporate Reputation ATE ST R S UB Distribution 200 Trainings for health and safety of works 180 160 195 176 140 141 accidents 120 100 118 by year 80 89 60 65 40 53 50 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2015 We believe that training makes us a total of 10.622 hours better and see trainings as a part of training were In 2015 of our job. given to employees. 4000 hours The Social Compliance Environment of trainings were occupational health and safety practices Occupational Health and Safety Board given. through a system which gives priority to the which was founded in 1983, comprising 30 health of its employees. Personal Technique Development Leadership Total members, convenes regularly on a monthly Social compliance, SA 8000, ergonomics, basis and adopts resolutions and the minutes of Number of Number of Number of Number of individual hygiene, basic workplace safety, workplace people Hours people Hours people Hours people Hours these meetings are recorded and communicated to the security in activities involving chemicals, emergency, relevant departments. Occupational health and safety personal protective equipment usage and first aid trainings’’ 1004 8282 421 2213 39 127 1464 10622 efforts are based on trainings. Yeşim Textile delivers training were given as 4000 hours of training in 2015. in house, to make sure that all its employees participate in 24 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 25 Social Compliance Summit at Yeşim Yeşim-Nike cooperation in BCI cotton Yeşim Textile is one of the partners of Nike for the production 2012 in this area follows all developments closely. of products in the scope of Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) in the A nonprofit council named “Better Cotton Initiative” (BCI) is a world. Yeşim Textile, in the scope of this partnership agreement, voluntary program enabling millions of farmers around the world will supports nature friendly production and sustainability by purto produce cotton in healthier conditions. Collaborating with chasing yarn made from Better Cotton (BCI) in will produce for cotton supplying chain and relevant stakeholders, the council Nike, and Converse, which is another brand of Nike. Yeşim Textile serves for securing the sustainability of global cotton production will gradually increase yarn made from BCI cotton every year, and environmentally, socially and economically and as a sharing site in 2015 the BCI yarn used accounted for 33% of total yarn used in where the results of the production quality are kept and shared production. The company aims to increase this percentage to 40% with relevant customers and that is used for web-based internatioin 2016 for all production. And the company, which commits to nal information and data storage. use 100% BCI certificated cotton yarn by 2020, is working since ‘1st Yeşim Textile Social Compliance Summit‘ was held in Yeşim and ensure them to remain standing. Learning Committee met at Yeşim Textile on 5th of May. Summit was realized with the slogan ‘We In the after lunch part of the summit, Nergis Holding Legal One of the meetings in 2015 of the Learning Committee that Nike are together for a sustainable world’, towards textile sector, and Advisor İbrahim Yaşar, Labor Ministry İşkur Province Vice established between its suppliers as an information sharing platsocial compliance conditions aiming improvement of employee Directorate Mehmet Çiftçi made a presentation and shared form, was held at Yeşim Textile on 12-13 February. In the meeting rights and work conditions were discussed. The summit held examples regarding the issue from work life with the participants lasted two days, the participant firms shared the works done and via participation of the customers, stakeholders and suppliers and emphasized the importance of social compliance in work life. education programs in Human Resources and Social Compliance of Yeşim Textile, started with the panel named “Importance of field. During the training, Yeşim Textile Corporate Psychologist the social compliance in the textile sector”. In the panel which is Among the presentations and speeches given in the summit Ayça Bolten Ülkü also gave a training on Stress Management and moderated by Global Compact Board of Directors Councellor throughout the day, a short drama piece was staged, while 4 then have all the participants do Breath and Relaxation Exercises. Deniz Öztürk, Nike Europe, Middle East Africa Director Caner year old group kids of Yeşim kindergarten presented a enjoyable Soytaş, Esprit Europe Middle East, Africa Social Compliance experience by a dance show. At the end of the summit, Yeşim Official Evre Kaynak, C&A Sustainable Supply Chain Director Textile Human Resources and Social Compliance Director Fatoş Burak Gagvalı drew attention in their speeches to that the social compliance in Turkish textile sector will differentiate the firms Hüseyinca gave plaques to speakers. Yeşim is one of the best in MSI Grading Tchibo manufacturers met Yeşim Textile, was evaluated under MSI grading system Tchibo’s “We Project” named project that was started in 2014 for that Nike formed under sustainability heading, with all its manufacturers worldwide in the scope of social compliance, fabrics manufactured for 2014-2015 winter season and continued to bring together the 10 manufacturers for the brand in in this scope chosen as one of the best manufacturer Turkey in 2015. For the last, in the meetings held in İstanbul on firms of Nike. 16-17-18 February, 17-18 May and 7-8 December, under leadership In the assessment, Yeşim Textile which resides in the of Tchibo We Project managers and project trainers, trainings were “Premium supplier program” to which only specific magiven on social compliance subjects. The applications in social nufacturers participate, RSL, Nike green chemistry, Nike compliance field of the firms were discussed in the meetings and water and sustainable certificates programs are evaluated the future studies were planned. We Project trainer team also, in all together. As the result of the assessment Yeşim Textile 2015 March, August and December, for three times visited Yeşim showed via the highest grades it achieved in all these Textile and gave trainings on social compliance and work health categories that it manufactures while protecting the ensafety issues to the We Project team in Yeşim. vironment. The 2016 goal of Yeşim Textile is to increase its grade by 6%. 26 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 27 Social Compliance Social compliance activities are followed by continuous internal and external audits conducted both at Yeşim Textile and suppliers and improvement is measured. Continuous monitoring through audits social compliance supervisor as well as work health and safety in social compliance audits, employee rights, environment Scheduled internal audits are conducted at the suppliers every and labor law, work health and safety law. At the end of the year in accordance with the annual main plant and supplier training, all of the participants who entered the examination audit plan. In case a need arises for new suppliers, substantive held in international standards, were successful and achieved scheduled or unscheduled audits are conducted at new rights to get certificates. suppliers on social compliance, environment, occupational health and safety, in accordance with the social compliance Social compliance supervisors, other than the internal social questionnaire for suppliers and social compliance manual compliance audits, also participate in contractor audits and for suppliers upon request by the production department. will be responsible for ensuring sustainability of the social The audit plan is prepared on an annual basis in a way to compliance standards. ensure that the main plant, all contract manufacturers, printing and embroidery firms are audited once every 6 months. The audits are conducted by the Social Advanced at social compliance Yeşim Textile began ’’Beyond Compliance’’ works because of providing high level social compliance requirements in Our Company was subjected the global production network in 2015. In this context, it to the following social will provide sustainable improvement by working on human compliance audits in 2015 resources, environment and energy subjects. • SA 8000 Intertek: March-December 2015 • Hugo Boss Environment: April 2015 Social Compliance at Yeşim • Hugo Boss Social Compliance: May 2015 BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) • Nike SM&S: August 2015 The main objective of BSCI procurement rules is to ensure • Tommy Hilfiger PVH: September 2015 specific social and environmental standards on the basis of • Oeko-Tex STeP: October 2015 internationally accepted conventions. By signing the BSCI procurement rules, companies undertake to accept the social and environmental standards specified in these rules, to Compliance Team of Yeşim, comprising members who are implement these rules and to take measures in their corporate competent and authorized on this issue. policies for compliance with these rules. Yeşim Textile, signed BSCI Procurement standards in 2011. Our Social Compliance Supervisors “authorized” 6S Audits Yeşim Textile which gives utmost importance to social Social Compliance Department and Lean Office started to work closer under the frame of sustainable production at compliance rules, besides the social compliance department Yeşim Textile. 6S audits include occupational health, safety within its structure, had its employees working in production and environmental sensitivity and they were added in addition and are in dialogue with contractors, get social compliance to 5S audits which interrogates all of the production and supervisor certificate. To the “Corporate Social Responsibility office spaces. 6S audits also included the audits in 21 different Head Supervisor” training given by Intertek Audit and departments in 2015. Each department is controlled by Social Consultancy company, 10 people attended from Social Compliance Department and Lean Office quarterly. In other Compliance, Human Resources, Quality, Sales, Production periods, internal auditors realize internal audits weekly or and Planning departments of the firm. In the training spans monthly. four whole days, information given on the conditions of being 28 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 29 Yeşim Textile is a leader in The most prestigious social sustainability Yeşim Textile was the first and compliance certificate only Turkish company as it was awarded the certificate of OEKOYeşim Textile is the first company in the apparel sector in Turkey to receive TEX STEP (Sustainable Textile the SA8000 certificate and has declared at the highest level that the company Production) which is one of the will comply with the “Social Responsibility Policy” corresponding to the most important commitments for internationally accepted “SA 8000 Social Compliance Standards”. sustainable production. Yeşim Textile which has the one of the most prestigious certificates to corporate performance. Yeşim Textile, which adopted it as a principle to carry of the world on social compliance subject, SA 8000 since 2005, out transparent production in a way to be trusted by Certification process consists of 5 steps. Through first of all, an have completed successfully the 1st Interim Observation Audit with public within the framework of conditions of sustainable analysis about social performance and transactions, is made and audits done on 10-12 March 2015, and 2nd Interim Observation production, also continues to be approved by various a performance scanning is performed. The second step, training Audit with audits done on 14-15-16 December. Yeşim, being the independent institutions in this regard. In this subject, it required to establish the management system, emphasize on first apparel firm to receive SA 8000 in Turkey, have continued is confirmed by several independent institutions. Finally, qualification of Yeşim Textile was the first and only Turkish company the social compliance studies as they were for the past 9 years and the personnel and as it was awarded the certificate of OEKO-TEX STEP achieved the right to get the certificate for a fourth time in 2014. guidance like tools (Sustainable Textile Production) which is one of the most Yeşim Textile, being one of 8 firms having this certificate in Turkey, being created. important commitments for sustainable production. is maintaining the studies on this field at the same speed for years. After the third OEKO-TEX STEP (Sustainable Textile Production) which In the scope of audits performed by the international independent step, pre audit is one of the most important commitments for sustainable auditing firm Intertek, the management system that is formed of preparations, production. The purpose of the OEKO-TEX STEP certificate not forcing or mandatorily working, taking required precautions in correction phase is to ensure continuous presence of environmentally work health and safety, workers choosing their own representative, that is in the friendly production processes, quality management, and no discrimination among employees, preventing harassment forth level, and safety and socially appropriate working conditions in and maltreatment, compliance with the legal regulations in work as last, with production facilities operating in the textile sector. The hours and payments criteria, was investigated. Yeşim Textile, with the 5th step, certificate is only given to companies that are good models with integrated works in this area as a result of carrying this certificate, not only within its structure, also in supplier and certification out of audits. Yeşim Textile was entitled to take certificate contractor firms, declares that it will ensure the social compliance process, firms after audits on November and December. Thus, it has conditions. The SA 8000 certificate, being the first universal ethics gain rights proved once again that it is a worldwide supplier which standard in the world, is currently held by 3 thousand 388 firms to get the is environmentally friendly and able to respond to the throughout the world. Only 8 of these are in Turkey. certificate. demands of production and social responsibility. Six subjects to which paying attention about analysis and evaluation of sustainable production conditions What is the SA 8000? are chemicals and their use, environmental protection, SA 8000 Standard that is created by the Social Accountability environmental management, social responsibility, quality International New York (SAI), determines the social management, health and safety. Also, there are three scoring responsibility against the employer, supplier, processes for the certificate. 1st level: compliance with the entry level, 2nd level: good implementation with further customer and society. SAI is a non profit optimisation potential, 3rd level: exemplary implementation organization established in volunteering basis, in the sense of a best practice example. Yeşim Textile with the aim for developing an auditable generally completed at 3rd level all of the audits and standard, application and observation. SA certificate will be valid for 3 years. 8000 that is the first Social Management Standard which aims to create development What is OEKO-TEX STeP? universally sustainable and a certification It is an independent certification system for brands, retailers and controls system in corporate level, and manufacturers which are in the textile chain and aiming audits the common parameters like at having sustainable production conditions in a transparent child labor, working hours, work and sustainable way to be trusted by public. The dynamic health and safety. SA 8000 of which development of the OEKO-TEX STEP makes it possible to the reasoning is based on ISO continuously increase not only environmental performances management system, provides and social responsibilities of certified companies but also continuous improvement of the efficiency. The certificate paves the way for them to reach management systems in regard the most competitive position in the market. 30 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 31 Yeşim proved its trustworthiness again Yeşim Textile, implemented necessary actions in order to protect the information of its customers and the business environment and prolonged TS ISO IEC 27001 Information Security Management System the certificate in 2015, which was received initially in 2013. In order to renew this document, which is valid for one year, the company needs to be audited regularly every year. What is ISO/IEC 27001:2013? What System room is re-arranged does it provide? The system room in which the informatics ISO/IEC 27001:2013 document is based on infrastructure of Yeşim Textile resides, re-arranged the principle of attainability, integrality and physically to meet the ISO 27001 standards. In confidentiality of information and of determination this regard, a proper and safe environment for all and elimination of relevant risks. The needs of the infrastructure and the main machines to work customers, employees, commercial partners and flawlessly is established via the works executed by the society as a whole are also included in the relevant Machinery Energy and Information Technologies parts. Receiving this certificate is perceived as a departments together. In the scope of the same work, strong indicator of the importance that an institution FM200 automated gas extinguishing system, heat and shows to the security of information. humidity control system equipments are purchased and installed to the room. Thus, the system room that Unprotected systems invites the computer based penetration, sabotage and viruses. Insecurity of information may cause the leakage, theft and loss of basic information of companies. Information security management system shows to your commercial partners and customers that you take the information security serious. ISO 27001 enables you to do business with many organizations as it is a precondition, an expectation and a is working since November 2014, was transferred condition in contract. It facilitates the exposition of to its new place in main building in 2015. With this the security of your IT system to the third parties work, a big step towards the area with Yeşim Textile without demonstrating your security procedures to informatics infrastructure main machine and other your customers. Minimizing the effects of a possible infrastructure devices, to work properly against fire, security violation, it helps the development of humidity and heat and risks to be minimized . business continuity of your institution. It decreases the system weakness and the risk about the security, enables the operation of the relevant control mechanism. 32 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 33 Governance in Yeşim The basis of management implementations in Yeşim that started out with the objectives of perpetual development and enhancement of performance is the mentality of “people first” just like all its processes. Adapting the humanitarian and ethic management perception, Yeşim structured all its processes on these values. Yeşim which tries to establish an organizational structure of the customer until the delivery of it, progresses in its build that is lean, corporate, goal oriented, efficient according to the value flow chart in accordance with lean and sustainable, and continued the studies in 2015 on management philosophy. the organizational chart that is revised in 2014 with the The basis of the sustainable management is Social support of a professional consultancy firm. Yeşim, also Responsibility policy, EnvironmentOccupational Health taking advice from a professional firm for analysis of and Security Policy, Human Resources Management work processes, aims to have works done towards a right System Policy that is included in the management system work force with this project. In this regard, the size of all of Yeşim. SA8000 certificate, Global Compact Contract the positions in work processes were determined, risks and OEKO-TEX STeP certificate are the most valuable are specified and with consideration of the improvement certificates that Yeşim acquired as the outcome of opportunities new structuring was performed. In new sustainable works included into its work processes. organizational structure, the process from the order 34 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 35 Break rooms Workplace According to the law no 4207 on smoking in work places, smoking is permitted at open areas specified close to the workplaces. The areas that have their to covered totally or Psychologist serves sides covered more than half cannot be shown as open areas and smoking is not possible within such. Thus, according to the employees the decree, as the smoking rooms used before in Yeşim Textile are not in compliance with the standards law dictates, smoking was banned in hose rooms. In this regard, all smoking of Yeşim rooms are rearranged as break rooms, to the grass field in In order to enable the employees of Yeşim to manage the stress in front of the dinning hall additional seats and umbrellas are their professional and private lives; Psychologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü placed thus started to be used as the smoking area. served in Yeşim as a Workplace Psychologist between 08.30-18.30 on Tuesdays and Thursdays in 2015. Having individual interviews, our psychologist facilities the tackling with the stress in the professional Employment Meeting and private lives. Workplace psychologist has so far done 354 hours training and 234 hours face-to-face interviews in 2015. Fire safety To the Fire Safety Education conducted by Nike together and Social Compliance Director Fatoş Hüseyinca have attended. with FLA (Fair Labor Organization) that is an international During the education, information on fire safety was given and organization protecting employee rights, attendance was provided also items to be cared for in safety were discussed. also from Yeşim Textile. In the end of this education that the officials of the firms that To all of the trainings held in İstanbul in October and November manufacture for Nike have participated in, participants entered for one week each, Social Compliance Manager Aydın Maydaer, an examination that is evaluated in international field and to the Social Compliance and Work Safety Specialist Ruken Oğulmuş ones that succeed “Fire Safety Educator” certificate was given. have attended, while to some of the training Yeşim Operating Starting with 2016 fire safety trainings will be given by the Social Engineer Savaş Kaba, Paint Shop – Finishing Machinist Compliance team. Muharrem Oruş, Garment Packaging Worker İlhami Eser, HR Yeşim Textile have attended again this year to the Bursa Human Resources and Employment First Aid team education Meeting held by İŞKUR on 3-5 December at Merinos Congress and Cultural Center. At the Yeşim stand that received a great interest from the participants, business applications were taken by the Human Resources Department. In the employment fair, Yeşim Textile According to the “Regulations on Emergency Situations” and Human Resources Manager Özlem Şenkoyuncu also gave a seminar named “Are You Ready “Regulation on Protecting Buildings from Fire”, to the first aid for the Business Interview?” to the participants of the fair. teams established in Yeşim Textile, new employees were added in 2015. In July and August, total of 78 employees had first aid training for ‘HR Listens to You’ meetings two whole days from Red Crescent. At the end of the training the participants entered an examination, and the people who passed The “HR Listens to You” sessions that are started to listen to the wishes and complaints of achieved the right to get the first aid certificate. Thus, the employee the employees one on one and make necessary notifications, continued in 2015 as short number in Yeşim Textile with first aid certificate increased to 250. meetings. In the meetings of 10 people conducted in the room of HR and Social Compliance Director Fatoş Hüseyinca each week, employees finds the chance to deliver their wishes and complaints to the management one on one. Special education program for club leaders A series of trainings were programmed towards personal In 2015, employees representing their co-workers from Garment, Cutting, Weaving, Plaindevelopment of the social activity club leaders together with paint, Finishing, Shipment, Raw Fabric and Machine Energy departments, attended the meFaveo Education and Consultancy company. Club leaders received etings and delivered their thoughts. In 2015, thus 120 Yeşim employees happened to deliver trainings, first of all “Management Abilities” on 22 November their thoughts one on one to Human Resources and Social Compliance Director. Also with a at Işık University Campus from trainer Barış Gül, “Project and new application, the ones that attend the meeting started to hang their recommendations to Process Management” on 23 December from Ahmet Soner. The the “Idea Tree”. In the scope of this application, employees write their wishes to leaf shaped third training was the “Presentation Techniques” training held on papers and stick them to the tree drawn on the wall of the meeting room. Wishes of each 4th of March. The trainings are being conducted in order to improve meeting is kept and recorded and evaluated. leadership properties of the club leaders working in different departments. 36 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 37 Legal working conditions Our employees work under conditions which comply with national and international standards and receive wages according to these standards. The wages of all employees who have worked for Yeşim Textile in excess of 3 months are higher than the minimum wage. Working conditions in compliance provides more favorable conditions for the with the law provisions of the “Labor workers. Yeşim Textile recruits its employees Law” numbered 4857 as ratified by the in accordance with this collective bargaining Council of Ministers and the provisions agreement since 1983, when the cooperation with of the “Collective Bargaining Agreement” TEKSİF was started. In the scope of these laws which was entered into by and between the company does not employ forced workers. the employer and TEKSİF (The Union of All new recruits completing the probation period Textile, Knitting and Garment Industry (1-3 months) depending on the nature of their Workers of Turkey”) are applied by Yeşim position are considered as permanent staff. Textile. The administrative staff (“white The wages are determined on the basis of the collar”) are subjected to the provisions of the minimum wages defined by the Ministry of Labor Law and the workers (“blue collar”) are Labor and Social Security. New recruits are subjected to the provisions of the Collective paid minimum wage for a period of 3 months Bargaining Agreement. following recruitment and then their wages are When compared to the Labor Code, the increased at the rates specified in the Collective Collective Bargaining Agreement always Bargaining Agreement. 38 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 39 The number of 0% Yeşim Textile 1% 18-25 between years people according 2% 0% 0% 26-30 between years complies with the It is not required requirement of to be citizen of the to ages 12% 6% 8% 31-35 between years employing disabled Republic of Turkey to 36-40 between years persons at the rate of 17% be employed at Yeşim 41-45 between years 3% pursuant to the Textile. 27% 46-50 between years Labor Law. 27% 51-55 between years 56-60 between years 62-67 between years Yeşim Textile allows its 74 year employees to enroll with a 80 year trade union however it is not compulsory. A wage policy supported by social benefits 600 1700 Number of employees are enrolled with a trade union: 1700 Number of employees which are not enrolled to a trade union: 600 Employees of Yeşim Textile receive the consideration for their efforts not only through wages but also through social benefits. Social assistances at Yeşim Textile • Payment of bonuses every month at the amount of 5 days wage, • Education grant for all schooled children of employees, • Religious holiday allowance for all employees, • Marriage grant to employees who get married, • Heating allowance for all employees each month, • Maternity benefits at childbirth, • Gifts to all employees once a year from the products • Funeral grants those who lose their first degree relatives, manufactured by the company, • Military service allowance to those who leave their jobs for • Free shuttle service for all employees, military service, • Free lunch to all employees every day, • Reimbursement of meal ticket fees to those employees who are on fast during Ramadan, • Provision of 40 kg of food stuff to all employees quarterly, • Child allowance for parents, separately for each child, • Free of charge kindergarten service. • Holiday allowance for those who take annual leave, 40 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 41 Employees, whose children are in the kindergarten, are at ease The kindergarten is staffed by a team of 24 qualified and licensed specialists comprising 1 manager, 2 shift responsibles, 11 teachers, 1 nurse and 9 child minders to ensure the health, education and happiness of the children. Yeşim’s kindergarten is open 6 days a week between 07:00 23:00 hours. Not only mothers but also fathers are allowed to bring their children pursuant to the kindergarten regulations. The kindergarten which is provided free of charge Personal development of the children to the employee’s children in the 0-6 year old age are cared group is an ultramodern facility with a capacity of New courses were added to the curriculum of the 1000 children, meeting all the needs of the children. kindergarten in 2013 with a view to contributing The kindergarten at Yeşim provides education to to the personal development of the children with approximately 250 children currently with the different topics. According to the new educational curriculum of private nursery schools aiming at programme chess, drama courses are provided to the supporting personal and social development of the 5 year old age group and English, chess, drama, and children. folk dances courses to the 5 and 6 year old age groups. Teachers in the kindergarten receive periodical trainings from psychologist of the company in order to increase their skills to better communicate with children and their parents. 42 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 43 Yeşim; Green Factory 44 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 45 The Green Factory Yeşim Textile is committed to preserve the environment at each and every stage of production through its environmentally friendly sustainable activities, energy friendly projects and recycling efforts. Environmental awareness in production Yeşim Textile has fulfilled its Compliance Initiative), social responsibilities since the OCS, Oekotex Standard 100, first day of its incorporation, OEKO-TEX STeP, GOTS aiming at carrying out its certificates, Bluesign and BCI production activities in line memberships. with the green factory approach Activities causing waste with a view to acting as a role water, hazardous waste model for its customers, contract and solid waste generation manufacturers and suppliers and air pollution are and raising public awareness. monitored through a separate Yeşim has fully integrated the Environmental Management environmental projects which System in accordance with have been carried out for years the regulations issued by in its business processes. These the Ministry of Forestry and activities which are carried out Environment of the Republic with a human focus are based on of Turkey. The primary viable and improvable systematics environmental objective of in accordance with international Yeşim is to make sure that each standards and monitored through and every project adds value performance metrics. These to our employees, stakeholders activities are guided via the and to the public in general to Global Compact Agreement, ensure sustainability. SA 8000, BSCI (Business Social 46 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 47 Projects to be carried out in 2015 Projects for reducing water and energy consumption in the dye house: • Project for saving time, water and energy in water consumption and the carbon dioxide levels from preliminary finishing: It was blocked the flow of the chimney for dyeing 1 kg and total process time energy waste water by installing additional apparatus to open the saving projects that were carried in 2014. In this regard machine age fabric, and provided water-saving rate of 95%. there will be an increase in the production capacity without any additional investments to machinery. These projects • Project for dyeing with low liquor ratio in the were maintained in 2015. dyeing machine: This project aimed at achieving water savings at the rate of 30% and energy savings at the rate of • Energy savings projects in the knitting 25% in the dyeing process. (Projects are going on.) department: Lightings were turned on LED lights and provided energy savings of 68%. • Energy saving and reduction of carbon dioxide project with a special dye to be used in the dye • Energy savings projects for well pumps. house: In this project, it was aimed to reduce steam and Energy saving projects to be carried out in 2015 No Subject Project title Year 1 Energy Converting to LED lighting in Knitting Department. 2015 Water recycling operation The use of water back by filtering nap from 2 Water 2015 the water method in Corino machines. Energy saving at air conditioners in Knitting Department by improving 3 Energy 2015 fan motors. Our goal; to reduce Energy saving projects will be carried out in 2016 4 Energy Re-use of boiler feed water by reverse-osmoz method. 2016 consumption in production 5 6 Energy Energy Converting to LED lighting of offices, outdoor lightings and tanks. Energy saving in the cutter suction machines. (Setting the vacuum speed) 2016 2016 Environmental activities of Yeşim are encouraged and monitored by the CEO Disconnecting and putting of needdlework machines’ motors. Şenol Şankaya and the entire senior management team. 7 Energy 2016 (When putting direct pedal instead of running the engine during the production.) A green step forward in home textiles 8 Energy Putting the drive to water pumps. (25% planned to save energy) 2016 Yeşim Textile enrolled to the carbon Energy saving by moisture control system in mine shafts and on the 9 Energy 2016 fabrics. (Target is 25-50%) Performance improvement initiative System (CPI₂) with its home textiles 10 Waste Recycling of all plastic bags 2016 department in 2014. CPI₂, is an initiative of European retailers, which aim to Implementation of application in Corino machines on three more 11 Water 2016 become active pioneers to protect the machines. climate. This improvement system, which is also supported by our customer 12 Energy The use of high efficiency energy friendly dyes 2016 Tchibo, aims to systematically reduce energy costs and carbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions. In this scope, Yeşim Textile put in its factory data to the online system Targets for 2016 and received online recommendations • Recovering more than 20 % of the process water. for improvement in 2015. The company • Increasing the share of organic fabric production in the total production to 25%. improved its energy costs and carbon • Increasing the share of yarn manufactured from cotton produced to BCI standards in the total fabric dioxide emissions by implementing these production to 20%. recommendations. 48 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 49 Water is life, we appreciate its value Yeşim has commissioned its in house treatment plant in 2000, treating and discharging 6.000 tons of water to the nature every day. This plant is one of the first in house examples in the textile sector with its capacity and its construction at Environmentally friendly brands international standards. Electricity Consumption (Kw) Naturel Gas Consumption (Kw) Yeşim’s environmentally friendly 60,000,000 60,000,000 58,750,000 Electricity Consumption Consumption (Kw Electricity (Kw )) 360,000,000 360,000,000 Natural Gas Consumption Natural Gas Kw )) Consumption (( Kw brands represent the production 58,750,000 made in the ‘green factory’ concept 57,500,000 57,500,000 350,000,000 350,000,000 56,250,000 56,250,000 340,000,000 55,000,000 340,000,000 55,000,000 330,000,000 53,750,000 53,750,000 330,000,000 52,500,000 320,000,000 320,000,000 52,500,000 51,250,000 51,250,000 310,000,000 50,000,000 310,000,000 50,000,000 300,000,000 and the vision of the company. The 48,750,000 48,750,000 300,000,000 47,500,000 290,000,000 Electricity Consumption (Kw ) Natural Gas Consumption ( Kw ) 47,500,000 290,000,000 46,250,000 46,250,000 280,000,000 280,000,000 45,000,000 45,000,000 270,000,000 60,000,000 43,750,000 270,000,000 43,750,000 58,750,000 42,500,000 42,500,000 57,500,000 41,250,000 Electricity Consumption (Kw ) 360,000,000 260,000,000 260,000,000 350,000,000 250,000,000 Natural Gas Consumption ( Kw ) brand Yeşim Organic was patented 41,250,000 56,250,000 250,000,000 60,000,000 40,000,000 40,000,000 340,000,000 240,000,000 55,000,000 58,750,000 38,750,000 360,000,000 240,000,000 38,750,000 53,750,000 330,000,000 230,000,000 350,000,000 57,500,000 37,500,000 37,500,000 230,000,000 52,500,000 56,250,000 36,250,000 320,000,000 220,000,000 340,000,000 36,250,000 220,000,000 51,250,000 55,000,000 35,000,000 35,000,000 310,000,000 210,000,000 50,000,000 53,750,000 33,750,000 330,000,000 210,000,000 33,750,000 300,000,000 200,000,000 320,000,000 in 2010 and the brand Yeşim Recycle 48,750,000 52,500,000 32,500,000 32,500,000 200,000,000 51,250,000 47,500,000 31,250,000 290,000,000 190,000,000 310,000,000 31,250,000 190,000,000 50,000,000 46,250,000 30,000,000 30,000,000 280,000,000 180,000,000 300,000,000 48,750,000 45,000,000 28,750,000 180,000,000 28,750,000 270,000,000 170,000,000 290,000,000 170,000,000 47,500,000 43,750,000 27,500,000 27,500,000 46,250,000 42,500,000 26,250,000 260,000,000 160,000,000 280,000,000 160,000,000 26,250,000 45,000,000 41,250,000 25,000,000 25,000,000 250,000,000 150,000,000 270,000,000 150,000,000 was patented in 2011. 43,750,000 23,750,000 40,000,000 23,750,000 240,000,000 140,000,000 42,500,000 22,500,000 38,750,000 260,000,000 140,000,000 22,500,000 41,250,000 230,000,000 130,000,000 21,250,000 37,500,000 21,250,000 250,000,000 130,000,000 40,000,000 20,000,000 36,250,000 20,000,000 220,000,000 120,000,000 240,000,000 120,000,000 38,750,000 18,750,000 35,000,000 18,750,000 210,000,000 110,000,000 37,500,000 17,500,000 33,750,000 230,000,000 110,000,000 17,500,000 36,250,000 200,000,000 100,000,000 220,000,000 16,250,000 32,500,000 16,250,000 100,000,000 35,000,000 15,000,000 31,250,000 15,000,000 190,000,000 90,000,000 210,000,000 90,000,000 33,750,000 13,750,000 30,000,000 13,750,000 180,000,000 80,000,000 32,500,000 12,500,000 28,750,000 200,000,000 80,000,000 12,500,000 31,250,000 170,000,000 70,000,000 190,000,000 11,250,000 27,500,000 11,250,000 70,000,000 30,000,000 10,000,000 26,250,000 160,000,000 60,000,000 180,000,000 60,000,000 10,000,000 28,750,000 8,750,000 25,000,000 8,750,000 150,000,000 50,000,000 170,000,000 27,500,000 7,500,000 23,750,000 50,000,000 7,500,000 26,250,000 140,000,000 40,000,000 160,000,000 40,000,000 6,250,000 22,500,000 6,250,000 25,000,000 5,000,000 21,250,000 130,000,000 30,000,000 150,000,000 30,000,000 5,000,000 23,750,000 3,750,000 20,000,000 3,750,000 120,000,000 20,000,000 140,000,000 22,500,000 2,500,000 18,750,000 20,000,000 2,500,000 21,250,000 110,000,000 10,000,000 130,000,000 10,000,000 1,250,000 17,500,000 1,250,000 20,000,000 100,000,000 120,000,000 00 16,250,000 18,750,00000 90,000,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 15,000,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 110,000,000 2005 2011 2015 17,500,000 13,750,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 80,000,000 100,000,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 16,250,000 12,500,000 15,000,000 11,250,000 70,000,000 90,000,000 13,750,000 10,000,000 12,500,000 8,750,000 11,250,000 60,000,000 80,000,000 50,000,000 70,000,000 Coal Consumption Consumption (( ton Coal ton )) 7,500,000 10,000,000 6,250,000 8,750,000 5,000,000 Demineralized Water Water Consumption Demineralized m3 )) Consumption (( m3 40,000,000 60,000,000 55,000 55,000 30,000,000 50,000,000 7,500,000 3,750,000 20,000,000 40,000,000 3,000,000 6,250,000 3,000,000 2,500,000 10,000,000 5,000,000 1,250,000 30,000,000 Demineralized Water Consumption (m3) Coal Consumption (ton) 3,750,000 0 20,000,000 0 2,500,000 50,000 50,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 10,000,000 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 1,250,000 2015 0 0 2015 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2,500,000 2,500,000 45,000 45,000 Coal Consumption ( ton ) Demineralized Water Consumption ( m3 ) 55,000 Coal Consumption ( ton ) 3,000,000 Demineralized Water Consumption ( m3 ) 55,000 40,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 40,000 2,000,000 50,000 50,000 2,500,000 35,000 35,000 45,000 1,500,000 2,500,000 1,500,000 45,000 30,000 30,000 40,000 2,000,000 1,000,000 40,000 2,000,000 1,000,000 25,000 25,000 35,000 1,500,000 35,000 500,000 20,000 20,000 1,500,000 500,000 30,000 30,000 1,000,000 15,000 15,000 25,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 00 1,000,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 25,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 500,000 20,000 500,000 20,000 15,000 0 15,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2005 20002000 20012001 20022002 20032003 20042004 20062006 20072007 20082008 20092009 20102010 2011 2011 20122012 20132013 20142014 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20052005 2015 0 2015 No major defect was found during the environmental audits that were carried out in 2015 and no environmental accident was experience. Online tracking for Yeşim Yeşim Textile participated in the project that was started by Metropolitan Municipality; ‘online monitoring of wastewater’ application in 2013; and the company was again monitored online by Bursa Metropolitan Municipality in 2015. The Online monitoring system measures the parameters of water and delivers data in real-time to Bursa Water and Sewerage Administration and Provincial Directorate of Environment. The parameters include oxygen, conductivity of water, the pH level water, temperature of water and its flow rate. 50 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 51 Environmentally friendly production Yeşim Textile aims at reducing the adverse impacts of the products it manufactures on the environment, during their life cycle, to the extent possible. To this end Yeşim Textile engages in alternative efforts for environmentally friendly products and endeavors to consume resources to a lesser extent, to recycle and reuse the products. All wastes are separated and collected at source, and it is provided to ‘’Green IT’’ initiatives carried recycle or dispose them at Yeşim Textile. out by the Information • Used vegetal oils collected at canteen Technologies Department of and they are given without cost to licensed recycling companies. Yeşim Textile • Oily rags are collected separately from other wastes at maintenance departments • BLADE Servers which require lesser space, energy and and are sent to licensed firms. air conditioning were started to be used in 2008 to • Contaminated barrels, chemical containers, IBC’s are sent to hazardous waste area initiate Green IT initiatives within the organization of (temporarily) from chemical and dye preparing areas. Contaminated barrels, chemical Yeşim. containers, IBC’s are transported to licensed recycling facilities by licensed transporting • DELL Vostro products with an environmental approach companies. and LCD monitors were purchased after 2008 to support • Fluorescent lamps are collected in safe containers and separated from other Yeşim the Green IT initiative. Textile aims at reducing the adverse impacts of the products it manufactures on the • We have started to dispose of our electronic waste environment, during their life cycle, to the extent possible. To this end Yeşim Textile through certified recycling companies in 2009. engages in alternative efforts for environmentally friendly products and endeavors to consume resources to a lesser extent, to recycle and reuse the products. • In the scope of Green IT initiative, the Active Directory 2012 transition Project reduced power consumption of • Used electrical equipment are collected in labeled containers at waste storage area. servers in 2014. Applied to a licensed recycling company and the application has accepted. Waste electrical equipment are collected at the hazardous waste storage area. When the • Activities to reconstruct the system room based on the waste quota gets full, electrical wastes are sent to the licensed recycling company. ISO 27001 standards has started in the year 2014. These activities provided to reduce energy consumption and • Medical wastes are taken by the licensed vehicle of local waste company. the space required. 52 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 53 CSR Activities Report 54 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 55 Yeşim is aware of its social Yeşim Textile meets social compliance requirements regarding production and also carries out social responsibility projects responsibilities voluntarily. The social responsibility projects mainly address our employees, the environment, education and sports activities. 56 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 57 The Clubs encourage personal development Yeşim Textile has put various social activity clubs into practice for its staff in order to enliven social life • “Silva method” seminar with Ayşen Edis (03.03.2015) Environment and Social Responsibility Club and contribute their social and personal developments. In these clubs, the staff is organizing different • “Happiness club” seminar with Müge Çevik (21.04.2015) • Book donation (February 2015) • “Impacts of positive thinking on our lives” seminar with • Supplies donation for LÖSEV (June 2015) activities voluntarily. In this frame, the activities in 2015; Assistant Professor Doctor Davut İbrahimoğlu (07.07. 2015) • Wish tree for LÖSEV (December 2015) • “Communication within the family” seminar with Zehra • “The role of volunteer works in the personal and social Excursion and Entertainment Club Futurists Club Meral Dinçşahin (26.09.2015) development” seminar with Hülya Denizalp (05.12.2015) • Bowling tournament (16.01.2015) • “Exploring the strategies” seminar with Planning Manager • “Children’s education and social life in the computer age” • Çanakkale trip (19.04.2015) Tuba Gökçe (11.02.2015) seminar wtih Özgür Cihan Berk (05.10.2015) Women and Children Club • “Tips of photography” seminar with Demet Argun • Bulletins of Futurists’ Club (4 bulletins were published in • “Conscious family for a happy future” seminar with İ&D • The Women and Child Club has carried out various project (24.12.2015) February, April, June, August, October and December.) Consulting (02.12.2015) again in 2015 in the scope of The World of Butterfly project, • “Magic of our fingers: EFT” seminar with Ayşe Aksaç which was initiated together with Uludağ Soroptimist Club Fashion Club Sport Club in 2013. (See page 68) (11.12.2015) • “Organic designer of fashion” seminar with Nejla Güvenç • Table Tennis Tournament (19-28.01.2015) (26.05.2015) • Şükrü Şankaya Football Tournament (June 2015) Innovation and Technology Club • “The different touches for fashion” seminar with Gamze • Bulletins of Innovation and Technology Club (Totally 6 Saraçoğlu (27.11.2015) Positive Thinking Club bulletins were published on January, March, May, July, • “To remember being a woman” seminar with Bülent September and November.) Gardiyanoğlu (20.02.2015) 58 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 59 Women friendly company Yesim Textile continues to be a model company in its industry with its works about gender equality. Yeşim undersigned the WEPs principles Yeşim Textile undersigned the “Women’s Empowerment Principles” (WEPs) which was established together by UN Women and UN Global Compact, for equality of women and men, and to empower women in the economic life during the Gong ceremony in Borsa İstanbul. Ceremony was realized in collaboration with the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women and the United Nations Global Compact and Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative. Dilek Cesur, Corporate Communications Director of Yeşim Textile, has signed WEPs as representative of Yeşim during the ceremony. WEPs, which defines the principles for the empowerment of women is a joint initiative by United Nations Entity for Gender Equality (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and provides valuable insight on supporting gender equality in the private sector, work places, market and in the society. There are seven principles in WEPs. Women’s Empowerment Principles 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work respect and support human rights and nondiscrimination. 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers. 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women. 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women. 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. 60 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 61 WEPs principles lead to Yeşim Textile. 1. Establish high-level corporate 2. Treat all women and men fairly at Yeşim Textile gives salaries over minimal wage to its employees internship in the company. There are various trainings from legal due to the requirement of the SA 8000 certificate it owns. Everyone rights of the women to proper consumption of the food in the leadership for gender equality work respect and support human that fulfill their third month in Yeşim receives a salary bigger scope of the project. Yeşim Textile, besides it work towards its female employees, takes rights and nondiscrimination than minimal wage. Also it contributes to their budgets via food There are also “Social Gender” trainings held in Yeşim Textile. In roles in the Board of Directors of Global Compact Turkey of Yeşim Textile has the most prestigious certificate of the world on packages, shoes, towels it distributes once 3 months. this scope, the first training was given by UNFPA (United Nation which it is signer since 2006 and in the Women’s Empowerement social compliance, SA8000 certificate since 2005. This document There is a kindergarten that 0-6 years old kids of the employees Population Fund) advisors on January 2015. Working Group and TÜSİAD Gender Equality Working Group. officially certifies that there is no discrimination at the workplace, benefit in Yeşim Textile for 28 years and it serves to 250 children. It shares its works performed on gender equality in this platform and the production is made respectful to human rights. Also Moreover, The Women and Children Club that is active for 14 with the other members on the working group, thus contributes the “Codes of Conduct” of all the firms Yeşim manufactures for, years, continues its events for women uninterruptedly. 5. Implement enterprise development, to expansion of such works. Yeşim Textile which also takes the demand no discrimination in the workplace and by supervises this Besides this club, it conducts various trainings and social activities supply chain and marketing practices task of communication leadership in the Women’s Empowerment by third party auditing firms, follows and controls this demand. for the personal development and motivation of the employees, Yeşim also supports and spreads this understanding via the social thus supporting personal welfare and happiness. Yeşim Textile that empower women Working Group, has an effective role in publicity of the work of compliance studies conducted within its structure. started a joint health campaing together with Bursa Public Yeşim Textile also pledged to apply the SA8000 criteria in the Global Compact on this field in Turkey. Moreover, Yeşim Textile Health Center and Yıldırım KETEM (Cancer Early Diagnosiscontractor firms it works with. In this regard, it also performs has signed “Management is the Right of Women” declaration by In the business medium both women and men are working in Scanning and Education Center), and provided that the Yeşim required arrangements for application of gender equality criteria Turkey Quality Association (Kal-Der) same conditions, with same opportunities and same rights. No Textile employees have free of charge in the firms it produces for. It performs one gets financial or spiritual privileges in 2009 and thus committed to improve social compliance supervision in the due to being a man and also sometimes breast, cervical, and colon cancer tests. In social gender equality and also has SA 8000 firms laying within the supply chain, and positive discrimination is done for women the scope of the project, cervical cancer certificate that supports gender equality scanning is done to 30-65 years old women, audits nondiscrimination against women to encourage their inclusion in the since 2005. Yeşim which adopted officially breast cancer scanning to 40-69 years employees, working conditions, wages, business life. Also, Yeşim Textile employees the WEPs principles on 5 March 2015, old women and colon cancer scanning to social rights, working hours and conditions are working in conditions determined addition to all these started to take seat in 50-70 years old men and women. In 2015 of pregnant women in these supervisions. according to the national and international Higher Consultation Board of the “Business total of 300 women benefited from this standards regardless of the gender and 6. Promote equality World Against Domestic Violence Project” receive salaries also in same conditions. opportunity. executed by Sabancı University Corporate Yeşim Textile built a frame work of articles through community Management Forum. The goal of the project for its principles on the matter via the social initiatives and advocacy to form support mechanisms in work places responsibility policy it established. 4. Promote education, All the blue collar workers in Yeşim Textile against the domestic violence or violence training and professional can be members of unions and can benefit from the ones in close relation against Yeşim Textile was ranked 42 in “Women development for women from syndicate rights regardless of gender. women, and to spread applications, tools Friendly 100 Company” research of Capital Yeşim Textile is the first firm in the apparel As Yeşim Textile determines the corporate and methods to reduce domestic violence magazine. sector to sign the Global Compact in 2005. trainings it conducts according to the via using managerial and organizational personal needs without a discrimination Yeşim Textile has signed “Management is abilities of the business world. for women or men, it also performs a lot of the Right of Women” declaration by Turkey 3. Ensure the health, trainings and activities towards personel Quality Association (Kal-Der) in 2009 and Yeşim Textile became one of the 3 best practices in Turkey with its latest works safety and well-being and professional improvement of the thus committed to improve social gender women under the umbrella of “Women equality. on the subject of violence against women. of all women and men Club” and “The World of Butterfly ”. Also it has the SA 8000 certificate that The “Workplace Policy Development workers Yeşim Textile has started “The World of supports gender equality since 2005. It has a and Application regarding Domestic Yeşim Textile is a firm that works to apply Butterfly” project in November 2013 with seat in UN Global Compact Turkey board Violence Against Women Guide” of which the work health and safety rules at top level, of directors and an efficient also leading the slogan “If a woman changes, society Yeşim Textile attended the studies in the rallies all kinds of financial and spiritual role in Women’s Empowerment Working changes.” that aims to create awareness in TÜSİAD Gender Equality work platform opportunities for the health and safety of its Group. It signed WEP’s principles on 5 health, rights and personal development, of which it is a member, was introduced employees. It has taken high grades in all and family subjects for all femaly staff. The March 2015. in a meeting held in İstanbul on 15th of the audits performed on it by both public project is brought to life in coordination December. In the guide that is developed institutions and private auditing firms that 7. Measure and publicly with Uludağ Soroptimist Club that is a by cooperation of TÜSİAD and support the customers directed to and exhibited nongovernmental organization working on report on progress to exemplary work. The guarantee of the of United Nations Population Fund and changes the life and raise the status of the achieve gender equality Sabancı Association, Yeşim Textile became works done on this matter by Yeşim Textile women and girls. is the ownership of the SA 8000 certificate that is one the most Yeşim Textile, with the Global Compact Report it issues regularly one of the 3 organizations that are exemplary in Turkey via its As it is a sustainable project of a union of a nongovernmental since 2008, announces to the public opinion its work on social prestigious documents on social compliance. Yeşim Textile which applications performed on this subject. In the session held under organization and a private sector company, in the scope of World of compliance and sustainability on the web site of United Nations owns this certificate since 2005, is the first apparel firm in Turkey the moderation of TÜSİAD Social Gender Equality Work Group the Butterfly project that leads the sector, with the events realized in both English and Turkish. Yeşim Textile, on its yearly report, to receive the certificate and in 10 years time by continuing social President Nur Ger, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communication under three headings “Women and Health”, “Women and Law”, gives place to equality understanding, nondiscrimination and the compliance studies as same and renewed the certificate for the 4th Director Dilek Cesur shared the work done on the subject with the ”Women and Family”, studies are performed towards raising the activities only for women. time and become one of the rarest firms in Turkey and in the world participants. awareness of the women working and the young girls having their to achive that. 62 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 63 be used in publicity works and events towards raising awareness of the women in the scope of The World of Butterfly project. In the scope of The World of Butterfly project that is realized with the slogan “If a woman changes, society changes.”, with the events performed under three main headings as “Women and Health”, “Women and Law”, and “Women and Family/Personal Development”, studies towards raising the awareness of the women are conducted. Various trainings from legal rights of women to proper consumption of the food are given in the project scope. Trainings are supported with various activities in the company and the volunteer consultancy to women of Yeşim by the members of the Uludağ Soroptimist Club. There is a room in Yeşim Textile that is exclusive to women that is used for realizing the events of The World of Butterfly and women take free of charge, individual on November 17th. Besides the mothers from TEGV, TEGV and consultancy from members of the Uludağ Soroptimist Club that Yeşim Textile authorized persons and Uludağ Soroptimist Club have expertise in different subjects and attend talks and chat members have attended the meeting. sessions that will boost their personal development. Butterflies said “end the violence” “The World of Butterfly” project started second phase “The World of Butterfly” project continued in 2015 to create awareness in subjects related to “Women in Turkey”. Uludağ In the second phase of the “The World of Butterfly ” project that If a woman changes, Soroptimist Club member women, in the event they realized on came to life in 2015, Turkey Education Volunteers Association 25 November “Elimination of Violence Against Women Day” at (TEGV) is also included. In the second phase of The World of Yeşim Textile with the support of the Yeşim Textile Corporate Butterfly that has completed its second year in November 20th, Communication and Human Resources departments, distributed while the trainings and consultations for the women of Yeşim to the employees hand outs containing information on where society changes continue, on the other hand a new 6 month certificate program to apply in case they face violence. Also the members carrying named “Towards future with my child” for TEGV mothers. bills “Violence tendency of men who received violence as a kid In the scope of the certificate program Uludağ Soroptimist Club is 2 times more” and “Do not do to your wife what you do not member business women and Yeşim managers, to the mothers want to be done to your mother, sister, daughter” written on whose child is being educated in the TEGV Bursa Learning Unit, them, distributed the hand outs to male employees thus created Women and Children Club has carried out a number of activities in 2015 in the scope of awareness on the subject. Club members to show that they support gave trainings in various subjects like health, law, family and The World of Butterfly Project, which was initiated together with the Uludağ Soroptimist personal development. These trainings are also supported by the “Pint the World Orange” campaign that is started against all one on one consultancies. The trainings take place in the TEGV discrimination and violence, realized in the scope of International Club in 2013. building at Hürriyet, after the mothers leave their kids to the Elimination of The Violence Against Women Days of the United events. Thus mothers spent the time they wait for their children Nations that continues between 25th of November and 10th of The World of Butterfly Funding from Europe with trainings and thus find a great opportunity for their personal December, carried out the event with the orange scarves around project is 2 years old development. In the first year, after the 6 months of training to their necks. The World of Butterfly project The World of Butterfly project realized received a 5 thousand euro funding nearly 70 women, all the participants will receive a certificate. Orange Exhibition on Human Rights Day by Yeşim Textile Women and Child from European International The publicity meeting of the The World of Butterfly Project’s second phase that is realized with the slogan “If a woman changes, Yeşim Textile supported the United Nations “Paint the World Club and Uludağ Soroptimist Club Soroptimist Action Fund. The society changes.”, happened at the TEGV Bursa Learning Unit Orange” campaign that is started to draw attention to the issue of together, completed its second year in project that realized many violence against women in all around the world. In this regard, on November. In the scope of the project successful events since 2013, was till end of 2015; 41 speakers gave the only project chosen by the total of 714 hours of education. 2434 Turkey Soroptimist Federation women attended to these trainings in 2015 to be sent for application free of charge. 79 hours of volunteer to the funding in Europe because consultancy was given to the female of its properties like being employees of Yeşim by experts of their sustainable, adding value to life of respective fields. 585 women benefited and supporting the development from this free of charge consultancy of women. In the International service. 30 women from Yeşim that Soroptimist Action Fund where have dietician support for a year lost 45 thousand Euro are being 170 kg in total. Since the beginning granted in total in Europe, The of the project an e-bulletin is issued World of Butterfly was one of the for 11 times in English and Turkish three projects that have highest of that covers the work performed. For funding, 5 thousand Euro, among the project that completed its second 12 projects that had projects from year, a publicity video was prepared in countries like Germany, France and December. Belgium. The funding received will 64 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 65 the December 10th World Human Rights Day, an exhibition related Official Duygu Arığ, Bursa Women Friendly Cities Coordinator to the subject was organized at the entrance of the dinning hall. In Burcu Üzümcüler visited Yeşim Textile on 27th of January, and the exhibit, there were stunning visuals and information related received information on the gender equality works done by to the violence against women from the world and Turkey, also the firm. They visited the kindergarten of the firm serving 250 messages of Yeşim Textile male managers regarding the subject. children and the The World of Butterfly room that is opened in Exhibition remained open for 10 days. 2014 in the scope of the The World of Butterfly project last year, and discussed the cooperation possibilities with Yeşim Textile on gender equality. In the scope of the visit, United Nations Social Gender Equality Specialist Zeliha Ünaldı, who performs researches on gender equality and women rights issues in Turkey, gave half a day training to Yeşim Textile female managers, female union representatives and female social club leaders on “Social Gender Equality and Equalitarian Business Media”. Leadership in ‘Women’ issue In Bursa, on 7 April 2015, an organization is held aiming publicity and informing for Global Compact (Global Principles Agreement) that its partisanship is based on volunteering and brought together the business world, civil society, universities, municipalities, Yeşim Textile also drew attention to the matter via emailing the public institutions with the United Nations. UN Global Compact messages of the male managers on the violence against women Turkey Board of Directors Member and Yeşim Textile Corporate with an orange frame, starting from the November 25th Elimination Communications Director Dilek Cesur who attended the panel as of Violence Against Women Day for one month. a speaker in the organization, gave information on Women Work Group that resides among the work groups of Global Compact which Yeşim Textile leads. Global Compact Turkey Strengthening Gender equality education the Women Work Group that is formed of Global Compact members and supporters and of which also Yeşim Textile is a United Nations Social Gender Equality Specialist Zeliha Ünaldı member, continued to its work in 2015 with the slogan “If the and UNFPA (United Nations Population Fund) Program and women strengthens the society strengthens”. Partnerships Official Elif Elçi Çarıkçı, Social Gender Program 66 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 67 Trainings given in 2015 under the frame of The World of Butterfly project: Date Subject Speaker 11 January 2015 Gender equality training Zeliha Ünaldı 20 January 2015 ‘’I’’ trip Part 1 Gülay Aksaz 21 January 2015 Coffee time meeting Gülsüm Ekmekçi 20 February 2015 To remember being a woman Bülent Gardiyanoğlu 27 February 2015 ’I’’ trip Part 2 Gülay Aksaz 3 March 2015 Silva Method Ayşen Edis 18 March 2015 Coffee time meeting Gülten Pamir 19 March 2015 ‘’Does war kill whom?’’ drama Members of Uludağ Soroptimist Club 2 April 2015 2 April 2015 How do I protect my family against cancer? Meeting with dietician Füsun Emecan Özcan Merih Eskicioğlu The World of Butterfly Project 15 April 2015 Coffee time meeting Dilek Cesur 21 April 2015 Happiness Club Müge Çevik 24 April 2015 No password in relationships Dr. Rauf Özgür 23 May 2015 Spring bazaar Support to education If a woman changes, society changes... 26 May 2015 Organic designer of fashion Nejla Güvenç 7 July 2015 Impacts of positive thinking on our lives Davut İbrahimoğlu 6 August 2015 Coffee time meeting Fatma Özbebek 26 August 2015 Communication within the family Zehra Meral Dinçşahin 52% of Yeşim Tekstil çalışanlarının 9 September 2015 Coffee time meeting Hayriye Ünal The action covers 15 October 2015 Coffee time meeting Ayşe Sülün 19 October 2015 Women in Turkey Feyza Altun 21 October 2015 Balance and happiness in family relations İlay Yılmazlar 26 October 2015 5 November 2015 Family relationships one to one counseling Children’s education and social life in the computer age İlay Yılmazlar Özgür Cihan Berk 2434 11 November 2015 27 November 2015 Coffee time meeting The different touches for fashion Ayça Bolten Ülkü Gamze Saraçoğlu Yeşim Textile’s employees are women %52’si kadın women working in Yeşim Textile kadın In the scope of the project 2 December 2015 Conscious family for a happy future İ&D Consultancy 49 different speakers The role of volunteer works in the personal and social A total of have given a total of Uzmanlar tarafından Bugüne kadar topl 4 December 2015 Hülya Denizalp development 11 December 2015 Magic of our fingers: EFT Ayşe Aksaç 49 16 December 2015 Coffee time meeting Filiz Aksu 16 December 2015 Christmas gifts workshop Yasemin Alat 17 December 2015 24 December 2015 Dreams, stories and coaching... Tips of photography Dilek Yıldırım Demet Argun 79 79hours hours 79experts saat 95 saat 585 women received saat 95 saa met with gönüllü female danışmanlık hours of training in one year. eğitim verildi free of charge employees of Yeşim hizmeti verildi ve advisory services. 585 in thekadın scopebuof hizmetten the action yararlandı. Activities within the scope of “Towards future with my child” project: Since the start of the alan 30 kiş Proje ba Date Subject Speaker project until the end of 2015 nlık i bu y Danı mda 7 November 2015 “Towards future with my child” introduction meeting Dilek Cesur 11 pla 1 şm 14 November 2015 Approach to children by age features Sezgin Şentürk a to We continue 21 November 2015 Nutrition and hygiene Merih Eskicioğlu 170 kg. 170 non-stop kg. 28 November 2015 Women’s rights and violence in family Seda Sümer 05 December 2015 The role of communication in our lives Hülya Denizalp / Rüyam Küçüksüleymanoğlu a Turkish and English e-bülte e-bulleting was İngilizc 12 December 2015 Balance and happiness in family relations İlay Yılmazlar In the project in the scope published eleven times. kilo verdi of the Healthy Living campaign 19 December 2015 Put limits on your child Ayça Bolten Ülkü 30 women, who received free of 26 December 2015 How do we manage our money Gülsüm Ekmekçi charge consulting services from a dietitian lost 68 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 69 Yeşim prepares • Corporate Communications Director Dilek Cesur Social Responsibility and Voluntariness (05/08/2015) • BU 1 Manager Gülsüm Ekmekçi How can manage our money? (02/12/2015) youth to future • Human Resources Specialist Gözde Salamacı Elmaskaya Interview Techniques (12/08/2015) University-Yeşim Cooperation • Human Resources Manager Özlem Şenkoyuncu In the scope of the internship protocol signed with the Uludağ Be the leader of your life (19/08/2015) University Textile Engineering Department, 6 university students Yeşim Textile which gives as much importance to the personal development of its • Fabric Planning Manager Emre Demiralay did their internships at Yeşim Textile throughout the year in 2015. interns as of the employees, prepares youth to the future. Thinking like Steve Jobs (26/08/2015) The senior year textile engineer candidates, with the works they performed in Yeşim’s Weaving, R&D, and Paint Shop departments, The trip to future • Lean Office Chief Neslin Gazioğlu Özkaya In addition, Yeşim Textile organizes many seminars and discussion prepared their thesis and graduated. The university students, teaching Lean Management Model (01/07/2015) panels related to business life for high school students in the scope of • In the frame of the “Intern Development Program” that staff and managers of the departments they did internships in, who “The trip to future intern development program”. It is aimed to increase continues during the July September 2015 period for • BU 5 Customer Manager Nergis Melek Akıncı came together in October under the leadership of Human Resources knowledge and skills of interns on their professions and the business university students, Yeşim Textile that conducted many Future with the future (08/07/2015) department, evaluated the expectations from the internship process. life. The seminars organized for interns in this scope in 2015 are as seminars and talks on business life, aims to increase both At the end of the internship period, the students will present the • BU1 Director Mazhar Kazancıoğlu follows: the experience on business life and business knowledge assignments they prepared to their managers and thus will complete Global Sales and Marketing (15/07/2015) of the interns. In the Intern Development Program that • Human Resources Manager Özlem Şenkoyuncu their internship. Under the same protocol, 6 more textile engineering is conducted in the summer term for university interns • Social Compliance Specialist Münire Erol Effective Listening (11/02/2015) student had their internships in Yeşim last year. in this regard, 9 different speakers gave trainings to the Social Compliance and Importance (22/07/2015) • İzgören Academy Uğur Böceği Program Instructor Serkan Duru youth through 8 weeks. Seminars for university interns • BU 1 Manager Gülsüm Ekmekçi Be the leader of your life (29/04/2015) are below: I can manage my money (29/07/2015) 70 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 71 Sports and education support to youth The mission of Şükrü Şankaya, one of the founders of Yeşim Textile, who has given his best efforts to support education, is pursued by the company. Yeşim Textile considers supporting education and sport as a part of its social responsibility. Şükrü Şankaya Yeşim Sport Club Primary School Yeşim Sport Club was founded Şükrü Şankaya Primary School in 2003 with a view to providing which was commissioned in wider possibilities for sporting 1951 as the only school in the activities to the youth of Bursa region, was renewed, repaired and training basketball players for and modified in 1990 by the late the team. Providing hundreds of Şükrü Şankaya, the founder of children with the opportunity to our company upon the suggestion engage in sports activities, the club by Bursa Governor’s office. New has enjoyed considerable success sections were added to the school both at local and national level. in the academic year 2006-2007. All the needs of the school are met by Yeşim Textile since then. About Şükrü Şankaya 1500 children received education Football School in this school. Şükrü Şankaya Football School, which was formed by the Association of Professional Footballers of Bursaspor in 2009, Şükrü Şankaya was financially and morally Anatolian High supported; thus hundreds School of children are provided opportunities to do sport in This school which was erected professional conditions. In this and donated to the Ministry of context, 23 children got benefit National Education in 1996 by from Şükrü Şankaya Football Şükrü Şankaya, is one of the most Summer School free of charge due successful high schools in Bursa. to the private contingent allocated Yeşim has later added a computer to the children of Yeşim in 2015 laboratory to the school. The summer period. company contributes to the needs of the school in every academic year. 72 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 73 Sharing is beautiful TRY 219.578 of the total TRY 1.289,578 Corporate Social Responsibility budget of Yeşim Yeşim Textile sees sharing resources, Textile was allocated to social opportunities and possibilities with the responsibility activities in 2015. community as a part of its social responsibility. We support among the collected books were donated to Yeşim Library, while the ones that education in are related to children were donated to Münevver Özran Primary School that is ‘‘Golden Cap’’ Campaign close by Yeşim Textile. To the “Golden Cap” campaign which the Bursa City Council cooperation Handicapped Assembly started in order to surpass the handicaps and for people to live their right of freedom support was given Support to LÖSEV via Wish Tree under the leadership of Yeşim Textile BU5 Department. In the Project with the Turkish ceremony in which total of 21 vehicles are distributed, with the donations of Yeşim Family, battery operated wheelchairs are delivered to 8 handicapped citizens in need. The gifts purchased by the Yeşim volunteers in the scope of ‘‘Wish Tree’’ project were delivered to LÖSEV in the event held Education ‘’One more book from you to in Almira Hotel on 26th of December. A group of our volunteer friends that were determined via a lot have attended the event as representatives of Yeşim. All the gifts purchased were distributed Foundation enlighten the future’’ In the joint organization of the Yeşim Textile Women and Child to the children in the new year party and also they are delivered to the homes and hospital rooms of children with leukemia. Club, Environment and Social Responsibility Club, and Innovation Yeşim Textile supports the and Technology Club, a book donation campaign named “one more book from you to enlighten the future’’ was started in our education of successful young company. In the scope of the campaign, Yeşim employees brought individuals in poor financial books from their homes to predetermined book collection points. standing through the “Şükrü In the book collecting campaign that spanned nearly a month and Şankaya Education Fund” which is ended on 27 February 2015, the collected books were classified by the club leaders. The ones that are especially related to women established in the memory of Şükrü Şankaya in cooperation with TEV. TEV Şükrü Şankaya scholarship Organizations contributed to in-kind: fund grows every day • Mor Salkım (Purple Bunch) Women Solidarity Association 35 bed linens (June) The cooperation between Yeşim and TEV in the • Bursa Kızılay Female Student Dormitory 200 bed linens (August) field of social responsibility continues steadily • Turkey Disabled Sports Aid and Education Foundation 2500 sweat shirt (August) since 2006. • Samanlı Latif Dörtçelik Primary School Middle School Bazaar 30 bed linens and 30 table cloth (April) In 2015 a total of TRY 48.926 were • The World of Butterfly project Bazaar 35 t-shirts, 35 bed linens, 35 table cloth (June) donated in the scope of TEV Happy Day • Şükrü Şankaya Anatolian High School’s all lamps were renewed. (June) Flowers campaign and other donation • Nike Child Project 4000 t-shirt and 2000 track suits (October) activities. • 20. International Soroptimist Congress 200 t-shirts (July) 74 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 75 Önce İnsan (People First) Magazine Önce İnsan Magazine which is the corporate publication of Yeşim Textile disseminates the disseminates the messages social compliance and social responsibility initiatives to the society. Additionally it of the company publishes information on social responsibility and environment in each issue to raise awareness among its readers on these topics. 2014 2015 Number Number Period of news Reach of news Reach articles articles January 16 863.499 5 275.159 February 3 135.160 6 1.358.619 Dissemination of the Global Compact agreement March 7 343.252 14 2.398.536 • The new report was published on the April 8 218.280 15 709.870 corporate web page of Yeşim. May 14 667.634 8 362.955 • An article was featured in Yeşim’s June 7 413.231 3 389.538 corporate magazine Önce İnsan on the July 8 388.588 3 87.976 publication of the report. The magazine was published in digital medium at August 5 125.520 7 1.633.061 the web site www.onceinsan.com, September 11 366.780 4 68.976 disseminating this information also on the October 11 505.496 9 650.232 internet. November 7 343.396 21 1.733.280 • It was sent to all customers, subcontractors December 1 12.000 14 765.444 and suppliers as an e-bulletin. Total 98 4.382.836 109 10.433.646 • It was shared by the Facebook page of Yeşim, which has around 10.000 members. In 2014-2015, 207 news articles about Yeşim Textile, SA 8000, social • It was published in the intranet portal to responsibility, social compliance, Global Principles Agreement, The World of Butterfly and environment were published and reached 14.816.482 people. disseminate the relevant information. Önce İnsan newsletter which is published only for Yeşim employees raises awareness of our employees in each issue on the environment, social compliance, occupational health and safety page and gives information regarding the developments. 76 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 77 Information is reproduced by sharing Yeşim shares the initiatives it has undertaken the scope of sustainability for a more beautiful world on national and international platforms. An active role in Turkey Yeşim Textile, which was the first company in the Turkish apparel and textile sector to sign the Global Compact, was elected to the Turkish Management Board of Global Compact in March 2014 and maintained its duty in 2015 too. Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Director represents the company in the board. With this duty Yeşim Textile, plays a role in implementing yearly strategies and activities of Global Compact Turkey. The company also has a duty in the Global Compact Women’s Empowerment in Turkey where it shares its activities on gender equality with other member companies and contributes to disseminate such activities. Yeşim Textile also takes the task of communication leadership in the Women’s Empowerment Working Group and plays an important role in disseminating its activities in Turkey. Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Director, has published articles at halklailiskiler.com about the activities of Yeşim Textile and Global Compact Turkey to contribute to the dissemination of the agenda. (Collective action for women 02.12.2015, Let’s meet on seven principles of WEPs – 12.03.2015, Strong women, strong Turkey 05.02.2015) Yeşim Textile has signed the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) on 5th March 2015 and in addition to all of these it started to take seat in Higher Consultation Board of the “Business World Against Domestic Violence Project” executed by Sabancı University Corporate Management Forum and TÜSİAD Gender Equality work platform. 78 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 79 The ranked in the competition were awarded by internship opportunity at Yeşim Textile and with various awards given by the sponsors. The “Fashion in recycling” competition that is realized for both drawing attention to the importance of the recycling and to encourage in their creativity the young that will be brought in the textile and fashion sector, thus done using the recycling theme. The designs entered the competition that carried the goals to create environmental consciousness, draw attention to the issue of consumption of the natural resources of the world, and create an awareness on recycling subject, were exhibited in Kent Meydanı Mall between 13-15 March 2015. scope, Human Resources, Social Compliance and Corporate Social Responsibility works were presented by Yeşim Textile managers to the guests. Fashion in recycling In the textile and apparel sector’s center, Bursa, a new one added in 2015 to the projects realized for discovering young talents and Visit from renowned worldwide economy and Fashion Union (STJM) members in September. The Finn raise their awareness. With the leadership of Uludağ University school industrialists that visited Yeşim Textile with the organization of İnegöl Vocational School of Higher Education Textile Program Uludağ Exporters Union, in order to get general information Department, in the “Fashion in recycling” competition held with From the London Business School that is deemed within the first on textile and apparel sector in Turkey, strengthen the product the support of Yeşil Rotary, Yeşim Textile, Uludağ Readymade and 10 in world rankings in economy education, 30 person graduate purchase from Turkey and improve mutual cooperation Garment Exporters Union and Kent Meydanı Mall, the İnegöl student group visited Yeşim Textile on May 27. Students received opportunities, traveled the factory and get detailed information Vocational School of Higher Education students presented their detailed information about the firm during the trip from Yeşim on production processes from Business Unit 1 Director Mazhar recycled designs realized by using waste materials. Textile managers. Kazancıoğlu and R&D Director Fahri Yibar. Finland Textile and Fashion Union visit Cooperation in yarn Yeşim hosted Peryön Yeşim Textile continues to be a leading firm in its sector with the qualities Peryön Turkey People Management Association for Human production capacity and its global customers. Yeşim Textile that Resources managers visited Yeşim Textile on 15 January. In this Yeşim Textile supplier Orteks firm gave is visited by many firms during the year, hosted Finland Textile a training on effect thread qualities to Yeşim Textile R&D, Design, Purchase and Sales Departments on 9th of December. 80 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 81 Sharing in the society • Yeşim Textile BU 1 Director Mazhar Kazancıoğlu attended to the Hugo Boss Exchange Meeting Business Excellent 2015 summit held in İzmir on 16-17 June. In the meeting that Hugo Boss manufacturers from different countries like Portuguese, China, and Peru attended, Kazancıoğlu shared with the participants the sustainability studies in Yeşim Textile. In the session held under the moderation of TÜSİAD Social represented Yeşim Textile in the meeting that aims, in the first • With the effect of the positive guidance of candidate firms in Bursa by Yeşim Textile, in the organization held in the home of Bursa Gender Equality Work Group President Nur Ger, Yeşim Textile place in the apparel sector and then in other sectors, to bring BUSİAD on 23rd of December, BUİKAD and BUSİAD became signers of the Global Compact. Corporate Communication Director Dilek Cesur shared the forth the important and current problems of the stakeholders work done on the subject with the participants. that represent workers and employers in equal terms as well as • For the closing (Global Principles to discuss the recommendations of the stakeholders and ensure meeting of Agreement) that its • Social Compliance Manager Aydın Maydaer attended the the solid follow up and continuity. the Pointing partisanship is based Ergonomics Conference conducted in Süleyman Demirel Project the is the on volunteering and University on 3rd of October and told about Ergonomics • To the Rotary E Club’s social responsibility project named BUİKAD (Bursa brought together the Applications in Yeşim Textile to the students. “Career Train” that is realized together with the Supporting Business Women business world, civil the Modern Life Association, Yeşim Textile also gave support. Association) society, universities, • Human Resources and Social Compliance Director Fatoş The meeting of the education project that is conducted for coaching program municipalities, public Hüseyinca attended to the 2nd İzmir Work Health and Safety the personal development of the university students before for university institutions with the summit that is held in between 14-17 October at Tepekule they enter the business life, held in Nazım Hikmet Cultural students, an United Nations. Yeşim Congress and Exhibition Center, as a speaker on 16th of Center. In the scope of the project, two trainings given to the academician, an Textile Corporate October and performed the presentation with the subject participants by Human Resources and Social Compliance entrepreneur and Communication Director Work Health and Safety in textile sector. Director Fatoş Hüseyinca named “Team Work” on 12th a professional Dilek Cesur who attended of December and by Human Resources Manager Özlem • Human Resources Manager Özlem Şenkoyuncu to the youth from private the panel as a speaker in Şenkoyuncu named “Communication and Motivation” on 6th attending the Bursa Human Resources and Employment sector has been the organization, gave of December. Meeting, gave a training named “Are You Ready For the chosen as panelists for being role information on Women Work Group that Business Interview” on 5th of December. models for the students. In the resides among the work groups of Global • An interview was done with Yılmaz Argüden, Global Compact category of a professional from the Compact which Yeşim Textile leads. • Human Resources and Social Compliance Director Fatoş Turkey Board of Directors President, in People First magazine private sector Yeşim Textile BU 1 Nike Hüseyinca attended to the Turkey Social Responsibility Round which is corporate publication of Yeşim Textile. Inc Director Gülsüm Ekmekçi shared • The “Workplace Policy Development and Table meeting conducted in İstanbul on 28th of May, and her experiences with the students. Application regarding Domestic Violence Gulsüm Ekmekçi, in her presentation, Against Women Guide” of which Yeşim informed the youth on her own Textile attended the studies in the experiences via telling about the TÜSİAD Gender Equality work platform expectations from a newly employed of which it is a member, was introduced to a leader, the required abilities to in a meeting held in İstanbul on 15th of be a good professional today and December. In the guide that is developed comparison of the private sector with by cooperation of TÜSİAD and support other business fields. of United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and Sabancı Association, Yeşim • In Bursa, on 7 April 2015, an Textile became one of the 3 organizations organization is held aiming publicity that are exemplary in Turkey via its and informing for Global Compact applications performed on this subject. 82 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016 83 Yeşim Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Ankara Yolu, Gürsu Kavşağı Kestel/BURSA Tel : (224) 280 86 00 www.yesim.com 84 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2016
