COP 2016 This COP covers the period from 30/04-2015 to 30/04-2016 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Renell A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations Yours sincerely Simon Elleskov Director Human Rights and Labour Policies and goals Renell supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. Renell will not engage in businesses with any stakeholders where human rights abuses occur. Renell the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact and the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in ILOsInternational Labour Organisation core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. Renell has a number of policies and procedures in place to ensure that all employees are treated fairly, with respect and according to the applicable laws covering our industry. Renell has also a number of programs in place to ensure that our influence on our surroundings is positively contributing to human rights support. These include the certification of our cleaning services by the Nordic Ecolabel the “SWAN”. The Nordic Swan has become our best tool when assessing, implementing and measuring our performance regarding human rights, Labour, anti-corruption and environment. In the coming year, Renell will continue to work with human rights and labour issues. Assessment Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through: 1. The annual work environment evaluation (APV in Danish). This is both compulsory and a good tool that enables us to look at the work environment, the ergonomics and the psychological aspects associated to our daily operations 2. The Nordic Ecolabel. A part of the criteria concerns the rights of the workers such as minimum wage assurance, education of employees 3. The weekly meetings where workers rights is an open point on the agenda Implementation All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions including salary rates and overtime arrangements. All employees are furthermore issued with a company handbook and instruction manual which includes: 1. The company’s training and education programs 2. Information on the company such as the company’s philosophy, the company structure and what the company provides in terms of social activities and facilities such as bathing and massage option, provision of computer access, fruit and drinks 3. The company’s standard terms of employment such as salary, sickness leave, holidays etc. 4. The company’s policies, rules and expectations regarding ethical and social issues such as, smoking, alcohol and mobbing policies etc. 5. Work and machine instructions and education activities 6. Minimum wage policy for both Danish and foreign workers 7. Renell’s sponsor program through which we support hospital clowns, children’s cancer foundation, Denmark against injustice and a number of local sports clubs. Renell prepares an action plan and implements the actions that are a result of the APV evaluation and of employee input. Renell uses external consultants to carry out both assessments and to provide assistance in implementing the planned activities Measurement of outcomes Renell holds licence under the Nordic Swan Ecolabel scheme which is an ISO type I label. Complaints from employees were again non-existent. Renell has an excellent reputation both within the industry, with customers and the local society. Renell has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations Environment Policies and goals Renell has formulated an environmental policy that requires reduction of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures We have set goals in the two main areas of environmental impact regarding chemical use and transport. Assessment Renell uses external consultants to assess our impacts and to suggest actions that could minimise these impacts. The assessments for 2015-2016 period included chemical use, transport, waste and product use in our main cleaning service Implementation The suggestion was to apply for the Nordic Swan that covered the above areas through the criteria. This was seen as a positive initiative by the management as it would provide Renell a way of keeping environmental impacts to a minimum through a systematic approach, but also that it would provide a competitive advantage for Renell. Renell continues to hold a Nordic Ecolabel licence and complies with the criteria, which surpasses environmental laws and regulations. Measurement of outcomes Use of chemicals: We are using more that 90% Nordic Swan certified chemicals in our daily cleaning Transport: We are using 0,63 ml/m2 and an average of 5,36 L/100 km There have been no environmental incidents due to our operations Anti-Corruption Policies and Assessment Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited. Business partners must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Renell’s anti-bribery policy requirements. Business partners must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. The policy shall be effectively communicated to all workers. Gifts are only acceptable if they are approved by Renell’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Otherwise, it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts. Facilitation payments are not allowed. It is not allowed to select a supplier based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment. It is not allowed to make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Renell management and made in good faith. All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded. There has not been any formal assessment. A risk assessment is planned for 2015 Implementation The managing director is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. As licence holders of for the Nordic Ecolabel, we follow and comply with ethical criteria built into the scheme regarding compliance with laws such as compliance with all applicable laws. Measurement of outcomes Renell has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery External accountants used by Renell have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery
