LETT Law Firm Global Compact Communication on Progress May 2016 About LETT LETT is a full-service law firm with a focus on providing high-quality legal advice to business clients as well as the public sector. We cover Denmark from our offices located in the centres of Copenhagen and Aarhus. We create the best solutions for our clients – not only in the legal sense but also in terms of business, strategy and ethical standards. We find that this is the best path to satisfied clients and long-term cooperative relations. And to being the obvious choice of lawyers for business clients and the Danish public sector. Our values provide the setting for what we do and make a promise to the outside world about the approach and conduct represented in LETT: Decent We assume responsibility for our assignments and attach great importance to ethics and responsibility. Top standards Our business is based on first-rate professional expertise and quality. We are ambitious and dedicated on behalf of LETT and our clients to obtaining the best possible results. Dynamic We bring great commitment to any assignment and see solutions where others see problems. Unpretentious We meet our clients and colleagues at eye level in an informal working environment also characterised by a good sense of humour. Direct We aim at being approachable and attach great importance to being personal and open. Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 2 Managing Partner statement In LETT Law Firm, we care about our external environment and the corporate sector of which we are a part. We attach great importance to ethics and responsibility and are aware of contributing actively to the community of which we are a part. Through our almost 150-year history, we have a long-standing tradition for taking on cases of societal impact with the risk that no fee is paid for our assistance, and we have, at all times, made a point of contributing actively by influencing the legal sector’s ongoing development and future legislation. We have now been part of the UN Global Compact for some years and are thus committed to aligning with the ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and climate as well as anti-corruption. We are proud to publish our fourth Communication on Progress. Our Communication on Progress follows the structure of the 10 principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact and describes some of the activities within Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption that we focused on in 2015. For each of these four areas, we also describe planned initiatives for 2016. As a result, our commitment to United Nations Global Compact also serves as a tool to continue to set new social-responsibility goals. Henrik Puggaard Managing Partner May 2016 Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 3 Human rights As a law firm, we are capable of realising our business goals only if we have a healthy working environment that enables our people to be satisfied and develop as individuals. As a result, we take good care of our people and uphold a company culture that respects people irrespective of gender, race, nationality, religion, faith, sexual orientation, age or disability. At LETT, we aim at having the most committed and satisfied employees within the Danish legal-profession sector. The professional working environment OUR GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2016 The greater part of the professional development in LETT is via cases and assignments which each individual employee LETT Business School solves in his/her daily work after having received instruction, In 2016, we launch an education concept – LETT sparring and feedback from his/her immediate superior. This Business School – for our lawyers. The concept is experience-based instruction is supported by more formal in cooperation with reputable business schools in instruction activities, including further education and research, Denmark and abroad and contains various businessinternal and external training, secondments and stays abroad. training programmes that can be adapted to the career, the practice of law and personal interests of Performance management process each individual lawyer. In 2015, we introduced a new performance-management process for LETT’s legal staff. In connection with this process, LETT Lifestyle we updated our career-path model. Its purpose is to get a The purpose of LETT Lifestyle is to attend to employee general picture of the various development opportunities that satisfaction in LETT. Just as in previous years, 2016 will we offer our legal staff and the resulting requirements relating focus on food and exercise as well as job satisfaction to competencies and performance. The model is used to and personal well-being. ensure balancing of expectations in respect of their individual career paths and to ensure that competence development is Within sports activities, our palette of sports activities directed towards this goal. supported by LETT is extended to include an exercise triathlon in 2016. Our very popular LETT cookeryThe pivotal tool for supporting and planning the ongoing group activities are also continued in 2016. staff-member development is individual performance plans describing initiatives and activities which each staff member is Finally, a joint trip for all our staff members is to be expected to carry out during the year, and the Key Performance held at the sports resort La Santa on the Canary Indicators to measure the their performance at year end. Island Lanzarote, where, in addition to legal topics and general LETT subjects and via various sports and Our junior-lawyer programme activity options, focus will be on personal relations Our junior lawyers follow the junior-lawyer programme and individual well-being. operated by the Danish Bar and Law Society. We supplement this programme with course programmes that are tailored Workplace stress to the needs of LETT. In 2015, we adjusted this course In order to enhance our in-house knowledge of programme and introduced a course that is to provide our LETT’s stress-management tools, we will hold internal junior lawyers with basic business understanding, which is meetings about stress at both of our locations in 2016. considered an important tool in their future careers. Workplace assessment Secondment and training In 2016, we are to carry out the statutory workplace A large part of our assignments are international, and therefore assessment. The assessment is planned to be carried it is important for us that our lawyers get international out during the autumn. experience in the beginning of their careers. In 2015, 2 of our experienced lawyers and 4 of our trainees have been on secondment or on educational leaves for the purpose of international studies. Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 4 Our physical working environment Our staff members have access to a health-care portal where LETT complies with the rules, guidelines and standards doctors, nurses, sports physiologists, dieticians, coaches, for working environment and indoor climate of the Danish etc, have answered questions about health. Working Environment Authority. To ensure that our employees enjoy high employee satisfaction and a good health, we offer We offer and support a number of different sports activities a number of supplemental schemes which ia include safety intended to improve the health status and to open up for insurance, a massage-therapy scheme, flu vaccines, sports getting-together opportunities in a social context. In 2015, activities as well as a healthy breakfast and lunch scheme, the sports activities included running, individually as well etc. as in teams, and company football. In addition, LETT was, also in 2015 part of the Danish We bike to work campaign, Working-environment committee which focuses on being active during transportation to and According to the statutory requirements in the Danish Act from work. on working environment, we have a working-environment committee that consists of management representatives Top-quality food as well as representatives elected by our employees. Its The objective of our canteen is to offer healthy and tasty tasks are to plan, manage, advise and inform on as well food. As part of LETT Lifestyle, our canteen held LETT as supervise the work related to safety and health within cookery-club activities in 2015 for staff members in both our area. As part of this work, the working-environment Copenhagen and Aarhus for the purpose of increasing job committee held in 2015 in-house courses in basic fire fighting satisfaction. At these activities, our staff members prepared and how to use a heart defibrillator. and had dinner in an informal setting and have, thereby, obtained new relations with their colleagues. LETT Lifestyle Since 2013, health and satisfaction have been on our agenda. In 2015, the Danish Food Control Agency paid an ordinary We have a cooperative relationship with a supplier offering inspection visit to LETT's canteen in our Copenhagen office. massage therapy, zone therapy and acupuncture to our staff Our canteen received a so-called “elite smiley”, which during working hours. In 2015, this cooperative relationship means that, this year, the canteen ranks among the best at was extended in our offices in both Copenhagen and Aarhus. observing the rules relating to the handling of food products, cleaning, etc. Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 5 Mental working environment LETT expects that everybody contributes to a sound working environment. Therefore, it is expected that nobody bullies or harasses any colleague or employee. Should anyone be exposed to problems of this kind or become aware that bullying or harassment is taking place, it is, therefore, expected that such person immediately takes action about the problem by, eg, contacting our Managing Partner, HR manager or a similar person in LETT, whom this person trusts. Workplace stress In 2015, we increased our focus on handling prolonged stress. The objective of our efforts is to deal with the stress situation early and to ensure that our HR department takes part in offering those of our employees who have suffered from stress a phase-in plan which reduces the risk of relapse. Our stress-management policy states the responsibility in stress situations – irrespective of whether you are a manager, a colleague or a stressed-out staff member. In 2015, a member of our HR department became a certified stress coach who deals with the situations requiring tools to manage stress, clarify the individual stress level and advise the stressed-out staff member. Via our health-insurance policy, all staff members in LETT have access to psychological counselling, etc. Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 6 Labour LETT respects and promotes diversity in terms of employment and our daily relations. Diversity makes us strong – and in LETT we too are to reflect the surrounding community in a natural way. Therefore, we encourage everybody to apply for the advertised jobs, irrespective of background, and we will clamp down on unsuitable conduct such as bullying and harassment due the differences set out above. Gender composition among lawyers OUR GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2016 At the end of 2015, 39% of our legal staff were women. Compared to 2014, this is a 2% increase, which is satisfactory, Retaining women lawyers as our intention is to have an equal gender composition of In 2014, our goal was to have an Executive Committee our workforce. consisting of 20% women within a five-year period and of 40% women within a ten-year period. In Retaining women connection with our present Executive Committee, One of our declared goals is to retain a higher number of which was elected in March 2015, we are pleased that women lawyers throughout their entire careers, and this is our goal for 2018 has already been achieved. ia to be supported by LETT’s career-path model, through offers of increased flexibility and reduced working hours Recruitment committee during a period of the employment, etc. We are pleased that, The Recruitment Committee continues its work at the end of 2015, more than half (54%) of our associates together with our HR department and ensures a were women. This positive development will be crucial as to consistent professional approach to the assessment achieving our goal of more women in managerial positions of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as law and in our Executive Committee. students. Openness and dialogue LETT acknowledges that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion and we In LETT, employees are employed and are treated on the encourage all our employees to express their opinions basis of their professional capabilities, competences and individually or in groups at performance reviews, meetings conduct. As a result, no discrimination is made concerning with the management and specified staff groups and at eg ethnics, religion or sexual preference. general section and office meetings and, in writing, at internal climate analyses. We have a full set of policies regarding Human Resources policies. These include eg policies regarding stress, pregnancy, In LETT, staff members employed as junior lawyers have an illness, health, etc. association of junior lawyers holding events of a specialist as well as sociable nature. In the same manner, an association Recruitment committee of secretaries was established in 2015 in our offices in We have a recruitment committee of which the major Copenhagen and Aarhus. objective is to act as our HR department's professional sparring partner at any employment of trainees and junior lawyers in our offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus. Together with our HR department, the committee ensures a consistent professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as law students. In addition, the recruitment committee also participates in the planning of employer-branding activities in order to create a link between recruitment and the outward-looking activities/employer branding to highlight LETT within university environments. Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 7 Environment LETT pays attention not to cause more environmental harm than absolutely necessary. As a service business, our environmental harm is first and foremost connected with our office buildings and office operations as well as transportation. Our approach is based on 3R reduce, re-use, recycle. Focus on less food waste OUR GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2016 In recent years, our canteen has focused on reducing food waste. Some of the initiatives that have been carried out Implementation of smart boards are adjustments of the selection on the daily lunch buffet, As part of our Skype for Business solution and to top individual servings and improved planning of menus and up our video-conference equipment, we will, in 2016, purchasing. implement new smart boards for video conferences etc. We expect that these boards will further reduce Re-cycle the need for face-to-face meetings across our offices. We respect and support measures for recycling, including waste sorting, re-use of cardboard and paper waste, environmental scrap as well as collecting household glass jars, batteries and plastic bottles under a deposit regime. In Reduce 2015, we enhanced our efforts in paper sorting to the effect LETT observes relevant legislation and guidelines concerning that more paper than previously is now being re-cycled. the environment. We continue to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 emissions and to focus on choosing Re-use more environmentally friendly and energy-wise products As regards electronic appliances, LETT has a broker and solutions – for instance in relation to light sources, arrangement that implies that used laptops, printers and cleaning products or stationary. A part of LETT’s electricity fixed-line telephones are sold to an enterprise, which makes consumption is windmill generated. the appliances ready for re-sale or re-uses the spare parts. In 2015, we sold a major number of used mobile phones to We respect and support measures for reduction, including staff members according to the tax rules in force at that fat elimination, two-flush functions, temperature reduction time. during the night and cleaning using environmentally-friendly products using water-saving methods. Our initiatives concerning reduction and recycling are in our operations and service function, which assesses new measures as regards the effect and derived expenses. In our cooperation with the two cleaning contractors which do the daily cleaning of our offices, our focus is on environmentally sound solutions that control the consumption of energy, water and chemicals used in the cleaning process. Focus on reducing the transportation between our offices During the autumn of 2015, Skype for Business was installed on all our staff-member computers. We have noted that this has reduced the need for face-to-face meetings across our two offices resulting in timely, environmental and safety gains to the effect that the transportation between our offices has been reduced. Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 8 Anti-corruption LETT is subject to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, and, on a regular basis, supervision is made to ensure that the Code is being observed. Our firm is subject to Danish authority regulation concerning anti-money laundering – including for the purpose of terrorism – and an internal set of rules has been prepared and a procedure established to ensure that this anti-money-laundering regulation is being observed. Ethics and Pre-Conflict Committee OUR GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2016 LETT has an ethics and pre-conflict committee, whose set of terms of reference cover complaints, matters concerning “Advokatkodeks” conduct, conflicts of interests relating to the Code of Conduct This year, we also expect to join Advokatkodeks – a as well as business-related conflicts of interests. sector initiative introduced last year by the Association of Danish Law Firms. Law firms that join the code Ethics partner commit to setting targets within corporate social LETT has an ethics partner in place. The ethics partner gets responsibility, management, diversity, accessibility involved in the event of doubtful issues in the Ethics and Preand transparency and to submitting annual reports Conflict Committee concerning basic ethical issues. He is a on their endeavours. good sparring partner to both the Committee and to LETT in general. Introduction programme All new employees in LETT take part in an introduction programme which ensures that new employees get an initial introduction to relevant working tools, business procedures, etc. Updated anti-money laundering material In 2015, our anti-money laundering material was updated with a particular focus on the anti-money laundering guidelines which were improved for the purpose of serving as a work of reference. As a result, the updated material was communicated to all our staff members and in-house brushup courses were held for lawyers and secretaries in our two offices. Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 9 Our CSR strategy LETT is proud to be part of Global Compact, however, our community engagement extends further than that. We wish to contribute and enhance where we can make a difference We are deeply committed to the education of lawyers. In OUR GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2016 terms of recruiting, we have a natural interest in being visible to and approachable for law students, and, therefore, Secondments to Justitia a number of our lawyers lecture at educational institutions We have taken steps to initiate cooperative relations and hold seminars and exam-preparation training for law with the Danish legal think tank, Justitia, in order students. However, our involvement goes further, as we also for LETT to offer secondments of our lawyers to think that we have a societal obligation to put our fingerprints the organisation for a short period of time and on the development of future lawyers. Given our longthereby enhance our staff members’ capabilities standing tradition as a litigation law firm, we feel compelled to communicate legal issues and get insight into to take part in spotting and cultivating talented litigators. preparing legal analyses, etc. Therefore, our involvement in moot trials – the moot trial of the Copenhagen University society for law students (Juridisk Diskussionsklub) and the Vis Moot in Aarhus – is a focus area in which we invest considerable energy. As a law firm, we believe that we can make the greatest difference through efforts rooted in our specialist competency Legal assistance – the law. Our four focus areas in our CSR contribution are During 2015, we have been involved in a number of cases legal assistance, legal research and knowledge sharing, of societal impact with a risk that no fee is paid for our employee investment and environmental focus. assistance – eg group actions concerning issues of general public importance affecting a large number of people. We support and run a number of activities by which, based on our legal core competencies, we can help ensure a Via Culture Works Space, we have decided to involve sustainable future. ourselves in the entrepreneurial environment in Aarhus, where we have set up a counsellor office together with the Throughout the years, we have made a point of involving accounting firm BDO. One of the perspectives is to assist ourselves in legal contexts in Denmark and abroad via entrepreneurial enterprises in getting a sustainable business positions of trust in and appointments to eg the International foundation through the first growth phase by means of Bar Association, the International Chamber of Commerce, various counselling packages on favourable terms. the Danish Institute of Arbitration, the Danish Standing Committee on Procedural Law and the Danish Press Council as Other involvement well as in the Danish Bar and Law Society and the Association Some of our lawyers are involved in legal-aid schemes, of Danish Law Firms, where we contribute by influencing the and a number of our partners in LETT are entrusted as sector’s ongoing development and future legislation. administrators and committee members in cultural contexts. In 2015, we have especially been engaged in activities within legal assistance as well as research and knowledge sharing: Research and knowledge sharing Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 10 LETT Advokatpartnerselskab København • Aarhus • lett.dk CVR 35 20 93 52 Global Compact Communication on Progress – May 2016 11
