2 15 Making an impact that matters 2015 Global Report Contents Making an impact Delivering service Building careers Having influence that matters that matters that matter that matters 8 / Global CEO and 16 / Cognitive computing = 38 / Developing leaders and 45 / Japan’s post-disaster Chairman letter smarter, faster choices their ideas economy 9 / Strategy, outlook, 19 / Global capabilities and 41 / Helping purpose-driven 46 / Strengthening humanitarian and acquisitions China’s State Grid professionals thrive response to crises 11 / Leadership and governance 20 / Cyber resilience begins in 43 / Keeping Deloitte’s people 48 / Scaling innovative education the boardroom safe and secure solutions 13 / Network structure 22 / HP completes largest 51 / The Edge: An office unlike Workday HCM implementation any other 24 / Innovating the audit, 54 / Regulatory and public policy attracting talent engagement 26 / Equipping clients to manage, 57 / Ethics: Delivering quality recover from crises and integrity 28 / Norwegian oil company 60 / Independence: Preserving builds a platform for growth the public’s trust 30 / Irish pharma company’s 61 / Reporting process dramatic turnaround and materiality “Deloitte”, “we”, “us”, and “our” refer to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 31 / Drivers and the Internet 63 / Metrics Limited, a UK private company limited of Things by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of 68 / Basis of reporting member firms, and their related entities. 32 / Data privacy and security DTTL and each of its member firms are 74 / Stakeholder engagement legally separate and independent entities. 34 / Risk-intelligent approach summary DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. promotes quality Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its 36 / Promoting water stewardship member firms. in the paper industry 3 Making an impact Home Making an impact that matters that matters Deloitte has long been a purpose-led organization. In 2015, we Global CEO and Chairman letter put that Purpose into words to inspire Deloitte professionals and Strategy, outlook, help us achieve our global strategy of being the undisputed global and acquisitions leader in professional services. Leadership and governance Our Purpose statement is a clear and compelling declaration of why we exist. It says: Network structure A strong sense of purpose is closely linked to positive Deloitte makes an impact that matters. organizational performance, as demonstrated in the Delivering service that matters Our desire to make a positive, enduring impact every day for our organization and its Deloitte US “Core beliefs and culture survey” and stakeholders requires that: DTTL 2015 Millennial Survey. • We serve clients with quality and distinction, making a measurable and Building careers that matter attributable impact. Among businesses where Millennials say there is a • We inspire our people to deliver value—mentoring and developing future leaders strong sense of purpose, there is significantly higher and colleagues for life. Having influence reporting of financial success, employee satisfaction, • We contribute to society, building confidence and trust, upholding integrity, and that matters and effective talent recruitment. supporting the community. • We lead the profession by challenging ourselves to do what matters most, delivering innovative ideas that reflect our unique capabilities. These Purpose-driven behaviors are guided by our network’s shared values—integrity, outstanding value to markets and clients, commitment to each other, and strength from cultural diversity. Activities during the past year aimed at bringing our Purpose to life—through extensive communication and engagement campaigns—have engaged and connected our network’s 225,000-plus professionals to challenge themselves and each other to do what matters most for Deloitte’s clients, its people, and the societies in which they live and work. Deloitte’s Purpose is enduring and informs our business decisions, guides our operational strategies, and steers our activities as corporate citizens. With a defined Purpose to lead us, Deloitte acts with courage and conviction to make an impact that matters every day—across our businesses and around the world—by serving the most sophisticated clients, tackling the world’s most complex problems, and promoting integrity and trust in the marketplace. This is what we do. This is who we are. This is our Purpose. Deloitte Global Chief Executive Officer 4 and Chairman of the Board letter Making an impact that matters Home Exceptional organizations that flourish over time are defined by a purpose, and We begin our respective terms this year—as Deloitte Global Chief Executive Officer Deloitte’s purpose is to make an impact that matters—for member firm clients, and Chairman of the Deloitte Global Board of Directors—honored to support our our people, and society. This purpose is embedded throughout our global member firm colleagues around the world as they build on the Deloitte network’s rich Making an impact network. It defines who we are. It lies at the heart of the work of our network’s heritage of serving member firm clients, our people, and our communities. that matters 225,400 people across more than 150 countries. Sincerely, Global CEO and Chairman letter Living our purpose is also at the foundation of the Deloitte network’s strong FY2015 Strategy, outlook, performance. Despite global economic and geopolitical challenges, Deloitte achieved and acquisitions aggregate global revenues of US$35.2 billion, representing growth of 7.6 percent in Leadership and governance local currency terms. Deloitte hired approximately 62,000 new professionals last year and invested more than US$200 million in community and societal impact initiatives Network structure around the world. Delivering service Deloitte professionals take great pride in the many ways the organization serves stakeholders around the world, and our 12th Global Report highlights some of the best that matters examples from the past year through the lens of clients, talent, and society. Building careers Delivering service that matters that matter Deloitte member firms serve clients and markets with quality and distinction, bringing trust and confidence to the capital markets, delivering innovative insights, solving complex challenges, and unlocking sustainable growth. Member firms strive to be the Having influence first choice of clients—whether they need confidence to take decisive action; require a that matters high-quality audit of their financial statements; seek experience on complex tax issues; or face a “bet-the-company” challenge. Building careers that matter Punit Renjen, Deloitte Global David Cruickshank, Chairman of the Deloitte member firms invest in their talented professionals so they may deliver Chief Executive Officer Deloitte Global Board of Directors outstanding value to clients. We mentor and develop future leaders, providing an exceptional career experience and an inclusive, collaborative culture. Our network aims to be the premier career destination for the best and brightest minds. Having influence that matters Deloitte contributes to society, building confidence and trust in the markets, fostering the integrity of organizations, and supporting our communities. Our organization remains committed to sustainability and to supporting the U.N. Global Compact. We aspire to be a role model of quality, integrity, and positive change, helping to solve the For more on how Deloitte is making an impact toughest global challenges. that matters, please view brief video messages In all we do, Deloitte aspires to be not necessarily the biggest, but the best—the from Deloitte Global CEO Punit Renjen on: undisputed global leader in professional services. Our network continues to leverage global scale, new technologies, and deep industry insights to help member firm clients Clients | Talent | Society maximize opportunities and manage risks in a borderless and uncertain environment. 5 Home REVENUE FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Making an impact $35.2 $34.2 $32.4 (+8%) (+7%) (+6%) that matters Global CEO and Chairman letter Strategy, outlook, BY BUSINESS BY INDUSTRY BY REGION and acquisitions Leadership and governance Network structure $3.1 $3.1 $5.0 Delivering service $3.5 $3.2 $12.2 $9.5 that matters Building careers that matter $6.7 $35.2 Bn $3.9 $35.2 Bn $35.2 Bn $11.9 Having influence $4.4 $6.6 $18.3 that matters $9.8 $4.4 Consulting Financial Services Americas Audit Consumer Business EMEA Tax & Legal Public Sector Asia Paciﬁc Enterprise Risk Services Manufacturing Financial Advisory Technology, Media & Telecom Life Sciences & Health Care Energy & Resources Note: Percentages represent year-over-year change. Revenue ﬁgures are in US$ billion. Percentage growth rates are in local currency. Figures are aggregated across Deloitte member ﬁrms. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 6 Note: Percentages represent year-over-year change. Revenue ﬁgures are in US$ billion. Percentage growth rates are in local currency. Figures are aggregated across Deloitte member ﬁrms. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. Home HEADCOUNT FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Making an impact 225,400 210,400 202,885 (+7%) (+4%) (+5%) that matters Global CEO and Chairman letter Strategy, outlook, BY GENDER GENDER BY REGION and acquisitions Leadership and governance AMERICAS 99,400 Network structure Delivering service MEN WOMEN that matters 57% 43% 56,555 42,843 MEN WOMEN 56% 44% Building careers that matter 125,666 99,685 Having influence EMEA 79,900 that matters MEN WOMEN 55% 45% 44,020 35,905 ASIA PACIFIC 46,000 MEN WOMEN 55% 45% 25,092 20,936 Figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member ﬁrms. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 7 Home NEW HIRES FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Making an impact 62,000 54,000 51,400 (+28%*) (+26%*) (+25%*) that matters Global CEO and Chairman letter Strategy, outlook, BY GENDER BY REGION and acquisitions Leadership and governance Network structure Delivering service that matters AMERICAS MEN WOMEN 25,500 55% 45% Building careers that matter (+26%**) ASIA PACIFIC Having influence 33,922 28,078 13,700 (+30%**) that matters EMEA 22,800 (+28%**) Figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member ﬁrms. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. * Percentage of total headcount ** New hires as a percentage of total headcount by region 8 Home SOCIETAL IMPACT FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Making an impact $212M $190M $179M (+11%) (+7%) (+9%) that matters Global CEO and Chairman letter TOTAL VOLUNTEER TOTAL DONATIONS Strategy, outlook, and acquisitions Leadership and governance AND PRO BONO WORK $123M $78M Network structure Delivering service PRO BONO DELOITTE that matters 343,000 HOURS ($48M) DONATIONS* $47M Building careers SKILLS-BASED VOLUNTEERING 496,000 HOURS ($45M) DELOITTE PEOPLE that matter DONATIONS** TRADITIONAL VOLUNTEERING $30M Having influence 328,000 HOURS ($30M) that matters $212M MANAGEMENT COSTS*** $12M All ﬁgures are aggregated across DTTL and its member ﬁrms. This data includes 35 member ﬁrms and DTTL representing 97 percent of the Deloitte network workforce. Figures for societal contributions are lower than the actual amounts as not all types of donations can be tracked in our systems. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. DTTL and its member ﬁrms observe reporting standards from the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy and the London Benchmarking Group. The monetary value of community activities was estimated according to the type of service performed. The value of volunteer work was based on local member ﬁrms’ staﬀ costs. Pro bono work, deﬁned as work that the member ﬁrms have delivered to not-for-proﬁt organizations free-of-charge or at a signiﬁcantly reduced rate, has been valued at fair market rates representative of the local member ﬁrms’ client service rates for comparable services. * Includes monetary and in-kind donations from DTTL, member ﬁrms, and foundations. ** Includes DTTL and member ﬁrm professionals’ donations to supported organizations. *** Includes DTTL, member ﬁrm, and foundation costs for managing societal impact programs. Strategy, outlook, and acquisitions 9 Business choices aim to separate Deloitte from the pack Home Deloitte has a far-reaching network and multidisciplinary model, with deep institutional knowledge that allows member firm professionals to deliver exceptional services across a range of industry sectors. Deloitte is an innovator that is expanding Making an impact its capabilities in areas such as cognitive technologies, cloud computing, digital that matters applications, cyber, risk, and crisis services. Global CEO and Chairman letter Deloitte’s aspiration is to be the undisputed global leader in professional services. Strategy, outlook, This means being the first choice for clients; being the premier career destination for and acquisitions top talent; being a role model of quality, integrity, and positive change; and helping Leadership and governance solve the toughest global challenges. We are intent on being the best, not necessarily the biggest. Network structure Within the context of our Purpose—making an impact that matters—five strategic Delivering service business priorities define our path forward: client leadership, business leadership, geographic leadership, talent leadership, and network leadership. that matters That’s what Deloitte’s strategy is all about—strengthening our businesses, Building careers empowering our talent, and backing them with an exceptional network to serve the world’s most important organizations. We are executing these choices with passion Strategic acquisitions that matter and rigor against an ever-evolving external backdrop that continues to challenge Deloitte’s FY2015 acquisition activity focused on adding specific capabilities aligned Deloitte and our competitors in each of our businesses. The disruptions Deloitte with growth areas identified in our strategy. Key member firm acquisitions included: Having influence continues to confront include: that matters • GMK Partners, a boutique provider of chartered accounting services to high-net• Increasing geopolitical changes that are reshaping the global marketplace, worth clients in Australia (Deloitte Australia). shifting the balance of power, and creating new hotspots of political unrest; • KD Johns & Co., an Australian tax and business advisory firm (Deloitte Australia). • Continued economic volatility and uncertainty, causing financial risk in some parts of the world and shifting the balance of our investments across developed • Hervé Schauer Consultants, a network security consulting agency in France and emerging markets; (Deloitte France). • Rapidly shifting technology paradigms where data proliferation, open • Visser Consulting, a leading provider of regulatory, safety, and environmental innovation, and data analytics are exploding, while cyber security threats worsen; compliance services to energy companies in western Canada (Deloitte Canada). • Regulatory changes, including the potential for a markedly different global • Licetus, a Germany-based provider of software asset management services in regulatory landscape to emerge at the end of a protracted period of change across Europe (Deloitte Germany). several markets; and • Kavanagh Fennell, one of Ireland’s leading corporate recovery and insolvency • Fluid geographic challenges presented by the expanding scale of multinationals services firms (Deloitte Ireland). operating in different markets, creating the demand for seamless cross-border • Analytics Group, an Australian consultancy offering CFO-level advisory services and services. operational support (Deloitte Australia). Guided by past strategic choices, Deloitte has thrived in the midst of economic • AXOA, a French services company specializing in software-as-a-service (SaaS) adversity and dramatic market changes. Deloitte is confident our current strategy and solutions (Deloitte France). Purpose-led approach position the organization to accelerate its success and achieve • The Lonsdale Group, an Australian boutique that provides consulting and advisory its goal of undisputed leadership. services for cloud-based systems (Deloitte Australia). 10 Home DELOITTE CORE SERVICES Making an impact Solving complex problems is Deloitte’s passion. We’ve built our world-class businesses to effect change that matters, and to deliver transformational impact for clients and that matters the communities in which we work. Deloitte’s operating model allows our businesses to work better together and enables sustained enhancement and innovations to service capability and cross-border delivery, and talent development and deployment. Our multidisciplinary portfolio empowers Deloitte professionals to deliver deep Global CEO and Chairman letter business capability and industry insights across a broad spectrum of services. Strategy, outlook, and acquisitions Consulting Audit Tax & Legal Enterprise Risk Services Financial Advisory Leadership and governance Network structure Delivering service Global Business that matters Legal Tax Services Indirect Building careers Tax Global that matter Employer Services Having influence Governance, that matters Human Regulatory & Capital Risk Financial Technology Crisis Controls Transformation & Assurance Strategy & Cyber Risk Operations Mergers & Services Acquisitions Audit The above list of services is a representative sampling of Deloitte’s cross-business capabilities. Deloitte oﬀers many services, not all of which are available from every Deloitte member ﬁrm and not all of which are permissible for audit clients under various professional and regulatory standards. New leaders establish a path forward 11 Network governance approach reinforces commitment to quality and integrity Home Punit Renjen became Deloitte Global Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2015, The roles and responsibilities of DTTL Executive members focus on key areas including succeeding Barry Salzberg. Renjen served most recently as chairman of the board, the following: Deloitte LLP (US), and prior to that, chairman and CEO of Deloitte Consulting LLP. Making an impact • Client leadership that matters Also on 1 June 2015, David Cruickshank began his term as Chairman of the DTTL The Clients & Industries leader helps ensure Deloitte member firms consistently Board, succeeding Steve Almond. Cruickshank had served as Chairman of Deloitte UK deliver exceptional quality, the best of Deloitte’s broad portfolio of services, and Global CEO and Chairman letter since 2007. Prior to that, he led the UK member firm’s tax practice. deep industry and sector insights to clients around the globe. Strategy, outlook, Renjen’s and Cruickshank’s leadership appointments are part of a rigorous, • Business leadership and acquisitions comprehensive nomination and member firm partner-ratification process that occurs The Executive’s business leaders, representing Audit, Consulting, Enterprise Risk Leadership and governance Services, Financial Advisory, and Tax & Legal, focus on developing and scaling every four years and includes all member firms of the Deloitte worldwide network. Network structure innovative services in each of Deloitte’s core businesses to help member firm clients During FY2015, Cathy Engelbert assumed the role of CEO for Deloitte US, and Cindy address their most complex opportunities and challenges. Hook was elected Deloitte Australia’s new chief executive. Each became the first Delivering service woman in her country’s history to lead a Big Four firm. • Geographic leadership that matters The Executive’s geographic leadership includes the CEOs of 10 member firms, as The bigger picture well as one managing director of the Regions (covering EMEA, the Americas, AsiaPacific). Together, they collaborate with other member firms’ CEOs and regional Building careers Strong governance and leadership structures help Deloitte member firms maintain leaders across the network to help promote global initiatives and capabilities that high levels of quality and integrity, allowing them to sustain the trust of their clients, that matter their people, the capital markets, and the public. benefit local markets. • Talent leadership Having influence As a global network comprising DTTL, its member firms, and each of their affiliates in The Executive’s Talent leader is charged with guiding the Deloitte network in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte has governance and management that matters attracting, developing, and deploying the brightest minds. A key priority is to create structures in place at both the global and member firm levels. a highly inclusive, stimulating work environment while building a consistently high level of skills for Deloitte people worldwide. The DTTL Executive The DTTL Executive, composed of 26 senior leaders from DTTL and certain member • Network leadership firms across the global network, is responsible for embedding Deloitte’s Purpose The Executive provides guidance to the Deloitte network to help it operate and achieving its aspirations and strategic priorities. The Executive sets policies and effectively and efficiently, seeking to consistently uphold the global brand, and champions initiatives that help the network make an impact that matters for member managing risk and evolving global developments. Specific DTTL leadership roles firm clients, Deloitte talent, communities, and other stakeholders. include Risk & Regulatory, General Counsel, and the Chief Operating Officer. In addition, four DTTL Deputy CEOs serve as advisers and lead special projects. Deloitte Global Chief Executive Officer Punit Renjen, who began his four-year term on 1 June 2015, leads and manages this governing body. His appointment was ratified The DTTL Executive meets live approximately six times during the year. A typical agenda by the partners of the individual member firms. Renjen appoints the members of covers the organization’s priorities, current initiatives, and network matters—and every the Executive, subject to approval by the Governance Committee of the DTTL Board agenda includes topics related to member firm clients and/or talent leadership. of Directors. 12 Home The DTTL Operating Committee At the beginning of his term, Renjen established a global Operating Committee Making an impact (effective 1 June 2015). The Operating Committee, composed of leaders from DTTL and certain member firms aligned to the businesses, regions, and other key areas, that matters provides a vital link between strategy and execution that helps enable the network to Global CEO and Chairman letter perform effectively and efficiently. Strategy, outlook, The Operating Committee is headed by DTTL Chief Operating Officer Frank Friedman. and acquisitions Its members include, from DTTL, five global business operating leaders, three regional Leadership and governance leaders, the chief information officer, and leaders from Client & Industries, Talent, Strategy & Brand, and Risk. It also includes a four-person council of executive member Network structure firm COO representatives. Delivering service The DTTL Board that matters The Board of Directors is DTTL’s highest governing body. The Board addresses DTTL’s most important governance issues, including global strategies, major transactions, and the election of the CEO. During FY2015, the Board’s 32 members represented Building careers The Board’s other subcommittees are responsible for considering and recommending 20 member firms across more than 100 countries and territories. Among the Board’s that matter action on a wide range of issues falling within their remit. They include Board committees is a standing Governance Committee, which exercises periodic oversight Composition, Succession, Risk, Audit & Finance, Membership Affairs, and Chairman of the management of DTTL. and CEO Evaluation and CEO Compensation. Having influence David Cruickshank is the current Chairman of the DTTL Board. Like Renjen, he began that matters The Board performs an annual self-assessment to gather feedback on its collective his four-year term of office on 1 June 2015. performance and identify potential areas for operational improvements. As its name Board members are appointed by individual member firms that are themselves suggests, the Chairman and CEO Evaluation and CEO Compensation Committee selected based on size, the number of significant clients they serve, and other objectively evaluates the goals and objectives of the Chairman and CEO, and factors. The Board also includes three regional seats, ensuring smaller member firms recommends appropriate compensation for the CEO. are represented. Members of the DTTL Board are senior member firm partners or Member firm leadership principals and are usually on the executives or boards of their member firms. To foster effective and responsive management within member firms, DTTL has Determinations regarding the allocation of DTTL Board seats are made by the Board adopted standards describing specific leadership and governance structures to be Composition Committee every four years with an interim review after two years. implemented by member firms, including: Board composition is multicultural with a proportionate representation of member firms. Gender is considered by member firms as they appoint individuals to these • A formal management structure, including an elected chief executive officer or positions. There are currently six women board members, up from three in FY2015. managing partner who is responsible for managing the member firm and working with the member firm’s leaders to align its functional and client strategies with Members of the Governance Committee are drawn from the 12 member firms that DTTL; and are considered to have the greatest impact on the network based on a number of • A governing body, such as a board of directors, to facilitate sound governance of metrics including, but not restricted to, revenue. The Committee engages in open the individual practice, including among other things the establishment of a formal discussions of issues and matters within its purview and makes recommendations to nominating committee process to select the chief executive officer or managing the Board of Directors. Each committee member has one vote on matters considered partner of the member firm. by the committee, except for the CEO, who is ex-officio. To avoid conflicts of interest, no member of the Governance Committee may also serve on the Executive, except for the CEO. Deloitte network structure 13 Local knowledge, global capabilities Home The Deloitte member firm structure is a source of great strength for the organization, allowing us to deliver deep local market knowledge, capabilities, and relationships to global clients, virtually anywhere in the world. Making an impact that matters Deloitte member firms are independent, with local ownership and management that are accountable for their member firms’ success. As members of the Deloitte network, Global CEO and Chairman letter these firms benefit from shared activities, investments, and resources that enhance Strategy, outlook, their individual abilities to provide core services to key local and global clients. They and acquisitions also are able to leverage Deloitte’s brand, eminence, and intellectual property. Leadership and governance The Deloitte organization continues to reinforce this differentiating structure and Network structure achieve economies of scale with new centers of excellence, global delivery centers, and other network approaches that are designed to deliver a consistent level of Delivering service excellence around the world. The network also is adopting new models for sharing leading practices, technologies, back-office investments, and costs. that matters The bigger picture Building careers The Deloitte network is made up of firms that are members of Deloitte Touche that matter Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited by guarantee. This structure allows the member firm network to be a leader at all levels—locally, nationally, and globally—because its central governance policies are sensitive to the professional This structure confers significant strengths: a deep understanding of local markets and Having influence environments and cultures of individual countries. Individual member firms have access a sense of responsibility among member firms’ professionals, who have a direct stake that matters to the skills and knowledge of other member firms, the ability to consult within the in the integrity and growth of their local practices. Deloitte network, and the benefit of the network’s market recognition and reputation. DTTL itself does not provide services to clients. Global cooperation Deloitte member firms support and adhere to the purposes and policies of DTTL by: Member firm structure The partners of Deloitte member firms are generally the sole owners of their • Conducting themselves in a manner that sustains the reputation of the Deloitte respective member firms. The member firms are primarily organized on an individual member firm network; country or regional basis, and each operates within the legal and regulatory • Aligning national plans, strategies, and operations with those of DTTL, as framework of its particular jurisdiction(s). They are separate and independent firms appropriate, in consultation with DTTL’s executive management; that are owned and managed locally. These firms have come together to practice under a common brand, methodologies, client service standards, and other • Adhering to DTTL’s requirements regarding professional standards, shared Purpose, professional standards and guidelines. methodologies, governance, and systems of quality control and risk; and • Advising DTTL of all proposed joint ventures, joint practices, mergers, and other The member firm structure supports compliance with rules of local ownership and cooperation arrangements and combinations of any type with other member firms, as management governing the accountancy profession in many countries. It also reflects well as practice activity in jurisdictions other than those assigned to the member firm. the fact that the member firms are not subsidiaries or branch offices of a global parent. Rather, they are separate and distinct locally formed legal entities that have voluntarily joined the network to coordinate their approach to client service. DELOITTE SERVES CLIENTS IN MORE THAN 150 COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES Green markers on the map indicate office locations. Please visit www.deloitte.com/GlobalOfficeDirectory for the most up-to-date information on specific office addresses or for service inquiries in locations not listed here. 14 Home Making an impact that matters Global CEO and Chairman letter Strategy, outlook, and acquisitions Leadership and governance Network structure Delivering service that matters Building careers that matter Having influence that matters Albania Canada Finland Kuwait Oman Taiwan Algeria Cayman Islands France Kyrgyzstan Pakistan Tajikistan Andorra Chad Gabon Latvia Palau Thailand Angola Channel Islands (Jersey  Georgia Lebanon Panama Timor-Leste Argentina and Guernsey) Germany Libya Papua New Guinea Togo Armenia Chile Ghana Lithuania Paraguay Trinidad and Tobago Aruba China Gibraltar Luxembourg Peru Tunisia Australia Colombia Greece Macao Philippines Turkey Austria Congo (Brazzaville) Greenland Macedonia Poland Turkmenistan Azerbaijan Costa Rica Guam Malawi Portugal US Virgin Islands Bahamas Côte d’Ivoire Guatemala Malaysia Puerto Rico Uganda Bahrain Croatia Honduras Malta Qatar Ukraine Barbados Curaçao Hong Kong Marshall Islands Republic of Korea United Arab Emirates Belarus Cyprus Hungary Mauritius Republic of Moldova United Kingdom of G  reat Britain Belgium Czech Republic Iceland Mexico Romania and Northern Ireland Benin Democratic Republic  India Mongolia Russian Federation United Republic o  f Tanzania Bermuda of Congo Indonesia Montenegro Rwanda United States Bolivia Denmark Iraq Morocco Saudi Arabia Uruguay Bosnia-Herzegovina Dominican Republic Ireland Mozambique Senegal Uzbekistan Botswana Ecuador Isle of Man Myanmar Serbia Venezuela Brazil Egypt Israel Namibia Singapore Viet Nam British Virgin Islands El Salvador Italy Netherlands Slovakia Yemen Brunei Darussalam Equatorial Guinea Japan New Zealand Slovenia Zambia Bulgaria Estonia Jordan Nicaragua South Africa Zimbabwe Burundi Ethiopia Kazakhstan Nigeria Spain Cambodia Federated States  Kenya Northern Mariana Islands Sweden Cameroon of Micronesia Kosovo Norway Switzerland 15 Delivering service Home Making an impact that matters that matters We serve clients with quality and distinction, making a measurable and attributable impact. Delivering service Deloitte is a strong, global brand. Our member firms have relationships with four that matters out of every five Fortune Global 500® companies. That includes 92 percent of all Cognitive computing = technology, media, and communications companies, and 87 percent of the world’s financial service and consumer business companies. Member firm clients know us, Watch Deloitte Global smarter, faster choices trust us, and express extremely high satisfaction with the service they receive. CEO Punit Renjen Global capabilities and China’s State Grid Many would call that “success.” We call it “a good place to start.” explain how Deloitte Cyber resilience begins in Deloitte’s journey continues and our destination is undisputed global leadership. member firms deliver the boardroom It’s not enough to be a leader. We aspire to be the best. service that matters. HP completes largest Workday We recognize that our network’s future depends on Deloitte people and their HCM implementation 390+ ability to provide clients with distinctive service and measurable impact. Deloitte Innovating the audit, wants to be potential clients’ first choice when they’re looking for an auditor’s attracting talent auditor; when they need the confidence to take decisive action and achieve Equipping clients to manage, transformative results; when they require deep knowledge on complex tax recover from crises issues; when they are facing a bet-the-company challenge. FORTUNE GLOBAL 500® Norwegian oil company To ensure their global clients receive consistent, high-quality, distinctive, worldCOMPANIES SERVED BY builds a platform for growth class service wherever in the world they want it, Deloitte member firms are investing in and strengthening our network by: DELOITTE MEMBER FIRMS* Irish pharma company’s dramatic turnaround 100+ • Equipping lead client service partners with the resources and authority they Drivers and the Internet need to succeed; of Things • Deepening our insight into industries and sectors to bring valuable and Data privacy and security actionable perspectives to bear on clients’ business challenges; and NATIONAL GOVERNMENTS Risk-intelligent approach • Promoting “hyper collaboration” among our businesses and member firms so promotes quality that Deloitte’s multidisciplinary model delivers exceptional results. SERVED BY DELOITTE Promoting water stewardship Clear purpose. An unwavering commitment to putting clients first. Top-tier MEMBER FIRMS in the paper industry talent. Innovative solutions and alliances. Consistent, superior delivery. The courage and conviction to make an impact that matters. Leaving a stronger Building careers organization for the next generation of talent. These are the characteristics of undisputed leaders. that matter * Includes all companies where Deloitte member firms served as external auditors and those companies where Deloitte member firms earned > US$500K in revenue during These are the characteristics of Deloitte. FY14 (non-audit). Having influence that matters Artificial intelligence, real results 16 Cognitive computing capabilities can help member firm clients make smarter, faster choices Home It’s no longer a question of when computers will be able to learn, “think,” and provide reasoned responses. Making an impact They already can. that matters The question now—from Deloitte’s perspective—is, “How can cognitive computing be used to benefit member firm clients and our network?” A software application Delivering service developed by the Deloitte US Innovation group, in close collaboration with the Audit Watch Cindy Hook, Deloitte named the that matters and Consulting M&A practices of Deloitte US, already is helping organizations save Deloitte Australia leader in Analytics IT Cognitive computing = time and money. Yet, to those who dream the future, it may be but an early step in a long journey. CEO, talk about why Consulting by Kennedy. smarter, faster choices disruption matters to Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; IT Consulting: Analytics 2014 Global capabilities and “We’re at the beginning of a true paradigm shift. Instead of merely querying China’s State Grid structured data, we are demanding insights from unstructured data that will inform leaders in the digital era. report. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. decision making,” says Forrest Danson, Deloitte US Principal and Analytics Integrated Cyber resilience begins in Market Offering Leader. “Deloitte US is among the vanguard in this arena because the boardroom we understand how artificial intelligence (AI) and human know-how can combine HP completes largest Workday to achieve better outcomes for clients. With our deep industry understanding and Mining data from contracts HCM implementation experience integrating across our businesses, we are well-suited to harness the One AI-enabled document-review platform developed by the Deloitte US Innovation Innovating the audit, power of cognitive computing.” group, which went live in October 2014, automates the process of reading and attracting talent Understanding unstructured data extracting critical information from contracts. By combining a third-party machinelearning algorithm with “training” provided by Deloitte US domain specialists, the Equipping clients to manage, Unlike traditional computer systems that are programmed by people to perform technology typically helps reduce time spent reviewing documents by 50 percent or recover from crises certain tasks, cognitive systems can learn from experience and instruction. The more, allowing users to focus on value-added analysis and interpretation activities. Norwegian oil company power of cognitive computing is its ability to digest both structured and unstructured builds a platform for growth data and draw conclusions from it, mimicking the human brain and performing “Teams review thousands of documents a year, so the time savings has a multiplicative tasks that traditionally only people have been able to do. Feed the typical computer effect, driving an orders-of-magnitude improvement in efficiency,” says Craig Irish pharma company’s spreadsheets and database files—structured data—and, depending on how it’s Muraskin, Deloitte US Innovation managing director. “Also, the application’s analytics dramatic turnaround programmed, it can provide valuable insights. The challenge is, only about 20 percent and visualization features make it possible to analyze data extracted across the Drivers and the Internet of available data are structured. The other 80 percent lives in word processing files, entire population of contracts and documents, enabling users to quickly home in on of Things emails, social posts, blogs, images, video, and other “unstructured” sources that, until elements of potential risk and gain deeper insights.” What’s more, Muraskin adds, the recently, could only be consumed and understood by humans. combination of machine and human reviewer tends to deliver higher consistency and Data privacy and security quality compared to a reviewer alone reading through numerous documents. Risk-intelligent approach Cognitive systems can process information far beyond human capabilities, identifying promotes quality patterns and providing potential solutions that humans might never recognize through Many Deloitte US audit clients have been impressed with the application’s ability to traditional analysis. “Cognitive computing holds the potential to reshape how work quickly identify differences between contracts based on key terms, as well as its ability Promoting water stewardship gets done, how businesses grow, and how markets and industries evolve,” Danson to search for specific clauses across a population of contracts—typically leading to in the paper industry says. “By learning through interactions, they deliver automated, evidence-based more meaningful insights throughout the audit process. responses that drive better outcomes.” Building careers that matter Having influence that matters 17 Home “The contract-review application is now firmly established as a transformative Deloitte was the only professional services organization selected for the inaugural capability with applications across audit, consulting, and advisory services. We’ve also IBM Watson Ecosystem Board of Advisors, which shapes the direction and strategy found it is equally useful for reviewing a variety of document types, including invoices, of the Ecosystem by offering external views on the marketplace and potential Making an impact financial statements, and board meeting minutes,” Muraskin says. “I’m confident we opportunities for Ecosystem partners. “We chose Deloitte because of its experience that matters will soon expand this platform to tackle other opportunities. There are multiple ways at the intersection of business and technology, its knowledge of the Watson product, our clients can benefit from this technology.” and the value we’ve realized from our strategic and longstanding relationship,” says Delivering service Mike Rhodin, SVP, IBM Watson Group. Deloitte currently serves IBM as a client in that matters 45 countries. Cognitive computing = “Our participation in the Watson Ecosystem is part of a much broader Deloitte-IBM smarter, faster choices relationship, which has been thriving for more than a decade,” says Bob Dalton, Consulting principal, Deloitte US and Global LCSP for IBM. “Our cooperation unites Global capabilities and the depth and breadth of IBM’s technology portfolio with Deloitte’s leading business China’s State Grid and technology consulting experience and industry knowledge. Through our ‘smarter Cyber resilience begins in teaming’ approach, Deloitte and IBM are committed to extending Deloitte’s advanced the boardroom analytics capabilities by using cognitive computing to help bring solutions to member HP completes largest Workday firm clients.” HCM implementation Dalton acknowledges Deloitte and IBM are market rivals in certain services, and that Innovating the audit, competition will continue. However, “the opportunities here are bigger than both attracting talent of our organizations. We recognize there’s a virtue in coming together because, as pre-eminent leaders in our professions, we can make a bigger impact working Equipping clients to manage, together,” he says. recover from crises Norwegian oil company Leveraging cognitive for member firm clients The cognitive technology underpinning the platform was provided by one of many builds a platform for growth third parties—large and small—that are developing cognitive computing or AI Deloitte is focused on using cognitive computing as a positive disruptor. Member firms are working with several vendors with niche capabilities that complement and Irish pharma company’s solutions. Deloitte US is working with several of these developers, including IBM. Its extend new cognitive abilities. “Our goal is to provide holistic cognitive and advanced dramatic turnaround cognitive system, Watson, currently provides a comprehensive cognitive computing platform—one that is specifically designed to support the development of a broad analytics solutions to help our clients make smarter decisions,” says Paul Roma, Drivers and the Internet Deloitte US Innovation leader and principal. range of enterprise solutions. of Things A tangible sign of the Deloitte US’s commitment is a recently established US$20 million Data privacy and security Deloitte joins Watson’s Ecosystem fund set up specifically to finance a new cognitive platform and develop solutions each Risk-intelligent approach Many people’s first exposure to IBM Watson came in 2011 through the US quiz show, Deloitte US business can take to market. “This is a game changer for us,” Roma says. promotes quality Jeopardy! Thanks to four years of software engineering enhancements and the massive “We are going to build our own platform, powered by cognitive computing vendors amount of new information that has become available since the shows aired, Watson is Promoting water stewardship and, using that platform, we will create and deploy new products for clients. The fund now at work in thousands of organizations in dozens of countries and industries. will be a real catalyst for innovation.” in the paper industry The IBM Watson Ecosystem is composed of tens of thousands of developers, Among Deloitte US’s highest priorities in this arena is exploring ways that cognitive entrepreneurs, and other enthusiasts who have created thousands of apps via the Building careers technologies could transform health care. Deloitte US is currently working with a Watson Zone on Bluemix—IBM’s Platform as a Service (PaaS). Bluemix lets any that matter broad group of vendors and startups that are developing specific solutions based on user tap into more than 100 development tools, which include Watson services, to cognitive technologies. efficiently build, deploy, and manage apps across any cloud environment. Having influence that matters 18 Home Making an impact that matters Delivering service Cognitive technologies Artificial Intelligence is that matters extend the power of increasingly real and Cognitive computing = information technology critical to the success of smarter, faster choices to tasks traditionally the Internet of Things. Global capabilities and China’s State Grid performed by humans. To learn more, read, Cyber resilience begins in To learn more, read, “Demystifying artificial the boardroom “Cognitive technologies: intelligence,” published HP completes largest Workday Early applications being piloted among select US clients include an app that uses The real opportunities for by Deloitte University HCM implementation machine learning to identify patients at risk of developing diabetes and offer insights tailored to specific individuals. “This app goes beyond risk-group generalizations business,” published by Press. Innovating the audit, attracting talent and generic suggestions. Instead, it uses targeted insights to serve a party of one,” Deloitte University Press. explains Rajeev Ronanki, lead for Deloitte US’s Cognitive Computing practice. “Based Equipping clients to manage, on people’s medical histories and behaviors, it even can predict who will likely recover from crises respond to intervention and who may need more convincing.” Norwegian oil company Another offering, recognizing a general shift toward a consumer-centric model in builds a platform for growth health care in the US, is using cognitive capabilities to help a large health plan provider Irish pharma company’s retain customers and reduce turnover. And still another solution is using naturaldramatic turnaround language processing, probability models, and machine learning to help revolutionize what today is typically a very manual—and often frustrating—prescription Drivers and the Internet preauthorization process. of Things Data privacy and security As cognitive computing technology matures and Deloitte’s experience grows, the way member firms explore and deliver cognitive-related services will likely continue Risk-intelligent approach to evolve. “We expect the market to grow dramatically as capabilities develop promotes quality and people find practical ways to apply cognitive computing to address business Promoting water stewardship problems,” says Nitin Mittal, Principal and Advanced Analytics Technology Leader, in the paper industry Deloitte US. “As a global network of firms with deep industry knowledge, Deloitte is optimistic about the remarkable capabilities cognitive computing can offer. But, Deloitte needs to weave such technologies into our existing competencies to provide Building careers innovative cognitive solutions to member firm clients.” that matter Having influence that matters High-voltage expansion 19 State grid’s landmark acquisitions send a jolt through global electricity industry Home State Grid Corporation of China (SGCC) didn’t exist before December 2002. Today, based on revenues, it’s the largest utility in the world and ranks seventh on the Fortune Global 500®. Making an impact that matters When you’re constructing and operating power grids in one of the most rapidly developing major economies on earth—and doing it effectively with a focus on Delivering service safety and sustainability—growth comes with the territory. SGCC’s success is about Watch Vanessa Borchers, Deloitte named an IT much more than being in the right place at the right time, though. Like many Chinese that matters enterprises, it’s an active and direct investor in foreign businesses, consistent with the Global Clients & Consulting Leader in Cognitive computing = nation’s “Go Out Policy.” Industries Leader, discuss the Energy & Utilities smarter, faster choices That’s where Deloitte comes in. why Deloitte’s strengths Industries by Kennedy. Global capabilities and China’s State Grid This past year, Deloitte China was engaged by SGCC to provide a suite of advisory and differentiation Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Information Technology Consulting Cyber resilience begins in services—including financial and tax due diligence, valuation and structuring services, matter to clients. to the Energy and Utilities Industry 2014. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced and negotiation support—to inform and facilitate SGCC’s purchase of a 35 percent the boardroom under license. stake in an Italian energy company, CDP Reti, from Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP). A HP completes largest Workday year earlier, Deloitte China provided similar support for the purchase of a 19.9 percent HCM implementation stake in Australian electricity supplier SP AusNet, as well as SGCC’s purchase of Innovating the audit, 60 percent of SPI Australia’s energy infrastructure. attracting talent “These transactions demonstrate the impact and value of Deloitte’s multidisciplinary Equipping clients to manage, model, our cross-border reach, and our knowledge of the energy and resources recover from crises industry,” says Eric Leung, Southern Region Functional Leader of Financial Advisory Services, Deloitte China. “We not only are well positioned to meet the complex needs Norwegian oil company of large organizations such as State Grid, but we also have a solid track record of builds a platform for growth helping Chinese companies achieve the foreign expansion they desire.” Irish pharma company’s dramatic turnaround The US$2.81 billion acquisition of CDP Reti was, at the time, the largest ever made by Chinese investors in a nonlisted European company. It also was the largest single Drivers and the Internet overseas investment made by SGCC and the largest investment made in Italy by a of Things Chinese enterprise. The acquisitions of the Australian power companies combined to Data privacy and security be the largest-ever outbound investment in China’s power and infrastructure sector. Risk-intelligent approach Accounting Advisory, Tax, Financial Advisory, Consulting, and Enterprise Risk promotes quality Management professionals from Deloitte China received assists from member firms in Australia, Italy, and the UK during the engagements. “When you can reach out “When you demonstrate to clients that you can be counted on, they will consider Promoting water stewardship to people who know the laws and customs in other countries, and are familiar with you for their other business challenges. That gives Deloitte an advantage because the in the paper industry the companies involved in the transactions, it makes the process infinitely more Deloitte network is composed of world-class businesses that work well together,” manageable,” Leung explains. Leung says. “Meeting multiple service needs is how we build long-term trust and longBuilding careers term relationships, which are especially valuable with large, market-leading clients.” that matter In addition to serving SGCC on landmark cross-border acquisitions that are transforming the profile of the global electricity transmission and distribution industry, Deloitte China was selected by State Grid Xinyuan Company Ltd. (SGXY), a wholly owned subsidiary Having influence of SGCC, to provide Accounting Advisory services this past year in preparation for its that matters implementation of a new financial standard. Cybersecurity is a team sport 20 Former public-sector professionals help clients integrate resilience across the board Home Mary Galligan supervised the US Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) inquiry into the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. She later served as special agent in charge of cyber and special operations in the FBI’s New York office, where she led the largest technical Making an impact and physical surveillance operation in the agency. that matters John Gelinne was chief of staff and third in command of the US Navy’s Cyber Fleet, conducting full-spectrum cyber operations, shaping the Navy’s cyberspace workforce, Delivering service and driving the integration of cyberspace capabilities and technologies into the Navy’s that matters operational environment. Cognitive computing = Beyond their impressive résumés and shared passion for combating cyber threats, smarter, faster choices Galligan and Gelinne have something else in common. Both are now directors in the Global capabilities and Deloitte Cyber Risk Services practice in the US. China’s State Grid “We’re thrilled they made that choice. I’m sure they both had many attractive Cyber resilience begins in career options where they could leverage their unique skill sets, experiences, and Before joining the Deloitte Cyber Risk Services Mary Galligan formerly served as special the boardroom valuable networks,” says Ted DeZabala, Deloitte Global Cyber Risk Services leader. practice in the US, John Gelinne was chief of agent in charge of cyber and special HP completes largest Workday “Professionals like John and Mary, and many others with distinguished cyber risk staff and third in command of the US Navy’s operations in the US Federal Bureau of HCM implementation credentials, give Deloitte a tangible advantage in this space.” Cyber Fleet. Investigation’s New York office. Innovating the audit, Building resiliency among clients attracting talent Deloitte believes cyber has become a strategically important business risk issue, and Equipping clients to manage, that companies need to be “secure, vigilant, and resilient” to effectively manage risks. recover from crises “Our Cyber Risk Services professionals are dedicated to helping organizations protect Norwegian oil company information assets, be aware of the rapidly evolving threat landscape, and respond to builds a platform for growth and recover from incidents that are becoming increasingly inevitable,” DeZabala explains. Irish pharma company’s “Professionals, like Mary and John, know from past experience that despite everyone’s dramatic turnaround best efforts, breaches do occur. That is why they are dedicated to resiliency,” he Deloitte named Deloitte US named a leader continues. “How damaging breaches become can depend, in part, on how rapidly Drivers and the Internet the situation can be analyzed, how decisively leaders take action, and how effectively a global leader in Public Sector Consulting of Things teams interact with customers, media, legal counsel, law enforcement, and industry in cybersecurity to the US Department Data privacy and security peers. How you respond defines you in the marketplace. Resilient services help clients be prepared to respond.” consulting by Kennedy. of Homeland Security by Risk-intelligent approach promotes quality In helping clients prepare, Gelinne draws on the military readiness model he knows Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Cyber Security Consulting 2013; Kennedy. Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Promoting water stewardship well. “Before a ship is deployed, we have to ensure it is ready to perform,” he says. Public Sector Consulting to the US Department of estimates. © 2013 Kennedy Information, in the paper industry “To do so, we assess our resilience level; build capabilities through training; conduct LLC. Reproduced under license. Homeland Security. © 2015 Kennedy Information, a validation-certification exercise; and implement sustainment activities to stay ready, LLC. Reproduced under license. fix weaknesses, and maintain strengths. Deloitte is advancing that same methodology Building careers within Cyber Risk Services.” that matter This four-step approach can help organizations at all stages of maturity attain and Having influence maintain a targeted level of cyber resilience through cyber wargaming and simulation, disaster recovery planning, incident response, and business recovery services. that matters 21 Home Not just a “tech issue” “I was attracted to this role, in part, because I share my colleagues’ holistic approach Making an impact to cyber incident response,” Gelinne says. “We understand cyber breaches aren’t just a technologist’s problem. Our approach is designed to prepare and validate an that matters organization’s overall cyber resilience from the boardroom, to the war room, to the individual employee, to the organization’s stakeholders and customers.” Delivering service Deloitte ranked #1 globally Galligan, who spends much of her time educating clients’ board members and senior that matters executives about the risks their organizations face, agrees. “Deloitte helps clients focus by revenue in security Cognitive computing = on what matters most from both a business and technology risk perspective, and then consulting services smarter, faster choices provides tailored and cost-effective solutions,” she says. “Beyond that, what stands out to me is the trust clients place in Deloitte. Because our professionals serve so many by Gartner for third Global capabilities and China’s State Grid among the Fortune Global 500®, there isn’t much we haven’t seen. Clients value that, consecutive year. and respect the knowledge we have about their organizations and industries.” Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or Cyber resilience begins in service depicted in its research publications, and the boardroom That knowledge is especially evident in cyber wargaming. “Many consultants offer does not advise technology users to select only wargaming, but for most, it’s a tabletop discussion versus a true wargame that really those vendors with the highest ratings or other HP completes largest Workday designation. Gartner research publications consist tests a client’s full response capabilities,” Galligan says. Adds Gelinne: “Cybersecurity is of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization HCM implementation a team sport. It takes all hands on-deck to be successful. So, when Cyber Risk Services and should not be construed as statements of Innovating the audit, tailors wargames for clients—which we customize to each client’s industry and build fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed attracting talent or implied, with respect to this research, including in probable scenarios, drawn from real-life experiences and client situations—we bring any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a Equipping clients to manage, the whole organization to the table and aggressively test their response plans and particular purpose. Source: Gartner, Market Share: recover from crises communications channels.” Security Consulting Services, Worldwide, 2014, March 31, 2015. Norwegian oil company Galligan says requests for cyber wargaming continue to increase, in part, because builds a platform for growth regulators are writing stricter, new guidelines urging organizations to not only have resiliency plans in place, but also have them tested—preferably by objective, third Irish pharma company’s parties like Deloitte. dramatic turnaround Drivers and the Internet “With cyber attacks in the headlines so frequently, fear of a major incident often of Things drives investment. But, we encourage our clients to consider cyber risk as a positive component of their forward-looking initiatives,” Galligan says. “Organizations Data privacy and security constantly create advantages through new technologies, expansion, mergers and Risk-intelligent approach acquisitions, new customer-engagement models, and more. Managing cyber risks promotes quality is critical to the success of these moves. Threat actors can steal information, disrupt Promoting water stewardship operations, corrupt data, shut down controls, and destroy clients’ systems. in the paper industry “Organizations need to tighten up how they address those risks. This is a strategic concern, not just a technology concern,” she continues. “There’s a lot of selfBuilding careers gratification in being able to help clients transform their approaches. I spent 25 years that matter with the FBI helping people, and I’m glad I’m still doing that with Deloitte US.” Having influence that matters Biggest implementation ever? No problem! 22 Hewlett-Packard human capital project is one for the record books Home Hewlett-Packard’s (HP) human resources team wanted to foster a culture of selfservice among its 300,000-plus employees and managers, but there was a problem. Actually, there were a few problems. Making an impact that matters The global technology giant had a dated and highly customized legacy human capital management (HCM) platform that was so unwieldy, some critical human resource Delivering service processes were actually handled offline because it was simply easier that way. Deloitte named a Deloitte named the that matters What’s more, because HP operated in 106 countries, its HR department was forced global leader in Change global leader in HR Cognitive computing = to juggle a multitude of regional laws and customs. Since HP’s HCM services were not configured to support regional needs, many employees and managers maintained Management by Transformation Consulting smarter, faster choices shadow systems. The cumulative result was poor data integrity and rampant Kennedy. by Kennedy. Global capabilities and management issues. Source: Kennedy Consulting Research Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; China’s State Grid & Advisory; Change Management HR Transformation Consulting Market. © 2013 A new, cloud-based HCM system provided by software vendor Workday, Inc., offered Consulting Market Report. © 2013 Kennedy Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under Cyber resilience begins in Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. license. what HP was seeking to support the re-engineering of its business processes. “It the boardroom would allow HP to standardize global processes, configure services for regional needs, HP completes largest Workday enable accurate reporting, deliver an intuitive end-user experience, and enable HP to HCM implementation proactively analyze and manage talent,” says Brian Borzone, Human Capital principal, Innovating the audit, Deloitte US. “It also would be more efficient. There was one 45-minute legacy HR transaction that was re-engineered with Workday’s system to take only 90 seconds to attracting talent complete—and HP completes that task 50,000 times a year.” Equipping clients to manage, recover from crises Workday’s HCM system would pay for itself over the long term, but HP knew the implementation would be tremendously complex. Scott Spradley, HP’s Chief Norwegian oil company Information Officer and Vice President of Global Functions, knew he needed builds a platform for growth additional support. So, he turned to a longtime service provider. “Deloitte has Irish pharma company’s significant Workday experience, as well as best-practice methodologies for dramatic turnaround organizational transformation, HR service delivery, and reporting and analytics,” Drivers and the Internet Spradley says. “The trust I have in Deloitte gave me the confidence to take on our toughest transformation challenge to date.” of Things Data privacy and security “We excel at delivering the Workday-enabled solutions our clients need, when and how they need it,” Borzone says. “We don’t subscribe to a ‘one-size-fits-all’ model, Risk-intelligent approach which I think is a big reason Deloitte is recognized globally as a leader in Workday HR promotes quality and Finance consulting services.” Promoting water stewardship in the paper industry Building careers that matter Having influence that matters 23 Home Teamwork tames the beast HP leadership set an aggressive 15-month timeline for the implementation, which Making an impact ultimately would be the largest Workday cloud HCM deployment ever to date. that matters The HP and Deloitte transformation team facilitated regional configuration sessions with key HP staff, including HR administrators and members of the HP Global Shared Delivering service Services group. Through these sessions, HP realized immediate operational efficiencies. “We didn’t just build a thoughtful prototype. We also transferred knowledge to a For the second consecutive that matters year, Deloitte US was named significant number of employees who would later be responsible for supporting the Cognitive computing = platform post-deployment,” Spradley explains. smarter, faster choices HP PartnerOne Global Partner Working collaboratively, HP and Deloitte achieved key project goals on schedule, Global capabilities and optimizing HP’s ability to manage and retain talent, enable effective decision making, of the Year recognition of China’s State Grid and give significant time back to the HP workforce. A worldwide, big-bang release Information Management Cyber resilience begins in was more of a whimper, at least in terms of problems. HP actually scaled back its the boardroom beefed-up call center staffing after just two days. “This was the first confirmation that (analytics), SAP (HANA), Cyber HP completes largest Workday we had done things incredibly right,” Spradley says. Risk Services, and Information HCM implementation HP employees immediately embraced the new platform, which soon began delivering its Technology Transformation Innovating the audit, promised benefits. Since the 2014 launch, HP has begun decommissioning more than (Cloud). attracting talent 100 systems and 300 reports; reduced HR service desk call volume from 1,050 tickets per day to 43; standardized 86 manager and employee processes in 106 countries; Equipping clients to manage, and experienced an increase in user satisfaction rates from 60 percent to 85 percent. recover from crises Norwegian oil company “Throughout my career, I have managed seven or eight massive enterprise builds a platform for growth implementations. The HP Workday platform is far and away the best I’ve ever been a part of. In fact, it’s the best I’ve ever seen,” Spradley says. “We executed the world’s Irish pharma company’s fastest, biggest, and most complex Workday implementation—and we did it in dramatic turnaround 15 months. It would not have been possible without Deloitte.” Drivers and the Internet of Things Data privacy and security Risk-intelligent approach promotes quality Promoting water stewardship in the paper industry Building careers that matter Having influence that matters Fresh perspectives enhance the audit 24 Innovative techniques and tools appeal to younger, tech-savvy professionals Home On career days at primary schools around the world, budding athletes and actors, doctors and dancers, pilots and police officers wait anxiously to tell classmates about their dreams. Pint-sized auditors and accountants? Nowhere to be found. But the Making an impact evolving nature of the audit and the vital role auditors play in supporting the countless that matters financial decisions made every day makes the vocation significantly more attractive to both students and young professionals. Delivering service “Deloitte professionals are proud of being pre-eminent providers of audit services that matters and take their obligations to the investing public and capital markets very seriously. Cognitive computing = As stakeholders are demanding more confidence and value from the audit, Deloitte smarter, faster choices is investing in innovative tools and approaches to provide new and more astute audit capabilities,” says Panos Kakoullis, Deloitte Global Audit Leader. “Emerging technologies Global capabilities and such as data analytics, visualization techniques, and even artificial intelligence are China’s State Grid dramatically changing the way Deloitte is able to approach and conduct audits. These Cyber resilience begins in are driving opportunities for improved business performance, revealing more meaningful the boardroom insights that benefit all stakeholders and support our continued emphasis on quality.” HP completes largest Workday “Our focus on innovation has produced a more exciting work environment, one that is HCM implementation engaging tech-savvy millennials. They relish the challenge of using technology to solve Innovating the audit, problems and reinvent processes,” adds Chris Thatcher, Deloitte Global Audit Innovation attracting talent Leader. “Just as importantly, they bring fresh perspectives to a traditional field and add value that member firm clients maybe didn’t expect, but really appreciate.” Equipping clients to manage, recover from crises The future is here Norwegian oil company With a rapidly changing regulatory environment, increasing client demands, and new builds a platform for growth technologies, the profession is in a state of change, challenging Deloitte to deliver a differentiated audit. Irish pharma company’s dramatic turnaround The “audit of the future” is no longer conceptual. Advancements of cognitive Drivers and the Internet technologies, including artificial intelligence, are presenting new opportunities to of Things enhance audit quality, automate processes, and ultimately transform how an audit is performed. “Natural-language processing, advanced data analytics, and machineData privacy and security Deloitte Canada summer interns in Vancouver. Photo credit: Tracy Tahara (Deloitte Canada). learning technologies are examples of how we are automating and streamlining laborRisk-intelligent approach intensive processes,” explains Jon Raphael, Audit Chief Innovation Officer, Deloitte US. promotes quality “This provides more opportunities to allocate time to higher value-added areas, enabling Promoting water stewardship auditors to apply their professional judgment and uncover new insights to deliver value beyond compliance.” in the paper industry Building careers that matter Having influence that matters 25 Home Deloitte is actively enabling widespread and consistent use of audit innovations among its member firms to enhance both audit quality and consistency in engagements, create effectiveness for audit practitioners, and provide clients with the deeper understanding Making an impact they want and expect. Deloitte innovation teams in many countries are leveraging that matters breakthroughs to push the limits of traditional audits, and developing a wide range of next-generation supporting audit applications. “Best-of-breed” local audit tools that are Delivering service being scaled for use across the network include: Auditors may soon be able Deloitte member firms that matters • Powerful artificial intelligence applications that interrogate client electronic to provide clients with new audit public companies Cognitive computing = documentation using advanced machine-learning techniques and natural-language ways to uncover risk hiding with a combined smarter, faster choices processing to quickly identify, analyze and extract key information; Global capabilities and • A mobile app that enables physical inventory observations from smartphones— in plain sight in financial market capitalization China’s State Grid including barcode scanning and voice-to-text technology—that transmits results in statements. To learn more, of more than real-time, allowing corporate audit teams to monitor and review location counts as Cyber resilience begins in they happen; read Jon Raphael’s article, US$25 trillion. the boardroom • A diagnostics tool that uses visualization to understand and identify issues in “How Artificial Intelligence Source: Based on approximately 2,820 companies in OneSource as of May 2015 HP completes largest Workday HCM implementation clients’ finance functions and benchmark results against their competitors and Can Boost Audit Quality,” the market; and Innovating the audit, from CFO magazine. • A suite of analytic solutions with built-in tests for a range of risks and account attracting talent balances that can be applied throughout the audit. This includes support for Equipping clients to manage, extracting and analyzing client data and automating relevant reconciliations, recover from crises completeness, and integrity checks, simplifying many of the pain points that Recognizing audit curriculums have fallen behind the curve in some countries, Deloitte Norwegian oil company have historically plagued the acquisition of data. These tools support viewing and member firms are also working with universities to advance audit education that focus builds a platform for growth testing large amounts of data in a way that allows for quick and easy identification on new technologies and capabilities appealing to a younger generation. For example, of unusual patterns, providing a more robust understanding and analysis. The the Deloitte Israel innovation practice, together with one of Israel’s largest universities, Irish pharma company’s visualizations make it easier to identify risks, spot trends, anomalies, and uncover established a first-of-its-kind “Accounting and Technologies” bachelor of arts program. dramatic turnaround other pertinent information that can lead to valuable client insights. The program is the first step in a Deloitte Israel strategic plan which will also include Drivers and the Internet “These advanced capabilities allow client data to be brought to life, telling more active investments in disruptive audit technologies. of Things compelling stories, enhancing the risk-assessment process, and revealing hidden “Through initiatives like Deloitte Israel’s and other talent programs across the network, Data privacy and security patterns, outliers, and insights,” Raphael says. Deloitte will nurture a new breed of future accountants,” says Chris Powell, Deloitte Risk-intelligent approach Developing auditors for today and the future Global Audit Talent Leader. “We believe this will reshape the accounting landscape, promotes quality while strengthening Deloitte’s position as an innovator in the audit world.” Audits that are broader and deeper require professionals with expanded skills. This Promoting water stewardship means developing auditors with the experience in specialized areas—including those Deloitte’s unwavering commitment to consistent high-quality audits and focus on in the paper industry not covered by a traditional audit—as well as advanced skills such as data science, delivering an innovative experience is the future of audit. For Deloitte, the future is now. analytics, and visualization. In response, the Deloitte network is enhancing its talent Building careers model to recruit and develop the auditors of the future. that matter Having influence that matters Crises are certain, survival is not 26 Equipping clients to prepare for disasters, bounce back strong Home When crises come knocking, an organization’s operations, reputation, and often its very survival hang in the balance. These unwanted visitors will likely arrive at every company’s doorstep; the Aon-sponsored 2012 Reputation Review report issued by Making an impact Oxford Metrica says businesses can expect a value-destroying catastrophe once every that matters five years. In 2012 and 2013 alone, according to research conducted by Deloitte US, companies in the US lost US$350 billion in market valuation and suffered more than Delivering service US$45 billion in losses, fines, and penalties due to such calamities. Deloitte named a leader in Deloitte named that matters Not only are the frequency and magnitude of crises increasing, but the array Global Risk Management the leader in Cognitive computing = of emergencies also continues to expand and evolve. Organizations that once Consulting Services by Gartner. crisis advisory in smarter, faster choices viewed crisis management as a matter of recovery from physical disasters, such as earthquakes and floods, are quickly realizing that any number of threats—including Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise financial services Global capabilities and China’s State Grid terrorist attacks, cyber breaches, industrial explosions, and wide-scale employee technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research by Kennedy. fraud—can rear up suddenly to upend the ordinary course of business. publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research Source: Kennedy Consulting Cyber resilience begins in Research & Advisory; EventCrises today require active leadership from top management, but for even the best organization and should not be construed as statements the boardroom of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or Driven Consulting in Financial managers, unexpected disasters can be a shock, often inducing confusion rather implied, with respect to this research, including any Services: Crisis Advisory in the HP completes largest Workday than a cool-headed response—and understandably so. “Managing crises calls upon warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular New Regulatory Framework 2015. HCM implementation different skills from managing at other times,” says Peter Dent, Deloitte Global Crisis purpose. Source: Magic Quadrant for Global Risk © 2015 Kennedy Information, LLC. Management Consulting Services, 2014. October 7, 2014. Reproduced under license. Innovating the audit, Management Leader. “But, those organizations who do it well and take control have a attracting talent chance to emerge stronger by seizing the opportunity to make needed changes.” Equipping clients to manage, Experience matters recover from crises Research shows that companies that have navigated effectively through crises before Norwegian oil company are best equipped to lead when disaster strikes next, embarking more quickly on a builds a platform for growth strategic plan to regain control. “When the moment arrives, experience matters,” Dent says. “If a company doesn’t have it, there is tremendous value in teaming up Irish pharma company’s with a leader like Deloitte.” dramatic turnaround Drivers and the Internet With decades of crisis-fighting experience, Deloitte member firm professionals have of Things played a crucial role helping clients over the years prepare for, respond to, and recover from their darkest hours. Dent says, “Deloitte’s crisis specialists have helped member Data privacy and security firm clients in different industries worldwide face down some of the biggest tests in Risk-intelligent approach their histories—bankruptcies, regulatory challenges, cyberattacks, and much more.” promotes quality This support was amplified in FY2015 when Deloitte collected its crisis specialists Promoting water stewardship from across the globe into a multidisciplinary market offering. “By creating a closein the paper industry knit community of crisis management specialists in nearly 150 countries across our member firm network, Deloitte can more easily provide end-to-end business support Building careers before, during, and after a crisis with the industry-specific and functional skills needed that matter in each case,” explains Rhoda Woo, Enterprise Risk Management director and crisis management leader, Deloitte US. “We can make a more powerful impact by filling a need in the market for an organization with Deloitte’s know-how and global reach to Having influence help clients tackle the inevitable.” that matters 27 Home Deloitte offers clients a full spectrum of crisis management services, from training exercises for top leadership to real-time crisis response and post-crisis repair and reform. “With an organization primed for crisis response, Deloitte can pull from its Making an impact team of crisis specialists at a moment’s notice to help clients with real-time response, that matters crisis communications, around-the-clock monitoring, and business viability at the height of crisis, as well as help guide organizations through effective solutions Delivering service and needed reforms in the aftermath,” says Rick Cudworth, Resilience & Crisis that matters Management leader at Deloitte UK. Cognitive computing = Wargaming tests preparedness smarter, faster choices Deloitte’s Global Center for Crisis Management helps professionals within our Global capabilities and member firm network, who conduct rigorous simulation exercises based on advanced China’s State Grid methodologies from the military and academia, to better prepare client company leaders. Identifying crises that might realistically strike an organization, Deloitte Cyber resilience begins in creates immersive scenarios featuring the client’s C-Suite executives, board members, the boardroom and other top leaders in action, along with its larger crisis-response teams, providing HP completes largest Workday essential players with greater experience to manage major threats in the future. HCM implementation “Our approach is based on a distinct combination of military and academic rigor and Innovating the audit, our own business experience,” says Woo. “Our simulations lay a solid foundation for attracting talent everything that follows. Theoretical threats become more real and vivid, potential risks Equipping clients to manage, are more tangible, and people walk away with a greater understanding of the roles recover from crises they will play when the stakes are highest.” Norwegian oil company Adds John Bone, specialist leader and wargame functional lead for Deloitte US, “Deloitte builds a platform for growth has the global, multi-industry, senior-level proficiency that can help organizations determine how to improve their procedures and outcomes, and the red-team specialists Irish pharma company’s who have worked at senior levels at competitive institutions to help an organization dramatic turnaround understand the pushback it may face and how competitors may respond.” Drivers and the Internet of Things Data privacy and security Risk-intelligent approach promotes quality Promoting water stewardship in the paper industry Building careers that matter Having influence that matters Transforming Lundin’s Shelf interests 28 Deloitte Norway helps oil explorer build a platform for growth Home Three years after it was founded, Lundin Norway struck oil in its first exploration well on the Norwegian continental shelf. The 2007 discovery at the Utsira High area in the North Sea revealed a substantial reservoir, kick-starting Lundin’s Edvard Grieg Making an impact development. that matters Five subsequent finds followed on the shelf for Lundin, including the giant Johan Delivering service Sverdrup discovery. Since its first strike eight years ago, Lundin can take credit for Deloitte named a leader in Deloitte named a that matters half of the resources found on the shelf. global business consulting leader in Business Cognitive computing = Its stunning success rate and growing resource base fueled an idea among the based on capabilities and Transformation smarter, faster choices company’s leaders, who recognized an opportunity to blossom into a full-scale exploration and production company. Lundin submitted a plan for developing and strategies by IDC MarketScape Consulting by Global capabilities and China’s State Grid operating the Edvard Grieg field, and following its approval by authorities in 2012, for the fifth consecutive year. Forrester. the company was set to become the operator of a manned offshore installation. Source: IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Business Consulting Source: Forrester Research, Inc., Cyber resilience begins in Services 2015Vendor Assessment by Cushing Anderson, The Forrester Wave™: Business the boardroom “At that point, Lundin was starting with a small, yet highly experienced, team with a February 2015, IDC #254320; IDC MarketScape: Americas Transformation Consultancies, Q3 Business Consulting Services 2015 Vendor Assessment by 2015. HP completes largest Workday goal of commencing production by late 2015. This was extremely ambitious,” explains Cushing Anderson and Jim Westcott, February 2015, IDC HCM implementation Svenn Erik Edal, Nordic Oil & Gas Industry leader, Deloitte Norway. “But, they didn’t #254318; IDC MarketScape: EMEA Business Consulting want to take any shortcuts. They had an opportunity to build an operating model Services 2015 Vendor Assessment by Cushing Anderson, Innovating the audit, that was process-oriented, cost-effective, and promoted safety from day one.” Metta Ahorlu, and Curtis Robinson, March 2015, IDC #254680; IDC MarketScape: Asia/Pacific Business attracting talent Consulting Services 2015 Vendor Assessment by Cushing Equipping clients to manage, Making ambition a reality Anderson, Mayur Sahni and Takuya Uemura, February Lundin management turned to Deloitte Norway for guidance in building its offshore 2015, IDC #254319. recover from crises operations organization. “We had the industry knowledge they needed, along with Norwegian oil company Deloitte Norway personnel who have years of operational experience on the shelf,” builds a platform for growth Edal says. “We also had done similar work with other operations, developed a Irish pharma company’s methodology based on leading practices, and offered Lundin new ways of thinking dramatic turnaround to help ensure a culture with strict focus on continuous improvement.” Drivers and the Internet Deloitte Norway professionals worked with Lundin to identify the priority operational of Things and support processes necessary for startup and operation of its Edvard Grieg field. Data privacy and security The Deloitte Norway team was immersed in all phases of the process, from helping Risk-intelligent approach Lundin identify regulatory requirements and analyze occupational risks to developing promotes quality workflows and key performance indicators. Promoting water stewardship To improve work processes and implement barriers to reduce risks at the offshore in the paper industry facility, Deloitte Norway categorized all reported industry incidents and accidents on the Norwegian shelf, analyzed those events, and linked them to the work processes Building careers where they occurred. “This is work with risks attached, and due to dramatically that matter fluctuating price levels and costs, operational efficiency and safety are crucial to this industry,” Edal says. “We have gone to great lengths to help Lundin ensure that when The operating model for the Edvard Grieg field was process-oriented, cost-effective, and production commences, risks will be mitigated and Lundin will achieve its goal of promoted safety. © Edvard Grieg Having influence being a best-in-class operation.” that matters 29 Home Lundin’s first manned offshore facility is projected to begin producing its first barrels of crude oil in late 2015. The company’s management team, however, already considers the project a tremendous success. Making an impact that matters “Assisted by Deloitte Norway, we were able to transform a small operations team into a lean, safe, full-scale production company with the right organization and Delivering service infrastructure in place in less than three years,” says Kari Nielsen, head of field operations for Lundin Norway. “Deloitte Norway not only has experienced oil and gas that matters industry advisors, but it also offers high-value services that we see from no one else. Cognitive computing = They brought the toolbox, solutions, and strategic thinking we needed to assist us smarter, faster choices every step of the way.” Global capabilities and China’s State Grid Cyber resilience begins in the boardroom Lundin was able to transform from a small operations team into a full-scale production HP completes largest Workday company in less than three years. © Edvard Grieg HCM implementation Innovating the audit, attracting talent Equipping clients to manage, recover from crises Norwegian oil company builds a platform for growth Irish pharma company’s dramatic turnaround Drivers and the Internet of Things Data privacy and security Risk-intelligent approach promotes quality Promoting water stewardship in the paper industry Building careers that matter Having influence that matters Just what the doctor ordered 30 Deloitte Ireland-aided restructuring program key to client’s turnaround, growth Home Sometimes, it’s necessary for a company to take a step back before it can take two steps forward. Just ask the leaders of the Uniphar Group, a leading provider within the pharmaceutical and health care sector in Ireland. Making an impact that matters In 2011, the combination of loan debt and high overhead was making it difficult for Uniphar to capitalize on growth opportunities. Just three years later, against a Delivering service challenging economic backdrop, its annual revenues increased almost 60 percent, Deloitte again named a global Deloitte named earnings were up 75 percent, and debt decreased by about a third. It also completed that matters a major acquisition and initiated an SAP implementation across the organization. leader in SAP Implementation a leader in SAP Cognitive computing = Services by Gartner. Services for Asia Along the way, Deloitte Ireland has played a key role in Uniphar’s resurgence. smarter, faster choices Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service Pacific by Forrester. Global capabilities and “Our corporate finance team was hired in 2011 by two Irish banks to complete depicted in its research publications, and does not Source: Forrester Research, Inc., an extensive review of Uniphar’s financial health and assist with negotiating a advise technology users to select only those vendors The Forrester Wave™: SAP Service China’s State Grid with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner Providers in Asia Pacific, Q2 2015. restructuring of the company’s existing loans to harness growth opportunities in Cyber resilience begins in research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s the market,” explains David Carson, Deloitte Ireland’s lead client service partner research organization and should not be construed as the boardroom for Uniphar. “By 2013, those banks were willing to fund Uniphar’s US$54.3 million statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, HP completes largest Workday acquisition of pharmaceutical wholesaler Cahill May Roberts (CMR). That speaks volumes expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for HCM implementation about the progress Uniphar made and the trust the banks had in its management team.” a particular purpose. Source: Magic Quadrant for SAP Innovating the audit, Deloitte Ireland corporate finance provided due diligence services on the acquisition. Implementation Services, Worldwide, July 23, 2015. attracting talent Shortly after the CMR deal closed, Uniphar conducted a series of road shows Equipping clients to manage, for customers and existing shareholders—the community pharmacists who While the integration progressed, recover from crises own Uniphar—seeking US$22.5 million in equity investments to strengthen its Uniphar hired Deloitte Ireland’s balance sheet and improve its net debt-to-equity ratio. The share issue was heavily consulting group to implement Norwegian oil company oversubscribed, leading the company’s board of directors to expand the maximum SAP across all areas of its business. builds a platform for growth threshold to US$28.1 million. The board had to refuse about US$9 million in funding “The SAP project involved Irish pharma company’s from outside investors. implementing a single, integrated dramatic turnaround system to manage Uniphar’s The scale and agility to compete procurement, sales ordering, Drivers and the Internet The capital infusion helped Uniphar pay back slightly more than half of its accounting, and human resource of Things CMR-acquisition loans. Meanwhile, Uniphar management was working to efficiently processes,” Carson explains. Data privacy and security integrate the Uniphar and CMR organizations. “There were many similarities between The implementation process is Risk-intelligent approach the companies’ operations, creating both overlap and opportunities to build expected to be completed in 2015. promotes quality synergies,” Carson says. “With an initial assist from Deloitte Ireland, the organization has been able to reduce overhead by more than 40 percent over the past three years.” “Deloitte Ireland has been a valued adviser throughout the past three years. With the Promoting water stewardship CMR integration completed and the SAP implementation nearing an end, we now in the paper industry Carson is particularly proud that employee retention remained high throughout the have the scale to compete and the operational agility to meet the challenges of what integration. “This sector is dependent on relationships and customer knowledge, so remains a difficult market environment,” says Gerard Rabbette, Uniphar Group Chief losing employees to competitors could have impacted their competitive edge in the Executive Officer. “Uniphar has a clean bill of health, and our senior team can focus Building careers market,” he says. “If Uniphar had not retained employees at such high levels, it is likely on the development of our core business.” that matter they would not have been able to complete the integration as quickly as they did.” Having influence that matters Driving sensible solutions 31 Deloitte puts the Internet of Things to work for motorists Home Someday, “drivers” will get comfortable behind nonexistent steering wheels, tell their D-rive, a telematics services business cars where they want to go, and let lasers, sensors, and global positioning systems developed primarily by Deloitte US, take over. For now, though, humans are still in charge. And humans are fallible. They changed that. “With D-rive, smaller Making an impact drive aggressively. Get tired. Jam city streets. insurers have access to a tremendous that matters amount of information they can use to Until driverless cars are bug-free, affordable, and widespread, Deloitte is using determine discounts and provide valueambient computing technology to help make driving safer and less frustrating. Delivering service added services,” says Bill Mullaney, that matters Deloitte US director. “This allows them “Ambient computing is the backdrop of sensors, devices, intelligence, and agents to get in the UBI game quickly and cost Cognitive computing = that puts the Internet of Things to work,” explains Royston Seaward, partner, Deloitte effectively, and helps level the field so Digital practice in Deloitte UK. “We’re using the sensor data and the connected smarter, faster choices they’re not crowded out of the market.” devices that are out there, applying analytics, and developing solutions that are Global capabilities and While the focus currently is on personal designed to benefit consumers, clients, and society at large.” China’s State Grid insurance, D-rive also can be used with Deloitte Digital in the UK has been working with clients to establish real-time analytics commercial fleets. Cyber resilience begins in tools that give traffic managers the information they need to keep traffic moving. the boardroom D-rive is available to motorists whose auto insurers participate in the program. It is These tools are built to understand dynamic changes in traffic flows by mode. With HP completes largest Workday a differentiated solution because it collects data via smart phones instead of plug-in the information they provide, traffic managers can make timely interventions to HCM implementation devices, further reducing participation costs. “The app operates in the background, improve journey time reliability and alleviate congestion. and at the end of trips, drivers get feedback and learn more about their driving Innovating the audit, These tools build on current sensor capability provided by cameras, counter sites, and behaviors,” Mullaney says. Over time, as sufficient data are collected for individuals, attracting talent strategically placed adaptive traffic control system loops. Data from millions of vehicle scores are shared with insurers so they can decide if discounts are warranted. Equipping clients to manage, captures per day is processed continuously to provide a holistic view of the traffic “Millennials especially like this technology because they’re more digitally savvy and recover from crises network. Data also can be compared with vehicle databases, providing new insights not afraid to trade data for value,” Mullaney adds. “We saw in our pilot programs into vehicle journeys. Norwegian oil company that having D-rive does help make people drive more safely, and that pays off in builds a platform for growth “Our tools have intuitive and simple-to-use graphical formats to give clients a realmultiple ways.” Irish pharma company’s time view of traffic,” explains Simon Dixon, Deloitte UK Public Sector Transport leader. Seaward understands that opportunities to leverage the tremendous growth of dramatic turnaround “This is helpful during large sporting events, for example, and especially critical when embedded sensors and connected devices are almost limitless, if approached properly. trying to minimize the potential congestion caused by major construction projects.” Drivers and the Internet “Whether we’re talking public sector, insurance, retail, manufacturing, or health care, of Things Deloitte UK teams also are working with clients to develop and install digital devices translating possibilities into impact requires bringing smarter ‘things’ together with in public vehicles that monitor driving time and other measurements, protecting analytics, security, data, and integration platforms to make the disparate parts work Data privacy and security passengers and the public by making sure that their drivers meet safety regulations. seamlessly with each other,” he says. “Right now, few organizations can do that as Risk-intelligent approach They are also designed to help eliminate the potential for fraud and errors. well as Deloitte.” promotes quality Promoting water stewardship Changing driving behaviors in the paper industry A similar kind of telematics is beginning to help auto insurers adopt usage-based Deloitte named the leader in Customer insurance (UBI) that more closely aligns premium rates with driving behaviors. Strategy & Experience Consulting in the Some larger insurers have introduced devices that plug into vehicles, record driver Building careers performance, and leverage the huge amounts of data collected in ways that can UK and Ireland by Kennedy. that matter benefit both drivers and insurers. Until recently, small and midsize insurers didn’t have Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Customer Strategy and Experience Consulting in the UK & Ireland 2014. © 2014 Kennedy the scale that allowed them to offer a competing product. Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. Having influence that matters Guarding client confidentiality 32 Advanced measures let Deloitte combat cybercriminals, protect data Home A number of high-visibility cyberattacks on well-known global companies in FY2015 not only resulted in the very public dissemination of personal and confidential information, but they also served as reminders to Deloitte that data security begins at home. Making an impact that matters As a network, we must be prepared for attempted incursions from every direction. So, DTTL’s global policy on information security requires member firms to institute a wide range of security measures, covering areas such as virus protection, data Delivering service backup and recovery, encryption, password authentication, access to systems, and that matters network security. These actions are critical to safeguarding and appropriately using Cognitive computing = confidential information, confronting ongoing threats, and meeting member firm smarter, faster choices client expectations. Global capabilities and Confidentiality is not a one-time investment, or a one-off compliance or risk activity. It China’s State Grid is an ongoing, evergreen process that must be done in a holistic way; an accountwide Cyber resilience begins in transformation that enhances member firms’ ability to deliver seamless, global the boardroom client service. HP completes largest Workday To this end, DTTL currently is rolling out a Confidential Information (CI) program to its HCM implementation member firms around the globe. It is a strategic initiative, driven by network leading Innovating the audit, practices and consistent standards, aimed at safeguarding confidential information at the client account and engagement levels. Furthermore, the CI program instils attracting talent Deloitte member firm compliance with security policies is tracked through an annual a culture of accountability and proactive management of confidential information. Equipping clients to manage, information technology standards, risk, and maturity assessment. Compliance with The CI program was piloted by Deloitte US in 2014, and since then, it has been recover from crises security policies at the global hosting center level is monitored through the DTTL implemented in more than 250 member firm client accounts covering close to Global Technology Services (GTS) Security Forum. Norwegian oil company 1,000 member firm client engagements. builds a platform for growth Security strategy The bigger picture Irish pharma company’s DTTL’s Global Chief Information Security Officer works with member firms to drive Deloitte seeks to become the profession’s leader in setting the standard for dramatic turnaround implementation of a new, more aggressive information security strategy focusing protecting confidential information. The Deloitte network aspires to always operate in on the protection of member firm clients, Deloitte people, and the Deloitte brand Drivers and the Internet accordance with the highest ethical standards and in a manner that fosters trust and worldwide. The strategy guides Deloitte in: of Things inspires confidence in everything we do. Deloitte member firms are intensely active in helping business and government institutions predict, prepare for, and fight online • Creating a cohesive, worldwide program with common, consistent security services, Data privacy and security attacks and build cyber resilience. This vigilance begins internally, where it’s critical rather than disparate member firm products and implementations; Risk-intelligent approach that Deloitte protects its own data and the information it holds on its people and promotes quality • Extending security tools for advanced protection of highly distributed data worldwide; member firm clients. Promoting water stewardship • Reducing confidential data loss through practitioner actions; The regulatory environment is becoming more and more complex. Global in the paper industry organizations are increasingly subject to privacy, cyber, and industry-specific laws • Investing in security services and concentrating on cost effectiveness through impacting how they use and protect information. Privacy and information security, economies of scale, consistency, and cost savings by utilizing shared services; Building careers therefore, remain a business imperative for Deloitte and its member firm clients while • Eliciting strong member firm participation in the implementation of the strategy navigating multiple requirements and striving to ensure that Deloitte consistently through standardized global security governance and delivery. that matter protects information across the network. Having influence that matters 33 Home A global application-testing framework was adopted in FY2014, allowing greater DTTL added a new Global Confidentiality Office and chief confidentiality officer (CCO) capability in providing assurance that Deloitte’s in-house applications are protecting who reports to DTTL’s chief risk officer. The CCO’s mission is to create and sustain a client data. culture of confidentiality, built on Deloitte’s values, with confidentiality embedded in Making an impact everything Deloitte does. that matters Privacy New data-protection rules planned in Europe are likely to require organizationwide DTTL is one of the leading organizations in the world that has a CCO. Pursuant to new changes. DTTL is currently reviewing many of its internal processes to ensure its confidentiality initiatives, most member firms have already appointed and established Delivering service privacy program conforms with leading practices in accountability for data-protection CCO roles locally to drive confidentiality initiatives at the member firm level. that matters compliance. The DTTL privacy office is working closely with its public policy and Cognitive computing = regulatory teams to monitor and address new privacy developments impacting Deloitte Protecting information across jurisdictions smarter, faster choices and its member firm clients. DTTL’s information security specialists provide guidance to Because many member firm clients are multinational organizations that expect member firms to strengthen their information security regimes when necessary. seamless and safe data transfers as part of service delivery, Deloitte makes every effort Global capabilities and to serve them adeptly and professionally around the world. A core element of this China’s State Grid Education and awareness service is managing the movement and transfer of personal information and striving Cyber resilience begins in Deloitte continually provides security education programs for member firm to ensure its protection across all jurisdictions. Deloitte continues to review available the boardroom practitioners and security professionals. All GTS staff globally are required to fulfill mechanisms to facilitate and safeguard data transfers, including Binding Corporate 40 hours of annual learning, and several have obtained globally recognized security Rules (BCRs), BCRs for Processors, Safe Harbor, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation HP completes largest Workday certifications. Since October 2013, six annual regional security workshops—two (APEC) Cross-Border Privacy Rules, and privacy seals. Member firm clients rightly HCM implementation in each of the network’s three regions—have been conducted for in-house Deloitte expect that Deloitte will be able to assist them in complying with privacy laws, both Innovating the audit, security professionals. In October 2014, a weeklong global security awareness campaign now and in the future. attracting talent was held to enhance practitioner security awareness; it reached more than 80 percent Equipping clients to manage, of the Deloitte network’s global talent. recover from crises Emphasis on confidentiality Norwegian oil company As a world-class organization, there are certain things we must do exceptionally builds a platform for growth well. Safeguarding Deloitte and member firm clients’ confidential information is Irish pharma company’s a key example, and is a fundamental professional responsibility. Deloitte is in the dramatic turnaround relationship business, and trust is vital—trust that we safeguard and appropriately use Drivers and the Internet confidential information. of Things The Deloitte network is dedicated to continually improving how it safeguards and Data privacy and security protects confidential information by investing in people, processes, and technology. Like many organizations, Deloitte is aggressively assessing, testing, and adopting Risk-intelligent approach new technologies and services to understand how it can meet or exceed privacy and promotes quality security standards. Promoting water stewardship in the paper industry Building careers that matter Having influence that matters Acting ahead of change 34 Risk-intelligent approach promotes delivery of consistent, high-quality client services Home In today’s business world, risk is everywhere. Is our technology safe? How will regulatory changes impact us? Can Deloitte Making an impact professionals deliver what they promise? Could clients’ actions reflect negatively that matters on Deloitte’s reputation? Will geopolitical conflicts threaten our ability to operate? Which upstarts and innovative products, services, and delivery models could disrupt our businesses? Delivering service that matters In a world dominated by rapidly evolving technology, converging industries, and a Cognitive computing = shifting regulatory landscape, we must be smart, agile, resilient, and forward-thinking to confidently confront risk, pursue opportunities, and gain competitive advantage. smarter, faster choices During the past year, Deloitte developed a new networkwide quality and risk Global capabilities and management strategy that reinforces our quality and risk-intelligent culture, one of China’s State Grid relentless commitment to our own core and ethical values and to the public interest. Cyber resilience begins in the boardroom The bigger picture Deloitte operates in a fast-moving and ever-evolving external environment that is HP completes largest Workday increasingly more volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous to navigate. Myriad HCM implementation factors drive this change—rapidly evolving technologies; shifts in the economic, Innovating the audit, regulatory, professional, geo-political, and competitive landscapes; increasing attracting talent demands and expectations from clients; intense scrutiny by regulators and legislators; Promoting trust, confidence, and value and the 24/7 social media environment in which we live. The pace of these changes Equipping clients to manage, During FY2015, in addition to introducing the new network Q&R strategy, DTTL took almost certainly will continue to accelerate and create uncertainty and risks—and also recover from crises a number of actions to sustain the Deloitte network’s commitment to quality and many opportunities—for our clients and for the Deloitte network. risk management, and enhance its ability to be “risk intelligent” and “risk resilient.” Norwegian oil company Deloitte has developed and implemented an enterprise risk framework (Framework) They included: builds a platform for growth designed to identify, manage, monitor, and respond to risks which, if materialized, Irish pharma company’s • Continuing to enhance and support the Framework, both at the DTTL and could impact our ability to achieve our strategies and objectives—including the dramatic turnaround member firm levels; developing and issuing a member firm Framework policy and protection of our reputation and brand, and member firms’ delivery of consistent, related guidance; Drivers and the Internet high-quality services. The Framework also includes processes to regularly monitor of Things the environment for developments and changes that could impact the network’s risk • Continuing to refine and enhance the process and protocols used to sense the profile, and identify (and respond to) new and/or emerging trends that could impact external environment and reporting of potential issues, allowing member firms to Data privacy and security more proactively identify potential brand events and matters, as well as emerging its resiliency to those risks. Risk-intelligent approach risks and trends that have the potential to negatively impact our network; promotes quality Deloitte continuously assesses the adequacy of its risk management processes and programs to proactively address matters that may arise from the internal and • Continuing to raise awareness and ownership about confidentiality across the Promoting water stewardship external environment, and promotes a lessons-learned culture where professionals Deloitte network, working in close collaboration with risk, security, ethics, privacy, in the paper industry can learn from each other’s experiences. To this end, during FY2015, we developed and other key stakeholders. This included rolling out 30 uniform member firm a new network quality and risk management (Q&R) strategy that aims to take Q&R action items designed to enhance confidentiality programs across the network; and Building careers to a new level. This strategy will continue to reinforce our quality and risk-intelligent • Continuing to foster and strengthen the Deloitte risk network through the that matter culture, one of relentless commitment to Deloitte’s own core and ethical values and the dissemination of leading-edge risk workshops, tools, guidance, communication, and public interest. in-person meetings and networking activities. Having influence that matters 35 Home Globally consistent and scalable policies and processes The DTTL Policies Manual (DPM) is the central repository for policies applicable to the Making an impact Deloitte network. It provides the basis for member firms to establish and implement consistent and rigorous quality and risk management processes and procedures, and that matters sets forth policies for which member firm compliance is mandatory. These policies are applicable for all areas in a member firm’s professional and practice management Delivering service functions and are critical to providing consistent high-quality service to clients and that matters protecting and enhancing the reputation of Deloitte member firms. Among the many policies included in the DPM, there is a Framework policy whereby member firms are Cognitive computing = required to develop, implement, and document a Framework that is integrated into smarter, faster choices key member firm decision-making processes. Global capabilities and China’s State Grid These policies are also designed to help member firms address unique considerations associated with the delivery of consistent, high-quality services, while also challenging Cyber resilience begins in professionals to do the right thing under any circumstance, even if that results in the boardroom declining a prospective client, engagement, or terminating an existing client relationship. HP completes largest Workday The DPM includes a specific policy requirement for each member firm to appoint HCM implementation a senior and experienced “reputation and risk leader” (RRL) who is responsible for Innovating the audit, leading his or her member firm’s practice protection and risk management program, attracting talent Practice reviews with full support from senior risk leaders in each of the member firm’s businesses. Practice reviews serve as an inspection and monitoring mechanism and are a critical Equipping clients to manage, The RRLs are part of member firm leadership and responsible for developing and component of the Deloitte network’s system of quality control and risk management. recover from crises implementing robust, comprehensive, and strategic risk management programs, Each member firm is responsible for conducting its own practice reviews under the including appropriate policies and procedures to address specific quality-control Norwegian oil company guidance and oversight of DTTL. Held at least once every three years, these reviews considerations. They also must implement consistent monitoring procedures to builds a platform for growth assess whether member firms comply, at a minimum, with DPM policies and are ascertain compliance with DPM policies and procedures, and promote and facilitate operating effectively in practice. Practice reviews also assess the quality of work Irish pharma company’s risk management learning. DPM policies can be supplemented by member firm performed and services delivered by the member firms. dramatic turnaround policies that take into consideration local market practices, local laws, and regulations within their jurisdictions. Findings and recommendations arising from the practice reviews are presented in a Drivers and the Internet of Things report and management letter to DTTL and the member firm’s leadership. In response to the report, the member firm is required, if needed, to establish a detailed and Data privacy and security corrective action plan that addresses the findings and recommendations, together Risk-intelligent approach with a mechanism for monitoring the resolution of the findings. Implementation of promotes quality the action plan is proactively monitored by the member firm and DTTL. Promoting water stewardship Practice review processes are continuously enhanced to raise the bar on quality and in the paper industry risk management, and to promote and achieve greater consistency in the delivery of high-quality services across the network. Building careers that matter Having influence that matters Making waves in water stewardship 36 Tailored tool helps Smurfit Kappa assess and mitigate risks from water scarcity Home Water is an important resource input in the pulp and paper industry. During the paper-making process, most of the water withdrawn from surface or groundwater is returned to its source, with about 10 percent of the water “consumed.” Given the Global CEO and increasing importance of water globally, companies are now developing strategies to Chairman letter manage this precious resource. One of the organizations focused on addressing water related risks is Smurfit Kappa, Delivering service Europe’s leading corrugated packaging company and one of the leading providers of that matters paper-based packaging solutions in the world. “Smurfit Kappa, and companies like it, Cognitive computing = are seeking to implement water stewardship strategies to evaluate operational risks smarter, faster choices and costs associated with disruptions to their water supplies and to identify actions to mitigate these risks,” says Olivier Jan, partner, Deloitte France, Sustainability Services. Global capabilities and China’s State Grid Assessing the risk Cyber resilience begins in In May 2014, the manufacturer approached Deloitte France to conduct a waterthe boardroom related risk assessment across Smurfit Kappa’s global industrial operations throughout FY2015. The member firm enlisted the assistance of BIO by Deloitte—Deloitte France’s HP completes largest Workday Sustainability Services center of excellence—and Will Sarni, director and practice HCM implementation leader of Deloitte US’s enterprise water strategy. “Assessing potential risks from water Innovating the audit, availability and quality is a complex process, which covers multiple aspects specific to Fresh water is critical to the paper-making process. Deloitte France is working with Smurfit attracting talent each geographical location, such as physical scarcity, regulatory issues—and influence Kappa to help the paper manufacturer mitigate risks of disruption to its water supply. Equipping clients to manage, of external stakeholders,” Sarni explains. recover from crises In the first phase of the project, 36 Smurfit Kappa mills were screened for waterNorwegian oil company related risks using traditional tools and methods. In the second phase—where the builds a platform for growth scope is limited to mills which present a significant potential risk of water availability— on-site assessments are being performed using a tool built and owned by Deloitte Irish pharma company’s France that is designed specifically for Smurfit Kappa to use for its mills. “This dramatic turnaround customized tool allows us to tailor the assessments to the company’s specificities and Drivers and the Internet challenges, confirm the potential vulnerability of individual mills, and initiate local of Things monitoring and mitigation plans,” Jan says. These assessments include the collection Data privacy and security of data on the mills’ operations, in-depth discussion with local managers, and engagement with external stakeholders. Evaluations of company mills are ongoing. Risk-intelligent approach promotes quality “Smurfit Kappa will use these assessments to help us identify whether our most Promoting water stewardship strategic industrial assets—and the investments we contemplate for those facilities— might be at risk in the medium-term future due to potential limited availability of in the paper industry water resources, and how we could monitor and mitigate those risks,” says Steven Stoffer, Smurfit Kappa’s group vice president, Development. “Very few companies Building careers have taken steps to assess local risks with such care. Through this proactive approach, that matter with Deloitte France’s help, we are in a better position to set the standard for the paper-based packaging industry.” Having influence that matters 37 Building careers Home Making an impact that matter that matters We inspire our people to deliver value—mentoring and developing future leaders and colleagues for life. Delivering service The most successful organizations today are those characterized by inspiring that matters leaders, a clearly articulated purpose, and professionals who are passionate about bringing that purpose to life. At Deloitte, we have made the development of inspirational, world-class leaders, at all levels, the cornerstone of our global Watch Deloitte Global CEO Punit Renjen Building careers that matter talent strategy. explain how Deloitte helps its people Developing leaders and Our vision is to develop purpose-led leaders who are deeply committed to build careers that matter. their ideas the ideal of making an impact that matters—with member firm clients, their colleagues, their communities, and in our profession. Helping purpose-driven professionals thrive To achieve our vision, the Deloitte network continues to make significant Keeping Deloitte’s people safe investments in the design and delivery of an inclusive, world-class learning and secure experience. Through Deloitte University, we provide enriching experiences for Deloitte people and create a place where leaders thrive and ideas prosper. Having influence In addition to Deloitte University, Deloitte encourages its people to take on that matters experiences in new markets or service areas to expand their expertise and leadership skills. These diverse experiences not only enhance the quality and consistency of clients’ experiences with Deloitte, but they also reinforce the inclusive and collaborative culture that allows our professionals to succeed. Deloitte’s leaders are driven to unlock people’s potential through mentorship, lifelong learning, and flexible work and career solutions that meet the changing needs of Deloitte’s businesses and people. They treat leadership as a privilege, and are dedicated to creating truly distinctive client and talent experiences that foster a strong sense of purpose and motivate people to deliver beyond expectations. Investing in Deloitte people 38 An inclusive talent experience that appeals to both the head and the heart Home Do inspired people come up with great ideas? Or do great ideas inspire people? At Deloitte, the questions are not mutually exclusive. Our network is committed to helping its people reach their full leadership potential—confident that their Making an impact professional experiences will spark innovations that motivate others. that matters New ideas are valued across Deloitte’s member firms; the best ones are funded, Delivering service cultivated, and allowed to mature. Deloitte UK, for example, has a program to create Watch Margot Thom, Deloitte named a and grow new businesses based on the ideas of its people, backed by a budget of up that matters to US$39.3 million. Deloitte Canada’s search for ground-breaking ideas offers a winning Chief Talent Officer, global leader in Talent team a cash prize and up to US$160,000 in seed money to implement its concept. At Deloitte Global, discuss Management Consulting Building careers Deloitte Brazil, 18 innovative projects were submitted by local professionals and received investments to be developed; five of these projects are new solutions to go to market. the value of leadership by Kennedy. that matter Developing leaders and And 20 cross-industry, marketable ideas have been created for development within the development and the Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Talent Management Consulting Deloitte US Technology Consulting practice through the StartUp Deloitte program. their ideas Deloitte talent experience. 2015. © 2015 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. “Throughout our network, Deloitte has more than 220,000 bright and creative people Helping purpose-driven who understand their clients and their markets. This deep insight is also a wellspring professionals thrive of innovative ideas. We owe it to Deloitte professionals and clients to invest in the Keeping Deloitte’s people safe most impactful ones,” says Frank Vettese, Managing Partner and Chief Executive, and secure Both inside the classroom and afterward, Deloitte Canada. “And to ensure our continued market leadership, we must also invest in the people who generate those ideas.” this is an extremely collaborative, immersive atmosphere which connects a diverse group Having influence “Deloitte people aspire to make an impact that matters, and in return, they expect of people to share their experiences and that matters opportunities to build leadership capabilities, develop new skills and be challenged ideas for continuous improvement, especially each and every day through the work they do and the talented professionals in relation to Deloitte clients and teams.” they work with,” adds Margot Thom, Chief Talent Officer, Deloitte Global. “As an “After a while, we realized that DU organization, Deloitte is dedicated to creating an experience that allows its people to could be a place to develop leaders and thrive and grow.” innovate,” adds Jennifer Steinmann, Chief Developing leaders and innovation Transformation Officer, Deloitte US. “What As classrooms go, few can match those at Deloitte University (DU). Through a core if we could use the collective power of all curriculum and multiple regional facilities, DU focuses on growing leadership skills at these talented individuals to help solve the every level of the organization. During FY2015, close to 65,000 Deloitte professionals world’s most vexing problems?” That’s how across the regions experienced Deloitte University, and more than 2,000 member firm “Wicked Problems” was born. “Wicked partners, principals, and directors led Deloitte University programs. Problems is a structured process that uses ‘design thinking’ to apply our deep talent “The real strength of the Deloitte University experience is how it supports passing to some of the biggest challenges our practical knowledge, professional and personal experience, and our values from world faces today—complex, urgent, and Consulting Summer Scholars brainstorm ideas to end bullying during a Wicked generation to generation of Deloitte leaders,” says Jorrit Volkers, Dean, Deloitte persistent problems that have no readily Problems session at Deloitte University. University EMEA. “At DU, Deloitte people experience and benefit from leading-edge apparent solutions,” Steinmann explains. learning from leaders in the classroom at key moments throughout their careers. 39 Home One issue addressed this past year by the DU Wicked Problems team at the Westlake, INVESTING IN RECRUITING Texas (US) campus was employee wellness, because ailing workers cost the American 1.9 MILLION economy US$153 billion annually. Ideas solicited from more than 2,500 Deloitte US Making an impact professionals during a three-month period were shared with the Clinton Foundation, that matters the sponsor of the exercise, to help advance thinking in the field. From the hundreds of ideas generated in five separate sessions, one idea from each was deemed the APPLICATIONS ANNUALLY Delivering service winner by the Clinton Foundation based on scalability, impact, and novelty. “I’m 151 that matters excited about this program, and the quality of the ideas coming out of it,” says Alex Chan, Associate Director, National Strategy, Clinton Foundation. “The ideas are strong and can be put into practice to help advance what we are trying to achieve at the Building careers Clinton Foundation.” that matter APPLICANTS PER OPEN POSITION Wicked Problems has recently launched two new campaigns, one that challenges Developing leaders and participants to address women and minority participation in science, technology, 16,000 their ideas engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields; and one focused on bullying prevention. Helping purpose-driven professionals thrive Auditing the learning experience While both virtual and physical classroom instruction are essential, there is no INTERNSHIPS Keeping Deloitte’s people safe substitute for on-the-job development. Deloitte UK recently introduced a program, and secure Engagement Team Based Learning, to help its auditors recognize the daily education they’re receiving and understand how they contribute to the success of the practice INVESTING IN LEARNING Having influence and engagement teams. “Through this initiative, Audit partners and managers are 65,000 that matters required to discuss key learning messages with team members and apply those messages to their specific client engagements,” says Chris Powell, Deloitte Global Audit Talent Leader. “It has provided great opportunities for focused team discussions and targeting areas to improve engagement quality, ensuring that we are ‘getting it right’ the first time.” DELOITTE PROFESSIONALS ACROSS THE REGIONS EXPERIENCED DELOITTE UNIVERSITY Deloitte Australia has a similar program, called “10 Ways,” that aims to “fundamentally change the DNA of a Deloitte auditor,” according to Powell. The programs stresses 10 activities, which become behaviors, which become habits, which become culture. “The 10 Ways program not only produces better insights and solutions, and more meaningful interactions with member firm clients, but it also creates a consistent 2,000 understanding of risks, issues, and the audit plan,” Powell says. MEMBER FIRM PARTNERS, PRINCIPALS, AND DIRECTORS LED DELOITTE UNIVERSITY PROGRAMS 2.4 MILLION E-LEARNING COMPLETIONS RECORDED IN THE LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 40 Home Pairing military, business vets FY2015 MOBILITY Deloitte US practitioners also make an impact that matters among military veterans. 6,340 Making an impact The Deloitte University campus in Westlake is the site of the Career Opportunity Redefinition and Exploration (CORE) leadership program, which helps veterans learn that matters how to identify and articulate their unique strengths, build personal brands through social media and networking, and master job interviews. “When their military Delivering service service is over and veterans return home to establish civilian careers, many encounter MOBILITY that matters challenges entering the workforce,” explains Terry Bickham, the program’s dean. ASSIGNMENTS “CORE helps armed forces members and veterans translate their skills, knowledge, and experiences into a business environment.” Building careers 900 that matter As part of The White House Joining Forces Initiative, Deloitte US committed to doubling its veteran hiring over a three-year period; it met that goal in only two Developing leaders and years. Challenged to do more, Deloitte US created the three-day personalized CORE their ideas learning program, where Deloitte US leaders provide guidance, and member firm Helping purpose-driven client representatives offer perspectives and advice on what they look for when hiring MOBILITY professionals thrive veterans. Since 2013, more than 350 veterans have participated, and as of May 2015, 95 percent of those actively in the job market found employment. OPPORTUNITIES Keeping Deloitte’s people safe and secure POSTED PER DAY “Working with veterans also has a profound impact on many of the Deloitte coaches; the teaching and learning goes both ways,” Bickham says. “In business, we talk about Having influence being ‘on the front line’ and ‘in the trenches,’ but these veterans literally were, and the Figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. that matters shared experiences help Deloitte people become even better leaders.” Member firms also have formalized mobility and international experience programs that expose their professionals to new ideas and cultures while they serve the needs of global clients. During FY2015, more than 6,000 Deloitte professionals gained diverse, on-the-job experience through shortand long-term mobility assignments and global client projects. These opportunities help create well-rounded leaders who are assets to the entire network. “Deloitte makes investments in its professionals’ learning that appeal to both the head and the heart,” adds Thom. “Our innovative and flexible learning approaches Deloitte US is celebrating span from the DU classrooms to the daily work experience. By promoting a culture of its 16th year on Fortune continual learning, Deloitte enables its professionals to up their games in delivering outstanding value to their clients.” magazine’s list of “100 Best Companies to Work For.” Source: Fortune, March 2015. Helping purpose-driven talent thrive 41 “You can change the world and have a business career” Home It’s difficult to overestimate the influence the internet has had on the world. Sure, it’s changed the way we communicate, shop, research, learn, and entertain ourselves. But, on a deeper level, it’s altered how many of us think and relate to the world Making an impact around us, breaking down barriers and exposing causes in ways that weren’t possible that matters a generation ago. Delivering service One result of this evolution is the purpose-driven professional. For six in 10 young Watch Simon Hammett, Companies are finding workers, a “sense of purpose” is part of the reason they chose to join their current that matters employers, according to DTTL’s 2015 Millennial survey. And they’re not alone; Gen Xers Life Sciences & Health ways to link talent and veteran talent also are increasingly seeking opportunities to make an impact on the Care UK & EMEA development and Building careers world around them both through the work they do and endeavors outside the office. that matter Leader, Deloitte UK, rewarding, purpose-driven “Leading universities now offer courses in social entrepreneurship, impact investing, Developing leaders and social-enterprise management, and social innovation. That’s creating a new pool talk about the value of work. To learn more, their ideas of professionals who can operate in both the business and social-sector realms,” our talent experience to read, “The purpose-driven explains Margot Thom, Chief Talent Officer, Deloitte Global. “The call and promise is, Helping purpose-driven ‘You can change the world and have a business career.’ That’s especially appealing clients. professional,” published by professionals thrive to millennials, who are looking for work that elicits passion and helps them pursue Deloitte University Press. Keeping Deloitte’s people safe professional, personal, and social goals simultaneously.” and secure Business skills, social impact FY2015 IMPACT DAY Having influence One such career calling is cybersecurity. Many young job seekers see the havoc wreaked on society by cyber-based terrorism, computer intrusions, and cyber fraud, that matters and decide they can make an impact that matters for consumers, economies, and even national security. Several Deloitte member firms host “hackathon” events to give tech-minded students venues to demonstrate their talents, while providing valuable insights into the 62,000 challenges and rewards that await those who choose a cybersecurity career. The Deloitte US Cyber Risk Services practice joined with the US’s Deloitte Foundation to host one such event in April 2015. Students representing 10 of the top universities in the US competed against their peers and other schools for top honors, which went to NUMBER OF PEOPLE the team from the University of Southern California. A second event with 15 teams is VOLUNTEERING DURING scheduled for late 2015. IMPACT DAY Deloitte Digital in the UK member firm ran a similar “hackathon” competition, called “Gone Hacking,” to identify ideas to disrupt and transform the financial services industry. Participants on 14 teams had 48 hours to develop and present their solutions to a panel of industry leaders, who helped refine participants’ ideas. The most impressive concepts were awarded prizes and some participants were encouraged to apply to Deloitte UK’s BrightStart training program, which helps talented students develop a successful business careers. Figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. 42 Home “Events like these not only provide great experiences for participating students, but After taking a four-month sabbatical to work as a volunteer consultant in several they also help member firms develop a pipeline of talented recruits who otherwise countries in Southern Africa, Wong returned to a new emerging-markets role that let may not have considered a career at Deloitte,” says Jonathan Gray, Partner, Deloitte him apply his volunteer experiences to his work. Today, he is embedded at Deloitte Making an impact Digital, Deloitte U.K. US’s newly launched Social Impact Strategy practice, helping public-, private-, and that matters social-sector clients maximize their social impact. “My story is an example of the Not an either/or proposition varied opportunities that are available at Deloitte,” he says. “While transitions Delivering service For those who want to have even more direct involvement in social-impact activities, like mine aren’t always simple, with leadership support, I’ve been able to align Deloitte member firms have long histories of offering professionals the ability to mix my work and my societal interests in a way that helps me make an impact that is that matters paid and pro bono assignments, be “seconded” to not-for-profits, take sabbaticals to truly satisfying.” help at social enterprises, and perform other skill-based volunteering. Networkwide, Building careers during FY2015, Deloitte professionals dedicated more than 340,000 hours to pro The flexibility and socially focused conviction that appeals to millennials is beginning that matter bono assignments and more than 820,000 hours to volunteering. to attract nontraditional talent to Deloitte, as well. “A number of fundamental shifts are impacting traditional notions of employment, requiring organizations to take a Developing leaders and The concept of pursuing maximum financial, social, and environmental impacts much more flexible approach to attracting and retaining talent. For instance, there is their ideas has gained traction throughout the Deloitte network. “This has provided more a growing population that prefers to be self-employed so that they can choose the Helping purpose-driven opportunities for purpose-driven professionals to pursue personal pursuits while types of assignments they prefer and have the autonomy to manage their own work professionals thrive working within the corporate world,” Thom says. and schedules,” Thom says. Keeping Deloitte’s people safe Nate Wong is one of those people. Wong, a Deloitte US manager in the Social Impact “Several member firms have begun experimenting with flexible talent models to and secure Strategy practice, once spent two weeks in Brazil working with a nonprofit group attract the specific skills and experience Deloitte needs to deliver on its business that serves disadvantaged youth in poverty-stricken favelas. The experience sparked aspirations,” she continues. “We have to explore every avenue to ensure Deloitte Having influence an interest in international development that made him question his career path. “I can provide an exceptional experience to its clients while recognizing professionals’ actually thought about leaving my consulting job, until I realized I could pursue my evolving choices about how, where, and when they work.” that matters passions and remain with Deloitte US,” Wong says. The open talent economy is a collaborative, transparent, technology-enabled, rapid-cycle way of doing business. To learn more, read, “The Open Talent Economy: People and work in the borderless economy.” Protecting professionals near and far 43 From insurgency to medical urgency, Deloitte Global Security measures up Home For the Deloitte firm in Nigeria, the Boko Haram insurgency isn’t some grim situation Keeping Deloitte people safe in a faraway land. The 6-year-old conflict presents a threat to the security of the firm’s The GSO team tracks world events on a daily basis for potential impacts on Deloitte’s clients and professionals. people and member firms. Whenever a crisis occurs, the GSO, in conjunction with Making an impact DTTL’s Global Crisis Management Team, responds swiftly to help member firms that matters In response, the firm developed the Deloitte Beacon mobile app, a safety and account for the safety of their people, provide necessary relief, and resume normal emergency response solution that helps Deloitte security staff in Nigeria determine business operations as soon as possible. at a glance if its personnel are in danger and act immediately. It also lets Deloitte Delivering service professionals report incidents to the security office in Nigeria and alert nearby peers Threats come in many sizes and forms, including geopolitical instability, crime, and that matters with the touch of a button. The app functions in both internet and SMS mode, natural disasters. “We responded to a range of crisis events, from earthquakes in enabling it to work even when a user has no internet access. northern Chile to ongoing instability throughout the Middle East during the past Building careers year,” Almay says. Health emergencies also can affect Deloitte people while traveling Government and nongovernment agencies, as well as Deloitte clients, can purchase that matter Deloitte Beacon from the Nigeria firm and use it to monitor the safety of their people or assigned overseas, so DTTL maintains 24-hour resources delivered by a leading emergency medical and security provider. “In FY2015 alone, the GSO team responded Developing leaders and anywhere in the world. to more than 170 medical-assistance cases, several of which involved serious medical their ideas Security is a paramount concern for global organizations whose people work in or travel conditions or accidents necessitating emergency air evacuations,” notes Almay. Helping purpose-driven to areas where they may be at risk—not only from civil unrest, but also from natural professionals thrive disasters or other troubling events. The DTTL Global Security Office takes these risks and Risk awareness for travelers Keeping Deloitte’s people safe the protection of Deloitte professionals very seriously, and has a comprehensive program On an average day, Deloitte member firms may have more than 20,000 people and secure in place to work with member firms to address ever-present threats around the globe. traveling to serve clients. The GSO provided guidance and security planning support in FY2015 to more than 912 member firm engagement teams considering work in The bigger picture potentially troublesome areas of the world. As part of DTTL’s global travel security Having influence The primary focus of the DTTL Global Security Office (GSO) is to work with member protocols, member firms are encouraged to incorporate security into their travel that matters firms to keep Deloitte people safe, particularly during times of emergency or when programs and consult with the GSO before undertaking travel to high-risk locations. they are called upon by clients to work in higher-risk areas. A comprehensive program When member firm engagement teams cannot avoid traveling to high-risk locations, has been put in place to address ever-present threats around the globe. “With assistance provided to engagement teams can range from designing comprehensive Deloitte’s ever-increasing global footprint in more than 150 countries and a high security plans, including location-specific security briefings, hotel and transportation volume of travelers, GSO team members stand ready to help keep our people safe,” recommendations, on-the-ground project logistics, and direct security support, as says Ted Almay, DTTL Global Security Officer. needed. In doing so, a network of specialized security providers based in many highDuring FY2015, the GSO continued efforts to further integrate its regional security risk locations is available to assist. managers through member firm visits, meetings with country leaders, and the The GSO continues to work with member firms to raise the awareness of Deloitte formation of local security councils made up of member firm security officers in people to ensure they are aware of particular risks before they travel. GSO offers a each region. During the past year, the GSO also added a business continuity senior “Know Before You Go” series of general-travel and country-specific e-learning courses manager to work with member firms to enhance their overall resiliency and formed and videos. The GSO team is always looking for new approaches to inform Deloitte global working groups composed of member firm security leaders to improve the professionals, and there are plans to leverage technologies, such as online videos, to consistency of member firm background screening and physical security measures. appeal to Deloitte’s mobile population. The GSO team leverages the infrastructure and best practices of the largest member Deloitte professionals have access to a comprehensive travel security website firms through the formation of a global steering committee. Security professionals from containing the latest security bulletins, assessments, country risk ratings and other GSO and DTTL’s three largest member firms comprise the group, which serves in an resources for travelers. DTTL also uses a mobile application from its emergency advisory role to help build out the organization’s global security strategy. This committee services provider that allows Deloitte practitioners to receive the latest security and supplements the existing Global Security Council, which is a network of Deloitte security health alerts and to access other resources. and risk professionals and other leaders from the majority of Deloitte member firms. 44 Having influence Home Making an impact that matters that matters We contribute to society, building confidence and trust, upholding integrity, and supporting the community. Delivering service Back in 1856, a little more than a decade after starting his own accounting that matters firm, William Deloitte made a name for himself by exposing fraud in the railroad industry and inventing a system to protect investors from mismanagement of funds. His commitment to servant leadership—to being a force for good—lives on Watch Deloitte Global CEO Punit Renjen Building careers that matter today as a core element of Deloitte’s culture. talk about why Deloitte aspires to be The impact of that commitment, though, is now felt on a much larger stage than a role model of quality, integrity, and Having influence William Deloitte could ever have imagined. The Deloitte network uses the strength positive change, and works to help that matters of its global network to help shape society and drive change that matters. solve the toughest global challenges. Japan’s post-disaster economy We treat our role in society as a privilege, and lead by example and positive influence that is exercised in a variety of ways. Strengthening humanitarian response to crises We contribute to society through the work we do. Deloitte fills the vital role of the Scaling innovative independent auditor, maintaining the integrity of the financial reporting process education solutions and preserving the public’s trust in our capital markets. Deloitte’s consulting services offer innovative solutions that help businesses thrive, which is essential The Edge: An office unlike for a healthy, vibrant economy and society. Through these and other services, any other member firm professionals help their clients successfully handle a broad range Regulatory and public of risks, crises, and complex challenges, strengthening their businesses and policy engagement protecting their customers. Ethics: Delivering quality Governments, nongovernmental organizations, and other businesses look and integrity to Deloitte for our knowledge, skills, and experience in tackling increasingly Independence: Preserving the difficult economic, regulatory, and social issues. When Deloitte leaders and public’s trust professionals share opinions on public policy and regulatory matters with decision makers, together, we advance economic growth and the social mobility of Reporting process people worldwide. and materiality Metrics Every day, Deloitte people are making a real impact in the places they live and work. From delivering pro bono support to nonprofits and helping young Basis of reporting people develop employability skills, to strengthening communities in the wake Stakeholder engagement of a disaster and driving measurement beyond GDP to tackle social challenges, summary Deloitte is focused on the issues that matter most. Deloitte prides itself on doing not only what is good for clients, but also what is good for our people and the communities in which we live and work—always striving to be an organization that is held up as a role model of quality, integrity, and positive change. Investing in post-disaster innovation 45 Promise of economic resurgence drives Deloitte Japan’s social mission Home In March 2011, three connected disasters devastated the world’s third-largest economy, resulting in a recovery bill that could reach US$250 billion or more. Twenty prefectures in Japan took a direct hit from the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, Making an impact tsunami, and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident. But, the economic impact of the that matters triple disaster was borne—and is still being felt—throughout the country. “These events devastated small businesses, destroyed factories, disrupted supply Delivering service chains in Japan and abroad, and caused power shortages across the country,” that matters says Masatoshi Tanifuji, leader of the Deloitte Japan Reconstruction Support Team. “Many businesses could not recover. Those that survived lost many customers. Building careers Some companies decided to permanently relocate to other parts of the world. And that matter our government may be forced to increase public debt to pay for the recovery. The economic impact of the disasters will be felt for many years to come.” Having influence Deloitte Japan, which played a broad and active humanitarian role in the wake of that matters the disasters, continues to provide revival and restoration support for its clients and pro bono services in disaster-affected areas. But, the firm’s focus has expanded to “Morning Pitch” events held by Tohmatsu Venture Support bring startups and large enterprises Japan’s post-disaster economy together to explore potential collaborations. recognize the broader need to rebuild a national economy crippled by those events. Strengthening humanitarian “We want to do more than simply help disaster-affected areas recover. Our goal is to response to crises help create a nationwide economic rebirth by nurturing innovation,” Tanifuji says. “We have ample resources and professional skills to invest in Japan’s communities, and can Contributing in multiple ways Scaling innovative While nurturing innovation across Japan is critical to the nation’s economic make a tremendous societal impact by leveraging our business capabilities.” education solutions recovery, it’s especially necessary to stimulate business in the disaster’s hardest-hit The Edge: An office unlike Rallying around entrepreneurs areas. Deloitte Japan is doing that through its Reconstruction Support Team and any other The assistance Deloitte Japan’s subsidiary, Tohmatsu Venture Support (TVS), offers Tohoku Future Creation Initiative. The firm’s six-month talent-nurturing program, entrepreneurs and new startups is a noteworthy example of this commitment. Each for example, has helped develop 110 promising business leaders in the region. Regulatory and public week, TVS holds a “Morning Pitch” event throughout Japan, giving startups a chance The six-month program includes sessions in finance, marketing, leadership, and policy engagement to pitch to an audience of big companies, investors, and media that typically numbers management strategy, and culminates with Deloitte Japan Reconstruction Support Ethics: Delivering quality 150. The purpose of the event is to facilitate business alliances between startups and Team professionals helping participants formulate their business plans. Deloitte Japan’s and integrity big companies. devoted contribution to this program won a national pro bono award in 2014. Independence: Preserving the In association with the Japan Association of Corporate Executives, Deloitte Japan TVS also offers startups services that include support with sales, public relations, public’s trust professionals in the region also are helping revive fisheries, as well as leading fundraising, hiring, training, and overseas expansion. “We provide our services Reporting process as pro bono support because we believe that growth of startups will boost the agriculture, forestry, tourism, and manufacturing companies. and materiality Japanese economy,” says Takao Yoshimura, TVS Chief Executive Officer. “By giving While addressing the larger, economic issues, the firm’s professionals have not Metrics these startups access to investors and others through the Morning Pitch events, forgotten the individuals who still face hardships as a result of the disasters. Deloitte we significantly enhance and increase their business options and have helped many Basis of reporting Japan partners and staff continue to have donations to charitable organizations achieve their goal of having an initial public offering.” deducted from their pay. To date, more than US$600,000 has been raised to benefit Stakeholder engagement children who lost their caregivers in the catastrophe. “We see Japan’s economic To date, TVS has helped more than 2,000 startups not only achieve success, but also summary rebirth and continuing societal needs as major challenges,” Tanifuji says. “But, more contribute to a local and national revival. A few of those startups already have crossed into global markets. importantly, we see them as our social mission.” Reaching out with purpose 46 Deloitte professionals’ business skills elevate global humanitarian efforts Home One place is tropical, the other arid. One is torn by nature, the other by war. One has about 2 million people living on 25,000 low-lying islands, the other has seen about 2 million children among those forced to flee its predominantly landlocked borders. Making an impact that matters The South Pacific and Syria are separated by 16,000 kilometers and a long list of physical and social contrasts. But, they have at least one thing in common— humanitarian needs that require innovative solutions. In the South Pacific, more Delivering service frequent and intense cyclones are the culprit, disrupting livelihoods and upsetting a that matters fragile infrastructure. In Syria, armed conflict is driving families from their homes to other parts of the nation and to neighboring countries in search of safe haven. Building careers Deloitte professionals are providing support in both crisis situations. Deloitte New that matter Zealand is working with Oxfam New Zealand (Oxfam NZ) to co-create innovative solutions to deliver post-cyclone relief to multiple countries in the Pacific region while Having influence Deloitte Middle East is supporting Syrian refugee response. that matters The connection with Oxfam NZ was made through the Deloitte Humanitarian Japan’s post-disaster economy Innovation Program. “This program paired Deloitte New Zealand member firm Strengthening humanitarian professionals with humanitarian organizations, enabling the Deloitte network to have response to crises a role in co-creating and scaling innovative solutions to the sector’s most pressing challenges,” says David Pearson, Deloitte’s Global Chief Sustainability Officer. Scaling innovative Deloitte New Zealand teamed up with Oxfam New Zealand to improve disaster relief in the education solutions Conquering a logistical challenge Pacific. The Edge: An office unlike Following a disaster, the priority for Oxfam NZ—part of Oxfam’s international any other confederation of 17 organizations working in more than 90 countries—is to get clean water, sanitation, and hygiene packs to communities. That’s easier said than Regulatory and public done, given geographic and infrastructure challenges that make it difficult to reach policy engagement vulnerable, remote island communities across the Pacific. Ethics: Delivering quality and integrity The Deloitte New Zealand member firm used its supply chain skills and insights to co-develop a logistics framework and management plans for disaster support and Independence: Preserving the relief throughout the vast region. “The framework considers the movement of aid public’s trust following a disaster from the point of supply to the point of entry into each affected Reporting process country,” explains David Lovatt, Consulting partner, Deloitte New Zealand. “This Deloitte named a leader and materiality approach is designed to improve the effectiveness of a response by reducing the in Supply Chain Strategy costs, reducing the time, and improving the quantity and quality of aid.” Metrics & Planning by Kennedy. Basis of reporting While developed specifically for Oxfam NZ’s requirements, Oxfam aims to scale the Source: Kennedy Consulting Research framework within its broad network and among NGOs across the Pacific region. “By & Advisory; Supply Chain Strategy & Stakeholder engagement sharing the learnings with the wider humanitarian community, Oxfam will help enable Planning Consulting 2014. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. summary others to act more cohesively in the wake of a disaster, and ultimately reach more people with lifesaving support,” Lovatt says. 47 Home Reaching displaced women and children Syria is home to one of the largest humanitarian emergencies of our era. Millions of Making an impact school-aged children have been forced to abandon their educations and sometimes their families to escape danger. Getting basic necessities to Syrian refugees is just one that matters of many priorities within the humanitarian community. Deloitte Middle East (DME) decided to make an impact by focusing on educating and empowering the women Delivering service and children who have been impacted most by the ongoing conflict in the area. that matters DME’s Syrian refugee program, working with local and international organizations, addresses needs through home-based study, skills building, activities for children, and Building careers funding for basic necessities. The firm currently is looking to expand the scope of the that matter program beyond Syrian refugees in Lebanon to reach refugees in Jordan and Syria by helping set up classrooms in refugee camps, providing accounting courses, offering skill-building workshops via technology boot camps, and implementing other DME Having influence initiatives, such as the Digital Youth Program. that matters Japan’s post-disaster economy “Over the years, we impacted the lives of thousands of Arab children by focusing our DME corporate responsibility agenda on skill-building and entrepreneurial Strengthening humanitarian programs,” explains Rana Salhab DME Talent and Communications Partner. “We are response to crises now working on innovative programs that affect vulnerable Syrian refugee youth and Scaling innovative women in multiple countries. The world and our region cannot ignore the crisis and Deloitte Middle East is providing educational opportunities for children displaced by the education solutions consequences resulting from a lost generation of young Syrians.” ongoing conflict in Syria. The Edge: An office unlike Disaster relief any other FY2015 HUMANITARIAN ACTION Some crises, like the one in Syria, unfold over several years. Others transpire quickly. 48 HUMANITARIAN Regulatory and public The Ebola outbreak in West Africa and the earthquake in Nepal are two such events policy engagement that caused Deloitte professionals to mobilize during the past fiscal year. ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTED Ethics: Delivering quality In the wake of the Ebola outbreak, DTTL made a significant donation to the U.N. and integrity secretary-general’s Ebola Multi-Partner Trust Fund, which directed support toward the Independence: Preserving the greatest identified needs of the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response public’s trust (UNMEER). And within hours of the 25 April tremor that ravaged the central and western regions of Nepal and parts of northern India, Deloitte US professionals created an internal Reporting process Yammer group encouraging their colleagues and the Deloitte US member firm to donate and materiality much-needed funds. Deloitte US contributed US$200,000 and opened an employeeMetrics match contribution fund. Many other Deloitte member firms also made donations and ran employee-giving campaigns to raise funds for charitable organizations working Basis of reporting on the relief efforts. In total, DTTL and Deloitte member firms donated more than Stakeholder engagement US$760,000 to charitable organizations working on relief efforts in Nepal. summary “In recent years, the Deloitte network has contributed generously to support those in need following humanitarian disasters,” Pearson says. “But, the initiative from Deloitte people to take action and support those affected in the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake was truly inspiring.” Figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. A step in the right direction 48 Deloitte tackles youth unemployment by scaling innovative education ideas Home There are 75 million unemployed young people in the world, and the economic and social costs of this are immense. It’s an international challenge that requires the continued attention of government, nonprofits, and businesses to create effective Making an impact solutions in a rapidly changing environment. that matters “By using and combining their core capabilities, these groups can have a tremendous impact on youth unemployment, inequality, and the skills gap that threaten Delivering service social stability and economic progress,” says David Pearson, Deloitte Global Chief that matters Sustainability Officer. “Deloitte and others in the business community have a specific and collective responsibility to promote the advancement of young people in society Building careers because of the growing needs for talented, skilled employees that will only get more that matter acute as time goes on.” Since 2009, Deloitte has been committed to identifying and investing in innovative Having influence solutions that enhance access to education and employability. In FY2015, Deloitte that matters contributed more than 380,000 hours to education and skills activities, reaching more than 390,000 young people. “The core capability we bring to the table is the ability Japan’s post-disaster economy to scale solutions. This is how Deloitte member firms can make the greatest impact,” Strengthening humanitarian Pearson says. “We search the globe for great ideas, then we use Deloitte resources response to crises and relationships to help expand those ideas and drive outcomes that reach the most Scaling innovative people possible.” 2015 RightStep Innovation Prize finalists included education solutions Finding successful solutions The Edge: An office unlike Beyond12, iMentor, Strive for College, and uAspire— Deloitte US leaders sought to recognize and support an innovative education any other organization that was achieving outcomes in the primary and secondary space, innovative education organizations that have made Regulatory and public but may be facing challenges in scaling its programs. To identify the organization, meaningful impacts in advancing education outcomes policy engagement Deloitte US launched the RightStep™ Innovation Prize in November 2014. Offering US$100,000 in cash, US$100,000 in pro bono services, and access to Deloitte US’s through technology. Ethics: Delivering quality ecosystem of professionals volunteering support to the winner, the call for entrants and integrity attracted 116 nonprofit and for-profit organizations with a social mission in education. Independence: Preserving the The competition featured three rounds of intensive screenings and involved more public’s trust than 100 Deloitte US professionals. In April 2015, five finalists presented to a group of Reporting process judges, composed of senior Deloitte US leadership. Texas-based Reasoning Mind— and materiality focused on elevating student achievement on standardized math tests, improving Metrics attitudes toward mathematics, and increasing classroom concentration rates—was selected as the winner. Basis of reporting Stakeholder engagement “With the launch of the RightStep™ Innovation Prize, Deloitte US is helping to deepen national relationships, increase the engagement of Deloitte US professionals, summary and invest in innovative, technology-based solutions that provide opportunities to transform education and the way that it’s delivered,” says Bill Copeland, Deloitte US Life Sciences & Health Care leader and corporate citizenship education champion. 49 Home “The work we help scale will contribute to preparing today’s students to be Growing Hope tomorrow’s leaders, and will help address the chronic gap between low-income In China, a key challenge is equipping its sizable, rural youth population to be selfstudents and their peers.” sufficient and contribute to the nation’s economic growth. “Our country has an Making an impact aging population and is transitioning from an agrarian economy to urban economy,” that matters Focusing on employability explains Lawrence Chia, Honorable Chairman of Deloitte China Foundation. “So, our The Social Innovation Pioneers program at Deloitte UK is focusing its scaling priorities are giving youth in rural communities who face disadvantages access to basic Delivering service capabilities this year on employability and job creation. The Pioneers program has a education, and preparing them to fulfill their aspirations and potential as individuals compelling track record of supporting socially innovative businesses, helping them that matters through local education and skills programs.” grow to scale and become investment-ready. During the first three years of the program, more than 2,000 Deloitte UK people provided more than 15,000 hours of Deloitte China launched the Hubei Hope School Project in 2009 with a goal of Building careers professional support. building or renovating one school a year for five years in remote and underserved that matter areas in the Hubei province. The firm met its goal with the completion of the fifth Social Enterprise UK, an organization focused on helping social businesses grow, school in late 2014. More than 2,000 students and local teachers have benefited from determined through an independent evaluation that the 58 businesses supported access to education and better learning facilities. Having influence by the program have created more than 200 new jobs to date and realized annual that matters revenue increases of 38 percent. More than a third of the organizations are suppliers “About 400 Deloitte China staff members have participated in the initiative, and the Japan’s post-disaster economy or cooperative business partners with Deloitte UK. This has increased the diversity of Hubei province government has recognized Deloitte China’s contribution throughout its supply chain, widened access to talent recruitment, and helped it create innovative, the project,” says Kevin Ng, Secretary General of Deloitte China Foundation. “It is a Strengthening humanitarian client-facing solutions. perfect example of how we are able to take a good idea, turn it over to people, and response to crises let them grow it—providing opportunities for young people to learn and develop skills “To increase social impact and become more targeted with outcomes for the program, that will last a lifetime.” Scaling innovative Deloitte UK elected this year to emphasize one priority social issue,” explains Claire education solutions Burton, head of Corporate Responsibility for Deloitte UK. “This year we’re concentrating The Edge: An office unlike on building employment skills and opportunities and are delighted to have selected any other 11 Pioneers with whom we aim to work collaboratively over the next 12 months.” Regulatory and public The chosen theme was identified using the Social Progress Index. The Index is policy engagement produced each year by Social Progress Imperative (SPI), a nonprofit organization Ethics: Delivering quality dedicated to measuring what matters most to people and society. The Index gauges and integrity the social and environmental well-being of 133 countries and helps drive the debate around how countries can measure progress beyond gross domestic product (GDP) to Independence: Preserving the truly assess their national performance. Deloitte member firms around the globe are public’s trust working closely with SPI to break new ground for measurement that is guiding policy Reporting process decisions and social investment to drive sustainable growth. and materiality Metrics Basis of reporting Stakeholder engagement Deloitte China professionals inaugurate the first Hope School in Xiangyang city, northwest of summary Hubei province, in 2010. 50 Home EDUCATION AND SKILLS Making an impact 1.4 MILLION that matters YOUNG PEOPLE REACHED DEVELOPING THE NEXT FY2015 GENERATION’S POTENTIAL 390K Delivering service YOUNG PEOPLE REACHED Deloitte professionals supported that matters FROM FY2012-FY2015 more than 130 education and skills building initiatives Building careers focused on: FY2014 DELOITTE PEOPLE 423K that matter DEDICATED Employability 384,000 Having influence Professional skills that matters Citizenship Japan’s post-disaster economy hours volunteering and Entrepreneurship FY2013 307K delivering pro bono services to Strengthening humanitarian education and skills initiatives response to crises Scaling innovative education solutions The Edge: An office unlike any other Regulatory and public $50M Support in donations, Deloitte policy engagement people’s time, and program Ethics: Delivering quality management and integrity Independence: Preserving the public’s trust Figures Figuresare areaggregated across DTTL aggregate across and its DTTL and its member member ﬁrms. firms. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. Reporting process 2015 Global Report at www.deloitte.com/globalreport and materiality © 2015. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Metrics Basis of reporting Stakeholder engagement summary The edge of tomorrow 51 Deloitte Netherlands’ showplace hailed as the world’s greenest office building Home The Edge is billed as the world’s most sustainable office building and has the certification to prove it. But, it’s more than that. The place is, well, fun. And interesting. And inviting. So much so that professionals are actually applying for Making an impact employment with Deloitte Netherlands because they want to work in the building. that matters That it has become a recruiting tool is a satisfying side effect of a project designed to both redefine efficiency and change the way people work. “We wanted to ensure Delivering service that our building not only had the right sustainability credentials, but was also a real that matters innovative and inspiring place for our employees,” says Deloitte Netherlands CEO Peter Bommel. “The opportunity to collaborate with a host of experts ensured that Building careers the finished building was sensitive to its surroundings and created a technologically that matter productive and happy working environment.” The decision to erect public buildings is not considered casually in the Netherlands. Having influence “In Holland, there is a lot of empty office space,” explains Tim Sluiter, property that matters manager, Information Technology (IT) & Workplace Services, Deloitte Netherlands. “But, old buildings are less energy efficient and the physical space usually doesn’t fit Japan’s post-disaster economy the office design of the future. We wanted to demonstrate a new building would be Strengthening humanitarian a model of sustainability.” response to crises Deloitte Netherlands approached OVG Real Estate, a Dutch commercial real estate Scaling innovative developer and investor, to make its vision a reality. “In our experience, Deloitte education solutions Netherlands strives for the best and the building we developed for them reflects this,” The Edge: An office unlike says Coen van Oostrom, OVG’s founder and CEO. “We brought together a team of any other experts and challenged them to identify innovations to make The Edge one of the most efficient commercial properties in the world.” Regulatory and public policy engagement The benchmark for efficiency Ethics: Delivering quality The Edge produces more electricity than it consumes, an achievement made possible and integrity by an array of solar panels—some of which are placed on neighboring buildings—and below-ground thermal energy storage. Its Ethernet-powered LED lighting system is Independence: Preserving the 80 percent more efficient than conventional illumination. Rainwater is collected from public’s trust the roof and balconies and used to flush the building’s toilets and water its gardens. Reporting process Even the contours of the structure and its orientation to the sun play a role in its and materiality resourcefulness. Metrics Upon its completion in late 2014, The Edge was awarded the highest BREEAM Basis of reporting accreditation score ever for an office building—98.36 percent—by the Building Stakeholder engagement Research Establishment (BRE), the global assessor of sustainable buildings. summary The innovative, connected lighting panels do more than sip minute amounts of voltage; they contain about 28,000 sensors that detect motion, light, temperature, The Edge’s majestic atrium not only offers plenty of places to meet, but it also provides natural humidity, and even carbon dioxide levels. It’s these sensors, providing real-time data, ventilation, allowing stale air to rise and exit through the roof. Photo credit: Ronald Tilleman. which make The Edge possibly the smartest and most occupant-friendly office space in use today. 52 Home The sensors allow facility managers to assess how and when certain parts of the building are being used. “In our building, IT and facilities management are a combined function,” Sluiter explains. In the short term, collected information can be used to Making an impact determine where cleaning is and is not necessary on a given evening. Long term, that matters emerging patterns showing light use of certain locales on certain days can lead to rooms or even entire floors being closed off to save energy. Delivering service Take a look inside The Edge Connected and customized in this video produced by that matters Sensors also make The Edge an interesting and enjoyable place to work. For example, software updates to a smartphone app, developed by Deloitte Netherlands, will soon Bloomberg Business. Building careers make it possible for coffee machines to recognize individuals when they approach and that matter dispense the blends and add-ins they desire. The app already assigns daily workspaces that best fit users’ preferences, and allows Sustainability gains across the network Having influence them to control the brightness of the lighting above their work surfaces and adjust the The Edge is unquestionably the “greenest” of the DTTL and Deloitte member firm that matters climate of their particular areas. It can direct people throughout the building, reading offices around the world, but other Deloitte spaces have received either BREEAM a meeting location from one’s online calendar, for example, and suggesting the route or LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environment Design) certifications. The Deloitte Japan’s post-disaster economy University facility in the US is LEED certified, as is office space occupied by DTTL and to get there. Employees can even use the app to track their progress in the on-site Strengthening humanitarian gym—where some of the fitness equipment actually feeds generated wattage into the US member firm at 30 Rockefeller Center in New York. Many other member firm response to crises the building’s power grid. office spaces in the US and abroad, including Hong Kong, Istanbul, and Sao Paulo, are LEED certified. The Zurich office has earned a LEED Platinum award, and several Scaling innovative The building is close to public transportation, a high-speed rail link, and a cycle route Deloitte UK office spaces have received BREEAM certification. education solutions network. More than 500 bicycle parking spaces encourage tenants to pedal their The Edge: An office unlike way to work. Those who must drive arrive at a high-tech garage that identifies their Travel and the office needs of a global network of businesses are the primary any other vehicles, points them to available parking spots, and uses sensor-equipped LED lights drivers of Deloitte’s overall environmental impact. The environmental impacts of that brighten and dim as drivers arrive and leave. transportation, particularly air travel, are a complex challenge that will need to be Regulatory and public met with global collaboration and welcomed dialogue. While Deloitte’s absolute policy engagement Sluiter stresses that personal data cannot be accessed by managers or anyone else. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased 2 percent from FY2014, Deloitte’s headcount Ethics: Delivering quality Privacy laws ensure nobody can track a person’s whereabouts, monitor how many also grew by 7 percent. Therefore, GHG emissions intensity per fulltime equivalent and integrity meetings they’ve missed, or see what times they’re using the garage. “This building (metric tons CO2e/FTE) dropped by 6 percent. Similarly, GHG emissions intensity by offers the technology to do certain things that would make tenants’ lives even easier, revenue (kg CO2e/thousand US$ of revenue) decreased 1 percent from last year. Independence: Preserving the and most of them would gladly accept the functionality,” he says. “But, at the same public’s trust “Another one of our goals is to reduce the amount of virgin paper resources we time, it’s extremely important to protect people’s privacy and conform to the law.” Reporting process consume,” says David Pearson, Deloitte Global Chief Sustainability Officer. “In FY2015, and materiality Those minimal barriers certainly aren’t hindering The Edge’s reputation. “Our aim was Deloitte did that by reducing the paper we used by 11 percent and by selecting more to make The Edge the best place to work,” says Erik Ubels, director of IT & Workplace recycled-content paper, which increased the percentage of recycled-input materials Metrics Services, Deloitte Netherlands. “Our meeting areas are filling up because every client used by more than 30 percent from FY2014.” Basis of reporting and employee wants to experience this building. It’s not too small yet, but the economy is growing and the building is getting crowded. It’s possible we made it too popular.” Over the last five years, Deloitte’s headcount has increased globally by 24 percent. Stakeholder engagement During the same period, our environmental efficiency measures have improved as summary indicated by a 14 percent decrease in GHG emissions intensity per FTE, a 22 percent decrease in emissions per dollar of revenue, and a 25 percent decrease in overall paper usage. “We hope to build on this momentum,” Pearson says. 53 Home ENVIRONMENT: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (Metric tons CO2e per full-time equivalent (FTE)) Making an impact that matters FY2015 Delivering service that matters Building careers 4.2 FY2014 75% BUSINESS TRAVEL 702,563 METRIC TONS 25% FACILITIES 230,990 METRIC TONS 4.4 that matter Employability Professional Having influence skills Citizenship that matters Entrepreneurship Japan’s post-disaster economy FY2013 4.7 Strengthening humanitarian response to crises Scaling innovative education solutions The Edge: An office unlike any other Regulatory and public policy engagement Ethics: Delivering quality and integrity Figures are aggregate across DTTL and its member ﬁrms. Independence: Preserving the public’s trust 2015 Global Report at www.deloitte.com/globalreport © 2015. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Reporting process and materiality Metrics Basis of reporting Stakeholder engagement summary Informing the debate 54 Deloitte helps drive outcomes that benefit both business and society Home “Have something to say.” It’s a mantra, of sorts, at Deloitte. Clients expect member firm professionals to proactively bring their informed thoughts and ideas to the table. Likewise, external stakeholders look to Deloitte leaders for opinions that help advance Making an impact global regulatory and public policy environments, recognizing their views are informed that matters by decades of experience operating in dozens of countries; influenced by the needs of member firm clients; and shaped by an understanding of ever-evolving capital markets Delivering service and the entities that participate in them. Watch Cathy Engelbert, that matters Deloitte actively participates in dynamic regulatory discussions around the world, Deloitte US CEO, explain why proactively contributing to the regulatory dialogue, promoting investor confidence, Building careers and emphasizing cross-border consistency. trust, confidence, and integrity that matter matter to clients and society. Given the network’s role in the proper function of capital markets, one of Deloitte’s focuses remains on audit and audit quality. The organization is making necessary Having influence investments in its member firm professionals, innovation, technology, methodology, that matters and practices. Deloitte leaders continue to collaborate with relevant stakeholders, Influencing the international trade agenda including regulators and policymakers, on current hot topics that include audit of the Deloitte member firm professionals work daily to assist their clients to solve complex Japan’s post-disaster economy future, audit quality indicators, auditor reporting, and strengthening the role of the cross-border business issues. Equally, because of its global footprint, the Deloitte Strengthening humanitarian audit committees. network strives to understand what it takes to operate in multiple jurisdictions. The response to crises importance of open and international markets—with a well-functioning, rules-based To promote more collaboration with stakeholders and reflect that the Deloitte global trading system and continuing trade liberalization—is paramount to strong Scaling innovative network is a broad and deep organization with interest and specialization in a economic growth. education solutions range of topics that interest policy makers, the Deloitte EU Policy Center opened its The Edge: An office unlike doors in January 2015 in Brussels, Belgium. The Center provides a diverse team of Currently, governments in almost every corner of the world are focused on how best any other Deloitte professionals, representing various EU member firms, with an opportunity to reassert an active and well-functioning trade agenda, which includes the need to to contribute ideas and knowledge to some of the policy debates in Europe. “We agree on new rules of the road for today’s increasingly global and digital marketplace. Regulatory and public believe Deloitte will be able to make a valuable contribution and that this will lead to Emerging practices can create complications for companies doing business policy engagement increased interaction between EU policy makers and Deloitte professionals on a wide internationally; practices the current trade rules are not able to support. Ethics: Delivering quality range of topics,” says Hendrik Descheemaeker, Deloitte EU Public Policy Leader and and integrity partner, Deloitte Belgium. “Today’s greatest disruptions to cross-border commerce are not the traditional at-theborder set of issues for which the current trade rules are most applicable,” explains Independence: Preserving the Deloitte member firms continue to strengthen their engagement with government David Gruner, Manager, DTTL Public Policy. “Yes, tariffs and customs still matter, public’s trust and political leaders—contributing insights and experiences supporting economic but modern trade is increasingly about how to deal with questions of regulatory Reporting process success, growth, resilience, and sustainability—to help address long-term economic discrimination, data and e-commerce, mobility of persons, and many other nontariff and materiality challenges. For example, Deloitte professionals have contributed to the development barrier issues.” of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Corporate Metrics A key connector to all of this is through services. “There are tremendous unrealized Governance Principles; collaborated with the Business and Industry Advisory Basis of reporting Committee to OECD on the development of a women’s entrepreneurship report; benefits that could come from deeper and broader trade services liberalization,” actively contributed to a number of B20 working groups, including those of Gruner says. Stakeholder engagement summary employment and anti-corruption; worked with the UK and US governments to sponsor a forum to address human trafficking; and are engaged in discussions that support a pro-growth international trade agenda fit for purpose, including via the Trade in Services Agreement negotiations. 55 Home The Deloitte network supports trade negotiating objectives that recognize the new realities of today’s economic demands and finding positive solutions to address them, be it through the World Trade Organization multilateral system, as well as other Making an impact plurilateral, regional and bilateral trade expansion initiatives—such as the Trans-Pacific that matters Partnership (TPP), Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), and the Trade in Services Agreement (TiSA). The Deloitte network supports trade discussions that are Delivering service working to set the conditions for an international trade agenda fit for the 21st century. Prioritizing the prevention of human rights violations that matters Addressing human trafficking can help organizations open an important dialogue Deloitte’s Global Migration and Border Management (GMBM) practices help clients Building careers make globally informed and locally relevant choices about border management and with empowered consumers, preserve the integrity of that matter immigration. To support execution of these decisions, Deloitte member firms draw their supply chains, and protect their brand identities. upon the breadth of their capabilities and deep sector knowledge to help both government and businesses tackle immigration-related challenges, which include the To learn more, watch, “Supply unchained: Fighting Having influence that matters crime of human trafficking. supply chain labor abuse.” Japan’s post-disaster economy Human trafficking is the modern-day slave trade; it’s being forced to work without pay under threat of violence, and being unable to walk away. There are more slaves Strengthening humanitarian today than at any point in human history, with estimates ranging from 21 million to response to crises 30 million. About 5 million human trafficking victims are children. Scaling innovative Deloitte firms in the US and UK convened global publicand private-sector leaders education solutions to work together to address the issue of modern slavery in supply chains. In March The Edge: An office unlike 2015, Deloitte was a joint host of a TechCamp conference in London, bringing together any other participants from government, law enforcement, the private sector, and civil society to Regulatory and public understand how their collective data can drive intelligent insights to detect slavery in policy engagement corporate supply chains. The event also offered agencies, organizations, and businesses low-cost technology solutions to help them manage slavery-free supply chains. Ethics: Delivering quality and integrity In addition to our work on the issue, Deloitte has published thought leadership on the subject. During FY2015, a Deloitte Review piece called “Supply Unchained” Independence: Preserving the offered strategies for fighting labor abuse in organizational supply chains. In addition, public’s trust Deloitte US is conducting an assessment of the current and future state of the antiReporting process slavery movement and will publish its findings in an upcoming Deloitte University and materiality Press piece that will be released jointly with the nongovernmental organization (NGO), Metrics Free the Slaves. Basis of reporting Support for Free the Slaves is one of two pro bono anti-human trafficking Stakeholder engagement engagements in which Deloitte Consulting LLP and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP (Deloitte US) have engaged during the past year. For FAIR Girls, Deloitte summary Consulting LLP provided assistance with board governance and a growth strategy that included opening the doors to the Vida Center—the first and only shelter in the Washington, D.C., area for survivors of sex trafficking. 56 Home Cooperating to curb corruption Because the absence of corruption serves as a foundation for sustainable and Making an impact inclusive growth and supports trust in business, the Deloitte network aims to raise awareness among all stakeholders—communities and their governments, member that matters firm clients, vendors, and other organizations with which our entities do business— about the impact of corruption on society. The Deloitte network does this by taking Delivering service a leadership role in influential, global forums to set the anti-corruption agenda, that matters particularly on those topics relevant to Deloitte member firms, their clients, and all Deloitte stakeholders. Building careers During FY2015, in an effort to develop an even stronger voice on the issue, DTTL that matter established a working group composed of more than 20 Deloitte practitioners from across the network who are interested in the policy aspect of anti-corruption work. This policy working group is refining its policies, messaging, and stakeholderHaving influence engagement plan to make an even greater policy impact. that matters Japan’s post-disaster economy Deloitte leaders will continue to join forces with industry peers and key stakeholders to give voice to private-sector perspectives on corruption and push the global agenda Strengthening humanitarian to promote a healthier global economy. To this end, Deloitte supports the OECD response to crises Anti-Bribery Convention, the U.N. Convention Against Corruption, and the WEF’s Scaling innovative Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). Various initiatives also are active across Deloitte member firms. In India, for example, education solutions DTTL and Deloitte US have supported Pratham USA to open six “Achievement Gender equality Centers” targeting education and training for young women. More than 1,300 young The Edge: An office unlike Creating economic opportunity for women and underrepresented groups across all women who had previously dropped out of school have enrolled in the program since any other levels of the workforce by nurturing a more inclusive workforce is not only smart— 2011. Deloitte US continued to support two centers in 2014-15 in Hyderabad that have Regulatory and public different studies show companies with diverse workforces and executive boards are an enrollment of more than 200 women. policy engagement more innovative and financially successful—but it’s also the right thing to do. Deloitte Deloitte Middle East (DME) continued its “Women March” initiative, a month of firm, collaborates with business, government, and society, engaging in policy discussions and Ethics: Delivering quality client, and community activities devoted to raising awareness of empowerment, initiatives to enable more women and underrepresented groups to enter the workforce, and integrity investment, and acceleration of women advancement across the Middle East. DME is remain employed, and advance to their full personal and professional potential. Independence: Preserving the also active in and sits on advisory councils of NGOs mentoring professional women public’s trust DTTL provided support to a forum and the report, “Putting ALL ideas to work: leaders in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries; and is a founding member Women and entrepreneurship, exploring barriers to women’s entrepreneurship, of the 30% Club-GCC chapter that is leading a groundbreaking longitudinal research Reporting process sponsored by the Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the OECD. study on perceptions of national and expat men and women leaders toward progress and materiality DTTL also sponsored the Women’s Entrepreneurship Platform (WEP), an organization of women to senior management and board-level positions. Metrics based in Brussels, Belgium, which brings together organizations supporting women Deloitte Germany expanded its Leader.In network activities, an initiative that consists entrepreneurs and business professionals to exchange best practices and information Basis of reporting of a series of events and the Leader.In group on LinkedIn. Leader.In aims to catalyze that promotes female entrepreneurship. WEP is the first point of contact for EU policy Stakeholder engagement change by connecting participants with influential women and men who are makers—particularly Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) and officials of the summary authorities on diversity-associated topics. Leading practices are shared in an effort to European Commission—who are committed to advancing this challenge. continue discussions and identify an ideal framework for female leadership in business, politics, and society. Ethics 57 Our network’s purpose-driven pursuit of quality and integrity Home Respected organizations around the world trust Deloitte professionals to execute their most ambitious projects, manage highly confidential information, and develop ideas and approaches that can alter the course of their businesses. That trust has been and Making an impact continues to be earned thousands of times each day by Deloitte member firm people. that matters Ethical behavior among Deloitte professionals is non-negotiable. That’s why DTTL Global Ethics and member firm ethics teams continue to aggressively integrate ethics Delivering service into key initiatives and processes, stressing quality and consistency of approach across that matters the network. Building careers During the past year, Deloitte enhanced its focus on anti-corruption, appointing a DTTL anti-corruption officer and member firm anti-corruption champions who that matter will work together to build and sustain effective programs. Deloitte Global Ethics launched a new classroom-based ethics training program for the network, and Having influence adapted its existing new-manager training session into four short e-learning modules that matters for individuals whose travel schedules make classroom training difficult. DTTL and member firm ethics leaders also developed a new package of measurement and Japan’s post-disaster economy communication tools to gauge and improve the effectiveness of the network’s local Strengthening humanitarian ethics programs. Anti-corruption has been a priority for Deloitte Global Ethics in recent years. During response to crises FY2015, Deloitte continued to focus on this topic, appointing a DTTL anti-corruption Deloitte continues to reinforce its ethics organization, training, and assessment Scaling innovative officer and member firm anti-corruption champions. They will work together to build processes because we understand what is at stake—for clients and for us. education solutions and sustain effective anti-corruption programs. Deloitte Global Ethics also initiated The bigger picture network-building activities, including global and regional webcasts and meetings, to The Edge: An office unlike facilitate best-practice sharing. And working groups of member firm anti-corruption any other “Deloitte stakeholders expect our network to lead by delivering quality and acting with leaders were established to develop new e-learning and enhance existing thirdintegrity. Our member firm ethics programs, with the support of the Deloitte Global Regulatory and public party due diligence guidance to help ensure corruption risks are identified and Ethics team, help Deloitte people to see that,” says Gianmario Crescentino, Deloitte policy engagement addressed appropriately. Global Chief Ethics Officer and Managing Director, Risk and Reputation. “To make an Ethics: Delivering quality impact that matters, each of us has a personal responsibility to conduct business with Education and training enhancements and integrity high integrity, quality, and levels of professional behavior. We recognize that we are all During the past year, Deloitte Global Ethics launched a new, highly interactive role models to others—and we make decisions that align to our Purpose.” Independence: Preserving the classroom-based ethics training program, suitable for all levels and roles. Sessions public’s trust The Deloitte Global Ethics team and the member firm ethics officers work together to focus on discussing dilemmas and stressing the importance of consultation to reach design and implement policies and programs to promote and sustain ethical conduct solutions that align with Deloitte’s values and principles. The program was rolled out Reporting process by Deloitte professionals. Ethics training is required for all Deloitte professionals every to member firms and the more than 2,000 DTTL professionals. and materiality two years. Metrics Deloitte Global Ethics also expanded training opportunities for new managers across the network—a key staff group with important ethical responsibilities for their Basis of reporting teams—by creating a modular, e-learning version of their live, new-manager ethics Stakeholder engagement program. This option, which focuses on decision-making skills and being an ethical summary leader and role model, provides a flexible alternative for the busy and often-traveling manager group. 58 Home Deloitte Global Ethics continues to work with learning teams throughout Deloitte to DTTL and member firm ethics leaders worked together in FY2015 to develop a new incorporate similar exercises into new-hire orientation, manager training, and other package of tools to measure the effectiveness of member firm ethics programs using business-focused programs. a benchmarking survey, ethics maturity model, and focus-group questionnaires. They Making an impact also created communications tools, including message maps, to support member firm that matters For example, during FY2015, Deloitte leaders in delivering consistent communication that builds the tone at the top and Global Ethics collaborated with the reinforces the importance of ethics and integrity to their people. Deloitte Global Audit Learning team Delivering service to embed ethics messaging into the Deloitte member firms strive to uphold the trust placed in them by clients and the that matters “soft skills” and team management capital markets and to build a similar sense of trust among their professionals. One elements of the Audit New Manager of the most important responsibilities of DTTL and member firm senior leaders is Building careers Transition Experience program. This will to emphasize commitment to ethical behavior and reinforce the responsibility of that matter include discussion and debrief points everyone in the organization to act with integrity. in facilitator and coach guides and prework, an additional dilemma for The Deloitte Global Ethics team and the member firm ethics officers work closely Having influence discussion, and enhanced messaging with senior Deloitte leaders to carry out the organization’s ethics programs. These that matters around ethics and integrity. The focus is programs are designed to help Deloitte people understand expectations for ethical on enhancing new managers’ understanding of their position as role models and the behavior, develop skills for ethical decision making, and gain the confidence to speak Japan’s post-disaster economy importance of consultation, as well as developing their ethical risk sensitivity, helping up about challenging ethical situations. Strengthening humanitarian them recognize potential issues. response to crises DTTL’s formal ethics program is composed of the following elements: Scaling innovative Deloitte Global Ethics also continued to integrate ethics across the Deloitte University • The Ethical Principles and Shared Values of the Deloitte network; curriculum so that ethics is not treated as a standalone topic, but instead, is part education solutions of the conversation across many disciplines. To this end, the network is proactively • A global ethics policy that sets out the requirements for member firms’ own The Edge: An office unlike engaging with other risk areas, such as confidentiality, privacy, and information ethics programs; any other security, to present a holistic approach to training and awareness across the risk • A global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation Regulatory and public spectrum, with a focus on the importance of speaking up, consultation, and ethical payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment; policy engagement decision making. • Ethics training programs, including an introductory online course, classroom Ethics: Delivering quality Measuring impact programs, facilitator-led interactive case discussions and online advanced and integrity DTTL’s ethics practice review program is conducted on a rotational basis to measure training course; Independence: Preserving the member firm compliance with global policy and support continuous improvement in • Support activities, including communications, workshops, and webinars to facilitate public’s trust ethics program management. In FY2015, 11 Deloitte member firms were visited by the best practice sharing among member firms; Deloitte Global Ethics team and other ethics leaders from the member firm network. Reporting process • Provision of a survey, a self-assessment questionnaire, and other tools (such as focus Reviews conducted this past year focused on (among other things) ensuring that and materiality member firm approaches to ethics are proactive, that member firm ethics training and group guidance) to allow member firms to measure their program’s effectiveness; and Metrics communications are engaging, and that member firm programs are collaborative and • A practice review program to measure compliance with global ethics policies and Basis of reporting linked with other vital business functions, such as Talent and Learning. encourage collaborative discussions and continuous improvement over time. Stakeholder engagement DTTL’s annual member firm ethics survey continues to be an important tool to summary measure the effectiveness of member firm ethics programs. The survey captures Deloitte professionals’ perceptions of ethical culture, tone at the top, and personal responsibility for ethical behavior. Member firms use the results of the survey to create action plans for continuous improvement of their ethics programs. 59 Home In addition, Deloitte plays a role in various multilateral efforts to promote ethical conduct in the business world. The efforts in which Deloitte participates include: Making an impact • World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). that matters –– James Cottrell, partner, Deloitte US, is a senior adviser to the PACI Vanguard, a community of 20 global CEOs committed to zero tolerance against corruption; Delivering service –– Cottrell is the Deloitte US representative on the Forum’s Global Agenda Council that matters initiative on ultimate beneficial ownership. • U.N. Global Compact. Cottrell and Mohammed Ahmed, DTTL Global AntiBuilding careers Corruption Officer, co-chair a subcommittee on whistle-blower programs as part of that matter an anti-corruption compliance program. • Business 20 (B20) Business Summit. Cottrell is a member of the B20 working Having influence group on anti-corruption. that matters • Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the Organization for Japan’s post-disaster economy Economic Corporation and Development. Lindy Miller, senior manager, DTTL Strengthening humanitarian Public Policy, is a member of the BIAC Task Force on Anti-Bribery and Corruption. response to crises • University of Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership. Michael Zychinski, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, Deloitte US, sits on the advisory board. Ethical Principles of the member firms of DTTL Scaling innovative All of the Deloitte member firms have adopted the following Ethical Principles, which education solutions • Ethics & Compliance Initiative (ECI). Zychinski is a board member for ECI’s Ethics provide the foundation for their ethics programs: The Edge: An office unlike Research Center and its Ethics & Compliance Association. • Honesty and integrity. We act with honesty and integrity. any other • The Conference Board. DTTL Global Deputy Chief Ethics Officer Jennifer Guethoff Regulatory and public is a founding member of The Conference Board’s European Compliance Council. • Professional behavior. We operate within the letter and the spirit of applicable laws. policy engagement • Competence. We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to every client assignment. Ethics: Delivering quality • Objectivity. We are objective in forming our professional opinions and the advice and integrity we give. Independence: Preserving the • Confidentiality. We respect the confidentiality of information. public’s trust • Fair business practices. We are committed to fair business practices. Reporting process and materiality • Responsibility to society. We recognize and respect the impact we have on the world around us. Metrics • Respect and fair treatment. We treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy, Basis of reporting and fairness. Stakeholder engagement • Accountability and decision making. We lead by example, using our Shared summary Values as our foundation. Independence 60 Preserving the public’s trust Home For 170 years, objectivity and impartiality have been the cornerstones upon which our network is built. Without them, Deloitte could not cultivate confidence and trust in the markets, nor could we uphold the integrity of organizations. Our very Purpose Making an impact would be beyond our reach. that matters There can be no margin for error. That’s why every Deloitte professional, from the newest assistant to the most senior leader, must comply with well-established policies Delivering service and procedures to ensure his or her independence. Regulators demand it. Clients need that matters it. The public expects it. So, we deliver it. Building careers The bigger picture that matter Independence and quality are essential to our integrity, our impartiality, our obligation to serve the investing public, and Deloitte member firms’ ability to retain and attract clients. Having influence that matters Standards for independence are shaped by legislation, regulations, professional guidance, and public expectations. Maintaining independence, therefore, is both a Japan’s post-disaster economy matter of compliance with rules and regulations and a matter of appearance. Strengthening humanitarian Maintaining internal compliance response to crises Protecting the public interest Deloitte member firms frequently serve the same clients in multiple jurisdictions. Each Deloitte member firms comply with well-established policies and implement Scaling innovative member firm considering whether to accept a new client or new engagement at an appropriate procedures to help safeguard their objectivity and independence. These education solutions existing client must consider the independence needs of other member firms. For policies and procedures help ensure member firms act in the interests of both the existing audit clients, a member firm must evaluate the independence implications The Edge: An office unlike public and their clients, as well as protect our brand and reputation. of other member firms’ relationships with that client, including the provision of any other The DTTL Board of Directors has adopted robust independence policies and processes non-audit services. Regulatory and public to help DTTL, Deloitte member firms, and their people safeguard their objectivity. policy engagement Each member firm has a partner assigned with responsibility for the independence DTTL requires all of its member firms to follow DTTL’s independence policies and quality controls in the member firm, including monitoring compliance with those Ethics: Delivering quality procedures, which address potential conflicts—within or among member firms— controls. On an annual basis, all member firms report to DTTL that they have and integrity arising from the proposed acceptance of client engagements or proposed business or conducted procedures for determining that their firm and professionals are in financial relationships. Independence: Preserving the compliance with DTTL’s independence policies. public’s trust DTTL’s independence policies and procedures are designed to allow member firms to comply with independence standards and regulatory requirements to achieve Leading through change Reporting process excellence in professional performance. These policies and procedures are based, Deloitte member firms face a dynamic regulatory environment in which national and materiality for the most part, on the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the rulemaking often has broad-reaching global implications. DTTL has independence Metrics International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. When the national requirements resources that provide member firms with information and guidance on independence Basis of reporting that apply are more restrictive than the requirements in the DTTL policies, member issues, as well as enabling technologies to help member firms comply with rapidly firms must follow those requirements, as well. changing requirements. These DTTL resources continually engage with member firm Stakeholder engagement leaders, as well as external professional and regulatory bodies, to advance objectivity summary and independence concepts. Reporting process and materiality 61 Global Report illustrates the many ways Deloitte makes an impact that matters Home The chief objective of the Global Report is to provide all Deloitte stakeholders with a broad and balanced picture of our network’s impact on society, our Purpose-driven business activities, and the actions that exemplify our aspiration to become the Making an impact undisputed global leader in professional services. that matters We strive to address stakeholders’ interests and questions, while explaining our Delivering service motivations, priorities, and approaches. We identify key stakeholders as those who: Watch David Pearson, A detailed description of that matters • Help influence Deloitte’s success; Deloitte Global Chief this report’s boundaries • Are highly affected by what we do; Sustainability Officer, and the performance Building careers discuss why sustainability measurement methods • Affect the markets, regulations, and industries in which we operate; or that matter • Affect the supply of resources that we need to serve our clients, talent, and matters to the Deloitte used is available in the Having influence society. network and member Basis of reporting section. that matters Deloitte professionals engage continuously with key stakeholders, both internal and firm clients. external. In FY2015, this continuous engagement was supplemented with a structured Japan’s post-disaster economy stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment, the details of which can be Strengthening humanitarian found in the Basis of reporting section. The assessment surfaced material aspects for response to crises Deloitte which were classified into three categories according to their relative rankings Scaling innovative on a materiality matrix. education solutions In the context of this report, material aspects are those that reflect Deloitte’s The Edge: An office unlike significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, or substantively influence the any other assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Aspects can be material either within the boundaries of Deloitte, external to Deloitte, or both. They also can be geographically Regulatory and public bound. Except as noted on the following page, all aspects shown in the matrix are A full list of the stakeholders with whom Deloitte policy engagement material to DTTL, the member firm network, or both. Aspects material outside the engages and the issues they have identified to us Ethics: Delivering quality organization include client satisfaction, privacy, and data security, which are material and integrity to clients; ethics and integrity, which are material to clients and regulators; and supply as being of value is available in the Stakeholder Independence: Preserving the chain management and human rights, which are material to suppliers. Several issues engagement summary. Our ongoing engagement helps are also material to society at large, such as community engagement, public policy public’s trust engagement, and greenhouse gas emissions. Water is predominantly material outside us report on the right issues, in addition to keeping Reporting process of Deloitte (water used by suppliers in producing products or services we consume) stakeholders informed of our business strategy. and materiality and is primarily material to society in geographic locations with water scarcity issues. Metrics Basis of reporting Stakeholder engagement summary 62 Home MATERIALITY MATRIX Making an impact Issue is of critical strategic interest to Deloitte and stakeholders that matters Issue is actively managed Client satisfaction Delivering service Frequent interaction with key stakeholders occurs Financial performance that matters Employee diversity Issue is actively managed by Deloitte and discussed with CONCERN TO STAKEHOLDERS Ethics and integrity constituents that have a direct stake Building careers Privacy and data security that matter Issue of concern to select member firms and stakeholders; Public policy engagement generally managed through member firm programs Talent training and development Having influence that matters Community engagement Category Areas included Japan’s post-disaster economy Community Corporate responsibility commitment and a range of Compensation and benefits Strengthening humanitarian engagement humanitarian and societal impact, such as pro bono, Energy management response to crises volunteerism and philanthropy, and focused collaborations Greenhouse gas emissions Scaling innovative Ethics and Anti-corruption, protection of public interest, transparency, Human rights integrity education solutions professional performance, corporate responsibility Supply chain commitment, compliance, governance, and risk management The Edge: An office unlike Work-life fit Human rights Anti-discrimination, human rights issues in owned and any other managed operations Regulatory and public Health and safety Privacy and Customer and employee data retention and security policy engagement Paper management data security Ethics: Delivering quality Waste management Public policy Public policy positions, professional standards engagement and integrity Water management Independence: Preserving the public’s trust Reporting process CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON DELOITTE and materiality Metrics Basis of reporting Stakeholder engagement summary Metrics 63 Home FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 GLOBAL PRESENCE Making an impact Number of member firms 46 47 47 that matters REVENUE Aggregate revenues (US$ Billion) Delivering service Aggregate member firm revenue 35.2 34.2 32.4 that matters Revenue growth (Percentage growth in US$ / Local currency) Aggregate member firm revenue growth 2.9% / 7.6% 5.7% / 6.5% 3.5% / 5.6% Revenue by function, region and industry (US$ Billion) Building careers By functional area that matter Audit 9.8 10.1 10.0 Enterprise Risk Services 3.5 3.2 3.1 Having influence Financial Advisory 3.1 3.0 2.8 that matters Consulting 12.2 11.4 10.4 Japan’s post-disaster economy Tax & Legal 6.7 6.5 6.1 By region Strengthening humanitarian Americas 18.3 17.4 16.4 response to crises Europe/Middle East/Africa 11.9 12.1 11.1 Scaling innovative Asia Pacific 5.0 4.8 4.9 education solutions By industry group The Edge: An office unlike Consumer Business 6.6 6.6 6.4 any other Energy & Resources 3.1 3.0 3.0 Regulatory and public Financial Services 9.5 9.5 9.1 policy engagement Life Sciences and Health Care 3.2 3.1 2.6 Manufacturing 4.4 4.3 4.3 Ethics: Delivering quality Public Sector 4.4 4.0 3.5 and integrity Technology, Media & Telecommunications 3.9 3.8 3.5 Independence: Preserving the TALENT public’s trust Aggregate talent Reporting process Aggregate Deloitte people 225,351 210,400 202,885 and materiality By level Metrics Partners and principals 10,601 10,247 10,189 Basis of reporting Professional staff 176,935 163,676 157,505 Administrative staff 37,815 36,478 35,192 Stakeholder engagement By region summary Americas 99,398 92,804 89,934 Europe/Middle East/Africa 79,925 74,778 71,826 Asia Pacific 46,028 42,819 41,125 64 Home FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 By level and region Making an impact Americas that matters Partners and principals 4,354 4,279 4,335 Professionals 76,618 70,750 68,328 Administrative staff 18,426 17,775 17,270 Delivering service Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) that matters Partners and principals 3,551 3,425 3,389 Professionals 63,557 58,910 56,428 Building careers Administrative staff 12,817 12,443 12,010 that matter Asia Pacific Partners and principals 2,696 2,542 2,465 Having influence Professionals 36,760 34,016 32,748 that matters Administrative staff 6,572 6,260 5,912 Talent by gender Japan’s post-disaster economy By region and gender male Strengthening humanitarian Overall 125,666 117,557 112,182 response to crises Americas 56,555 52,717 50,770 Scaling innovative Europe/Middle East/Africa 44,020 41,574 39,373 education solutions Asia Pacific 25,092 23,266 22,039 The Edge: An office unlike By region and gender female any other Overall 99,685 92,843 90,703 Americas 42,843 40,087 39,164 Regulatory and public policy engagement Europe/Middle East/Africa 35,905 33,204 32,453 Asia Pacific 20,936 19,553 19,087 Ethics: Delivering quality Percentages of women in Deloitte network and integrity Overall 44% 44% 45% Independence: Preserving the Among partners, principals and directors (1) 21% 21% 20% public’s trust Among managers (1) 35% 35% 35% Reporting process Among new hires 45% 44% 45% and materiality Among new partners, principals and director admissions (2) 25% 21% 23% Metrics On mobility assignments 24% 23% 23% Percentages of women in DTTL leadership and governance bodies Basis of reporting On DTTL Board of Directors 9% 13% 9% Stakeholder engagement On DTTL Executive 13% 0% 0% summary On DTTL leadership team 19% 14% 20% 65 Home FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 Turnover rate Making an impact Aggregate turnover rate 21% 21% 19% that matters By region Americas 19% 20% 19% Delivering service Europe/Middle East/Africa 21% 21% 18% Asia Pacific 25% 23% 20% that matters By gender Male 20% 21% 19% Building careers Female 22% 22% 20% that matter New hires Aggregate new hires 62,000 53,959 51,405 Having influence Aggregate new hire rate (3) 28% 26% 25% that matters By region Japan’s post-disaster economy Americas new hires 25,514 23,437 23,492 Americas new hire rate (3) 26% 25% 26% Strengthening humanitarian Europe/Middle East/Africa new hires 22,770 18,941 17,394 response to crises Europe/Middle East/Africa new hire rate (3) 28% 25% 24% Scaling innovative Asia Pacific new hires 13,716 11,582 10,519 education solutions Asia Pacific new hire rate (3) 30% 27% 26% The Edge: An office unlike By level any other New partners and principals 337 257 273 Regulatory and public New mangers 6,263 4,938 4,980 policy engagement New staff 47,985 42,222 39,403 Ethics: Delivering quality New administrative staff 7,415 6,542 6,749 and integrity By gender Percentage of women among new hires 45% 44% 45% Independence: Preserving the LEARNING public’s trust Hours of training provided per full-time Deloitte person (4) 50 51 49 Reporting process MOBILITY and materiality Total number of mobility assignments 6,340 5,898 5,795 Metrics Increase in mobility assignments 7% 2% 8% Basis of reporting Average number of mobility opportunities 900 650 650 available on a daily basis Stakeholder engagement summary GLOBAL CAREERS WEBSITES Total number of RMS (Recruitment Management System) applications 1,900,000 1,852,715 1,906,234 Average number of applicants per open position 151 n/a n/a Number of internships 16,000 n/a n/a 66 Home FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 SOCIETAL IMPACT Making an impact Number of reporting entities. Societal impact metrics are for reporting 35 member firms and DTTL 34 member firms and DTTL 33 member firms and DTTL that matters entities, and estimates have not been made for nonreporting entities. (representing 97% of global workforce) (representing 95% of global workforce) (representing 93% of global workforce) Monetary value of community investments US$ million Delivering service Aggregate Deloitte community investments 212.7 190.9 179.0 that matters By source Aggregate donations 77.6 72.9 74.9 Building careers DTTL and member firm foundation donations (monetary and in-kind) 47.5 42.4 44.8 that matter Deloitte personnel donations (to member firm-supported organizations 30.2 30.5 30.1 and fundraisers) Aggregate Deloitte costs for managing community Having influence investment programs 11.9 11.4 13.0 that matters Aggregate value of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 123.3 106.6 91.1 Japan’s post-disaster economy Member firm pro bono work 48.4 48.1 43.5 Strengthening humanitarian Skills-based volunteering 45.2 30.5 20.1 response to crises Traditional volunteering 29.7 28.0 27.5 By contribution area Scaling innovative Contributions toward education and skills-building education solutions 24% 26% 30% organizations (5) The Edge: An office unlike Value of pro bono and skills-based volunteering as any other 76% 74% 70% percentage of value of all volunteering and pro bono work Regulatory and public Hours of community investments Thousand hours policy engagement Aggregate hours of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 1168 941 873 Ethics: Delivering quality Member firm pro bono work 343 237 209 and integrity Skills-based volunteering by Deloitte people 496 442 308 Traditional volunteering by Deloitte people 328 263 356 Independence: Preserving the ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY public’s trust Number of member firms reporting on environmental sustainability. 29 member firms and DTTL 28 member firms and DTTL 29 member firms and DTTL Reporting process Environmental metrics are extrapolated to represent all member firms (representing 88% of global workforce) (representing 91% of global workforce) (representing 91% of global workforce) and materiality and DTTL. Metrics Aggregate Deloitte greenhouse gas emissions Metric tons CO2e Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions including offsets (6) 931,617 914,177 927,029 Basis of reporting Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions Stakeholder engagement 933,553 916,703 929,561 not including offsets (6) summary 67 Home FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 By source Metric tons CO2e Making an impact Buildings: electricity 216,033 228,587 220,382 that matters Buildings: other sources (6) 14,957 15,449 17,824 Business travel: air travel (6) 422,512 405,903 418,079 Business travel: other sources 280,052 266,764 273,275 Delivering service Offset credits (1,936) (2,526) (2,532) that matters By GHG Protocol scope Metric tons CO2e Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions (6) 84,724 86,719 92,318 Building careers Scope 2: Electricity indirect greenhouse gas emissions (6) 216,033 228,587 220,382 that matter Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (6) 632,796 601,397 616,861 Intensity measures Metric tons CO2e Having influence Greenhouse gas emissions per full-time equivalent 4.2 4.4 4.7 that matters (metric tons CO2e/FTE) excluding offsets (6) Greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of revenue Japan’s post-disaster economy 26.5 26.8 28.7 (kg CO2e/$000 USD) excluding offsets (6) Strengthening humanitarian Energy usage GW response to crises Aggregate usage of purchased electricity in Deloitte facilities 419 441 448 Scaling innovative Direct energy consumption by primary energy source TJ education solutions TJ of natural gas 372 305 269 The Edge: An office unlike TJ of gasoline 270 256 254 any other TJ of diesel fuel 379 378 352 Regulatory and public Indirect energy consumption by primary source TJ policy engagement TJ of electricity 1,509 1,587 1,611 Aggregate Deloitte material usage Metric tons Ethics: Delivering quality Paper usage 4,950 5,580 5,519 and integrity Percent of recycled input materials used based on Independence: Preserving the estimate of recycled content paper 26% 20% 19% public’s trust Reporting process n/a: not available and materiality Note: because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. Metrics A detailed description of this report’s boundaries and the performance measurement methods used is available in the Basis of Reporting section. Basis of reporting (1) Client service personnel only. (2) Includes new hires and promotees. Stakeholder engagement (3) Per the Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Protocol, the rate is calculated using the total Deloitte people at the end of the reporting period. summary (4) Represents a lower bound for measures of learning because certain types of training are not tracked in the online learning platform. (5) FY2013 figures restated as a result of reclassification of certain pro bono contributions to better align with the reporting methodology. (6) Some FY2013 values revised in FY2014 due to methodology change. See Basis of Reporting from the 2014 Global Report for details. Basis of reporting 68 Home This document provides additional details about the scope and calculation methods identification and frequency of mention of specific issues by individuals interviewed, used in the Deloitte 2015 Global Report (the “Global Report”), available at and the consideration of specific systems or processes put into place by Deloitte as a www.deloitte.com/GlobalReport. It should be read in conjunction with the Global Report result of direct stakeholder feedback. The topics were prioritized across a materiality Making an impact and all definitions used therein unless otherwise stated also apply to this document. matrix comparing topics of importance to the business against topics of importance that matters to stakeholders. DTTL also exercised some judgement to include a small number of Defining Global Report content topics that were not explicitly identified through the evaluation process; however, Delivering service Deloitte professionals engage continuously with key stakeholders, both internal and they were assumed to be fundamental business imperatives to both internal and external, as part of routine business. Along with this ongoing engagement, DTTL external stakeholders. These consisted of financial performance, governance, and risk that matters commissioned a formal stakeholder engagement process and materiality assessment management. to assist DTTL in identifying key areas of impact upon which to focus the Global Building careers Report content. Scope and methods for performance measurements that matter DTTL adhered to widely accepted standards in developing the Global Report. These The materiality assessment process was grounded in the Global Reporting Initiative standards define a systematic approach to understanding the issues that the Global (GRI) G4 principles of materiality and stakeholder inclusiveness. The strength of Report should cover and measuring and documenting performance with regard Having influence the materiality assessment methodology utilized revolves around the design and to those issues. Performance measures for societal impact and environmental that matters implementation of a systematic and disciplined approach to stakeholder engagement, sustainability are based on widely recognized guidelines. Japan’s post-disaster economy as well as topic prioritization based upon a decision-sciences approach. For reporting on societal impact, DTTL considered the reporting standards from the Strengthening humanitarian The first step in the process was to investigate the expectations for corporate Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) and the London Benchmarking response to crises responsibility and sustainability for Deloitte by analyzing supplier questionnaires, Group (LBG). The monetary value of community activities was estimated according benchmarking reports of peers and sustainability award-winners, examining to the type of service performed. The value of volunteer work was based on local Scaling innovative sustainability guidelines, and researching publications of internationally recognized member firms’ staff costs. Pro bono work, defined as work that the member firms education solutions nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Using this process narrowed a large universe have delivered to not-for-profit organizations free of charge or at a significantly The Edge: An office unlike of issues down to a list of potential relevant topics. reduced rate, has been valued at fair market rates representative of the local member any other firms’ client service rates for comparable services. To gather further stakeholder insight into material topics, Deloitte identified a specific Regulatory and public list of stakeholders and identified engagement methods designed to maximize policy engagement Estimates of carbon emissions were prepared according to the Greenhouse Gas feedback from each group. We conducted interviews with external stakeholders (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard created by the World Ethics: Delivering quality including strategic member firm clients, academic institutions, and internationally Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and integrity recognized NGOs. The direct feedback from interviews helped identify emerging (WBCSD) with emissions accounted for on the basis of operational control. While the issues and prioritize each group’s concerns. Internally, we conversed with Deloitte reporting for FY2015 includes a significant number of Scope 3 sources, it does not Independence: Preserving the leaders from across the network and DTTL regulatory affairs and governmental consider full upstream and downstream emissions across all sources. public’s trust liaisons. The annual Deloitte Millennial Surveys provided insight into the interests of Reporting process current and future talent. Involvement by DTTL personnel in external bodies working FY2015 environmental performance data in the Global Report was directly collected and materiality on standards development, such as the Professional Services Sustainability Roundtable from 29 member firms and from DTTL. These entities represent 87 percent of Metrics (convened by the Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship), also served as a aggregate Deloitte people and 95 percent of aggregate member firm revenues. source for industry perspectives. Systems and processes in place within Deloitte were Extrapolations were used to account for the emissions of the remainder of the Basis of reporting also considered as they often reflect a response to stakeholder concerns (see the organization that did not directly report data. FY2015 societal impact data was Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement summary for specific examples). reported by 35 member firms and DTTL, which represent 97 percent of aggregate summary Deloitte people and 97 percent of aggregate member firm revenues. Estimates of Finally, a systematic weighting methodology was applied to the feedback and research societal impact contributions were not made for the member firms that did not report to prioritize the list of potential relevant topics. Parameters used in the weighting this data due to the variations in societal impact activities across member firms. It methodology included the prevalence of an issue across multiple sources, the should be recognized that these reporting gaps limit the year-to-year comparability 69 Home of the data. Comparability is expected to improve over time as the number of Changes from FY2014 nonreporting member firms decreases. Data that formed the basis of the reporting The Deloitte 2015 Global Report incorporates many of the GRI’s G4 guidelines, was obtained from financial reporting systems, other internal records, and outside whereas the Deloitte 2014 Global Report met the G3.1 requirements for Application Making an impact sources such as travel agencies, utilities, and property managers. In FY2014, DTTL Level B. DTTL advanced toward reporting “in accordance” with G4 guidelines in the that matters streamlined the way it reported environmental sustainability data. We have continued future by undertaking a formal stakeholder engagement exercise and materiality with these practices in FY2015 including the following: assessment during FY2015 that identified key areas of impact upon which to focus the Delivering service content of the Global Report. While the FY2015 Global Report is not “in accordance” • Refrigerants, district heating, and district cooling are eliminated from aggregate that matters network reporting. with core or comprehensive G4 guidelines, it includes the G4 index and identification of material indicators. DTTL anticipates continued exploration of the systems, • Paper consumption is tracked, but associated greenhouse gas emissions are not. policies, and approaches that will allow us to meet “in accordance” criteria for future Building careers reporting. that matter • Methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) are not separately calculated in instances where published sources do not incorporate these into carbon-dioxide equivalent Building-related emission sources (CO2e) factors. Having influence Building-related emission sources included in the GHG emissions data of the Global • Global warming potentials (GWPs) incorporated into published emission factors Report were those associated with the use of electricity, heating oil, and natural gas that matters are used “as is” and no attempt is made to reconcile to one common set of GWPs. in the office buildings and data centers that DTTL member firms either own or over Japan’s post-disaster economy Where choices can be made, we use the 100-year Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) which they have operational control. Upstream building-related emission sources, such Strengthening humanitarian with climate-carbon feedback incorporated as published by the Intergovernmental as those associated with electric transmission and distribution line losses, were not response to crises Panel on Climate Change. included in the GHG emissions inventory. Scaling innovative For more information on the rationale behind these decisions, please see the Some of the activity data associated with building-related emission sources was education solutions Deloitte 2014 Global Report. available directly to the DTTL member firms. For example, some facilities have direct The Edge: An office unlike utility meters or submeters from which DTTL member firms obtain readings. For Emission factors any other facilities that have no available meter data, activity data for the entire building was DTTL recommends its member firms select the most accurate, source-specific, typically allocated on the basis of the percentage of total building floor space used Regulatory and public localized, and recently published GHG emission factor available for each emission (based on rentable square meters) by the DTTL member firm. Where building-specific policy engagement source, such as specific emission factors for a local electric utility. DTTL also provides data was unavailable, DTTL member firms estimated electricity and fuel usage using member firms with default emission factors, the majority of which come from the Ethics: Delivering quality actual data from a similar building or an average from a recognized source. following sources: and integrity A simplifying assumption is used for calculating the volume of diesel fuel used for Independence: Preserving the • The GHG Protocol published by the WRI and WBCSD; backup power generation. It is assumed that diesel fuel purchased during the fiscal public’s trust • The International Energy Agency (IEA); year is used that year. This method likely overestimates actual emissions in some years Reporting process and underestimates them in others, but over time, captures the related emissions. • The UK’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA); and and materiality • The US Department of Energy (US DOE). Business travel — Air Metrics Reported GHG emissions from air travel are those resulting from professionals flying for A compilation of emission factors used to calculate the data in the Global Report is business reasons in accordance with DTTL and member firm policies. GHG emissions Basis of reporting included at the end of this section. from flights taken by non-Deloitte personnel are also reported in instances where flight Stakeholder engagement activity data are captured in DTTL or member firm travel systems and reimbursed or summary paid for by DTTL or a member firm (such as travel by family members in accordance with policies or travel by prospective DTTL and member firm professionals). The majority of business air travel data was obtained from DTTL and member firm travel systems. Much of the rest was obtained from travel expense records. 70 Home The default GHG emission factors used to calculate emissions from air travel were Accommodations based on information published by DEFRA. Flight segments were identified by The GHG emissions inventory in the report includes emissions from accommodations distance, and emission factors were applied according to whether the flight segment at hotels, guest houses, and apartments for business reasons and in accordance with Making an impact was categorized as long haul (more than 1108 km), medium haul (463 to 1108 km) or DTTL and member firm policies. Data was collected from corporate travel agency that matters short haul (less than 463 km). Seat class-specific emission factors (e.g., First, Business, records, travel expense reports, and internal records. Premium Economy, Economy) were used for a small number of member firms as Delivering service experience in FY2014 led us to drop class-specific factors from Deloitte US data due to Estimations that matters uncertainty associated with seat-class identification. The DEFRA emission factors used In calculating emissions, various estimations and extrapolations were made to account incorporated an uplift factor to account for nondirect routes, delays, and circling, but for known data gaps. exclude radiative forcing and indirect emissions. Building careers For many travel activities, activity information and cost data were available both from that matter Business travel — Road travel providers (reservation systems, travel agencies, or travel vendors) and from Reported GHG emissions from business travel by automobiles includes travel in DTTL or member firm expense systems. Travel expenses recorded in DTTL or member Deloitte-owned vehicle fleets (personnel driving in vehicles owned by DTTL and/or firm expense systems often exceeded the corresponding expenses recorded by travel Having influence providers because of travel arrangements made outside of reservation systems or the member firm), reimbursed driving (personnel driving in personal cars for which that matters they are reimbursed), rental cars (personnel driving in rented/hired cars for which without travel agencies. In cases where such differences were identified, the travel Japan’s post-disaster economy the member firm pays), buses, and taxis (reimbursed personnel trips in buses, taxis, activity data associated with the incremental cost was estimated based on the same car-service vehicles, and limousines). proportion of cost to activity that was reflected by the travel system reservations. Strengthening humanitarian response to crises For road travel, activity data was gathered from expense reports, rental agency Not every member firm has the capacity to report activity data for GHG emissions, Scaling innovative records, travel agency records, company accounting systems, fuel receipts, odometer and some member firms report on some, but not all, of the activities within the report education solutions logs, and receipts or other records indicating distance and location of trip segments. boundaries. Ratios of emissions per full-time equivalent (FTE) by emission source were When fuel information was available, GHG emissions are calculated on the basis of calculated for the member firms that reported, and averages of these ratios were The Edge: An office unlike calculated based on clusters of geographic location and size. Using the appropriate mobile combustion factors for the given fuel type. When only distance information any other was available, GHG emissions were calculated on the basis of average emissions cluster ratio, missing data was extrapolated based on the known FTE data. Consistent Regulatory and public factors (emissions per kilometer travelled) for vehicles according to vehicle type (bus or with other GRI indicators, emissions intensity per FTE was calculated using the FTE policy engagement car), fuel type (diesel, petrol, hybrid, or unknown), and location. total at the reporting year-end (31 May 2015). Ethics: Delivering quality A very limited amount of personnel commuting activity data for was available from While the above description is intended to be as accurate as possible, invariably the and integrity member firms. Where available, this information was added to the emissions total. inventory will contain some exceptions to this reporting basis. None of the known Independence: Preserving the exceptions are considered to materially change the total emissions reported. public’s trust Business travel — Rail Rail travel accounts for GHG emissions from trips by personnel on subways, railways, Emission factors Reporting process and trams, with different GHG emission factors used for each type of rail system. The following table shows emission factors that were used in the inventory. and materiality Activity data sources included travel agency reports, expense reports, company Where factors are used in specific countries only, these are listed after the emission Metrics accounting systems, receipts, and other records indicating the distance and location of trip segments. In cases where actual distance was unavailable, estimates were made source. Basis of reporting using travel expense data and average travel costs per unit of distance traveled. Stakeholder engagement summary 71 Home Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Air Travel – Various lengths and seat classes 0.080-0.318 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Making an impact Reporting (version 1.2); various factors used depending on class and distance that matters Air Travel – Various lengths (Finland, Germany) 0.098-0.172 Passenger km Travel agency records Air Travel – Various lengths (Japan) 0.083-0.11 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2015 Bus (Europe) 0.102 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Delivering service Reporting (version 1.2) that matters Bus (Japan) 0.084 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2015 Bus (Outside Europe) 0.067 Passenger km WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) Electricity (Australia) 200-1180 MWh Australian Government National Greenhouse & Energy Reporting Act Building careers Electricity (Canada) 2-750 MWh Environment Canada National Inventory Report 1990-2013 that matter Electricity (Chile) 360-790 MWh Ministry of Energy, Chilean Government 2014 data for Central Interconnected System (SIC) Electricity (China) 890 MWh China regional average WRI Calculation Spreadsheet of China Regional Grid Emission Factors for Purchased Electricity Having influence Electricity (Finland) 220 MWh Finnish Electricity Company that matters Electricity (France) 78 MWh Base carbone Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Electricity (Germany) 541 MWh Umweltbundesamt, Strommix Deutschland, UBA Japan’s post-disaster economy Electricity (India) 978-981 MWh India CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector User Guides – 2014 Strengthening humanitarian Electricity (Japan) 423-858 MWh Various Japanese Power Companies response to crises Electricity (Mexico) 402 MWh Electricity Federal Commission Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) Electricity (New Zealand) 120-140 MWh New Zealand Ministry of Economic Development Quarterly Energy Update Scaling innovative Electricity (South Africa) 1030 MWh Eskom’s 2015 data education solutions Electricity (Switzerland) 32 MWh Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company The Edge: An office unlike Reporting (version 1.2) any other Electricity (UK) 462 MWh Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.2) Regulatory and public Electricity (U.S.) 248-860 MWh USEPA eGRID2010 Version 1.0 policy engagement Electricity (Various countries) 137-1086 MWh IEA Statistics, “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights.” 2013 Edition Hotel Stays 33.82 Nights Based on select information from Green Hotels Global TM Q3 2014 Ethics: Delivering quality Hotel Stays (Australia) 40.91 Nights Emission factor provided by Vendors (average) and integrity Hotel Stays (Japan) 31.5 Nights Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Independence: Preserving the Measures to Cope with Global Warming public’s trust Hotel Stays (New Zealand) 2.56-7.97 Nights Ministry for the Environment, Guidance for voluntary, corporate greenhouse gas reporting, 2011 Calendar Year Reporting process Mobile Combustion – Car (Average) (Various Fuels) 0.12-0.147 Km Actual information from the fleet company and materiality (Finland, Luxembourg) Mobile Combustion – Car (Average) (Diesel) 0.185 Km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Metrics (Europe) Reporting (version 1.2) Basis of reporting Mobile Combustion – Car (Diesel) 2.602 Liter Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.2) Stakeholder engagement Mobile Combustion – Car (Various Fuels) (Belgium) 2.834-2.947 Liter Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) summary Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol) (Japan) 2.32 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Mobile Combustion – Car (Various fuels) 2.36-2.72 Liter Ministry for the Environment (New Zealand) 72 Home Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol/Gasoline) 2.191 Liter Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Making an impact Reporting (version 1.2) that matters Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) 0.253 Km DTTL estimated using data from WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) 2.289 Liter Australian Government National Greenhouse & Energy Reporting Act 2008, Technical (Australia) Guidelines 2012 Delivering service Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) (New .231 Km Ministry for the Environment, Guidance for voluntary, corporate greenhouse gas reporting Zealand) that matters Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Various fuels) 1.86-3.14 Liter Stichting Klimaatvriendelijk Aanbesteden en Ondernemen (Netherlands) Building careers Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Various fuels) 2.40-2.70 Liter Specific fuel providers (France) that matter Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Various fuels) 0.241 Km Base carbone Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) (France) Having influence Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (various fuels) 0.082 – 0.231 Km Specific fleet and rental car information (Europe) that matters Mobile Combustion – Europe Car (Average) (Petrol) 0.194 Km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Japan’s post-disaster economy Reporting (version 1.2) Mobile Combustion – Europe/Car (Average) 0.189 Km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Strengthening humanitarian (unknown fuel) Reporting (version 1.2) response to crises Mobile Combustion – Motorcycle 0.120 Km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.2) Scaling innovative Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe Car (Average) 0.280 Km WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) education solutions (Diesel) The Edge: An office unlike Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car (Average) 0.237 Km WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) any other (Petrol) Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car-Average 0.164-0.186 Km Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Regulatory and public (Unknown fuel) (Japan) Measures to Cope with Global Warming policy engagement Mobile Combustion – Taxi 0.143 Vehicle km WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) Mobile Combustion – Taxi (Australia) 0. 250 Vehicle km Calculation based on Australian Government Department of Climate Change (July 2012) Ethics: Delivering quality National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors. Schedule 1 and integrity Mobile Combustion – Taxi (France) 2.40-2.41 Passenger km Base carbone Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Independence: Preserving the Mobile Combustion – Taxi (Japan) 0.438 Vehicle km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2015 public’s trust Mobile Combustion – Taxi (New Zealand) 0.307 Passenger km Ministry for the Environment. June 2013 Mobile Combustion – Taxi / Car service (U.S.) 0.495 Passenger mile Specific information from service providers Reporting process Mobile Combustion – Taxi/Car service (UK) 0.176-0.328 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company and materiality Reporting (version 1.2) Metrics Mobile Combustion – Van (Diesel) 0.251 Km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.2) Basis of reporting Mobile Combustion – Van (Petrol) 0.211 Km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.2) Stakeholder engagement Mobile Combustion – Van (UK) 0.268 Km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company summary Reporting (version 1.2) Rail – Average (Light Rail or Tram) 0.101 Passenger km WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) Rail – National Rail 0.115 Passenger km WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) Rail – Subway 0.101 Passenger km WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) 73 Home Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Rail (Eurostar) 0.012 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Making an impact Reporting (version 1.2) that matters Rail (France) 0.001-0.106 Passenger km Base carbone Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Rail (Germany) 0.075 Passenger km Deutsche Bahn Rail (Japan) 0.024 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2015 Delivering service Rail (Netherlands) 0.030 Passenger km National Rail that matters Rail (UK) 0.012-0.045 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.2) Stationary Combustion – Diesel 2.676 Liter WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) Building careers Stationary Combustion – Diesel (France) 0.319 kWh Base carbone Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) that matter Stationary Combustion – Diesel or Heating Oil 74.10 GJ WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) (Low Heating Value) Stationary Combustion – Heating Oil (Japan) 2.71 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Having influence Measures to Cope with Global Warming that matters Stationary Combustion – Liquefied Petroleum 1.61 Liter WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) Gas (LPG) Japan’s post-disaster economy Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Japan) 2.244-3.132 Cubic meters HV-gas company Strengthening humanitarian Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas 56.10 GJ WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014) (Low Heating Value) response to crises Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas 0.184 kWh Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Scaling innovative (UK, Switzerland) Reporting (version 1.12) education solutions Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (France) 0.235 kWh Base carbone Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) The Edge: An office unlike any other Regulatory and public policy engagement Ethics: Delivering quality and integrity Independence: Preserving the public’s trust Reporting process and materiality Metrics Basis of reporting Stakeholder engagement summary Stakeholder engagement summary 74 Home Key stakeholder Engagement approach Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder groups and typical frequency of members across Deloitte) concern interaction Making an impact Member firm clients Ongoing • Publicly traded company • Service needs of clients • New service offerings • Ethics and integrity that matters • Client interaction during clients, including their audit • Independence • Organizing client service • Client satisfaction engagements committees and boards of • Ethics around industries • Governance risk and • Client satisfaction process directors • Security and privacy • Lead client service roles and compliance Delivering service • Business development • Closely held company clients concerns responsibility • Protection of public interest that matters activities • Government clients • Value of trusted advisor • Adoption of anti-corruption • Anti-corruption • Conferences • Nonprofit clients relationship policy • Corporate responsibility • Proposal responses and • Past and potential clients • Need for industry • Adoption of policy regarding commitment Building careers follow up on losses understanding privacy programs and • Privacy and data security • Client questionnaires • Sustainability reporting leadership • Environmental performance that matter • Supply chain risks and • IT security policies • Supply chain risks/ issues standards • Voluntary sustainability • Value of service reporting Having influence • Supply chain policies and that matters codes of conduct • Chief Confidentiality Officer Japan’s post-disaster economy Deloitte people, Ongoing • Current, former, retired, and • Job satisfaction elements • Flexible work arrangements • Employee development Strengthening humanitarian their families, and • 24/7 support and prospective employees • Work/life balance • Benefits package changes • Diversity and fair treatment response to crises future talent emergency hotlines • Spouses/partners, children, • Career advancement • Extension of certain services • Ethics and integrity • Internal discussions and family members of • Fair treatment to family members • Client satisfaction Scaling innovative • Alumni network Deloitte people • Privacy • Mentoring programs • Privacy and data security education solutions • Social media (external and • Security • Coaching programs • Governance, risk, and internal) • Contributions to society • Opportunities for global compliance The Edge: An office unlike • Environmentally sustainable deployments • Corporate responsibility • Recruiting events any other • Exit interviews operations • Industry training commitment from • Confidential ethics hotline • Access to technology • Wellness programs leadership Regulatory and public • Diversity • Updates to software and • Protection of public interest • Training sessions policy engagement • Community involvement and • Ethics hardware • Public policy positions volunteering opportunities • Travel and mobility • Education, safety and • Environmental performance Ethics: Delivering quality • Wellness support mobile applications • Health and safety and integrity • Volunteering programs • Community engagement Multiple times a year Independence: Preserving the • Ensuring safety of • Labor rights • Performance reviews engagement teams • Compensation public’s trust • Employee councils • Work/life balance • Advisory councils • Professional standards Reporting process • Town-hall meetings • Professional performance and materiality • Affinity groups • Wellness • Annual basis Metrics • People survey Basis of reporting • Partner meetings Stakeholder engagement summary 75 Home Key stakeholder Engagement approach Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder groups and typical frequency of members across Deloitte) concern interaction Making an impact Governments and Ongoing • Audit oversight bodies • Audit quality • Audit standards • Protection of public interest that matters regulators • Proactive engagement • National financial market • Auditor independence • Advisory and advocacy • Governance, risk, and with regulators on topics regulators • Transparency groups compliance impacting the profession • Finance ministers and central • Market competitiveness • Responses to regulatory • Anti-corruption Delivering service and the capital markets bank governors • Corporate governance inquiries • Public policy positions that matters • Contribution to shaping of • International law • Diversity and inclusion • Issuance of transparency • Ethics and integrity new regulation enforcement and security • Confidentiality and data reports • Diversity and fair treatment • Collaboration on policy agencies privacy • Independence policies and • Privacy and data security Building careers development • Multinational fora • Safety and security threats, monitoring • Transparency • Participation in development • Government ministers criminal incidents and crisis • Employee diversity programs • Environmental performance that matter (aligned to topics) events • Supplier diversity programs • Security threats to of standards • Website and current event • Embassies • International trade • Threat assessments and operations and people Having influence monitoring • Jobs and skills safety recommendations • Inclusive growth • Responsiveness to inquiries • Responsible tax • Research and insights that matters • Innovation Japan’s post-disaster economy Annual or regular recurring basis Strengthening humanitarian • Quality/performance reviews response to crises Professional Ongoing • Peer networks • Adherence to professional • Standards for engagement • Protection of public interest Scaling innovative associations and • Involvement in committees • Associations of certified/ performance standards acceptance and • Ethics and integrity education solutions networks and working groups chartered accountants • Governance performance • Governance, risk, and • Representation on • Associations of tax • Barrier-free trade • Peer reviews compliance The Edge: An office unlike leadership councils professionals • Sustainable development • Commentaries on proposed • Professional standards any other • Attendance at conferences • Management consulting • Standards for auditing of standards • Professional performance professional associations nonfinancial information • Training • Employee development Regulatory and public Ad hoc • Financial advisory • Thoughtware • Public policy positions policy engagement professional associations • Strategy formulation • Collaboration on industry Ethics: Delivering quality white papers • Speaking engagements and integrity • Participation in development Independence: Preserving the of standards public’s trust Nonprofit Ongoing • CDP (formerly Carbon • Training • Skills-based volunteering • Youth education and organizations and • Local representation Disclosure Project) • Performance improvement • Community volunteering unemployment Reporting process local communities • Pro bono engagements • The Red Cross and Red • Funding • IMPACT day • Diversity and fair treatment and materiality • Collaborations Crescent Movement • Marketing • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity • Volunteering • Achievement Worldwide • Specific agendas germane • Foundation and member • Anti-corruption Metrics • Teach For All to their cause (e.g. firm monetary and in-kind • Human rights • Social media Basis of reporting • Electronic mail • United Way Worldwide sustainability, education, gifts • Transparency • Meetings and conferences • Local business and humanitarian action, • Voluntary sustainability • Corporate responsibility Stakeholder engagement • Speaking engagements community organizations diversity) reporting commitment summary • Local business promotion • Public policy positions • Transparency in reporting • Privacy and data security • Cross-sector collaboration • Environmental performance • Community involvement • Protection of public interest • Social progress and equality 76 Home Key stakeholder Engagement approach Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder groups and typical frequency of members across Deloitte) concern interaction Making an impact International Ongoing • United Nations Global • Establishment of and • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity that matters multi-stakeholder • Steering committee Compact adherence to international • Internal and external training • Anti-corruption organizations memberships • World Economic Forum norms • Thoughtware • Public policy • Organizational stakeholder • World Business Council for • Understanding of • Changes to global report • Protection of public Delivering service meetings Sustainable Development frameworks and initiatives content • Diversity and fair treatment that matters • Meetings, conferences and • International Integrated • Economic, social, and • Voluntary reporting on • Education correspondence Reporting Committee humanitarian development sustainability • Youth unemployment • Global Reporting Initiative • GHG reduction targets in • Governance, risk, and Building careers • Cross-industry business place or in development compliance alliances (varies across member firms) • Corporate responsibility that matter commitment • Privacy and data security Having influence • Environmental performance • Human rights that matters • Health and safety • Community engagement Japan’s post-disaster economy • Physical security Strengthening humanitarian • Social progress and equality response to crises Suppliers Ongoing • Software suppliers • Contract terms including • Establishment of alliances • Ethics and integrity • Negotiations • Hardware suppliers pricing and payment • Establishment of preferred • Anti-corruption Scaling innovative • Meetings • Travel service suppliers • Features and functionality vendors • Diversity and fair treatment education solutions • Proposals • Consultants • Issue resolution • Establishment of green • Privacy and data security • Industry meetings • Confidentiality purchasing practices The Edge: An office unlike • Sales projections • Contracts any other • Opportunities for (mutual) • Supply chain audits sustainable solutions Regulatory and public • Opportunities for policy engagement collaboration Ethics: Delivering quality Industry and market Ongoing • Forrester • Capabilities (e.g. Digital, • Ongoing relationships • Digital disruption and integrity analysts • Global engagement strategy • Gartner Risk/Cyber, Change, • Dialogue and shared insights • Customer experience involving Deloitte executive • IDC Innovation, Technology, • Formal analyst inquiry and • Business transformation Independence: Preserving the leadership, subject• Kennedy Transformation) briefings • Security and privacy public’s trust matter specialists, and • Source for Consulting • Client and market trends • Analyst events and advisory • Change and people issues other stakeholders across • Verdantix • Competitive landscape sessions virtual and in person • Consulting business model Reporting process geographies, capabilities, • Strategy • Participation in evaluative innovation and materiality and industries research Metrics Educational Ongoing • Students of high potential • Subject-matter knowledge • Volunteering • Education institutions/ • Participation in programs who receive educational • New perspectives • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity Basis of reporting academia • Collaborations scholarships from Deloitte • Leading research • Matching gifts • Diversity and fair treatment • Recruiting • Career placement • Guest lecturers • Employee development Stakeholder engagement • Funding of chairs and • Anti-corruption • Guest lecturing and summary speaking engagements scholarships at universities • Human rights Contact us GlobalReport@deloitte.com Learn more www.deloitte.com/GlobalReport Stay connected #GR2015 Produced by DTTL Global Brand & Communications “Deloitte”, “we”, “us”, and “our” refer to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, tax and related services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte’s more than 225,000 professionals are committed to making an impact that matters. Deloitte serves 4 out 5 Fortune Global 500® companies. This publication contains general information only, and none of DTTL, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. For the convenience of the reader, a member firm of DTTL in a particular country is identified in the body of this report by the word “Deloitte” coupled with a country name (e.g., Deloitte Greece), in lieu of using the actual legal name of the member firm of DTTL in that country. In many countries, services may be provided by the actual member firms but could also be provided in addition by—or solely by—subsidiaries or affiliates of the DTTL member firm in that country, which are often organized as separate legal entities. Specifically, with respect to the United States, Deloitte LLP is the member firm of DTTL and does not provide services. Services in the United States are provided by Deloitte LLP’s subsidiaries; including Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP. All of these US entities are referred to in this publication as “Deloitte United States.” Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. Additionally, for the purposes of this publication only, individuals are identified by their name and the nomenclature discussed above for referring to a DTTL member firm, whether that individual is a partner, principal, shareholder, member, director, or employee of that DTTL member firm or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., Paige Flanagan, Deloitte Ireland). © 2015. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
