United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Sustainability Report 2015 We Promote Sustainability Contents 2 // SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTION Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators 6 // COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY Foreword by the Managing Board 9 // SUSTAINABLE ACTION Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility 16 // SUSTAINABLE SUPPORT Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients 24 // SUSTAINABLE YIELDS NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 33 // SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees 44 // SUSTAINABLE PROTECTION Climate and Environmental Protection 51 // SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENT Showing Commitment to Society This is an unofficial translation of the Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2015 (German Sustainability Report 2015) and is provided for convenience purposes only. In the event of any ambiguity, the German text will prevail. Sustainability Report >> Contents SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTION As the development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK has the mission to operate in accordance with the principle of sustainability. Laid down in its statutes, this requirement guides its day-to-day activity. Sustainability Report 2 Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators NRW.BANK is the state development bank North Rhine-­ motion Department advises the approval authorities of Westphalia. It supports its owner – the State of North the responsible municipal or local governments as well Rhine-Westphalia – in fulfilling its tasks, ­especially in as prospective developers and owners on the possibilithe fields of structural, economic, social and housing ties to make social housing construction modern, flexible policy. For this purpose, it integrates the promotion and profitable using suitable promotion programmes. programmes of the federal state, the federal governMunicipal financing is also part of NRW.BANK’s legal ment and the European Union and combines them with mission, which makes it the ideal partner to municipaliits own products. Competition-wise, NRW.BANK operties, which it supports with the corresponding advisory ates in a neutral manner as a partner to all banks and services and promotion products. savings banks in North Rhine-Westphalia according to the house bank principle. The bank is a strong and This year’s Sustainability Report is the first dedicated reliable partner to small and medium-­sized enterprises report of its kind. This format will allow NRW.BANK to and supports them with the full range of lending tools – expand its ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, while at from low-interest devel­opment loans and loans offsetthe same time meeting the requirements of EU Directive ting a lack of collateral or strengthening the borrower’s 2014/95/EU and providing even more transparency of equity capital to structured financing to equity capital the progress achieved. and advisory services. The Bank’s Social Housing ProKey performance indicators € 9.7 billion 141.2 in net new commitments in FY 2015 – € billion the highest promotion volume in the history of NRW.BANK. in total assets reported by NRW.BANK 100 as of 31 December 2015. % of the CO2 emissions resulting from NRW.BANK’s ­ business activity are offset by climate certificates. In addition, 100% of its electricity comes from 11 renewable energy sources. years € 500 million was the amount of the third NRW.BANK.Green Bond have passed since NRW.BANK started reporting on sustainability. Inspiring the development bank to continuously develop its sustainability philosophy further. issued in October 2015, bringing NRW.BANK’s total Green Bond issuance to € 1.25 bn. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable development and promotion 3 Sustainability balance Economic performance indicators 2015 2014 2013 Unit Financial performance indicators Total assets 141,175 143,843 145,350 €m Equity capital pursuant to the German Commer17,982 17,933 17,883 €m cial Code Net interest and net commission income 546 568 562 €m Administrative expenses 210 215 198 €m Operating income 364 381 401 €m Cost income ratio 36.6 36.1 33.0 % Non performing loans ratio 0.5 0.7 0.5 % Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 42.58 40.09 37.37 % Leverage ratio 11.80 – – % Liquidity coverage ratio > 100 – – % NRW.BANK Green Bonds Volume 500 500 250 €m Maturity 10 4 4 years Focus Energy Energy Water Second opinion oekom oekom – oekom rating1) Approved (B+) Approved (B+) Approved (B-) CO2-savings2) 540 400 – t/€ m Fields of promotion (new business) Housing & Living 5,148 4,278 4,840 €m Seed & Growth 3,344 3,178 2,925 €m Development & Protection 1,185 1,441 1,467 €m Social performance indicators 2015 2014 2013 Unit Employee structure Number of permanent employees 1,271 1,233 1,201 employees Women in % of total workforce 52.8 52.1 51.4 % Share of women in management positions 30.3 27.2 26.7 % Part-time employees in % of total workforce 24.9 23.8 22.1 % Turnover ratio 3.1 2.6 2.5 % Average service life 16.6 16.6 16.4 years Average age 44.5 44.4 44.1 years Additionally: temporary employees 53 66 72 employees Additionally: Apprentices/trainees 38 50 55 employees Vocational and further training Participation in internal seminars 866 650 1.215 employees Participation in external seminars 361 372 345 employees In-house trainers 191 190 189 employees Work-life balance Part-time employees 316 294 265 employees Executives working part-time 24 22 7 employees Employees on passive parental leave3) 40 50 40 employees Corporate citizenship Total 0.7 0.7 0.7 €m Science & Education 49 47 46 % Society & Social Affairs 14 14 19 % Arts & Culture 37 39 35 % Sustainability Report >> Sustainable development and promotion 4 Sustainability balance Environmental performance indicators 2015 2014 2013 Unit Greenhouse gas emissions4) Total emissions 2,220 2,106 2,336 t CO2 thereof direct emissions (Scope 15)) 626 707 729 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 25)) 940 579 779 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 35)) 653 821 829 t CO2 Emissions per employee 1.5 1.6 1.7 t CO2 thereof offset6) 100 100 100 % Building energy Total electricity consumption 5,381,110 5,802,897 5,739,099 kWh thereof from green electricity 100 100 95.3 % thereof from market mix 0 0 4.7 % Electricity consumption per employee 3,747 4,287 4,262 kWh Total heating energy 4,846,170 4,433,420 4,733,010 kWh Heating energy per employee 3,374 3,276 3,515 kWh Business travel Total kilometres travelled 4,584,672 4,324,270 4,577,575 km Kilometres travelled per employee 3,192 3,195 3,399 km Paper Total paper consumption 44,077 46,620 47,840 kg thereof recycled paper 71.1 53.0 4.6 % thereof ECF, TCF, FSC 28.9 47.0 95.4 % Paper consumption per employee 30.7 34.4 35.5 kg Waste Total waste 249.9 210.4 247.9 t Recycling ratio 55.3 48.3 56.2 % Waste per employee 174 156 184 kg Full-time equivalents For the calculation per employee 1,436 1,353 1,347 employees Ratings 2015 2014 2013 Creditworthiness ratings (long-term) Dagong Europe AA+s AA+s – Fitch AAAs AAAs AAAs Moody’s Aa1s Aa1s Aa1n Standard & Poor’s AA-s AA-s AA-s Sustainability Rated by oekom research imug Sustainalytics Vigeo 1) oekom research rates sustainability bonds on a 12-points scale from “excellent” (A+) to “largely non-transparent” (D–). “Approved“ status (Bor better) is assigned to green bonds that qualify for green portfolios. 2) The savings of the Green Bonds 2014 and 2015 cannot be compared due to different calculation methods. 3) As of 31 December. Does not include employees who work part-time during parental leave. They are shown under “Part-time employees”. 4) The conversion factors correspond to the 2015VfU Update. To facilitate comparability with the previous years, the figures for 2013 and 2014 were also determined using these conversion factors, which has resulted in deviations from the reports for 2013 and 2014. 5) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. 6) NRW.BANK offsets its CO emissions through the purchase of certificates from wind park projects in developing countries. Abbreviations: 2 CO2: carbon dioxide; ECF: elemental chlorine-free; FSC: Forest Stewardship Council; kg: kilogramme; km: kilometre; kWh: kilowatt hour; m: million; t: tonnes; TCF: totally chlorine-free Sustainability Report >> Sustainable development and promotion 5 COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY NRW.BANK’s sustainability strategy is based on the commitment to operate transparently, responsibly and conscientiously in the interest of its c­ustomers, stakeholders, society and its employees. Continuously reviewing and refining this strategy is a challenge embraced by the Bank as a whole. Foreword by the Managing Board Dear Reader, “We promote sustainability” – this is not only the title of the present report. As the development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, our bank has the statutory mission to operate sustainably. Sustainability is therefore the guideline and key criterion of our corporate principles, our corporate responsibility and our mission also across corporate borders. In 2009, we signed the ten internationally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact, which are incorporated into our day-to-day work. Each of our Financial Reports published since then also included a report on the progress achieved with regard to human rights, Klaus Neuhaus, Chairman of the Managing Board labour standards, environmental protection and cor­ ­(centre), and his fellow Board members Dietrich Suhlrie ruption prevention. This year we have expanded our (left) and Michael Stölting ­repor­ting and published the first dedicated Sustainability Report of NRW.BANK for even greater transparency. When hearing of “sustainability” many people first think of climate and environmental protection. At ­NRW.BANK we also operate in a resource-efficient and climate-neutral manner in order to reduce CO2 emis­ sions to a minimum. This is why we use renewable resources wherever p ­ ossible. Where this is not possible, we use certificates to offset our CO2 emissions. The most recent example is the CO2-neutral dispatch of letters and parcels since 2015. At the bottom line, our banking operations have been CO2-neutral for several years. But sustainability is much more than the sparing and responsible treatment of resources and our environment. It also includes, for instance, counteracting the effects of the demographic change or strengthening the North Rhine-Westphalian economy. Our promotion and development products s­ upport these tasks. Sustainability Report >> Committed to sustainability 7 The promotion and development business of NRW.BANK as a whole therefore has a sustainable orientation. 2015 was the most successful year in our history, with the promotion volume (€ 9.7 billion), reaching the highest level since the inception of NRW.BANK. The strongest stimulation was provided by the promotion of SMEs and start-ups and the financing of infrastructure projects. Demand for funds from the housing promotion programme also picked up notably, as private investors and housing companies stepped up their investments in the construction and modernisation of social housing. This is a result to be proud of – especially in the current low interest rate environment. After all, interest rates on loans declined con­ tinuously in the course of 2015 and reached a historical low at the beginning of 2016. This clearly shows that development banking means more than simply subsidising interest rates. On the refinancing side, our investors have also benefited from the sustainable orientation of our promotion business since 2013, when we started issuing green bonds, which allow investors to invest their capital in an environmentally sensible manner on an annual basis. So far we have issued a total of three green bonds in the total amount of € 1.25 billion. These funds are used exclusively to refinance previously identified environmental promotion projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. The environmental added value of our green bonds and their compliance with international standards has been confirmed in a “second opinion” from renowned sustainability rating agency oekom research. The very good results of the oekom sustainability bond ratings also reflect the environmental benefit of the bonds. The Wuppertal Institut was given the task of quantifying the environmental benefits. The institute found that 540 tonnes of CO2 emissions per one million euros are saved per year. In addition, there is also the environmental and social added value for example from the renaturation of the Emscher system. NRW.BANK attaches great importance to treating its employees in a forward-looking and respectful manner, which is also an important aspect of its sustainable operation. Supporting a good work-life balance and promoting equal opportunities have been integral elements of our corporate culture for many years. Which is why berufundfamilie gGmbH therefore certified us as a family-friendly enterprise in 2015. Our activities are geared to improving the living conditions as environmental and climate protection in North Rhine-Westphalia, and to stabilising the development of society. This is something our customers, our employees and our business partners can rely on. The present Sustainability Report is an invitation to gain a deeper insight into the progress we have achieved in terms of sustainability and to provide an overview of the diverse measures and promotion programmes for sustainable economic activity in North Rhine-Westphalia. We hope you find this report informative and we look forward to establishing a dialogue with you! The Managing Board of NRW.BANK Klaus Neuhaus Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Chairman of the Managing Member of the Managing Member of the Managing Board Board Board Sustainability Report >> Committed to sustainability 8 SUSTAINABLE ACTION All our employees are committed and encouraged to act in a sustainable manner at all times and across all divisions. This is how we fill the concept of “corporate responsibility” with life. Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility NRW.BANK considers sustainability to be a NRW.BANK reviews its day-to-day work procentral guiding principle and a key criterion in cesses in light of sustainability-related aspects. taking decisions on business policy. This credo The Bank will continue to improve the sustainais reflected in all phases of NRW.BANK’s corpobility of its business activities and make the rate activities, starting from its strategic and progress achieved measurable wherever possibusiness policy decisions to the shaping of its ble. Focal points of these efforts include the range of products and services down to the integration of sustainability-related issues into implementation of specific financings, its capital departmental tasks, products, guidelines and market activities and its offering of consulting processes as well as the integration of sustainaservices. bility aspects into the credit and investment One of the essential cornerstones of the processes. ­sustainability strategy pursued by NRW.BANK NRW.BANK publishes regular reports on the is transparent and responsible treatment of its further development of its internal guidelines as owner, customers, employees and its stake­ well as its activities in the individual areas and holders at large. NRW.BANK lives up to this the progress achieved. commitment based on its Public Corporate Governance Code. In addition, NRW.BANK has defined the core elements of its corporate ­mission in its corporate mission statement. Rules on compliance and money laundering The NRW.BANK’s statutes (section 5, para. 1) and the prevention are integral elements of NRW.BANK’s Act on NRW.BANK (section 3, para. 1) oblige the Bank business processes. They are designed to help to follow the principle of sustainability in the perforthe Bank prevent corruption, bribery and money mance of its tasks which underlines the importance of laundering. In addition, NRW.BANK has instalthis topic for the development bank. Sustainability is led binding regulations for the confidential treatalso a general principle of overriding importance in the ment of information, for example company and Bank’s strategy. business secrets, by its employees. To safeguard its competition-neutral status, Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations NRW.BANK complies with the principle of nonAs a matter of course the Bank complies with the statudiscrimination. tory provisions applicable in Germany. NRW.BANK has When commissioning third parties, NRW.BANK additionally formulated internal guidelines addressing will pay attention not only to cost-efficiency but various aspects of sustainability to put corporate respon­ also to environmental protection, energy efficisibility into practice in the context of its own business ency, female promotion and social aspects in activity. accordance with applicable legal regulations. To confirm its sustainability targets, NRW.BANK Labour Standards and Human Rights will verify their attainment at regular intervals Compliance with human rights and with the labour and join national and international initiatives or standards that are applicable in Germany as well as sign the voluntary commitments developed by the rejection of child and forced labour are a matter such initiatives. of course for the Bank as laid down in NRW.BANK’s For instance, NRW.BANK has signed the Principles of Corporate Responsibility. ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the ­Finance Initiative of the United Nations ­Environment Programme as well as the German Diversity Charter. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable action 10 Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility CO2-neutral banking 100% green electricity Company car scheme Rising recycled paper ratio Responsible employer ENVIRONMENT • Vocational and further training • Job & Family ­ certification • Award-winning health management SOCIETY Corporate citizenship Education Start-ups Infrastructure ECONOMY Innovation Municipalities SMEs  Environment/ Climate/Energy IN ADDITION Housing Sustainability ratings from: imug, oekom research, ­Sustainalytics, Vigeo Signatory of: Diversity Charter, Green Bond Principles, UNEP Finance Initiative, UN Global Compact, VfU e.V. Green Bond Programme • Second Opinion from oekom research • Impact analysis by Wuppertal Institut Sustainability Report >> Sustainable action 11 Equal Opportunities and Principle of Within the Bank, the Compliance Department, which Non-discrimination forms part of the Risk Control unit, is the central body NRW.BANK is committed to promoting mutual respect that is responsible for addressing these tasks. and avoiding discrimination in order to offer its em­ ployees a fair and good working environment. This is The Bank has appointed Compliance Officers (MaRisk, why equal opportunities and the principle of non-disWpHG) as well as a Money Laundering and OP Risk crimination are laid down in the Principles of Corporate Officer as well as deputies for exercising the various Responsibility and in special internal guidelines. Compliance functions. These Officers report directly to the management and are not bound by instructions Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention in the performance of their tasks. The business model of NRW.BANK relies on the confidence placed in the Bank’s expertise, performance and Its tasks primarily include: development, communicaintegrity by its customers, business partners, employtion and review of the Bank-wide Compliance/Money ees, owner and the public. Laundering Prevention framework, managing the compliance risk whilst taking other risk types into account, Compliance with regulatory and statutory provisions as especially reputational and operational risks, preparation well as with internal requirements forms an important and further development of Bank-specific risk analyses basis for this. to assess the appropriateness and effectiveness of the principles, resources and processes, advising and supporting the management in compliance-related matters including regular reporting. Compliance-relevant topics are implemented in ­accordance with the Minimum Requirements for Risk Manage­ment (MaRisk), the German Anti Money COMMITTED TO ­L aundering Act (GwG) and the Securities Trading Act (WpHG). ­SUSTAINABILITY A set of detailed, written internal Compliance Regulations as well as mandatory regular training courses raise employees’ awareness for Compliance-related SECTION 3 ACT ON NRW.BANK issues and are an important element of the development bank’s preventive approach. Data Protection NRW.BANK has been commissioned by In accordance with its responsible and confidential the government mission to support the handling of data NRW.BANK has regulated all activities federal state and its municipal corporain the area of data protection and banking secrecy regulations in a set of written policies and instructions tions in meeting their public tasks, to ensure that information is handled responsibly particularly in the fields of s­ tructural, and confidentially. Compliance with these policies and economic, social and housing policy and instructions is mandatory for all employees. carry out and administer development The Bank meets its statutory training obligations relatmeasures in line with the benefit regulaing to data protection and information security towards tions of the European Union. In this its staff. regard, it is governed by the principle of sustainability. Sustainable Procurement Material sustainability aspects are mandatory also in the context of NRW.BANK’s procurement processes for construction, delivery and other services. Based on the Act against Restraints of Competition (GWB) and the Sustainability Report >> Sustainable action 12 prevailing North Rhine-Westphalian wage law for pubFreedom of Association and Right to Collective lic procurement (TVgG-NRW) as well as the Minimum Bargaining Wage Act (MiLoG), aspects of minimum and collective The Bank’s staff council represents the interests and wages, environmental protection, energy efficiency, needs of the employees of NRW.BANK based on the female promotion, the balance of work and family life or North Rhine-Westphalian State Staff Representation the prohibition of child labour are mandatorily binding Act. The staff council is responsible for monitoring within NRW.BANK. compliance with applicable laws, regulations, collective bargaining agreements and labour agreements and Accordingly, the Bank places orders which exceed the informing the employees of both head offices at the EU limits in accordance with the Construction Contract annual staff assembly. Procedures (Part A) as well as the Regulations on Contract Awards for Public Supplies and Services (Part A) As a public-law institution NRW.BANK is subject to the and the Regulations on Contract Awards for Independcollective bargaining agreement for the private sector ent Professional Services. Before placing orders worth and public banking industry. It implements the collec€ 25,000 or more, the Bank additionally performs an tively agreed results for its employees under collective audit in accordance with section 8 of the North Rhine-­ agreements. For the majority of employees not covered Westphalian Anti-Corruption Act (KorruptionsbG). This by collective agreements they are voluntarily impleway, the Bank can rule out bribery, fraud, influence mented as well. peddling, restrictive agreements and other forms of corruption. Initiatives and Memberships In accordance with its Principles of Corporate ResponThe integration of environmental aspects into the prosibility, NRW.BANK also contributes to tasks identified curement of office materials is an important element of outside its own business activity. The Bank is a signa­ NRW.BANK’s procurement policy. The focus is placed tory of the following sustainability-relevant initiatives: not only on the use of sustainable office materials but also on sustainable ordering and logistic processes. German Diversity Charter Green Bond Principles NRW.BANK supports the employment of people with UNEP Finance Initiative disabilities at its locations in Düsseldorf and Münster. UN Global Compact In the past fiscal year, the Bank again commissioned VfU e. V. workshops for disabled to provide such services as washing and cleaning. This is yet another way in which As an ordinary member of the Association of German the Bank ensures its corporate responsibility towards Public Sector Banks and the European Association of society. Public Banks, NRW.BANK actively participates in working groups and panel discussions on sustainability and Public Corporate Governance Code green bonds. Being a development bank, NRW.BANK is very much committed to transparent and responsible action towards the public, its guarantor and owner as well as investors, customers and employees. This commitment is based on the Public Corporate Governance Code, as last amended on 1 January 2014, with which the members of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board and the Board of Governors identify in full. Building on this basis, the Bank publishes an annual Public Corporate Governance Report to inform about material corporate governance developments. For many years, the Bank has implemented transparency and responsibility in its dealings with its target groups. In early 2006, NRW.BANK was one of the first public-­ sector companies in Germany to adopt a Public Corporate Governance Code and to officially commit itself to this standard of corporate governance. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable action 13 Stakeholder Dialogue NRW.BANK has defined its key stakeholders with regard to corporate responsibility and maintains a transparent and regular exchange with them. Stakeholders Guarantor Employees End borrowers Rating Agencies In 2015, NRW.BANK became a member of the House banks Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Initiatives/NGOs Finanzinstituten e. V. (VfU – Association for environmental management and sustainability in financial institutions). Suppliers Media VfU is a network of the leading financial service providers ... in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Investors NRW.BANK uses the VfU’s system of key performance indicators to prepare its eco-balance. This allows financial By developing new and expanding existing promotion institutions to determine comparable environmental products, the Bank supports the North Rhine-Westpha­ performance indicators based on international reporting lian government’s social and infrastructural m ­ easures requirements. Moreover, NRW.BANK benefits from various forums which provide a non-competitive room for the as well as its energy and climate protection targets. The confidential exchange on sustainability-related topics cooperation is based on trusting com­munication and affecting the financial sector. coordination with the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Since 1995, the Association and its members have The annual financial report and the Sustainability Re­developed and implemented innovative and sustainable port are the most important communication tools used solutions for financial service providers with the aim by NRW.BANK to supply its stakeholders with trans­ of increasing the contribution to sustainable development parent information about its corporate responsibility. made by the financial sector. The sustainability portal on the Bank’s website provides additional information. NRW.BANK continuously For more information, visit www.vfu.de expands the information offered and added a new page about its Green Bond programme back in 2013. Responsible Marketing In keeping with its sustainable procurement policy and conforming with the provisions of the TVgG-NRW the Sustainable Products Bank considers important aspects of corporate responIn accordance with its principles, NRW.BANK con­ sibility. This also applies when purchasing supplies and tinuously optimises its business activities with regard awarding contracts for marketing services. to sustainability, with the main emphasis placed on its core business segments. The development bank strives The Bank’s advertising materials are also geared to to integrate sustainability topics in its promotional ­sustainability. Since many years the bank uses environproducts. The chapter entitled Designing Sustainable mentally-friendly products made from recycled or renewPromotion for Clients in the present Report provides able, biodegradable materials. an insight into the corresponding implementation. Responsible marketing for NRW.BANK also means In the context of the established internal process for confidential treatment of customer information. the launch of new products, NRW.BANK additionally reviews each of its promotion products for compliance The Bank’s Data Protection Officer is involved in all with its sustainability values. Special attention is paid ­dialogue-based marketing measures based on customer to sustainability risks and to compliance with the Prindata. ciples of Corporate Responsibility. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable action 14 Sustainability Ratings NRW.BANK scored a “C” rating, with the additional Since a number of years NRW.BANK’s sustainability “Prime” rating thus classifying the Bank as a sustainaperformance has been rated by specialist agencies. ble investment. The ratings focus on „Environmental“, „Social“, and „Gover­nance“ themes. The Bank again obtained good The best rating awarded by oekom within the group of sustainability ratings in the past fiscal year. “financial institutions” analysed is “B”, which is only three notches higher than NRW.BANK’s rating. Rating agency oekom research AG, for instance, rates the sustainability of issuers on a scale from A+ to D–. Sustainability Rated by oekom research imug Sustainalytics Vigeo Sustainability Report >> Sustainable action 15 SUSTAINABLE SUPPORT NRW.BANK’s products and services are designed to secure the standards of living and to improve climate and environmental protection in North Rhine-Westphalia. In addition, the Bank supports a balanced social development in the North ­Rhine-­ Westphalian regions. The aim is to strengthen the stability of society. Accordingly, all of NRW.BANK’s promotion and development activities make a contribution to the development of enterprises and municipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients In 2015, NRW.BANK committed promotion funds NRW.BANK provides its financing and advisory ­totalling € 9.7 billion (previous year: € 8.9 billon) in an services creatively, competently and responsibly ­environment characterised by continued low interest for the benefit of businesses, municipalities and rates. This represents yet another increase on the high the people. of € 9.2 billion recorded in 2013. For detailed infor­ In accordance with its sustainability strategy, mation on the promotion business, please refer to the NRW.BANK specifically promotes and funds ­chapter The promotion and development business of projects and programmes designed to improve NRW.BANK in the 2015 financial report. living conditions, social development as well as environmental and climate protection in North Net volume of new commitments in € millions Rhine-Westphalia. In its capacity as the development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, Infrastructure/ Economic NRW.BANK specifically supports investments Municipal Development which take the North Rhine-Westphalian econoPromotion 3,502 3,953 my and infrastructure forward. The Bank uses part of its own income for its promotion activities. Housing NRW.BANK’s promotion activities are geared to Promotion funding projects of proven economic viability 2,222 while taking its customers’ interests into account and paying particular attention to environmental protection needs. Projects with unaccepPartnership and Cooperation table environmental impacts or unacceptable NRW.BANK cooperates with other financial and develnegative impacts on social development are opment institutions in a spirit of partnership. excluded from NRW.BANK’s support to the extent that such exclusion is permissible within NRW.BANK conducts its commercial promotion busi­­ the legal framework under which NRW.BANK ness in cooperation with the banks and savings banks operates. in North Rhine-Westphalia in a competition-­neutral manner based on the “house bank principle”. According to this principle, the Bank has no direct contacts with its clients but extends its promotion loans via banks and savings banks, which act as intermediaries. The latter Sustainable behaviour is a key objective of NRW.BANK’s check the loan and promotion applications and pass business policy and means the equal consideration of those that have been approved on to NRW.BANK. This social, economic and environmental objectives and means that the complete network of bank branches ethical matters. Most importantly, the sustainability throughout the state is available to potential company objective shapes and guides NRW.BANK’s offerings for founders as well as small and medium-sized entre­pre­ economic, housing as well as infrastructure/municipal neurs. Commercial promotion loans are extended promotion. ­direc­t­ly only in case of a market failure or significant market inefficiencies – usually after prior consultation For this purpose, the Bank uses the full range of lending with the bank associations. As defined in the NRW.BANK tools and also steps in when banking and lending knowlaw municipal loans and commercial loans to central, how is required for the promotion process. Besides the regional and local governments as well as to public-secprovision of funds, forward-looking and requirement-­ tor special-­purpose associations and social housing oriented promotion increasingly requires individualised promotion programmes are typically extended directly advice. NRW.BANK has therefore built its advisory by NRW.BANK. services and solutions into a second, ­equally important pillar of its business. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable support 17 Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients “Sustainable social development means responding flexible to current events.” NRW.BANK. Housing for refugees Flüchtlingsunterkünfte: € 160.1 m € 79.9 m (approx. 18,000 places) (1,027 dwellings) Klaus Neuhaus “We promote sustainability – this means that we want to help shape the future of North Rhine-Westphalia. For example, there where the foundation, growth and succes­sion of SMEs are concerned.” NRW.BANK.Universalkredit und NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit: € 2.1 bn (5,700 enterprises) Michael Stölting “Infrastructure is the lifelines of society. Making them sustainable and future-proof is one of the most important challenges of our time.” Infrastructure NRW.BANK Wind power development: Energieinfrastruktur: generators: € 2.1 bn € 213.8 m > 50 Dietrich Suhlrie Sustainability Report >> Sustainable support 18 Financing of SMEs Some 5,700 companies received loans from either of Sustainable growth supports prosperity, jobs and social the two programmes. security. Small and medium-sized enterprises are considered a key driver of the dynamic economic developUnder the house bank principle, the banks and savings ment. Against this background, promoting the econombanks acting as a conduit are liable to NRW.BANK for ic development of small and medium-sized enterprises potential credit defaults and bear the full default risk and the start-up of businesses in North Rhine-Westfor promotion loans they channel through. To ensure phalia is a key task of NRW.BANK. that the house banks are willing to act as conduits also in the case of insufficient collateral, NRW.BANK op­tion­ To meet the specific development and promotion requireally offers liability releases for house banks, ­resulting ments of start-ups and SMEs, NRW.BANK offers a wide in the house banks and NRW.BANK sharing the risk. range of products and services. The individual offerings Outside the promotion loan business, the NRW.BANK. are assigned to the promotion themes “SME”, “Start-up” Konsortialkredit – Gewerbliche Wirtschaft offers house and “Exports”. The different promotion products cover banks the possibility to share the risk of larger credit the entire lifecycle of a company – from seed finance to exposures with NRW.BANK. the supply of capital for growth projects and support in difficult situations. Key instruments for the promotion of The NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds responds to the SMEs include low-interest promotion loans, risk assumpproblems frequently encountered when it comes to tions and equity-strengthening solutions: raising equity capital and offers direct as well as silent participations to help small and medium-sized enterNRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and NRW.BANK.Universal­ prises realise their growth projects. The implementakredit are NRW.BANK’s anchor products for the pro­ tion of recapitalisation and restructuring exercises for motion of SMEs. In 2015 interest subsidised loans for companies in financial trouble also regularly requires investments and working capital totalling € 2.1 billion the provision of investment capital. For this purpose, were extended under these programmes. the Bank launched the NRW.BANK.Spezialfonds in an amount of € 40 million. Characterised by especially favourable interest rates, the NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit is specifically targeted at business start-ups and young companies. In 2015, this NRW.BANK programme supported almost 2,000 start-up and growth projects and extended loans totalling approx. € 465 million. Micro start-ups with credit requirements of up to € 25,000 are supported via the NRW/EU.Mikrodarlehen. As no collateral is required for the micro loans, they also allow socially disadvantaged or unemployed people to set up self-employed businesses, thereby facilitating their return to working life. Applications for promotion funds under these loans are channelled through the STARTERCENTERS in North Rhine-Westphalia. Besides monetary support, NRW.BANK also offers these clients advice on how to optimise their financing € 9.7 bn structures using public promotion funds. € Strengthening innovation in business and industry NRW.BANK’s innovation promotion activities focus on business start-ups and young companies in high-­ in net new commitments represent the technology sectors, as these are of special relevance highest promotion volume in the history of for innovation and future competitiveness. Naturally, NRW.BANK (2014: € 8.9 bn). the promotion offerings for these economically very ­important but very small target groups cannot achieve the same high case numbers or volumes as the promotion loan business. It is much more important that Sustainability Report >> Sustainable support 19 NRW.BANK’s financing and advisory solutions provide services include, for example from the contacts made effective stimulation to reduce the very high market by a founder team from the virtual reality sector with a inefficiencies, which sometimes even result in complete strategic partner for prototype development as well as market failure, in the seed financing of innovative comsupport and assistance in winning pilot customers for panies. a spin-off project in the biochemical energy generation sector. NRW.BANK’s seed and venture funds in the total amount of € 180 million support the early phase financIn the context of the win NRW.BANK Business Angels ing of young enterprises. In the venture capital segInitiative, NRW.BANK organises regular investor meetment, the Bank acts as a co-investor to finance newly ings to bring together capital seekers, innovative enterestablished technology-oriented companies in sectors prises and business angels. Some 60 capital-seeking such as information and communication technology, founder teams or newly established innovative compabiotechnology, cleantech, medical engineering and nies received active support in their search for business microsystems technology. angels. Industry structure in % Move towards green energy and environmental NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds und protection in the corporate sector NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds Supporting the move towards green energy and promoting environmental protection is a cross-section Others 11.9 theme for development banks which is relevant for both economic development and housing/infrastructure Microsystems promotion. The respective offerings are assigned to the technology 5.8 Biotechnology 39.4 promotion theme “Environment/Climate/Energy”. Medical engineering 12.2 With net new commitments totalling a good € 44 milInformation and lion, the NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit is the highest-volCleantech 12.3 communication ume offering in the economic development segment. It technology 18.4 offers strongly subsidised interest rates for especially deserving environmental investments. To qualify for promotion, projects must demonstrably achieve energy So far, private capital in the amount of € 200 million or resource efficiency increases of at least 20% and has been raised via co-investments for North 6%, respectively. Replacement investments with lower Rhine-Westphalia in the venture capital segment alone efficiency increases are eligible for promotion only on and more than 700 jobs have been created or secured the basis of certified environmental protection processin the high-tech environment. The seed funds operate es (e.g. PIUS Check or environmental management on a fund-of-funds basis and currently invest in ten system). regional seed funds, which, in turn, have made investments in 79 high-tech start-ups. Companies which invest in cogeneration technology by converting or expanding existing plants or constructing Advisory services and support for start-ups and newly new cogeneration plants receive funding under the established innovative companies complement the NRW/EU.KWK Investitionskredit. NRW.BANK’s range range of financing solutions offered by NRW.BANK; of infrastructure promotion solutions also include prothe NRW.BANK.Venture Center, for instance, serves as motion offerings for the use of combined heat and a one-stop agency for founder teams from universities power plants. and research institutions in North Rhine-Westphalia. In 2015, more than 14 events and workshops were organised – partly in cooperation with innovation transfer officers at universities – in order to raise awareness for start-ups among research teams. 25 founder teams were provided with advice and support for their spin-off projects. Promising results of these long-term support Sustainability Report >> Sustainable support 20 New housing construction, modernisation and In the context of the rented housing promotion activities energy efficiency of the Social Housing Promotion unit, a new promotion NRW.BANK’s social housing promotion programmes programme for the creation of refugee housing was play a special role within the offerings for new housing introduced to investors in the housing sector. Since the construction and housing modernisation grouped in its launch of the programme in spring 2015, loans totalling “Housing” promotion theme. The respective promotion roughly € 80 million have been extended and more measures are geared towards the state of North Rhine-­ than 1,000 new dwellings been financed. Westphalia’s annual housing promotion programme (Wohnraumförderungsprogramm, WoFP) which breaks Infrastructure and municipal promotion down the state government’s general promotion policy A well-developed and future-oriented infrastructure concepts into concrete promotion measures. meeting actual needs is an important element for the attraction of businesses, the creation of jobs and the NRW.BANK’s social housing promotion programmes sustainable development of the economy in North Rhine-­ are designed, among other things, to support the creaWestphalia. To support the expansion of the infrastruction of affordable, high-quality housing for low-income ture in North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK offers earners. This ensures that families with children or both customised, individual financing solutions and handicapped people continue to find affordable housing standardised promotion programmes. One in five euros also in conurbations characterised by rising rents. In was invested in infrastructure measures. 2015, NRW.BANK extended loans totalling € 47 million for the acquisition and construction of owner-occupied Individual financing solutions are provided for both cor­­ housing as well as over € 460 million for the construcporate financings and project financings. Local, regional tion of new rent-controlled and occupancy-­controlled and central governments and municipal cooperatives rental housing. The promotion loans are granted directly (water/sewage cooperatives) are financed directly; to borrowers who file an application with the approval otherwise, NRW.BANK participates in syndicate financauthorities of the cities and municipalities. ings with house banks. In 2015, NRW.BANK extended loans totalling € 156 million and € 73 million, respecDemographic change leads to increased demand for tively, via its “Environment/Climate/Energy” and “Social high-quality housing concept for elderly people. Under Infrastructure and Education” competence centres. The the state government’s WoFP plan, NRW.BANK makes combined heat and power plants of Stadtwerke Düsselavailable low-interest loans both for the nursinghomes dorf (Block Fortuna) and Rhein­Energie AG (Cologne-­ and the creation of nursing home places and for the Niehl) are just two examples of projects supported by reduction of barriers in the existing housing stock. In NRW.BANK. addition, NRW.BANK offers low-interest capital expen­ d­­i­ture loans for nursing homes and facilities operated The municipal sector continues to be of particular by not-for-profit entities. These loans can be used, for relevance for the financing of infrastructure projects. instance, to finance modernisation and refurbishment Apart from the above-mentioned individual financing projects or to fund the conversion of conventional care solutions, NRW.BANK offers municipalities, their enterfacilities into alternative nursing and care concepts. prises and municipal cooperatives interest-subsidised loans for the financing of infrastructure projects also Low-interest loans are granted under the NRW.BANK. on a direct basis. In addition, the NRW.BANK.Moderne Gebäudesanierung programme to support projects for Schule programme, which is also distributed directly, raising energy efficiency as well as barrier-free refuroffers municipal school operators and municipal school bishment measures for privately owned buildings. associations long-term finance for the construction and modernisation of school buildings at extremely attracAs a result of the challenging refugee situation, demand tive terms. In 77 projects, a total amount of approx. for low-interest loans for investments in refugee accom­ € 106 million was spent on building measures, e.g. to mo­dation has increased strongly. Against this backsupport the state of North Rhine-Westphalia’s inclusion ground, NRW.BANK offers the North Rhine-Weststrategy. phalian municipalities especially low-interest and longterm financing solutions. Funds are available for the Besides the activities of the municipal sector, it is beacquisition, construction or modernisation of refugee coming increasingly important to raise private capital accommodation. In 2015, the Bank committed promofor the maintenance and the expansion of the infrastruction loans totalling approx. € 160 million, with the help ture in North Rhine-Westphalia. In response to this of which some 17,000 new places for refugees were need, the NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur programme has built and some 1,000 existing ones were modernised. been developed, which offers private investors interSustainability Report >> Sustainable support 21 est-subsidised financing options for projects in fields almost exclusively via the Green Bond 2015. With such as environmental protection, urban development, 270,000 tonnes per year, the CO2 savings of the Green social affairs, education and qualification. Bond made a key contribution to climate protection. Investments in plants for the generation, storage and NRW.BANK actively supported the renaturation of the distribution of energy can be promoted under the River Emscher through its promotion activities. The NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme. In 2015, construction of the new sewage canal under the river is, interest-subsidised promotion loans with a total volume for example, financed via the Sonderförderung ­Emscher of € 213.8 million were granted under this programme. programme. The construction of the canal is a precondiThese were mainly used to finance wind turbine gene­ tion for the renaturation of the Emscher. In 2015 alone, rators, partly in citizen wind farms. In total, more long-term loans totalling € 95.4 million were made than 50 new wind turbine generators were financed in available under this programme. North Rhine-Westphalia. The loans were refinanced The biggest single water management project in the EU From a technical point of view, the renaturation of the for the implementation of the European Water Framework Emscher is a very ambitious project. It requires the separaDirective is the renaturation of the River Emscher. This tion of sewage and fresh water. Due to mine subsidence, ambitious programme is to be completed over a period the course of the river has to be modulated and sewage of 30 years. pumps are required to transport both the sewage water and the fresh water to the estuary area of the Emscher in Since 1990, the river formerly misused as a sewage canal Dinslaken. is being reconverted into the „blue Emscher“. The river will be brought back to its natural state and renaturalized Ongoing and open-minded dialogue with the general public in the best manner possible. The conversion of the Emscher has been an important element of project implementatidoes not only comprise the Emscher itself but also the on. By engaging with all stakeholder groups and securing renaturation of its affluents. The Emscher Cooperative their involvement, it has been possible to avoid conflicts wants to achieve several objectives, including the introducthat have occurred on comparable large-scale projects. tion of a flood management system as well as a greater biodiversity. In 2015 the funds provided for the Emscher renaturation project were refinanced from the Green Bond 2015. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable support 22 NRW.BANK furthermore supports the preservation Trusting customer relationships of buildings listed as public historical monuments, the Potential recipients of promotion loans increasingly expansion of Internet broadband services in North inform themselves independently about available proRhine-­Westphalia, solutions for flood management motion options and hence expect promotion banks to and control as well as investments in sports facilities provide targeted and objective information about proin the state. motion funds. NRW.BANK has therefore optimised its Internet presence on an ongoing basis over the past In addition to these infrastructure development and years. In addition, the Bank’s marketing strategy aims promotion programmes, NRW.BANK was a reliable to inform clearly and objectively about its own and partner in 2015. Its municipal loans and liquidity loans accompanying public promotion offerings. to North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities made an important contribution to ensuring the municipalities‘ As part of its stakeholder dialogue efforts, NRW.BANK ability to act. The Bank moreover supports the municiperformed its first customer satisfaction analysis in pal sector with respect to inter-municipal cooperation, 2015. Companies which had received a promotion loan the development and implementation of municipal used consulting services provided by the bank or attendaction plans, the management of public buildings and ed events organised by NRW.BANK were questioned facilities with a view to ensuring their financial sustain­ by means of three separate modules. They were asked ability or the planning and realisation of public-private to indicate their overall satisfaction and willingness to partnership projects. recommend NRW.BANK to third parties as well as their satisfaction with individual aspects of the respective offering. All in all, the results show an above-average overall satisfaction and willingness to recommend the bank to third parties – also compared to peers. In this context, respondents’ very high satisfaction with the individual promotion programmes used as well as with the expertise of NRW.BANK’s consultants is worth mentioning. € 1.1 bn were committed by NRW.BANK in 2015 for environment, climate and energy projects. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable support 23 SUSTAINABLE YIELDS Green Bonds issued by NRW.BANK allow ­investors to participate in ecological projects. Which in turn generate sustainable yields for the Bank investors. NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 While the proceeds from NRW.BANK’s regular bonds Green Bond Principles define the framework are also used to support the social and economic asUse of Proceeds Bonds pects of its development business, the funds raised Projects are selected by the Bank’s sustainability through the Green Bond programme are exclusively officer used to refinance previously identified ecological proIn selecting the loans to be counted towards the jects based in North Rhine-Westphalia. € 500 million refinancing portfolio, NRW.BANK applies the following criteria: In 2013 NRW.BANK was Europe’s first regional agency • All selected projects have to support to successfully launch a green bond. By issuing its North Rhine-Westphalia’s climate and ­ Green Bonds also in 2014 and 2015, the Bank demonsustainability strategy strated its commitment to bring a green paper to the • Eligible fields include “Climate Mitigation” market on an annual basis. The € 500 million, 10-year and “Climate Adaptation“ NRW.BANK Green Bond 2015 was successfully issued • Focus on climate protection in November. • Climate benefits to be maximised by ­ allocating projects to the portfolio based on To be selected for the Green Bond 2015, projects needthe highest carbon footprint reduction ed to fulfil a specific profile including a commitment • Borrowers should agree to the transparent date in the current calendar year and the relevance in disclosure of their project terms of the themes defined for the Green Bond: The All loans, as well as the issue itself, should origifocus is on contributing to the state of North Rhine-­ nate in the same calendar year Westphalia’s climate protection policy and the United All projects are “live“ Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals as well as No risk of “green default”. The maximum term supporting adaptation to the unavoidable implications of the issue is determined by the shortest loan of climate change. This is why all funded measures maturity serve to reduce and avoid adverse environmental imInternal designation of the loans by the sustainapacts on the climate (mitigation) and to deal with the bility officer consequences of climate change (adaptation). Loan portfolio remains unchanged during the term of the issue An internal selection process identifies eligible projects One-off reporting is sufficient from the water and energy areas. Amounting for a total oekom research confirms the sustainability of of approximately € 405 million, energy projects acthe projects (second opinion) counted for the bulk of the funded volume. NRW.BANK No “green washing”! guarantees its investors that the proceeds from the Wuppertal Institut prepares impact analysis Green Bond will be used to refinance loans extended in Sustainability Report provides transparent in2015 to finance projects in the fields of water managesight into the projects and their environmental ment, renewable energies or energy efficiency. benefit Water 19% www.nrwbank.com/greenbond Energy 81% To establish a close link between its environmentally oriented promotion programmes and its own funding in the international capital market NRW.BANK launched a special product, the “Green Bond”, in 2013. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable yields 25 Total volume of NRW.BANK.Green Bonds issuance to date 2013 € 250 million 2017 19 % Energy 81 % Water oekom rating: Approved (B-) 2014 € 500 million 2018 74 % Energy 26 % Water oekom rating: Approved (B+) 2015 € 500 million 2025 81 % Energy 19 % Water oekom rating: Approved (B+) € 1.25 billion NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 CO2-savings per year € 1 million 1 year 540 t CO2 1 year € 500 million 270,000 t CO2 10 years 2.7 million t CO2 is equivalent to the CO2 storage capacity of a managed forest the size of the ­Düsseldorf administrative district west approx. of the River Rhine 3,000 sq. km Sustainability Report >> Sustainable yields 26 The following projects amounting to a total development volume of € 500 million were unambiguously designated as investment to be refinanced from NRW.BANK’s Green Bond 2015. Field Topic Number of Projects Funded Promotion Volume Water River renaturation 1 94,600,000 € Energy Construction/renovation of public buildings 1 203,400,000 € Energy NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit 24 9,100,000 € Energy NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur 14 148,400,000 € Energy Promotion of other energies 2 44,500,000 € Consequently it was only logical for the Bank to join the GBPs. ICMA accommodated NRW.BANK’s membership application within only two days. Green Bond rating and accolade as Green Bond Pioneer Besides second opinions, oekom research also prepares Sustainability Bond ratings. oekom research has rated the sustainability credentials of the NRW.BANK Green Bonds since 2016. The sustainability rating agency assessed the 2014 and 2015 issuance on a twelve point The “Climate Bond Initiative”, an scale from “excellent” (A+) to “largely non-transparent” NGO with a good standing in the (D–) and awarded a b+ rating. This places both issues in green bond market, named NRW.BANK the top quantile of the more than 140 green bonds rated by the agency. Any rating above B– denotes “approved” in the category “First Regional status, meaning that oekom believes that a bond is a ­Development Bank” as a pioneer of the suitable addition to a green-oriented portfolio. green bond market. The rating is based on the sustainability standing of the issuer, transparency, external audit arrangements as www.climatebonds.net well as the sustainability quality and impact of the under­ lying projects. oekom research particularly appreciated the high environmental benefits of the projects selected for the NRW.BANK Green Bonds as well as the high degree of transparency. The ecological benefits and the quality of the selected The Climate Bond Initiative, an NGO with a good standprojects have been analysed and assessed by oekom ing in the green bond market, rated NRW.BANK positiveresearch since 2014. This second opinion has confirmed ly, too, naming the Bank as a pioneer (“First Regional the consistently sustainable concept of the NRW.BANK. Development Bank”) of the green bond market. Green Bonds. Environmental impact analysis The approach taken by NRW.BANK implements the ideas NRW.BANK has assessed the environmental impact of the Green Bond Principles. of its Green Bonds since 2015. A competent partner to analyse the projects in the “Climate Mitigation” field Member of the Green Bond Principles was found in the Wuppertal Institut. Its impact analysis In 2015 NRW.BANK officially joined the ICMA Green was prepared in accordance with the recommendations Bond Principles (GBPs). The concept underlying of the Harmonized Frame­work for Impact Reporting. NRW.BANK’s Green Bonds meets the standards laid While approximately € 405 million of the Green Bond down in the GBPs. 2015 went into climate mitigation projects, € 95 million Sustainability Report >> Sustainable yields 27 were invested in climate adaptation projects. According CO2 equivalents avoided through a € 1 million investto the calculations made by the Wuppertal Institut, the ment over a ten year period in t projects avoided 2.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent emissions over the 10-year maturity of the bond. Based 25,000 on the total issuance volume of € 500 million, the annual CO2 saving comes to 540 tonnes per € 1 million. These 20,000 21,664 headline results are discussed in greater detail below: 15,000 Field “Climate Mitigation” Approximately half the € 405 million was invested in the 10,000 11,581 construction of energy-efficient buildings. The other half went towards the construction of wind power plants and 5,000 gas and steam turbine power plants. The loan portfolio 0 1,031 142 was rounded off by investments in SMEs active in the energy efficiency sector. Gas and Wind Efficiency Buildings steam Energy Loans turbine The decision to refinance the funding of gas and steam turbine power plants – which are not a renewable technology – from the proceeds of the Green Bonds issuance, The approximately € 148 million earmarked for Wind was based on their high thermal efficiency of over 85 ­Energy“ was used to construct just under 50 wind power percent. The results of the impact analysis confirm the generators rated for a total combined output of 136 MW wisdom of this decision; compared to North Rhine-West­­ in North Rhine-Westphalia. These plants generate an phalia’s electricity mix, power produced in gas and steam estimated 160 GWh of electricity per year, thereby avoidturbine plants yields the highest CO2 savings per million ing some 170,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. However, euros of investment. The volume saved in this area is the production, installation and maintenance of wind 21,000 tonnes of CO2 compared to 124 tonnes in the power installations cause a certain level of CO2 emissions, “Buildings” segment, 1,000 tonnes in the “Efficiency meaning that wind power is not entirely CO2-neutral. Loan” segment and 11,500 tonnes in the “Wind Energy” segment. This is obviously a quite outstanding level of About € 9.1 million of the bond proceeds went towards savings. energy efficiency and air pollution control measures while another € 8.2 million was used to save power and Breakdown of project financing volume in the heat. This resulted in 8,440 tonnes of greenhouse gases Climate Mitigation field (€ 405 million) in % being avoided over a period of 10 years. A large part of the investments went into the retailing sector. Gas and steam turbine 11 Buildings 50 Moreover, a total of € 203 million from the Green Bond funds was used to refinance the construction of energy-­ efficient research, teaching and administration buildings. This is equivalent to a 91% NRW.BANK funding share based on the total investment costs. Compared to existWindenergie 37 ing buildings, at least 29,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents will be avoided over a ten-year period equivalents will Efficiency loans 2 be avoided. For details regarding the methodology and the presentaApproximately € 44.5 million from the Green Bond was tion of the results according to the Harmonized Frameused to refinance the construction of highly efficient work for Impact Reporting readers are referred to the gas and steam turbine power stations which burn natuimpact analysis prepared by the Wuppertal Institut. ral gas to produce both electricity and heat. During the 10-year term of the bond, 964,000 tonnes of CO2. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable yields 28 Field “Climate Adaptation” field The reshaping of the Emscher riverscape is the largest Just under € 95 million from the Green Bond 2015 water management project in the EU. The project is set issue went into measures undertaken by the “Emscher­ to remain both on budget and on schedule and continues genossenschaft” water management association. The to be implemented on a consensual basis involving all bulk (just under € 85 million) went towards a number relevant stakeholders. Several backwaters of the Emscher of technical measures implemented as part of the renasystem already merit the “good ecological status” turation of the Emscher river while another € 10 million rating stipulated by the EU. was used to fund measures undertaken as part of the renaturation of another river in North Rhine-Westphalia, Lippe renaturation namely the Lippe. A part of the funds was employed in the Lippe area. Here the challenge is – against the background of the Emscher renaturation stringent requirements of the European Water FrameThe measures funded through the Green Bond 2015 are work Directive – to redevelop the ecological properties instrumental in the sustainable ecological conversion of the river Lippe and its tributaries within the area of of the Emscher system into a near-natural riverscape responsibility of the Lippeverband association. In addiwhich adds substantial value to the quality of living in tion, the last open sewage canals dating from the era the region. In addition, these measures are essential to of active mining are being renaturated. In 2015, funding the development of a new level of biodiversity which is from the Green Bond was primarily used to finance the rich in species thriving in urbanised environments. ecological con­ver­­­sion measures on the Körne and other The technical measures implemented in 2015 included upstream sec­tions of the Seseke. The latter is similar the continued construction of the large Emscher sewer in structure to the former sewage canal system of the (Abwasserkanal Emscher, AKE). In the early 20th cenEmscher, although it is somewhat smaller. It has already tury the region’s booming heavy industries used the river been reshaped almost entirely into an ecologically valuaEmscher as a sewer canal. The construction of the sepable near-natural riverscape offering a rewarding nature rate sewer is key to rehabilitating the river. The new experience for locals and visitors. In 2015 the focus was sewer will serve as the sewage artery for the Emscher, on smaller, not yet redeveloped upstream sections. As Lippe and Ruhr conurbation. Environmental aspects are a result of these measures, the renaturated Seseke area taken into consideration already when inviting bids for will soon be completely free of sewage. Here, too, the the individual construction phases so that these aspects objective is to achieve the “good ecological status” or can be assessed in the evaluation of the bids and the the “good ecological potential” stipulated by the EU awarding of the contracts. In 2015 the construction of directive. the new sewer system involved the conversion of the large Emschermündung sewage treatment plant into a Growing species diversity modern regional sewage treatment plant. The converted The new surface waters making up the Emscher and plant is ready to accommodate future energy recuperaLippe systems represent attractive spaces for leisure tion and resource management technologies. Green and relaxation while at the same time improving flood Bond funds were also used to push ahead the renaturaprotection. In addition, nature quickly reclaims these tion of the riverscapes of such Emscher tributaries as areas, leading to increasing biodiversity in the Emscher the Handbach, Hellbach and Nettebach. A total of 320 region. At latest count, more than 400 animal and plant kilometres of modern sewers were newly built in the species have been shown to exist here, compared to Emscher region. 45 kilometres of the new 51 kilometre approximately 150 in the year 1990. The surface waters long AKE sewer were completed. In addition,120 kiloin the Seseke area have been repopulated with fish metres of the open land stretches of water have been within a very short time, enabling the foundation of a ecologically rehabilitated and handed over to nature fishing cooperative. Funding from the Green Bond has whose dynamics will determine their future development. substantially contributed to the above mentioned positive effects on the surface waters in the Emscher and NRW.BANK will support this project all the way to its Lippe areas and has as such been instrumental in bringcompletion, at which time a total of 430 kilometres of ing about a sustained improvement in the environmensewer will have been newly constructed and 341 kilotal status and the quality of living in both river regions. metres of water stretches will have been renaturated. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable yields 29 Green Bond-projects Green Bond funding is used to promote sustainable energy provision and manufacturing methods. 400 animal and plant species have been shown to exist in and alongside the Emscher and its tributaries, compared to 150 in 1990. Emscher­ Ecological reconditioning of Seseke and Emscher genossenschaft and During the mining era, the river Emscher and the Seseke, a tributary to the Lippe, Lippeverband were two of the Ruhr area’s notorious sewers. Green Bond funding has enabled a substantial ecological enrichment of these surface waters. In the Seseke area alone, WATER MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATIONS for instance, a total of 73 kilometres of new waterways have been created. These waters make a significant contribution to the area’s biodiversity, water quality as well as climate protection thanks to their ability to retain greenhouse gases. Funds refiwww.eglv.de nanced through the Green Bond 2015 also helped in the construction of the 33 hectare Dortmund-Mengede/Castrop-Rauxel Ickern flood retention basin which will act as one of the most important ecological cornerstones of the Emscher system.  30 more than 8 million kWh p.a. of green power produced by two wind power plants in Moers – ­sufficient for 2,400 households ENNI Expansion of renewable energy generation in Moers-Repelen Energie & Umwelt A new wind power site has been developed in Moers-Repelen where local energy Niederrhein GmbH provider ENNI Energie & Umwelt Niederrhein GmbH, a public-private partnership MUNICIPAL CORPORATION enterprise, invested € 4.5 million – refinanced through the NRW.BANK.Green Bond – in two 146 metre tall wind-power generators. This means that another 2400 households will be supplied with electricity from renewable sources. Generating more than www.enni.de 8 million kWh annually at this site, the energy provider continues to push ahead the expansion of renewable energy production in the Lower Rhine region as part of its growth strategy. ca. 100 million kWh of eco power generated by the Lichtenau civil wind farm per year. Lichtenauer Lichtenau civil wind farm supplies clean energy Bürgerwind GmbH & The community as a source of energy – eleven wind power generators are operated by Co. KG Lichtenauer Bürgerwind GmbH & Co. KG and Planungsgesellschaft Hassel GmbH, WIND ENERGY PLANTS generating 100 million kWh of eco power per year. Founded by members of the community and land owners, the company can supply enough energy to supply more than 18,000 four-person households with clean energy. Some € 30 million was invested in www.lichtenauer-buergerwind.de the 240 hectare wind farm. The investment effort benefited from the NRW.BANK Energieinfrastruktur programme which refinanced the funding through the NRW.BANK. Green Bond, thereby making a contribution to Germany’s transition to green energy.  31 1.2 million t of CO2 p.a. are avoided by the cogeneration plants “Niehl 3” in Cologne (500,000 t) and the „Fortuna“ unit in Düsseldorf (700,000 t). Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG Impressive overall efficiency RheinEnergie AG Köln Cogeneration plants not only produce electricity and heat at the same time but are ENERGY PROVIDERS also highly efficient. This is impressively demonstrated by the modern gas and steam turbine power plants operated by Düsseldorf AG and RheinEnergie AG. These plants boast a top-notch overall efficiency rating (electricity and district heat generation) of www.swd-ag.de more than 85%. Out of the contribution to the syndicated project loans a total of € www.rheinenergie.com 44.5 million was refinanced through the NRW.BANK.Green Bond. 327,000 kWh in energy savings and 185 tonnes of CO2 avoided per year thanks to a new planing machine. Bruns & Co. A passion for wood Holzverwertungsges. Based in Mülheim an der Ruhr, Bruns & Co. looks back on a 90-year tradition in wood m.b.H. processing with a real passion for their trade. The firm exclusively sources wood from sustainable forestry for processing into boards, strips, planks, beams and profiles used WOOD PROCESSING in building and outfitting gardens, homes, facades and saunas. To further enhance the environmental credentials of its operations, Bruns & Co. has invested € 600,000 www.brunsholz.com in a new planing machine which saves 327,000 kWh of energy per year. The required funds were raised by taking out a loan under the NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit and refinanced through the NRW.BANK.Green Bond.  32 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT As a public-law institute which is firmly rooted in North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK has a special responsibility to act as a role model for a sustain­ able human resources policy. This comprises all aspects from offering future-proof training to ­balancing work and family life to ensuring equal opportunities and implementing a modern health management. Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees NRW.BANK is a forward-looking and socially While there can be no doubt that a positive responsible employer under public law. The working environment is conducive to high perBank is especially committed to a responsible formance and excellent achievements, the most human resources and training policy as well as important preconditions are good qualifications to fair dealings with all employees. as a basis to start from, as well as possibilities NRW.BANK complies with international stanfor further development. This is why NRW.BANK dards – such as human rights, the UN Conventiattaches top priority to excellent vocational on on the Rights of the Child for the protection training, constant further training and individual of children against exploitation (Art. 32) and development. In this context, the Bank respects also the rejection of forced labour – as well as the individual potential, needs and interests of with national laws and labour standards. The its employees, which is not least reflected in its right of all employees to organise and the active signing of the “German Diversity Charter“. support of statutory co-determination play an especially important role in this context. As part of its corporate responsibility, NRW.BANK attaches great importance to ­voiding discrimination. The Bank’s “Fairness The knowledge, commitment and performance of the at Work” convention not only prohibits all forms staff are important factors which underpin the longof discrimination within NRW.BANK but also term success of the Bank’s business activity. The stradescribes measures to prevent discrimination tegic objectives of the Bank’s Human Resources activiand defines rules relating to employees’ right ties therefore include winning and retaining qualified to file complaints. employees and preserving their health to ensure that For NRW.BANK, fair dealings with its employees NRW.BANK can successfully fulfil its tasks as the also means creating a corporate culture in which ­development bank for North Rhine-Westphalia now partnership and cooperation, openness, mutual and also in future. respect and esteem are values that are endorsed by all. Together with dialogue-oriented proFrom this overriding goal, the Bank derives three fields cesses, these values lay the basis for a positive of action which ensure that all activities and measures and productive working climate. support the accomplishment of the strategic objectives: For NRW.BANK, assuming responsibility for its securing junior staff, facilitating development and employees means creating a long-term, attracmaintaining health. tive working environment, for example through high job safety, modern health management and The high relevance of these goals is not least reflected regulations supporting a good balance of work in the fact that the strategic fields of action and the and family life. medium and long-term objectives derived from them As a modern development bank, NRW.BANK form part of the Bank’s overall strategy. believes that the functional and social skills of women are indispensable. The Bank therefore Securing Junior Staff aims to give women at all levels equal professio“Securing junior staff” sums up NRW.BANK’s commitnal opportunities and to take this into account ment to training young people and improving their also with regard to the exercise of mandates and qualifications. To ensure that junior staff can integrate the Bank’s investments. The Bank’s familysmoothly into the Bank’s existing workforce, their friendly policy is also designed to give men the ­training is carefully aligned with the Bank’s needs in possibility to achieve a better balance of work general and the individual departments’ needs in parti­ and family life and thus helps to take equal opcular. This constant balancing leads to changes in the portunities at work forward and to stabilise number of apprenticeships and traineeships as well as them. to amendments in terms of the course curricula and the job roles the young people are trained for. In summer 2016, for instance, NRW.BANK will convert its clerical Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 34 apprenticeship programme from “office communication assistants” to “banking clerks”. Besides approval from the Düsseldorf and North Rhine-Westphalia chambers of commerce, this also required the practical training contents to be adjusted at the two locations in 2015. For this purpose, the requirements were discussed with the trainers in the specialist departments and translated into new concepts for practical training stints. In addition, within the framework of this 2.5-year traineeship, NRW.BANK cooperates with the saving banks to >12,000 expand the practical training by deploying the trainees in the savings bank branches. Thanks to the new marhours keting campaign developed for this purpose, all available traineeships for the new profession were filled by the end of 2015. This change ensures that NRW.BANK were spent by NRW.BANK’s vocational will offer vocational traineeships that meet the requiretrainers on supporting trainees and apprentices ments of both school-leavers and the Bank also in the at their places of work. coming years. This vocational traineeship and the dual-track study courses “Bachelor of Arts, Banking & Finance“ and “Bachelor of Science, Business IT”, which are organised in conjunction with Hochschule für Oekonomie & Management in Düsseldorf, will allow NRW.BANK to A good 80% of the apprentices who completed their operate as an attractive provider of vocational training training at NRW.BANK in the past eleven years until 2015 in the market also in the future. have signed permanent employment contracts with the Bank. Taking subsequent resignations into account, Given that NRW.BANK trains young people to cover its 67% of all former apprentices still worked for the Bank own requirements, permanent employment contracts as of 31 December 2015. These obtained further perare offered to all trainees who complete their training sonal and professional qualifications through on-the-job programmes with good results. Of the 20 trainees who academic and non-academic study courses as well as job completed their training in 2015, 18 have signed perchanges within the Bank. Today, many of them already manent employment contracts. perform demanding specialist functions and some of them even hold executive positions. The success is not least reflected in the fact that ­ NRW.BANK’s apprenticeship graduates from the office Given NRW.BANK’s current age structure, the aim of communication assistant course were among the year’s “securing junior staff” will remain in the Bank’s focus. best graduates in 2015. Four of the eleven graduates in The Bank wants its trainees to replace at least part of this course received honourable commendations from the employees who will retire from the Bank in the the Düsseldorf and North Westphalia chambers of coming years. commerce in 2015. These chambers of commerce again voted NRW.BANK one of the best providers of vocational In order to ensure their long-term retention, NRW.BANK training in North Rhine-Westphalia, which reflects the offers its junior staff – as well as all its other employees high quality of the Bank’s vocational training. – numerous development opportunities and prospects. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 35 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees Flexible working arrangements Prevention Work-life balance Occupational health management Child care support Regular hazard analyses Sabbatical Numerous health offerings d Family Life  H k an ea lt h or W Pr of ot n ce ec t io n  B al a  ng Tr a i n i EMPLOYEES Tr a ini ng Job rotation er A  ttractive educational  th O  n-the-Job study offers O pp ur courses and other or F t un  qualifications and Permanent employment itie s a nd E s teem degrees contract Professional seminars Excellent company offering vocational training P  ersonal development trainings “Fairness at Work” convention High job safety Filling of vacant positions according to the motto “internal promotion is ­ preferable to external hiring” Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 36 Facilitating Development Vacant Positions filled in 2015 This includes challenging tasks which encourage professional and personal growth as well as the possibility External hiring 38 Internal transfers 102 to get to learn new topics and to assume responsibility. Of course this needs to be complemented by the prosPermanent pect of earning higher salaries in the future. employment of temporary staff 19 NRW.BANK offers its employees a wide range of develEmployment opment opportunities by filling vacant positions accordEmployees after the ing to the motto “internal promotion is preferable to returning from completion of external hiring”; this means that vacant positions are parental leave training proadvertised publicly only if and when no suitable candi(excluding short grammes 19 leaves 23 dates can be found among the employees or the trainees. A large part of the positions which became vacant during 2015 were once again filled from the Bank’s own internal As in the previous years, NRW.BANK actively supported human resources: 102 successfully applied for internally the restructuring of Portigon AG. In 2015, it therefore advertised positions and were able to assume new tasks. directly hired twelve former employees of Portigon AG Given that internal transfers usually result in new vacant (included in the number of external hirings). Moreover, positions, consistent internal hiring offers employees NRW.BANK tried to find jobs for this group of people numerous professional development options within the outside of NRW.BANK and its subsidiaries. This resultBank. ed in the transfer of twelve additional former employees of Portigon AG to different state ministries. In 2015, NRW.BANK also created new jobs, in particular to meet various regulatory requirements. It was not At 3.1%, staff fluctuation at NRW.BANK remained low. possible to fill all vacant and new positions by offering Of the 39 employment relationships ending during the trainees permanent employment contracts at the end period, nine were terminated and 30 occurred for age-­ of their training as well as by employees returning from related reasons. parental or similar leaves. This gap was closed by the permanent employment of previously temporary staff as well as by external hiring. Age Structure in % 21 18 15 12 9 6 3 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 über 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2015 2014 2013 Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 37 Due to the age structure, age-related resignations will For several years e-learning and blended learning remain at a similar level in the coming years. Forward-­ courses have been offered not only for statutory and looking planning ensures that measures to retain knowcompliance-related subjects but also for foreign lanhow within the Bank are taken at an early stage. In guage and IT skills as well as behavioural and metho­ accordance with the Bank’s strategic objective, these dological competence. projectable resignations will be used to offer junior staff development opportunities. NRW.BANK’s comprehensive catalogue of regular seminars covers a range of professional subjects both This future-oriented planning also includes employee at basic and specialist level, aspects of methodological interviews within the performance review process: at and behavioural competence as well as structured and least once a year, all executives of the Bank hold an multi-layered leadership skill acquisition. This catalogue interview with each of their employees to provide feedhas been developed and refined in recent years, with back on their accomplishments and performance in the current professional subjects being added in response past year and to plan the tasks for next year. Building to actual demand on an ongoing basis. on these interviews, future development opportunities and the steps required to implement them are disInternal Seminar Attendance by Topic cussed as well. 1,200 286 Life-long Learning Knowledge and experience are indispensable when 900 28 it comes to grasping and mastering new challenges. 189 168 NRW.BANK supports its employees through a wide 600 733 157 248 variety of HR development measures. Apart from 170 ­clas­sical seminars and support in completing degree­ 300 350 86 316 (bachelor or master) courses, this also includes job rotation schemes and other temporary assignments. 0 2015 2014 2013 NRW.BANK assists employees in obtaining the above-­ Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour mentioned qualifications and degrees by bearing (part of) the study and examination fees and releasing employees from work for exams and their preparation but also by organising networks and learning groups. There is great interest in this programme especially among former trainees, who represent 76% of the currently 67 participants. Accordingly, at almost 80%, the highest demand is for Bachelor and Master degrees. In addition, NRW.BANK offers its employees a comprehensive range of seminars for professional and personal growth. Most of these seminars are held internally. Over time this form of training has proven to be a great success and has met with a very positive response from all employees due to the high quality of courses offered and how pertinent they are to the Bank’s needs and requirements. 1) I nternal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s special request and whose contents and concepts thus closely meet the Bank’s concrete requirements and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 38 Internal professional further training increased comRatio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance pared to 2014 as a result of regulatory and other legal changes. 100% 361 372 345 The higher number of internal IT seminars in 2015 was 75% 1.215 primarily due to the introduction of new software which 866 650 required the training of many employees. 50% For its executives, NRW.BANK offers a multi-part 25% systematic executive development programme, com­ pletion of which is mandatory. In addition to an entry 0% module, there are two follow-up modules for more 2015 2014 2013 experienced executives. All modules comprise several Internal External days of training which are spread over a longer period of time to enable participants to process developments and improve the transfer of learnings into practice. ComWhile NRW.BANK’s seminar programme is essentially pulsory training on labour and collective bargaining open to all employees on an equal basis, individually law as well as different systems and processes used at tailored programmed are offered to meet the needs NRW.BANK complement the entry module. of specific groups of employees. In late 2013 the Bank started a series of workshops specifically for women In order to support an ongoing consideration and discuswho, in their majority, still have to shoulder the dual sion of leadership issues, optional workshops on related burden of managing both a household with children and topics are regularly offered to all former participants of a career at the same time, often resulting in them missthe last module. In 2015, joint work in these workshops ing out when it comes to taking important career steps. focused on the defined “principles for communication, These workshops were again offered and attended in cooperation and leadership at NRW.BANK”. The princi2015. ple of “appreciating each other” as a basis for cooperation was the starting point. The in-depth and personal Aanother series of workshops launched in 2013 were analysis of these principles and their realisation in the targeted to more experienced and older employees, daily management practice will be continued in additionhighlighting topics such as knowledge, relationship, al workshops on this subject in the coming years. conflict and change management. Supplementary measures enabling executives to handle Numerous training measures on communication, presen­ special leadership situations round off the executive tation and business etiquette furthermore support the programme. Bank’s increasing focus on the provision of consulting services for politicians, municipalities and enterprises. Annual fluctuations in the number of executives attending this programme is primarily due to the number of Equal Opportunities and Fair Working Conditions newly appointed executives because it is intended that The corporate culture supporting the balancing of work they should participate in this programme shortly after and family life and promoting equal opportunities which having assumed their new responsibilities. has been cultivated at NRW.BANK for many years was reviewed in 2015 by means of the berufundfamilie audit. In addition to the extensive range of internal offerings, This process first recorded the status quo of the measthe employees of NRW.BANK may, of course, also take ures already offered. The self-management of working part in seminars organised by external providers. time, the individual and flexible part-time models and part-time executive positions were assessed equally Similar to the previous years, 85.8% of these external positively as the various child and dependent care supseminars were professional seminars on special topics ports. This includes, in particular, the day care facilities which are only relevant for a limited number of employat both locations of NRW.BANK, the emergency and ees. In these cases it is not possible to offer internal holiday care services and the tax-free child care allowseminars. ance. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 39 These comprehensive offerings especially for children family life were discussed with employees with various below school age assist young families in balancing family situations. Finally, the target agreement for work and family life. The past years‘ trend towards a obtaining the “family-friendly company” certificate fast return of young mothers and short parental leaves was drafted and signed. NRW.BANK was certified at of fathers continued in 2015: 73.9% of the mothers the end of October 2015. The objectives and measures returned to work after a period of parental leave of defined in the agreement have to be implemented in twelve months or less. In addition, 22 fathers made use the next three years. of the option to take parental leave, in some individual cases it was for more than two months. This correThe equal opportunities statistics for 2015 confirm the sponded more or less to the previous year’s figures. high acceptance and success of the support offered to date. Increasing use was made of the flexible and individThis recording of the existing work-life balance offerual working hour models. In 2015, 25% of all employees ings in connection with the berufundfamilie audit was of the Bank worked part time. The average working followed by a strategy workshop with the business unit hour percentage of women and men working part time heads at which the main fields of action and the leaderamounted to 64.5%, and 82%, respectively. The numship guidelines were defined. At the following workber of executives working part time also increased once shop the measures available to date and potential new again. At 10.3%, it exceeded the previous year’s level. offerings for achieving a better balance of work and As in the previous years, increasing the share of women in executive positions and the filling of higher positions by women was another main target in 2015. Here, too, an improvement was made. As of 31 December 2015, the share of women with leadership responsibility stood at 30.3% (previous year: 27.2%). The continuation of this positive trend is due to the consistent motivation as well as targeting and promotion of young female staff at the Bank for many years. According to the guidelines for the filling of executive positions, women moreover have to be increasingly considered for such positions. Development of the Percentage of Women and Particularly ­Part-time Employees in Executive Positions in % family-friendly 100% 30.3 27.2 26.7 75% 69.7 72.8 73.3 In October 2015, NRW.BANK received an award by 50% berufundfamilie gGmbH, formerly Gemeinnützige Hertie-Stiftung, for the good balance of work and 25% family life promoted by the Bank. The certification applauds the exemplary working conditions and 0% family-friendly offerings which enable employees to 2015 2014 2013 effortless combine their family life and professional Men Women thereof working part time career. In connection with the audit, it was also agreed to continue to promote equal opportunities in the next three years. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 40 30.3 % 55.6 % 29 %* Share of women in Share of women in executive Average share of women in executive positions positions filled in 2015 ­executive positions in Germany in 2014 * Source: Federal Statistical Office The principles for cooperation, communication and between the responsible persons – especially the occuleadership were confirmed by their reissue in 2015. pational safety officer, the company doctor, the staff council, the social officer, building management as well Maintaining Performance as the managers and executives – any strains identified by the survey are usually eliminated in an unbureauOccupational Safety and Strategic Health cratic way. ­Management Good working conditions and exemplary health and safeNRW.BANK has established two working groups to ty policies form part of NRW.BANK’s corporate responaddress the health protection issue to the benefit of all sibility towards its employees. For many years, the Bank employees: has implemented this in the context of its strategic health management system which has been expanded The Occupational Safety Committee advises the continuously since 2006. Services range from a compaBank on all matters of occupational safety as well ny doctor to a social worker offering confidential help as accident prevention. Its members comprise to a variety of offerings revolving around such topics as representatives of the Bank, the staff council, the preventive medicine, nutrition and sports. company doctor, the representatives of the severely disabled, a safety officer and the occupational For NRW.BANK, health means much more than just the safety officer. absence of illness. Its health promotion activities thereThe Health Working Circle further develops the fore aim to encourage healthy behaviour and reduce strategic health management and decides concrete avoidable strains in the workplace. Therefore, the focus measures. In addition to the human resources staff is on the question “what keeps people healthy in the responsible for health management, the bi-annual long term”? meetings are attended by the company doctor, the social counsellor, the occupational safety officer, An important tool to identify strains in good time is a the representatives of the severely disabled as well systematic hazard analysis. All employees are regularly as a representative of the staff council. In 2015, the asked about potentially hazardous circumstances and circle of participants was extended to the catering stress factors at work. In order to obtain a more comservices in order to include the offering of the staff prehensive picture, the focus is placed on varying topics restaurant in the development and implementation when the survey is repeated. Thanks to the collaboration of health measures. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 41 The Working Circle selected “Cardiovascular system – Targeted measures were offered in all relevant health listen to your heart” as the main topic to be addressed fields nutrition, exercise and relaxation – and these in 2015. After the well-attended kick-off events, were very well received. The measures offered in 2015 NRW.BANK offered its employees a medical check-up have shown that even a small change in our life style by the company doctor, followed by various voluntary has a positive long-term effect on health. measures during the course of the year. During a nutritional week, the special characteristics of heart-healthy All current occupational health and safety measures as foods were emphasised and these were included in the well as NRW.BANK’s future plans are detailed in the lunch options. Furthermore, over 600 employees took annual health report which is available to all members part in a pedometer event. A database created for this of the workforce. purpose enabled the participants to record the steps taken each day and compare their results with others Preventive check-ups, no matter how expertly planned anonymously. An autogenous training course completed and performed, cannot entirely prevent illnesses. This the programme. is why NRW.BANK started to optimise its post-illness reintegration management system already in 2013. The purpose of this optional and voluntary service for employees returning after a prolonged illness is to develop a set of personalised support and reintegration measures which take their working environment into account. These measures are meant to support their reintegration after a long absence and help stabilise their health. The Bank is very much aware of the sensitive personal issues touched by this process and attaches the utmost importance to ensuring absolute confidentiality and data protection. Flexible Annual Working Hours Award of the NRW.BANK offers its employees very flexible part-time agreements, which are increasingly being used. ­Unfallkasse However, some personal needs cannot be met by reducing the number of hours worked per week. NRW.BANK has therefore developed two offers permitting an individual reduction of the working hours in a specific year. At the end of October, NRW.BANK received the highest possible award by the Unfallkasse Such sabbaticals are becoming increasingly important NRW, the North Rhine-Westfalian accident against the background of extended working lives insurance fund, for its excellent health and safety resulting from people joining the workforce at an earlier organisation. As the statutory accident insurance age due to Germany’s shortened secondary education carrier at municipal and state level, Unfallkasse track and the higher statutory retirement age. NRW analysed and assessed the health and safety measures implemented by the Bank. Since mid-2013, NRW.BANK has offered its employees the option to take up to two months of unpaid leave of absence in addition to the paid vacations. The scheme ensures that employees remain fully covered for social security purposes. The number of employees who make use of this option has increased year on year. While ten and 15 employees took time off in 2014 and 2015, respectively, 18 applications have already been received for 2016. This offer is used by both men and women of all ages across all functions, including executives. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 42 Under an additional scheme introduced in 2016, emorder to enable as many employees as possible to beneployees of NRW.BANK can take ten additional days off fit from this option, such an application may only be per year against a corresponding reduction of their pay submitted for a single year at a time. and taking operational requirements into account. In NRW.BANK Personnel in Figures 2015 2014 2013 absolute in % absolute in % absolute in % Active employees, total1) 1,271 100.0% 1,233 100.0% 1,201 100.0% by sex – women 671 52.8% 642 52.1% 617 51.4% – men 600 47.2% 591 47.9% 584 48.6% by company location – Düsseldorf 874 68.8% 829 67.2% 802 66.8% – Münster 397 31.2% 404 32.8% 399 33.2% by type of employment – full time 955 75.1% 939 76.2% 936 77.9% – part time 316 24.9% 294 23.8% 265 22.1% by function group – management (incl. Managing Board) 234 18.4% 232 18.8% 232 19.3% – specialists/project workers 473 37.2% 428 34.7% 395 32.9% – case workers 454 35.7% 471 38.2% 467 38.9% – secretaries 48 3.8% 45 3.6% 46 3.8% – non-commercial functions 54 4.2% 51 4.1% 55 4.6% – special functions2) 8 0.6% 6 0.5% 6 0.5% by remuneration – collective pay 834 65.6% 812 65.9% 792 65.9% – non-collective pay 437 34.4% 421 34.1% 409 34.1% Average age, total 44.5 44.4 44.1 Average service life 16.6 16.6 16.4 Departures, total 39 3.1% 32 2.6% 30 2.5% – due to termination 9 0.7% 10 0.8% 10 0.8% – due to age 30 2.4% 22 1.8% 20 1.7% In addition: temporary employees 53 66 72 In addition: apprentices and trainees – Trainees 1 2 – apprentices 37 48 55 – thereof new apprenticeships 12 16 20 – completed apprenticeships 20 25 18 – hiring ratio (unlimited) 90.0% 84.0% 72.2% 1) excluding employees on parental leave, apprentices and trainees as well as employees under temporary contracts 2) exempted staff representatives, Equal Opportunities Officer, Occupational Safety Officer, Remuneration Officer Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Management 43 SUSTAINABLE PROTECTION For many years, NRW.BANK has been committed to the responsible use of our natural resources and the protection of our environment and climate. The Bank verifies the sustainability of its activity on an ongoing basis to ensure that it continues to improve. Climate and Environmental Protection For the past nine years, the environmental performance NRW.BANK’s resource efficiency and its active has regularly been determined and evaluated in accordcontributions to North Rhine-Westphalia’s public ance with the VfU1) standard. This gives NRW.BANK life are an integral part of its corporate responsia solid database for its ongoing efforts to implement bility for the present and future generations. sustainable operation and resource protection in its dayMinimised use of resources and the utilisation t­ o-day business. As a member of the VfU, NRW.BANK of a large share of environmentally friendly and, has been instrumental in refining and improving the preferably, renewable resources are essential performance indicators since 2015. elements of the Bank’s activities aimed at shaping a high-quality living environment. We provide detailed and comprehensive information NRW.BANK lives up to this responsibility by on our environmental performance indicators to ensure taking into account all resources used in its transparency towards the different stakeholders of business processes. For example, the Bank aims NRW.BANK. to implement the state of the art whenever it comes to constructing or converting buildings Scope and Period of Reporting for its banking operations. As part of its ongoing The figures presented here provide an overview of the improvement process, the Bank also recognises environmental data of NRW.BANK’s operations and the the key importance of sensitising its employees resulting environmental impact for the year 2015. The to the importance of making responsible use of Bank operates at two locations in Düsseldorf and a resources. building complex in Münster. This year the reporting period coincides with the calendar year for the first time. The Bank collected the consumption and flow data (input and output) for the period Promotion and development for its clients, social responfrom 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015. Information sibility for its employees and commitment to the environrelating to space, vehicles and employees is stated as of ment and the climate all form part of NRW.BANK’s the reporting date 31 December 2015 in the environmensustainability efforts. This means that the development tal report. bank for North Rhine-Westphalia actively implements the state government’s guiding principle of “sustainaData Collection and Reference Values bility”. As the data are collected in accordance with the VfU standard, they can be compared with data of companies Conscious and sparing use of resources ensures that applying the same standard. The basis is formed by the the production of CO2 emissions resulting from its VfU’s revised guidelines in conjunction with the converbusiness operations is reduced to a minimum. In 2013, sion factors of the 2015 update. NRW.BANK therefore decided to offset its unavoidable CO2 emissions through climate protection projects in The number of employees provides the basis for the developing and emerging countries with the help of formation of relative environmental performance indicertificates from the NRW.BANK climate certificate cators (per-capita consumption). Part-time employees programme. This strategy was also pursued in 2015. are added up to full-time employees, and temporary employees are covered for the duration of their em­ ployment. Staff numbers of 1,347 for 2013, 1,353 for 2014 and 1,436 MA for 2015 were taken as the basis. To calculate water consumption per employee, the number of working days was fixed at 250 days. 1) Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Protection 45 Energy consumption 2015 2014 2013 kWh kWh kWh Heating energy – total 4,846,170 4,433,420 4,733,010 – per employee/year 3,374 3,276 3,515 Electricity – total 5,381,110 5,802,897 5,739,099 – per employee/year 3,747 4,287 4,262 In 2015, NRW.BANK consumed approx. 9.3% more heating energy than in the previous year; this effect had 380,000 been expected as the previous year’s consumption letters figures were low because of the mild weather. By conCirca trast, the specific per-capita figures increased by only 3.0%. dispatched using a CO2-neutral mailing service Absolute electricity consumption declined by 7.3% on the previous year, while per-capita consumption was down by 12.6%. The reduced electricity consumption Besides reducing its own direct is attributable to the weather. Due to the relatively environmental impact, NRW.BANK also mild summer 2015, the buildings were not cooled as ­attaches great importance to reducing the strongly as in the previous years. The use of LEDs in indirect impact resulting from its business many lamps also contributed to the reduction. activities. Since 2015, NRW.BANK dispatches Business Travel its letters and parcels CO2-neutrally. Business trips are an important aspect in assessing a company’s environmental performance. While they serve to maintain and foster business relationships and to ensure smooth and effective coordination between the individual locations, they also have an adverse impact on the environment. Building Energy Being aware of these problems, NRW.BANK has issued In the field of building energy, NRW.BANK continues clearly defined travel guidelines aimed at reducing to rely heavily on resource-efficient energy sources. All employees’ business trips to a minimum. The travel of the Bank’s buildings are heated using district heat, guidelines ensure that preference is given to video and which is particularly environmentally friendly, and telephone conferences, local public transport and rail 100% of the electricity purchased by the Bank in 2015 travel. was certified green electricity generated by run-of-river hydropower plants. In addition, the bank’s own photoThe fact that average CO2 emissions of the Bank’s vehicle voltaic systems at the Münster location produced some fleet (as stated by the manufacturers) continue to be 22 MWh of electricity for internal use. Only one rented reduced successfully is not least due to the fact that the building in Düsseldorf consumed 729 kWh worth of Bank seeks expert advice when it comes to selecting new mixed electricity supplied by Stadtwerke Düsseldorf company cars. Average emissions were reduced from (0.01% of the total). The Bank supports Stadtwerke 137.7 g/km in 2014 to 136.2 g/km in 2015. This repreDüsseldorf’s change to increasingly efficient technolosents a decline by 1.1%. gy and is a partner in the construction of the gas and steam turbine power plant unit “Fortuna”. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Protection 46 Average CO2 Emissions of the Company Cars in g/km Share of Means of Transport in % 146 100 12 11 11 145 8 7 9 142 75 61 61 60 138 50 138 136 134 25 19 20 21 130 0 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Rail Road Short-haul flights Long-haul flights Employees of NRW.BANK travelled a total of 4,584,672 kilometres on business trips in 2015, which is equivalent to 3,192 kilometres travelled per employee. Total The breakdown of kilometres travelled on business trips kilometres travelled thus increased by 6.0%, whereas remained almost stable compared to the previous year. kilometres travelled per employee were down by 0.1% At 59.4%, cars accounted for the biggest share, followed on the previous year. Kilometres travelled on long-haul by rail travel with 18.9%. flights increased sharply. Due to the special situation in the eurozone, NRW.BANK increasingly raises funds in Long-haul flights and short-haul flights account for foreign currencies, especially in US dollars. Reaching 12.3% and 9.4%, respectively of the kilometres travinternational investors and maintaining existing contacts elled. requires flights to be made outside the EU. 91.5% of the rail trips made with Deutsche Bahn were Business Travel 2015 2014 2013 CO2-neutral. Only the short-haul trips (64,404 km) and km km km the trips made on the Thalys (9,135 km) are included in Rail 866,653 870,804 955,831 the CO2 calculation as general rail travel. Most of the Road* 2,723,420 2,660,988 2,785,373 rail kilometres travelled are calculated using the reduced Short-haul flights 430,117 328,557 339,565 factor for CO2-free rail travel. Long-haul flights 564,482 463,921 496,806 For the reporting of short-haul and long-haul flights, Total 4,584,672 4,324,270 4,577,575 multi-leg flights were broken down into segments. km per employee 3,192 3,195 3,399 Paper * total kilometres travelled on business trips with the Bank’s cars, rental cars and private vehicles The eco-balance covers all paper used for office purposes including printed matter (such as letterheads), annual reports and envelopes as well as marketing materials such as brochures, flyers, etc. In 2015, total paper consumption amounted to 61.5 t, while 42.8 kg were consumed per employee. The table below shows the consumption of office paper only, i.e. excluding envelopes, marketing materials and printed matter: Paper Consumption 2015 2014 2013 kg kg kg Total 44,077 46,620 47,840 kg per employee 30.7 34.4 35.5 Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Protection 47 Besides the quantity consumed, the quality of the paper Water used is also an important item in the eco-balance. To NRW.BANK actively encourages the sparing use of the determine the share of recycled paper, all paper types precious resource that is water. Grey water from the air used (excl. envelopes) were analysed. scrubbers and recooling systems is used for the Bank’s sanitary facilities, and water-efficient technologies are Paper Grades 2015 2014 2013 specified for retrofits and new installations. The figures refer to the total water quantity, which also includes the % % % water consumed in the kitchens. Recycled paper 71.1 53.0 4.6 Primary fibre paper, ECF1) and Process and Drinking Water 2015 2014 2013 non-labelled 5.5 24.0 83.7 Total consumption 20,669 m3 21,281 m3 19,206 m3 Primary fibre Daily consumption paper, TCF1), per employee* 57.6 l 62.9 l 57.1 l wood-free < 0.1 0.1 0.0 Primary fibre *To calculate water consumption per employee, the number of working days was fixed at 250 days paper, FSC and PEFC2) 23.3 22.9 11.7 1) Elemental chlorine-free (ECF), totally chlorine-free (TCF) Total water consumption was down by 2.9% on the 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes, PEFC previous year, while per-capita consumption declined by 8.4% in the same period. The effects of the decision to no longer use virgin fibre Waste paper for printers and copiers taken in 2013 were still The 2015 eco-balance covers the following waste types: felt clearly in 2015. The recycled paper ratio improved paper (incl. documents shredded), mixed packaging, by 18.1% and stood at 71.1% in the reporting year. food residues, waste fats, green waste, used electronic devices, glass, residual waste, sludge from the company’s own water treatment, aluminium, mixed scrap, oily waste and fluorescent lamps. Taking all waste types into account, the Bank produced Paper Consumption per Employee in kg/Year a total of 403.5 t of waste in 2015 (previous year. 371.6 t). This is equivalent to 280.9 kg of waste per employee (previous year: 274.6 kg). 2015 2014 2013 Compared to the previous year, the total waste volume 30.7 kg 34.4 kg 35.5 kg increased by 8.6%, while the waste volume per employee rose by only 2.3% due to the increased headcount. The following table shows the amounts of waste produced exclusively as a result of the banking activity and excluding waste primarily produced in conjunction with the operation of the kitchen: 71.1 % 53.0 % 4.6 % Recycled paper ratio Paper consumed thereof recycled Turning less into more: between 2013 and 2015, paper ­consumption per employee declined by 13.5%. At the same time, the share of recycled paper in the total consumption increased from 4.6% to 71.1%. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Protection 48 Waste Volume 2015 2014 2013 CO2-Emissions by Producers in % t t t 100 Waste paper 56.4 55.4 53.6 8 9 7 Document 75 48 48 46 shredding 78.4 43.0 82.3 Residual waste 111.7 108.9 108.6 50 DSD (“Green Dot”) 3.4 3.2 3.4 42 41 40 25 Total* 249.9 210.4 247.9 kg per employee 174.0 155.5 184.1 0 2 2 7 Recycling ratio* 55.3% 48.3% 56.2% 2015 2014 2013 *excl. other and kitchen waste Electricity Heating energy Business travel Other In 2015, the total waste volume resulting from the In 2015, NRW.BANK’s CO2 emissions totalled 2,220 t, banking operations (excl. kitchen waste, etc.) was back which is equivalent to 1,547 kg per employee. Absolute at the 2013 level and up by 18.8% on the previous year. emissions thus increased by 5.4% on the previous year, This was mainly due to the amount of files shredded. while emissions per employee declined by 0.6% due to The higher recycling ratio is also essentially attributable the increased headcount. to this increase. However, as a result of the increased headcount, the waste volume per employee rose by The rise in total emissions is essentially attributable to only 11.9%. the increased consumption of heating energy and the higher number of kilometres travelled. Greenhouse gases The CO2 balance arising from the corporate activity is a key performance indicator to assess the environmental performance of a company. The calculation of this performance indicator covers all the above-mentioned environmentally relevant consumption figures and wastes of NRW.BANK as well as the quantity of emergency power diesel used. The conversion factors correspond to the 2015 VfU Update. To facilitate comparability with the previous years, the figures for 2013 and 2014 were also determined using these conversion factors, which has resulted in deviations from the reports for 2013 and 2014. CO2 emissions 2015 2014 2013 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity 38,648 39,460 150,712 Heating energy incl. emergency power diesel 940,157 870,750 928,622 Business travel 1,055,711 1,006,615 1,084,540 Paper 69,247 74,071 67,111 Drinking water 14,530 14,960 13,502 Waste 101,645 100,399 91,577 Total emissions1) 2,219,939 2,106,255 2,336,063 CO2/empl. 1,546 1,556 1,735 Offset by climate certificates2) 2,219,939 2,106,255 2,336,063 Total 0 0 0 1) Differences due to rounding 2) Wind power Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Protection 49 Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2015 According to VfU Greenhouse Gas Sources Scope 1* Scope 2* Scope 3* Total kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity – renewable 36,437 36,437 Electricity – photovoltaic plant 1,902 1,902 Electricity – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf 309 309 Heating energy – district heat 940,157 940,157 – emergency power diesel Travel – rail 4,015 4,015 – rail, CO2-neutralised 16,814 16,814 – road 511,186 387,543 898,729 – short-haul flights 61,554 11,828 73,382 – long-haul flights 53,343 9,427 62,770 Paper – ECF, TCF, FSC 23,319 23,319 – recycled 45,928 45,928 Water 14,530 14,530 Waste – waste incineration 95,933 95,933 – special waste 5,712 5,712 Total 626,083 940,466 653,390 2,219,939 kg CO2 per employee 1,546 Differences due to rounding. * Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. Avoiding Preferred to Offsetting the purchase of pollution rights. These certificates stem Since 2013, NRW.BANK has aimed to make its banking from developing and emerging countries. In these counoperations CO2-neutral. When it comes to choosing tries, the highest possible CO2 savings can be achieved between avoiding or offsetting CO2 emissions, priority relative to the financial expenses incurred in the process. is given to minimising the production of CO2 emissions in the first place. For many years, the Bank has impleThe CO2 emissions of 2,200 t produced in 2015 were mented this goal by taking measures such as the use of voluntarily offset by the Bank through the purchase of certified green electricity, environmentally friendly certificates from a wind farm project in Inner Mongolia district heat, recycled office paper, grey water from air (China). scrubbers and cooling systems and expert assistance when it comes to choosing new company cars. The analysis also covers the emissions resulting from postal communication with the Bank’s clients. Through Notwithstanding these efforts, some 2,000 tonnes of its participation in the GoGreen Programme of Deutsche CO2 are produced from the banking operations each Post DHL Group, NRW.BANK has CO2-neutralised the year, which cannot be avoided. These unavoidable dispatch of letters and parcels. More information can emissions are ultimately offset by NRW.BANK through be found here. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Protection 50 SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENT NRW.BANK is aware of its social responsibility. Every year, we therefore support projects from the fields of “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs” which promote the realisation of sustainable social ideas. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 51 Showing Commitment to Society Education”. The following chart illustrates the breakAs part of its commitment to society and under down of the budget in line with the number of requests its remit as a development bank, NRW.BANK received during the year: endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and project-related collaboration with its partners Sponsorship by Fields in % on a medium to long-term basis in order to create the required continuity. The Bank strives Society & Social to ensure the social and regional balance of its Affairs 14 activities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Science NRW.BANK’s efforts are guided by its resolve to & Education 49 Arts foster creativity and ideas as well as responsible & Culture 37 action. In this context, the Bank focuses on sponsorships related to education (academic, cultural and economic) in North Rhine-West­ phalia for a young target group. In accordance with the guidelines set by the Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK makes neither Science & Education direct nor indirect donations to political parties The Bank’s concept of corporate citizenship calls for the or party-related foundations. Moreover, the Bank promotion of creativity and ideas as well as responsible places no advertisements in their publications. action. The Bank consequently focused on sponsorships related to education in North Rhine-Westphalia in 2015. The following projects from the field of “Science & Education” were sponsored by the Bank: NRW.BANK also lives up to its corporate responsibility Junges Theater Siegen e. V. through its contributions to public and community life The association Junges Theater Siegen e. V. was foundin North Rhine-Westphalia. Suitable measures are ed by artists and teachers to promote child and youth supported in accordance with the Bank’s “Guidelines theatre projects in the region. Their “Stolpersteine” for Corporate Citizenship and Other Services”. project encouraged youths to get involved in the writing and production of a play on the history of persecution The Bank is committed to making its decisions on grants and deportation in the Siegen-Wittgenstein district and sponsorships transparent and comprehensible and ­during the dictatorship of the Nazis based on reports has established a formal internal process for this purby contemporary witnesses. pose. All requests received regarding the sponsorship of projects are documented centrally by the Bank and buddY e. V., Düsseldorf voted on using standardised assessment criteria. One The primary school programme buddY Kinderrechte is essential precondition for approval is that the resources based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. made available by NRW.BANK exclusively benefit proIn NRW, the children’s rights to protection, care and jects in North Rhine-Westphalia. Proposed sponsorparticipation are also to be included in the school proships and grants are voted on by the Managing Board gramme in an age-appropriate way and considered a on a quarterly basis. cross-subject task. During the training on the rights of primary school children, teachers, social pedagogues In 2015 the Bank approved grants and sponsorships and school social workers learn how the rights of chiltotalling € 0.7 million in its three defined fields “Society dren can be integrated in the daily lessons and extracur& Social Affairs”, “Arts & Culture” and “Science & ricular activities and how the awareness for them by all parties involved can be increased. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 52 One of the project partners is UNICEF Deutschland. As Universities of the 2015/2016 school year, this programme covers The year 2015 saw the Bank continue its support for 60 schools for one and a half years. academic institutions focusing on the finance and housing sectors. Annual basic grants were received by: Institut für Kreditund Finanzwirtschaft at ­­ RuhrUniversität Bochum Centre for Financial Research at University of Cologne European Center for Financial Services at ­Universität of Duisburg-Essen Institut für Raumplanung at TU Dortmund ­University Institut für Kreditwesen at University of Münster Since 2013, NRW.BANK has moreover funded grants for two students at the above institutions under the Deutschlandstipendium scheme per year. In 2014 the Bank committed to funding a 3-year grant 700,000 at the Ruhr Graduate School in Economics in Essen. € donated for sustainable social and cultural projects by NRW.BANK in 2015. Additional Measures in the Field of “Science & Education” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Stiftung Haus der kleinen Project in North Rhine-Westphalia for the education of children Pre-school/primary school Forscher at pre-school and school age in the fields of natural sciences, children mathematics and technology Competence Center Support of the foundation of a children and youth academy for School children ­Begabtenförderung, the promotion of the best with a focus on career counselling ­Düsseldorf (learning from role models), development of skills (experiences through project work) and the conveyance of values (responsible acting in the interest of society as a whole) Die Bildungsgenossenschaft Innovative education ideas and projects for the use of renewabSchool children – Beste Chancen für alle eG, le energy sources and thus the protection of the environment Essen are promoted by NRW.BANK and “Die Bildungsgenossenschaft” by the competition “Wir haben Energie! Ideen. Unterricht. Innovationen.” (We have energy. Ideas. Education. Innovations.). Children from 17 schools in North Rhine-Westphalia addressed the topic “Unsere Umwelt – ­Unsere Zukunft” (Our environment – our future). Sylvia Löhrmann, Minister of Schools and Education of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, presented awards to the three best project ideas Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 53 Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group School cooperation with Initiation of career guidance projects School children 2 secondary schools and 2 grammar schools in Düsseldorf and Münster Einstieg GmbH, Cologne Further training for teachers from all school types with the School children objective to improve the career counselling for school children Ernst Mach Gymnasium, ”Meine Geschichte” (My story) school film project for which the School children Hürth school children visited 15 to 18 year olds from war and terror zones in refugee homes to give 7–10 young people a “voice” and allow them to present their stories and hopes Schutzgemeinschaft Support of the 2015 “SOKO Wald” (Forest task force) tour across School children ­Deutscher Wald, LandesverNorth Rhine-Westphalia which helps grade 5 and 6 children band NRW e. V., understand the importance of forests for human beings by ­Oberhausen means of an interactive rallye with the “WaldMobil”(Forest van) and the “SOKO Wald-Koffer” collection of teaching materials Vocational training sponsorBearing the cost of vocational training for ten apprenticeships Secondary school ships since 2009 Ausbildungsplätze in service companies working for graduates NRW.BANK Münsteraner Willem C. Vis Support of junior academics during a simulated legal negotiation Students International Commercial Arbitration Moot MUIMUN Arbeitsstelle English-language conference “Münster University International Students Forschungstransfer, Model United Nations (MUIMUN)“ in Münster for students ­Münster from all over the world NRW.BANK.Studienpreis Award for diploma, master and PhD theses outlining feasible Students „Wohnen & Stadt“, recommendations for action or helping to advance the promotio­Technische Universität nal and structural policy concepts in North Rhine-Westphalia Dortmund Symposium Oeconomicum The objective of this economic congress organised by students Students Münster e.V. is to bring together interested students and representatives from industry, politics and other areas in order to promote the exchange of ideas Westfälische WilhelmsSupport of the 2015 annual meeting of the Verein für Students Universität Münster; I­ nstitut Socialpolitik (German Economic Association) für Siedlungsund Wohnungswesen Universitätsgesellschaft Financing of language course grants for refugees in order to Students Münster e. V. allow them to begin their studies ROCK YOUR LIFE! ­Münster ROCK YOUR LIFE! Münster is a student organisation which Students/school children promotes secondary school children from socially disadvantaged backgrounds. Students are trained to become voluntary coaches who accompany students for two years in a 1 : 1 mentoring relationship on their route to vocational training or continuing education 5th Schlaun competition, Sponsorship of the competition on “Standort Hamm“ designed Master students/graduates of Münster to find solutions for urban planning and development urban planning, architecture, landscape planning and civil engineering Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 54 Arts & Culture NRW.BANK.Kunstkalender In 2015 NRW.BANK’s sponsoring activities in the field For the eleventh time in the series, NRW.BANK invited “Arts & Culture” continued to focus on the promotion young photographers to submit their application for of young talent. the design of the NRW.BANK.Kunstkalender. The theme chosen for the 2016 edition of this annual calendar was Concerts by Young Artists and Corporate “Departure and Destination – Bridges in NRW” and ­Volunteering numerous impressive entries were received. NRW.BANK The Bank continued to support cultural events at its awarded the first prize to Tobias Weßling from Cologne. two locations by making available its premises: Sebastian Keitel from Cologne and Cord Richert from Bergheim finished second and third, respectively. In connection with the “CHAPEAU Classique” concert series organised annually since 2011, the duo Joncol The theme of the 2017 calendar will be “NRW as the (Britta Schmidt and Carles Guisado Moreno, guitar) Business Location of the Future, Focus on Digitalisation: performed together with Kurt Fuhrmann (percussion) Making the Invisible Visible” . in the staff restaurant of NRW.BANK in Münster in December. As in the past, the event was arranged by Kunstförderung the Bank jointly with Gesellschaft zur Förderung der In order to promote young talents, NRW.BANK regularly Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V. permits young artists to show their talent. Since many years, the Bank has exhibited works of students at both For the seventh year in a row, NRW.BANK organised head offices in cooperation with the Düsseldorf and two evening concerts in the foyer of its Düsseldorf Münster arts academies. In 2015, NRW.BANK also held building in cooperation with the “Düsseldorf Festival”: a number of guided tours of these arts exhibitions for one by Johanna Borchert and band and, the other by members of the general public: the Moscow Art Trio. Düsseldorf: 15 students of the class of professor NRW.BANK employees volunteered at all concerts, Rita McBride. April 2013 to April 2015: serving beverages and snacks to the guests. The pro“Group Effect” exhibition ceeds amounting to approximately € 1,600 were once Düsseldorf: 29 students of the class of Herbert again donated to the programme “JeKits – Jedem Kind Brandl. October 2015 to September 2016: Instrumente, Tanzen, Singen”. The purpose of JeKits is “Even Newer New Painting” to provide access to musical instrument playing, dancMünster: 23 students of the class of Julia Schmidt. ing and singing as an aesthetic experience for groups October 2013 to October 2015: “Flamingo” exhibiof children. tion. The next exhibition is scheduled for 2016. Additional Measures in the Field of “Arts & Culture” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group lit.COLOGNE, Cologne lit. COLOGNE event in general and the children Children and youths and youth programme offering readings for school classes in particular Bühnen der Stadt Köln Support of the children’s opera in Cologne Children and youths KRASS e. V., Düsseldorf Strengthening and promotion of children and Children and youths youths, especially from low-income families, by means of art and culture Consol Theater Gelsenkirchen / Support of a children and youth jury at the Children and youths Forum kunstvereint e. V. “WESTWIND” children and youth theatre festival Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Promotion of promising young artists as well as Up-and-coming artists Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V., concept development and organisation of Münster cultural events in the fields of art, music and literature in Westphalia Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 55 Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Stiftung Klavier-Festival Ruhr, Essen Grants for young pianists, competition Up-and-coming artists winners and first-time performers Kultur Ruhr GmbH, Ruhrtriennale, Support of innovative mediation formats at the Up-and-coming artists Gelsenkirchen international arts festival, which focuses on promoting young talent and aims to establish the Ruhr area as an important cultural location Kammerphilharmonie Amadé e. V., Concerts on the occasion of the 70th anniUp-and-coming artists Cologne versary of the liberation of the concentration camp in Auschwitz cuba e. V., Münster Art projects in connection with the long night Up-and-coming artists of museums in Münster Kunsthalle Düsseldorf gGmbH Exhibition of Kunstakademie Düsseldorf at Up-and-coming artists KIT (Kunst im Tunnel) Regional Association of Westphalia“Love is a Stranger” art project on binational/ Up-and-coming artists Lippe, Volkskundliche Kommission bicultural partnerships für Westfalen, Münster Musikhochschule Münster, Support of the training and further training of Amateur musicians, music school Jugendakademie musicians and promotion of young talents teachers, school and up-and-coming musicians ensemble:hörsinn, Münster Support of a music workshop School and up-and-coming musicians Wege durch das Land gGmbH, “Wege durch das Land” (Paths through the Up-and-coming authors Detmold country) literature and music festival Internationale Kurzfilmtage Sponsorship of the short film festival and Up-and-coming filmmakers ­Oberhausen gGmbH support of the NRW competition especially for productions from up-and-coming filmmakers from North Rhine-Westphalia Kino Gesellschaft Köln NRW KINOTAG, where movies from NRW are Diverse presented to a broad audience in special features Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 56 Society & Social Affairs In addition, the Bank’s annual Christmas donation benefited the following charities: Eine Welt Netz NRW e. V., Münster In 2015 NRW.BANK continued to support the “Eine Kulturmäuse e. V. in Recklinghausen and Herne Welt Netz NRW” initiative which organises projects to offer children aged 6 to 12, including refugee strengthen kids’ and youths’ awareness of our world. children, the opportunity to experience the entire The “Eine Welt Mobil”, a white van packed with teachrange of culture first hand. In their own art proing materials for school children from year 3 and older, jects, the children can in addition discover their responds to strong demand from schools for on-site creativity. support. The teaching units introduce school children A project of LVR-Industriemuseum Ratingen in to such topics as climate change, energy consumption, cooperation with Martin-Luther-King-Gesamt­fair trade, the rain forest and responsible garment schule Ratingen on dressing styles aims at ­ production. enhancing the media literacy of school children, promoting their perception and communication Christmas Activity and Donation skills, sensitising them to sociocultural aspects Marking the eighth year of this Christmas activity, and strengthening their self-confidence. NRW.BANK employees once again supported charitable institutions looking after children and youths. Two SOS Kinderdorf e. V. large Christmas trees at the Bank’s dual head offices The SOS-Kinderdorf Niederrhein subsidised by in Düsseldorf and Münster were decorated with stars NRW.BANK in 2015 gives a new home to boys and girls inscribed with suggestions for presents and donations who can no longer live with their parents for various for the benefit of the Regenbogen and Königskinder reasons. The SOS-Kinderdorf comprises eight families, children’s hospices, the Düsseldorf and Münster cancer four living communities for children and youths, one support charities, the “Raum_58” project in Essen, group for becoming independent, assisted living, one Deutscher Kinderschutzbund Düsseldorf e. V. as well daycare group, an integrative daycare centre, a care as „Helfen hilft e. V. Münster“. In addition, the Bank’s centre for early and late hours as well as open all-day employees donated bags with personal hygiene prodschool offerings. At workshops and training facilities, ucts for refugees to Deutsches Rotes Kreuz in Erkrath. youths without opportunities on the job market are Besides the presents, the employees donated an addiprepared for work, trained and qualified in 28 different tional amount of approximately € 18,000 to the above occupations. institutions. This sum was more than quadrupled by NRW.BANK, so that the organisations received a total of € 75,000. “Leuchtende Kinderaugen” charity In 2015 advent season, the employees of NRW.BANK significantly increased their readiness to donate and help others compared to the previous year. At the staff meetings, they could see for themselves how their donations were welcomed by the recipients: Some of the benefiting institutions were shown in a short film, which also included a personal thank you from their representatives as well as from North Rhine-Westphalia’s Prime Minister. Sustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 57 Additional Measures in the Field of “Society & Social Affairs” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Wellenbrecher e. V., Dortmund A school class project on the prevention of Children and youths violent behaviour Deutscher Kinderschutzbund Promotion of projects which aim at improving Children and youths ­Landesverband NRW e. V., the quality of life, safety, education and health ­Wuppertal of children roterkeil.net, The foundation fights the maltreatment of Children and youths Münster children Chancenwerk e. V., In the form of a “learning cascade” students Children and youths Castrop-Rauxel support children at secondary schools who in turn help younger children with their homework Kunst gegen Sucht e. V., Support of a play on dependency prevention at Children and youths Düsseldorf all types of schools in cooperation with teachers and school social workers Düsseldorfer Drogenhilfe e. V. Support of charitable, economic Drug addicts and groups threatened and social projects by dependency draußen! e. V., Creation of life improvement prospects through Homeless and unemployed people Münster the “draußen!” street magazine Asphalt e. V./fiftyfifty, Düsseldorf Support services for the homeless Homeless people Frauenselbsthilfe nach Krebs Free care for cancer sufferers as well as their Diverse ­Landesverband NRW e. V., relatives by volunteers at self-help groups in ­Düsseldorf North Rhine-Westphalia Landesverband der Tafeln in NRW Food banks in North Rhine-Westphalia, which Diverse e. V., Essen collect excess food of immaculate quality and distribute it to people in need Caritasverband für das Bistum Support of the erection of the “Flüchtlingsdorf Diverse Essen e. V. / Flüchtlingsdorf Ruhrgebiet” (Refugee village Ruhr area) in NRW / Syrien Northern Iraq consisting of 100 insulated container homes donated by cities and companies Westfälischer Heimatbund, M ­ ünster Promotion of voluntary work Diverse Stiftung Technisches Hilfswerk Promotion of the civil and disaster protection Diverse (THW), Berlin by volunteers (with a focus on North RhineWestphalia) NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Münster Concept, Design senschaft/Lippeverband; S. 24 Kavalleriestraße 22 Friedrichstraße 1 vE&K Werbeagentur ueuaphoto/Fotolia.com; S. 30 40213 Düsseldorf 48145 Münster GmbH & Co. KG, Essen Emscher­genos­senschaft/Lippe­ Phone + 49 211 91741-0 Phone + 49 251 91741-0 ver­band; S. 31 ENNI (oben); S. Fax + 49 211 91741-1800 Fax + 49 251 91741-2921 Photo Credits 31 Bürgerwindpark Lichtenau (unten); S. 32 Christian Lord Cover: sattriani/Foto­lia.com; Investor Relations www.nrwbank.com Otto, Düsseldorf; S. 2 dule964/Fotolia.com; S. 6 info@nrwbank.de S. 32 Bruns & Co. (unten); S. 33 Phone + 49 211 91741 5555 ­jakubczajkowski/Fotol­ia.com; Ewald Fröch/Foto­lia.com; S. 44 nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de S. 7 Christian Lord Otto, DüsResponsible (V. i. S. d. P.) ­Givaga/Fotolia.com; S. 51 alex­ investorrelations@nrwbank.de seldorf; S. 9 khlongwangchao/ kharkov/Fotolia.com; S. 57 Caroline Gesatzki, Fotolia.com; S. 16 amenic181/ NRW.BANK Head of Press and Fotolia.com; S. 18 Kolja Matzke, Communication NRW.BANK 2014; S. 22 EmschergenosSustainability Report >> Sustainable Commitment 58
