Athens International Airport Eleftherios Venizelos Corporate Responsibility Report aia.gr | 3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Contents 1. Address by the CEO 06 2. Corporate Identity 10 3. Our Business 20 4. Our Environment 36 5. Our People 46 6. Our Citizenship 54 7. Sustainability Framework and Assurance 60 4 | aia.gr aia.gr | 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Address The Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 presents the sustainability objectives, management practices position, both supported by the pricing and targeted incentives policy of AIA. Furthermore, the increase the core of AIA’s CR Action Plan and CR Reporting is the bi-annual Materiality exercise where AIA by the CEO and attained performance of Athens of inbound tourism of Greece and management identifies, prioritises International Airport (AIA), as a Athens reached record levels, with and validates the sustainability direct outcome of the consistent the city of Athens being increasingly aspects that are essential for the balancing of our roles as an efficient selected by foreign passengers as an company and its stakeholders. In airport manager and a responsible intermediate stop. 2015 AIA advanced its materiality entrepreneur under a public private As a result of all the above, in analysis by enhancing the partnership scheme. 2015 the airport’s passenger traffic identification and rating process of Throughout the years, the Airport reached the record level of 18.1 material issues and by taking into Company consistently responds to million exceeding prior-year levels by account the recently introduced the growing sustainability challenges 2.9 million passengers, corresponding (September 2015) Sustainable by practicing effective corporate to a significant increase of 19.0%. The Development Goals of the United governance and implementing number of flights amounted to 176.2 Nations, building on our steady adaptable and innovative thousands surpassing the respective commitment towards the UN Global entrepreneurial solutions. AIA 2014 levels by 14.0%. Our support Compact since 2008. The outcome of continuously and effectively responds to our airline partners, particularly the exercise determines the content to emerging adversities and adjusts through our incentives plan, was of this 13th consecutive annual CR its strategies in order to carry on once more appreciated at this Report and constitutes the focus delivering solid financial and nonyear’s “Routes Europe”, the leading of the independent CR assurance financial value to our stakeholders. airline and airport networking process. This essential corporate Thus, our long term success extends route development forum, with the practice of consistently acting upon beyond the attractiveness of our top distinction in the “4-20 million and transparently reporting on “what financial performance, being the passengers” category, rendering AIA matters, where it matters” is at the outcome of a reliable collaboration the most awarded airport with 15 pinnacle of AIA’s enduring efforts for with our stakeholders. distinctions in 11 years. corporate responsibility. The significant traffic increase Airport Business Developments coupled with prudent cost Safety 2015 marked a surge of global management helped AIA post Safety for customers and the demand for air travel despite weak improved profits. The Company public is continuously evaluated economic growth, supported by recorded Profit before Tax of €179.8 as the top material issue for the lower fares enabled by low fuel million while the valuation of our Airport Company. During 2015 prices but also reflecting new market corporate responsibility activities AIA continued pursuing its main dynamics, strong demand for aviation was at 2.92% of the total operating goal to further enhance operational connectivity and changing consumer expense (vs 2.50% in 2014) with the readiness while maintaining aviation behaviours. Worldwide, air travellers total valuation of AIA’s social product safety and airport emergency increased by more than 6,0%, the yield also increasing at €106.9 million management preparedness. A strongest growth level in the last (vs 100.6 million in 2014). These mixture of training sessions and 5 years, while the airline industry figures substantiate the Airport practical exercises (including achieved significantly enhanced net Company’s consistent commitment seven emergency exercises) were profit margins in 2015 at the level of of balancing sound financial successfully organised with the 4,6% (compared to 2,3% in 2014). performance with a sustainable participation of AIA and third party For AIA 2015 was a milestone approach to business. personnel. The European project year despite the economic and “PROSPERO” (Proactive Safety political developments in the country. The Corporate Responsibility Performance for Operations) was The airport’s traffic reached record framework completed in Dublin in October 2015 levels, a favourable outcome created AIA practices Corporate with AIA’s participation. The project by the positive evolution of a number Responsibility (CR) as a structured refers to a European proactive of important air travel growth drivers: governance system that is based on safety performance model and was the dynamic expansion of the Greek globally acknowledged standards presented and approved by EU and home-based carrier’s international and best practices. In line with the EASA. network and the strengthening of provisions of the Global Reporting AIA fully complies with legal the low-cost home-based carrier’s Initiative Guidelines (GRI G4), and regulatory provisions for public 6 | aia.gr aia.gr | 7 1 Address by the CEO Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 health & safety. In 2015 23 audits “i-mind” programme. Also in 2015 accordance with the ISO 14001:2004 top airport executives, with the schools that was attended by 1,282 and attained performance, prepared were executed to ground handling, AIA’s IT&T Business Unit won the standard. AIA’s Airport Carbon aim to highlight the developmental students. Lastly, AIA continued in line with international best cargo handling, security, landscaping Gold award in the 2015 Business Accreditation was renewed at Level impact of the air transport industry to support the conservation and practice; it is in accordance with and maintenance companies. IT Excellence (BITE) Awards for 3 (Optimisation) further to the on the destinations they serve promotion of the Vravrona Wetland, the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Compliance is also ensured for its implementation of electronic expansion of its carbon footprint to and to promote initiatives for a Natura 2000 site located near the reporting guidelines and the related airport fire-life safety operations and voting solution for the “Return of the include indirect emission sources and the strengthening of Athens as a Airport which has been transformed sector supplement for Airport infrastructure and enhanced through Parthenon Marbles”. its work to engage other members tourist destination. During ACESinto a popular attraction combining Operators; it is in adherence with intensive training, purpose-specific AIA claims an international of the airport community in the Athens, AIA introduced the “Speak archaeological and environmental the provisions of ISO26000:2010 exercises and audits. first for introducing flight airport fight against climate change. AIA AΘenian. Be an AΘenian” campaign. interest. Social Responsibility Guidance and information through Facebook has managed to reduce its carbon Furthermore, in 2015 AIA launched contains disclosures in line with our Service Quality Messenger. The service branded as footprint by 42% between 2005 and the “TAG Athens” project aiming Employer’s Responsibility sustaining commitment of annually Service Quality & Passenger “ATH Messenger” provides mobile 2015 following the implementation at attracting passengers from the We aim to be an employer of choice, reporting the Company’s practices Experience is also among AIA’s top users with real time information of a series of measures to reduce Balkans, Central and Eastern Europe attracting a committed workforce regarding the 10 principles of the material issues. In 2015 the passenger on flight status, airport shops consumption of electricity, natural with Asia/Pacific and Africa as their and offering a safe and modern United Nations Global Compact; it satisfaction overall rating (Passenger and food & beverage. Further gas and fuel. final destination. work environment. We have a longhas been subject to external “limited Survey) was maintained at a slightly promoting digital innovation and By implementing a waste Every year more than 250,000 standing commitment to creating a level” assurance by an independent improved level compared to 2014 young entrepreneurship, in 2015 management concept based on people visit the airport’s permanent workplace culture that encourages audit firm. (4.25 on a 5-point scale), a very AIA introduced the “Digital gate” the “Polluter Pays” principle which and periodical art & culture development and makes the best Our CR reporting process positive performance considering initiative in cooperation with incorporates financial incentives to exhibitions. In 2015 AIA launched use of the knowledge and skills supports our commitment the significant traffic increase. The Athens University of Economics and promote recycling across the airport its collaboration with the Artof our people. At the end of 2015, for transparency, in line with “i-mind” programme, the innovative Business. The initiative included a site, AIA has managed to maintain a Athina International Exhibition AIA’s headcount was 620 people contemporary international best engagement of all AIA’s employees contest among 162 participants for recycling rate of 52%. of Contemporary Art by hosting under open-ended contracts and practice and the related context of as “virtual passengers”, continued to the best ideas for digital development Further to its first full year on airport premises six (6) special 52 under fixed-term contracts. the 2014 EU Directive on disclosure serve as a service quality motivation at AIA. The six (6) winners will have of operation, the Power Quality exhibitions with themes relating 30% of our personnel reside at the of non-financial and diversity tool with nearly 1,000 employee the opportunity to implement their Optimisation System managed to to humanity and the ever changing local communities, a reflection of information, well in advance of the walkthroughs executed in 2015, proposals at the Airport. reduce electricity consumption at the natural and urban environment. our seamless connection with the anticipated legislation. corresponding to over 65,000 spot In acknowledgement of IT MTB by 2,030 MWhs by improving Through the “Fly me to the Moon” Mesogeia area. March 2016 marks the 15th checks. Service Management excellence, in electricity system efficiency and grid programme AIA offered passengers As AIA strives to offer enhanced anniversary of AIA’s commencement AIA’s continuous focus in November 2015 AIA’s IT&T Business stability. The overall reduction in a unique entertainment experience Human Resources services to all of operations. Throughout those delivering a unique airport Unit was certified against the energy consumption improved the at the Airport. In 2015 we hosted live employees, in 2015 emphasis was years, the Airport Company has experience to passengers was ISO20000-1:2011 standard rendering respective CO2 emission footprint performances of the Athens State placed on developing and evolving demonstrated a definitive pledge evident in the 2015 full renovation AIA one of the few airports by nearly 4,583 tonnes. AIA’s Orchestra, the Greek National Opera the new Employee Performance towards corporate responsibility and expansion of the Extra worldwide certified for implementing environmental profile is bolstered and numerous contemporary artists. Management System, improving and a continuously improving and Schengen retail area. Main design an IT service management system. by the 8.05 MWp Photovoltaic Park Our 2015 Community individual target-setting and innovative performance that honours characteristics included the which helps avoid nearly 12,000 Engagement Action Plan focused employee competency measurement. it. The added value for respecting and centralisation of security screening Environment tonnes of CO2 annually. primarily on educational and social Extensive training for both appraisers implementing globally recognised facilities allowing passengers to In 2015 AIA’s strong environmental issues in light of the on-going and appraisees was provided in 2015 sustainability principles is proven in visit the retail units stress-free, the performance was honoured with a Citizenship economic recession, thus underlining involving all AIA employees. Overall, our day-to-day operation, sustaining creation of the a duty free walknumber of important distinctions On a broader citizenship perspective, AIA’s role as a social partner. Regular the execution of AIA’s Training our reputation of a prudent, through concept and the creation and awards, including “Excellent we consistently promote our meetings with local stakeholders Plan in 2015 resulted in a total of respectful and responsible company. of nearly 500 m2 of additional retail Performance in Sustainability” country’s cultural heritage and helped maintain a positive climate of 19,636 training hours with 100% of We at Athens International space, all of which under a new, Award at the 2015 Transport & contemporary art and connect social mutual understanding. Educational employees attending at least one Airport stay true to our commitments contemporary design approach. Logistics Awards, the Gold Award in contribution with our business material, computers and other training session (corresponding to 29 and confident of our ability to the “Facility Management Activitiesobjectives by promoting the city of equipment were donated to schools in training hours/per FTE). maintain and further enhance our Innovation Impact on Sustainability” at the 2015 Athens as a tourist destination. the neighbouring municipalities and sustainable business model securing In 2015 AIA received a number Facilities Management Awards, the AIA’s Destination Marketing financial rewards were presented to This year’s CR Report our dependability towards our of distinctions in recognition of Silver Award at the 2015 Energy programme focuses on forging top students from local high schools The 2015 Corporate Responsibility employees, our business partners and the innovation delivered for the Mastering Awards and the Gold strategic co-operations and synergies admitted to Greek Universities. Report describes our sustainability society at large. continuous enhancement of service Award at the 2015 Waste & Recycling for promoting Athens as one of the In order to promote awareness performance that validates the quality. At the “2015 Cyta Mobile Awards. most appealing tourist destinations on water management issues, materialisation of our corporate Excellence Awards” AIA was Further to a successful external worldwide. In November 2015 in cooperation with the NGO commitments in a consistent and honoured with the silver award in audit in 2015, AIA renewed its AIA hosted the 3rd Airport Chief Mediterranean SOS, AIA organised controlled manner. The Report the category “Innovative Mobile certification for its Environmental Executives’ Symposium (ACESan environmental educational is a facts-based presentation of Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis Application / Service” for the Management & Services in Athens) attended by more than 100 programme at 10 local elementary objectives, management practices CEO 8 | aia.gr aia.gr |9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA” or the “Company”) was established in 1996 as a public-private partnership with a 30Identity year concession agreement. Ratified by Greek Law 2338/95, the concession agreement grants to the Company the exclusive right and privilege of the ‘design, financing, construction, completion, commissioning, maintenance, operation, management and development of the new Athens International Airport’. Shareholder Structure The shareholder structure of Athens International Airport, according to the relevant Books of Shares and Shareholders, is: Shareholder Number of Shares % Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF) 9,000,000 30 AviAlliance GmbH 8,000,004 26.667 Greek State 7,500,000 25 AviAlliance Capital GmbH & Co. KGaA 4,000,002 13.333 Copelouzos Dimitrios 599,997 2 Copelouzou Kiriaki 299,999 1 Copelouzos Christos 299,999 1 Copelouzou Eleni-Asimina 299,999 1 Total 30,000,000 100 The Company’s registered office is 03R/21L: 4,000x60m incl. shoulders carriers (LCCs). In the non-aeronautical situated in the Municipality of Spata, in on both sides with a width of 7.5m). sector AIA undertakes advanced and the regional unit of East Attica, Greece. With a corporate goal to create extensive development initiatives AIA is a privately managed company sustainable value to all stakeholders ranging from IT & Telecommunications with the Greek State holding 55% of by offering value for money services systems and business activities, highshares (25% Greek State and 30% AIA has implemented a successful quality consumer-related products Hellenic Republic Asset Development development strategy in both its offered at its commercial terminals and Fund-HRADF), while the private aeronautical and non-aeronautical business activities related to its real shareholders collectively hold 45%. sectors. Offering advanced incentives estate assets. Athens International Airport and marketing support schemes The Company operates in a socially “Eleftherios Venizelos” extends in an AIA ensures the sustainability and and environmentally responsible way area of approximately 16,000km2 development of domestic, regional and providing stakeholders an operating and has two runways in compliance international traffic, working closely and working environment that meets with ICAO Aerodrome Reference with home carriers and international the increasing demands on safety and Code “4E”, (03L/21R: 3,800x60m and carriers, legacy airlines and low-costsecurity. Corporate Governance Governance Structure Company’s constitutional documents, 2338/1995 Government Gazette A’ The corporate governance framework i.e. the Articles of Association (as 202/14.9.1995) and includes a number established at Athens International per the provisions of the Airport of specific processes and procedures Airport abides by the provisions of the Development Agreement and Law which aim at forging a robust 10 | aia.gr aia.gr | 11 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 governance structure and approach in following an agreement between the for the decision of the Board and its in their remit in depth and make the Corporate Control function, It is also important to note that line with the principles set forth in the Greek State and the shareholdings Committees include without limitation: recommendations to the Board. assigned with Risk Management the activities of the Risk Management applicable legislation. holding the majority of the ordinary (a) the approval of the overall long-term The Annual Ordinary General responsibilities, which includes and Internal Audit functions are The nine-member Board of Directors shares or in case of non-achievement strategy, corporate goals and formal Meeting of the Shareholders approves greater visibility with a broader complementary in nature, with a close elected by the General Meeting of of such an agreement, by the Chairman Business Plan, (b) approval of annual the actions and decisions of the Board span of focus and value; its scope cooperation between them and with a Shareholders with a two-year term of of the European Investment Bank. The operating and capital budgets, (c) of Directors during the previous has been expanded to include the common risk definition and framework. office, bears the responsibility for the CEO, being responsible for the day to ensuring the integrity of the Company’s corporate fiscal year and releases the establishment of an overarching The Board regularly reviews the management and administration of day management and operation of the accounts and financial reporting systems, Board of Directors from any liability Risk Management Framework for main risks to the business and the all corporate matters and affairs and Company’s activities is proposed by the (d) approval of major Pricing Policies, from that year in accordance with the managing the Company’s most effectiveness of the System of Internal has in this respect delegated specific private shareholders and participates in (e) approval of major contract awards, Law 2190/1920 and the Company’s significant risks, the provision Controls in managing these risks authorities to the Chief Executive Officer all Board of Directors meeting without and (f) delegation of powers related Articles of Association. Further of assistance to management in including financial, operational and and the members of Management being entitled to vote. Board Meetings to administration, management and information about AIA’s Shareholder developing processes and controls compliance controls as well as the respectively. The Greek State advises are held on a monthly basis and are representation of the Company. In Structure and the Board of Directors to manage risks and monitoring Risk Management Process. For this the Company for the appointment supported by a competent, qualified order to allow an effective discharge is included in the 2015 Annual Report, the timely remediation of potential purpose, the Board, through the Audit of four members (also indicating the and experienced Company Secretary of its duties, the Board has established available through the corporate website deficiencies. Its scope also includes Committee, receives regular reports Chairman), while shareholders who who advises Board members with a appropriate Board Committees which (www.aia.gr). operational business continuity from the Company’s Internal Auditor represent the majority of the ordinary view to ensuring that statutory and have an advisory capacity. These are the The Company is structured planning. In line with industry best and Statutory Auditor in respect of the shares other than those held by the regulatory requirements are met as well Audit Committee, Personnel Committee, around four Business Units serving practices, a holistic risk management adequacy of the internal control system. Greek State, appoint four directors, as providing guidance on Board matters Finance Committee and Investment the relevant activity sectors (Aviation, process has been adopted which The said committee is also responsible also indicating the Vice Chairman. to senior management. Committee. Board committees possess Consumers, Property and IT & identifies those airport processes for supervising and monitoring the The ninth director is appointed either The schedule of matters reserved specialised knowledge, discuss issues Telecommunications), which hold a bearing significant importance to performance and independence of the combined responsibility for operational the Company and the impact to its Internal Audit department as well as the excellence and business development. operations and provides a framework selection, performance, objectivity and Business Units are supported by various for building operational resilience, independence of the Statutory Auditor. AIA Organisational Structure corporate functions. through effective contingency and It has oversight responsibilities on the recovery measures for responding, enhancement of the business ethics and System of Internal Controls and resuming and restoring operations anti-fraud controls. Lastly, the Audit CommuRisk Management at pre-defined levels. Finally, the Committee monitors the adequacy of the nications & Marketing Both the Board and the Management interests of the shareholders are Company’s compliance with Legal and are committed to maintain a sound optimised via a thorough and Regulatory requirements. system of internal controls to safeguard balanced assessment of the benefits The Company maintains and Board the Company’s assets and ensure and costs associated with the continuously updates a system of of Directors Legal that significant risks are identified aforementioned system of established policies and procedures, ensuring that Affairs and adequately managed. For this controls. Management directives are cascaded Internal purpose, AIA has adopted the most iii Management’s integrated and and corporate objectives are achieved. Audit contemporary risk management coordinated approach to risk is The Company invests in management Chief practice, often referred to as enterprise also accomplished through the systems that enhance controls and serve Executive Corporate Officer (CEO) Planning risk management (ERM), and aims to activities of the Finance function that its commitment for providing highDr I.Ν. Paraschis deal with risks from a broader scope, monitors financial risks and financial quality, state-of-the-art services. Where depth and perspective, including reporting issues, the Security/Safety necessary, these systems are certified in strategic, operational and financial risks; departments which monitor the accordance with prevailing standards. such approach undoubtedly constitutes respective risks and hazards and the In this respect, AIA maintains the Corporate Control an advancement as compared to the Regulatory and Legal Compliance certification against the ISO9001:2008 “traditional” risk transfer approach Coordination function which in standard for Quality Management and as Chief of managing the insurance portfolio turn monitors specific risks such as of 2015 the ISO20000-1:2011 standard Chief Chief Finance & Operations Development Officer (COO) Officer (CDO) Administration and resolving claims to protect the non-compliance with applicable laws for IT Service Management for its IT&T Officer (CFO) A. Aravanis G. Eleftherakos P. Michalarogiannis Corporate company’s value. and regulations. This systematic and Business Unit. Furthermore, AIA holds Security In addition to the requirements disciplined approach enhances and a certification against the ISO 14001 of the aforementioned ERM, AIA optimises the strategic decisionstandard (release 2004+Cor1:2009) for has implemented the organisational making capability of the company. its Environmental Services department. InforSecurity Operations Technical Services Human arrangements recommended by the iv The Internal Audit Function Within AIA’s governance framework mation Resources Aviation Business Technology & Consumers Business Property Business Corporate Finance ManageInstitute of Internal Auditors (IIA), provides shareholders with and particularly relating to Corporate Telecommunicament Unit tions Business Unit Unit Unit which may be summarised as follows: assurance on the adequacy of the Responsibility (CR), related issues Unit EnvironBusiness Company’s overall risk management (such as environmental, safety, human mental Services Control i The operational managers who processes. The Statutory Auditor resources issues) are regularly brought Corporate Quality design and implement detailed provides assurance on the adequacy to the attention of the Board of Directors procedures that serve controls and of controls impacting the accuracy by the Management. Furthermore, the Business supervise the execution of those of the financial statements and Audit Committee, within its capacity Control procedures by their employees. is accountable to the Audit to monitor the adequacy of internal ii The role and responsibilities of Committee. and external controls, reviews the 12 | aia.gr aia.gr | 13 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 independence and quality of the parties aim to further assure the adequacy Relations with Business Partners ensures Implementation for embedding across implementation of a CR Strategy and with the internationally-acknowledged engaged by Management to provide CR of the internal control environment. that all business partners are treated with AIA Units & Departments. the preparation of an annual CR Report ISO 26000:2010 standard. The CR Assurance services. Furthermore, enhanced IT solutions fairness and integrity and that employees AIA applies a Corporate in line with prevailing international Strategy is reviewed, integrated that AIA has developed, such as data interfacing with them abide by a strict Responsibility Policy that provides standards. Within this Policy AIA and implemented across AIA’s four Legal and Regulatory Compliance measurement techniques applied to the framework of principles and rules. Both for the development, update and adopts fundamental principles in line Corporate Responsibility Perspectives: Through its Audit Committee the compilation of indicators for corporate Codes are under the responsibility of the Board is committed to enforcing a use, facilitate the continuous monitoring Human Resources department. stringent policy of compliance with all process. A Code of Acceptance & applicable Laws and Regulators. For this Continuously reinforcing the Reconfirmation process is integrated AIA’s CR Perspectives purpose, the Company’s Legal Director Business Units’ role, AIA’s Value Based in the relevant online awareness has assumed increased responsibility Management (VBM) methodology programme and is being completed on Airport Operator’s Environmental Employer’s Corporate through its role as Legal and Regulatory measures the performance against an annual basis by all AIA employees. Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Citizenship Compliance Coordinator, aiming to predefined targets on both financial coordinate the required activities of and non-financial metrics and Anti-Fraud Running the airport Undertaking initiatives Developing, Focusing on good all departments, specifically in the parameters (e.g. systems’ efficiency, Prevention of fraud is a crucial element efficiently, in line with and commitments to compensating and neighbourly relations areas: Aerodrome Operations, Ground quality of services, safety of operations, of AIA’s Policies and strict compliance legal & regulatory minimise impact from engaging our human with local communities, Handling Services, Environment, environmental responsibility, personnel to the relevant rules must be secured framework, in line airport operation and capital while maintaining advancing social Security, Information Technology, safety, training, etc.). by involved employees, Management with international best development as well a committed workforce partnership and Accounting & Tax, Procurement, members and members of the Board of practice, fostering an as communicating in a safe, productive and prosperity in the region, Labour, Fire Safety and Design & Business Conduct Directors. airport community culture and raising awareness fair work environment. promoting of wider Construction and Airport Charges Policy. AIA aims at being acknowledged as a Management and employees are and acting on public regarding environmental cultural activities and role model responsible Company within expected to behave in an honest and interest with respect to issues. supporting humanitarian Information the markets it operates and to influence fair way, in line with the provisions of safety and service quality. causes for society at large. On an annual basis AIA issues and others in their effort to follow a path AIA’s Code of Business Conduct for publicly discloses a number of reports of sustainability. Our corporate values compliance, integrity and avoidance of that cover all aspects of activities and (Accountability, Team Spirit, Respect, conflict of interest, thus promoting fraud performance. Furthermore, AIA has Effectiveness, Customer Focus) are avoidance. developed a reporting system which embedded in all aspects of our operation AIA aims to protect its employees, Assurance Comment from EY on Corporate Responsibility Governance not only supports Management in and development. financial interests, clients, providers its strategic decision-making but also AIA applies a Code of Business and the people who live and act at the During a series of dedicated interviews with the Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Quality Manager and members of the fosters effective communication within Conduct, developed in line with global airport community by carrying out a AIA CR Committee (which includes Directors & Managers from Corporate Planning, Aviation Services, Communications the Company as well as with external best practices, which urges employees fair and balanced policy that develops & Marketing, Human Resources, Environmental and Corporate Quality), we discussed AIA’s governance structure parties. to conduct business activities in and maintains an anti-fraud culture. regarding non-financial management and reporting and the overall emphasis placed on integrating sustainability throughout Publicly available information accordance with corporate values, thus AIA is committed to deter, prevent and operations. In this context, we substantiated the CFO’s supervising role on non-financial reporting, through the annual regarding AIA including corporate aiming to maintain the Company’s good investigate fraud and corruption and presentation to the Audit Committee, as well as through regular reporting to the CEO. Additionally, we reviewed evidence of publications is available in the relevant reputation and trust and to reinforce to apply appropriate corrective and/ the 2015 Operational Scorecard and substantiated inclusion of sustainability-related objectives and non-financial indicators. section of the Company’s website (www. stakeholders’ confidence. The Code or disciplinary measures as required Finally, we reviewed the CR Committee’s involvement in the development of the CR Action Plan and 2015 materiality aia.gr/company-and-business/theis a management tool that safeguards working in a collaborative way to seek analysis. We believe that AIA has integrated sustainability in its governance and operations in a well-structured manner. company). an all-embracing work environment remedy wherever possible. where no discrimination, victimisation AIA has established an Anti-Fraud Monitoring and harassment may occur. The Code Policy, aiming to ensure that a system of The development and continuous development of the latter through principles of Inclusivity, Materiality AIA is practicing continuous monitoring provides a framework that allows internal controls is in place for securing update of AIA’s CR Strategy and derived a 2-year international project. and Responsiveness. in order to provide assurance that employees to express their concerns on adequate containment of fraud risk; an CR Action Plan is based on continuous Furthermore, the CR Report fulfils controls and other planned actions are possible violations in good faith, while internal framework is provided for all redefinition and prioritisation of the ongoing commitments made towards Accounting for Stakeholders’ carried out properly and to identify protecting them from any retaliation. employees to report suspected acts of material issues, i.e. those of significant the United Nations Global Compact Expectations key exceptions requiring quick and The Code promotes Management fraud or other similar irregularities; and impact on the company and its (UNGC) for Communication on AIA is committed to engaging effective review and management action. Responsibility with respect to corporate a mechanism is in place for undertaking stakeholders. Progress (CoP). stakeholders in a balanced and Scheduled periodic audits performed standards of conduct through an annual formal investigation of such irregularities Through the CR Report, AIA Furthermore the Audit Committee, respectful manner, comprehending both by external auditors and the reconfirmation process. Integral to the and designing specific actions to rectify enhances the transparency and within its respective competence their requirements and expectations Company’s Internal Audit department Code of Business Conduct, the Code of identified control gaps. disclosure practices related to to control and monitor the Internal and integrating this input in its strategy governance, environmental, social and and External audit systems and the development and deployment. The employee related initiatives. AIA’s internal controls system, reviews the Company has established mechanisms to CR Report conforms to contemporary independence and quality of the parties elicit stakeholder feedback (such as joint Corporate Responsibility Governance international sustainability reporting engaged by Management to provide CR committees, regular workshops, customer guidelines, such as the Global Reporting Assurance services. surveys & complaint management, Initiative GRI-G4 (2013) including With respect to implementation of telephone line for local community AIA approaches corporate responsibility approach is reflected in the Corporate governance structure: CR Strategy the G4 ‘Airport Operators Sector the Corporate Responsibility Policy, etc.) and evaluates and responds to the in an integrated way aiming at promoting Responsibility (CR) Policy and for Materiality Analysis and CR Action Disclosures’, based on the GRI G4 AIA aligns with the provisions of the feedback through management actions. the sustainability of all aspects of our deployed as a cross-departmental effort Plan, CR Integration for alignment Airport Operators Sector Disclosures. AA1000 AccountAbility Principles These actions are described in the operation and development. This through a contemporary 3-level CR with standards and reporting, CR AIA was a major contributor for the Standard (2008) and specifically the following chapters of this Report. 14 | aia.gr aia.gr | 15 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 AIA Stakeholder Map The Materiality Map was reGRI G4 Sustainability Reporting assessment of AIA and their decisions). stated in 2015 containing a total of 22 Guidelines and the related Airport The prioritization of the 22 identified The stakeholder map reflects the diversity of the Airport Company’s stakeholders based on the effect of our operational issues, of which 12 are evaluated as Operators Sector Supplement issues took under consideration the and business activities both within and outside the boundaries of the airport community. Material. The correspondence of the (GRI-G4 AOSS) evaluation of unique characteristics of an airport AIA Employees: with open-end material issues with GRI aspects and materiality is based on two parameters: environment. Specific criteria were contracts the relative verification through the “Significance of Impact for AIA” defined and evaluated in order to (incl. engagement activities) 620 assurance engagement is described in a (affecting our ability to deliver prioritize these issues against the seasonally relevant table in Ch.7 of this Report. strategy) and the “Concern of Impact predefined parameters of ‘Impact for employed 52 In line with the provisions of the by Stakeholders” (influencing their AIA’ and ‘Stakeholder Concern. No of Financial Performance Concern by AIA (Shareholders, Labour relations Employees Management & Employess) Employee Surveys 1,880 Bilateral Meetings Non-financial Performance Stakeholder Concern by Airport Bilateral Meetings Impact for AIA (Governance, Environment, User Commitees Quality, Safety, Social issues) Concern Community Stakeholders User Commitees Greek State Customer Surveys Customer Surveys Terminal 25% Concessionaires* Strategy Concern by Greater Society Stakeholders HRADF Commercial Park* 30% Employees Other Entities* Bilateral Meetings Prvate Users & No of Employees Airlines Joint Business Investors Handlers 6,000 AIA Materiality Map Board Meetings Activities 45% Governance Structure Customer Surveys Commu ort nit The outcome of the Materiality Exercise The definition of boundaries for each Stakeholders’ Concern, is presented in irp ConcessionShareholders A y naires is shown on the Materiality Map below. Material Issue, based on the rating of the relevant table of Ch. 7 of this Report. No of No of Employees* Low Impact / High Concern High Impact / High Concern passengers 18,087,377 HCAA / Ministry 1,550 Passenger Surveys State Committees Passengers Authorities Passenger Comment Crisis Management Customer & Public Safety (inc. aviation safety & security) Management Regulatory Audits O ut rt I-mind s id po e t he Ai r Local Market Presense No of Suppliers (traffic development) Community suppliers 743 Greater Int’l Financial Performance Aviation Domestic Society Community Meetings with 87% Bilateral Meetings representatives Operational Readiness & Contract Terms Joint Activities Emergency Preparedness Foreign Indirect Economic Impact 13% No of Municipalities Service Quality & Outsourced Employee Health & safety Passenger Experience Publications Services ACI Committees 6 Providers* Business networking Corporate Routes Conferences Noise Governance Stakeholder Concern Social contribution Community Engagement No of Employees Energy, Emissions & Climate Change 2,000 Environmental Management & Compliance Total No of Companies Total No of Innovation Employment Practices /Entities at the Airport* Employees*: Effluents & Waste 370 13,977 Employment Training * AIA Records of Airport ID Cards Dec 2015. & Development Information Security Ground Access & Customer privacy & Intermodality Diversity & Human Rights Services for PRMs AIA’s operational success is based on opportunities through a perspective of (GRI G4), the bi-annual Materiality Water stakeholder cooperation. Cooperation mutual trust and understanding. exercise constitutes the basis for AIA’s with our customers and business On a wider society level, AIA CR Action Plan and CR Reporting. Biodiversity partners is facilitated through a structure engages passengers and other consumers AIA’s CR Committee, representing the of engagement practices (committees, through various feedback mechanisms Management across various disciplines exercises, workshops, joint activities etc.) aiming to compile evaluation data used (Corporate Planning, Aviation Services, further to the day-to-day interface. for planning improvement actions. Communications & Marketing, Human On a local community level, the Resources, Environmental and Quality), constant dialogue with authorities and Reporting on “what matters, performs an analysis of material issues representatives facilitates the recognition where it matters” with respect to the impact of these issues Low Impact / Low Concern Impact for AIA High Impact / Low Concern of the material sustainability issues In line with the provisions of the on the Company and the perceived level and the prioritisation of challenges and Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines of concern for our stakeholders. Material Issue External Assurance (CR 2015) 16 | aia.gr aia.gr | 17 2 Corporate Identity Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 The CR Report 2015 covers on those issues. Material issues through Linking Materiality with the AIA’s Passenger Survey) to applicable guidelines and standards Board of the local UN Global Compact information from a broad spectrum of the chapters of this Report are marked Sustainable Development Goals • Climate Change Action Plan through the engagement of an Network with an active participation activities, structured across four chapters with this symbol: In 2015, AIA advanced its materiality (expressed as actions complete) independent audit firm. The outcome in cooperative activities that promote (Ch. 3 Operational Responsibility, analysis by correlating with the • Local Communities Action plan of this process is included as a separate responsible business in the Greek Ch.4 Environmental Responsibility, recently introduced (September 2015) (expressed as actions complete) Assurance Statement at the end of this market, such as the 2015 signing of Ch.5 Employer’s Responsibility and Sustainable Development Goals of the • Human Resources development Report. the CSR Europe Enterprise 2020 Ch.6 Corporate Citizenship). Emphasis Material United Nations (SDGs) building on our (expressed as training hours per FTE) The CR report is distributed to a Manifesto and the sustaining support of is placed on the aspects identified as Issue steady commitment towards the UN Charts and tables with performance large audience of constituents varying the CSR Student Competition under the “material” and consequently the CR Global Compact since 2008. specifics for all above are found in the among AIA employees, airport auspices of the European Parliament. Assurance Engagement process focuses following chapters of this report, along community, business partners and Furthermore, AIA chairs the CSR with specific mentions regarding the various other stakeholders while being Committee of the Hellenic-American SDGs attainment of corporate targets. available to all interested parties on the Chamber of Commerce and participates The 2015 Corporate Responsibility corporate website. actively in the Greek Business Council Report is the AIA’s thirteenth Our active membership in business for Sustainable Development (under United Nations’ consecutive annual edition. In order associations and our presence in the auspices of the Greek Federation 2030 Agenda to maximise the added value of the CR reporting process, AIA engages in various sustainability networking events enable us to demonstrate our practices of Industries), the ACI-Europe Environmental Strategy Committee and for Sustainable Development external assurance of its disclosures for and share expertise. AIA is a member the Hellenic Management Association adopted by 190 countries in accuracy, completeness and adhesion of the Board of CSR Hellas and the Institute for Corporate Affairs. September 2015 relates to 17 Goals Planning Ahead to be implemented through Connected with the Materiality Map, the CR Action Plan 2016 gives an indication of activities planned to be undertaken by AIA versus each of the Material Issues. The action plan also includes “Environmental Management & Compliance” activities, necessary 169 targets for addressing respective Material Issues. The most prominent project for 2016 is the operational, aesthetic and commercial upgrade of the Intra-Schengen part of our main terminal. The project includes an upgraded security screening concept and a series of operational improvements for enhancing passengers’ service level and expanding commercial space. The Material Issue “Financial Performance” is not included, as it is discussed in detail in AIA’s 2015 Annual Report. Countries are expected to high level of services and products Managing Sustainability take ownership of the Sustainable developed at the international airports. Performance Aspect Description of planned activities Development Goals (SDGs) and Athens International Airport has The Airport Company develops and • Aviation Safety Management System update (multiple action including those leading to EASA Certification) establish a national framework for a considerable yield that goes beyond implements appropriate responses to Customer & Public Safety • Safety promotion initiatives (incl. aviation safety & security) their attainment. Implementation and financial value created for shareholders sustainability challenges considering • Health & Safety inspections in public areas • Hazard Identification and Risk Assessments success will rely on countries’ own and the Greek State in particular. There stakeholder views. In 2015 our sustainable development policies, plans is substantial contribution by the airport annual corporate scorecard included Market Presence • Incentives Plan (Developmental & Targeted Incentives) (traffic development) • Route Development / Marketing Support Policies and programmes. Countries have the towards job creation and economic sustainability-related objectives Operational Readiness • Emergency Crisis Planning training / workshops / exercises plan primary responsibility for follow-up and development both at a regional and at for measuring the company’s & Emergency Preparedness • Action to attain availability targets for Critical Systems review at a national, regional and global a national level. On a recurring basis performance. The attainment of these • Update Procurement Procedures level with regard to the progress made AIA commissions socio-economic objectives is linked to the evaluation Corporate Governance • Update of Corporate Responsibility Policy • Code of Conduct e-training in implementing the Goals and targets impact studies for identifying the total of AIA Management and employees’ • Intra-Schengen Project (operational, aesthetic & commercial improvement) over the next 15 years. economic impact (at national and performance. In particular, the areas • Airport Service Quality / Passenger Satisfaction Surveys / Quality Monitor Surveys The correlation between AIA’s 12 local level), the effect on jobs creation in which non-financial performance Service Quality • Passenger Comments Mgmt / I-mind Programme / Service Performance Mgmt & Passenger Experience Material Issues and the Sustainable and total added value expressed as % objectives were set on a corporate level, • Air Smiles programme • Retain certification for ISO9001 and ISO20001 (IT&T Business Unit) Development Goals, as well as with national GDP). as part of the Operational Scorecard for • Destination Marketing activities the GRI-AOSS Material Aspects The importance placed by AIA on its 2015 were: • City Break Initiative is described in the relevant table in socio-economic impact is evident in the • Efficiency of critical systems Indirect Economic Impact • Art & Culture programme • Cultural Air Bridges Programme Chapter 7. prioritisation of issues as depicted in the (expressed as system availability for • Youth Employment Programme (Airport Praxis II) Material Issue Materiality Map. Two of the 12 material critical systems, namely: Baggage • Energy management system targeting conservation and exploitation of renewable energy Indirect Economic Impact issues relate to community engagement Handling, Medium Voltage, Energy, Emissions • Carbon emissions reduction through Climate Change Corporate Action Plan Airports are increasingly considered as matters (discussed in chapter 6 of this Passenger Boarding Bridges, Airfield & Climate Change • Retain Level 3 Airport Carbon Accreditation and explore feasibility of Level 3+ upgrade • ISO 50001 certification (Energy Management) an important driver of socioeconomic Report) and on the indirect economic Lighting and IT&T systems) • EMS / ISO14000 retain certification growth for both the national economy impact for the greater society. This latter • Efficiency of critical systems Environmental Management • Environmental training & awareness to AIA and Third Parties & Compliance and the local communities in which issue addresses indirect, induced and (expressed as maximum duration • Environmental audits of Third Parties they operate. Their contribution is not catalytic economic impact and is in line of single-event-failures for: Baggage Noise • Noise Abatement Procedures in collaboration with HCAA limited to the direct impacts generated with the relevant GRI aspect for the Handling, Medium Voltage, Airfield • Complaint management extent of indirect economic impacts. • Health & Safety training / awareness sessions and Risk Assessments by their operation but instead spans to Lighting and IT&T systems) Employee Health & Safety • Fire Life Safety e-Training include much bigger benefits created For 2015 we report on our effect on the • Aviation safety (expressed as • Nutritional Programme for Local Community Schools for local companies, associated state tourism industry of Athens (Chapter 6) occurring incidents / events) Community Engagement • Multidimensional Community Engagement Plan entities and the wider community, and our effect on skills development in • Airport Service Quality (expressed • Digital Gate programme for innovation (implementation of POCs) Innovation which all gain access to the generally the region (Chapter 6). as the “overall satisfaction” from • Internal Innovation program “thinkathons” 18 | aia.gr aia.gr | 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Financial Performance Material Issue Our Financial performance is one of the ensures proper monitoring and Revenues from non-aeronautical major pillars for the achievement of adjustment (e.g. through quarterly latest segments performed overall higher than AIA’s mission to create sustainable estimates) of our financial performance. previous year by 15.3%. In specific, value for all stakeholders. It is a Given the importance of financial revenues from ground handling and Business prerequisite for the creation of financial performance not only from a legal airside concessions increased by 15.2% value but also enhances and in many and compliance perspective, but also following traffic development trends. cases enables the creation of nonfrom a business point of view, AIA Revenues from commercial activities financial value. continuously enhances its financial increased by 10.9% mainly due to From its start AIA has performance mechanisms. terminal retail revenue growth, as a allocated dedicated persons, tools, 2015 was a milestone year for AIA result of traffic growth and exceptional methodologies, processes and with record traffic numbers and a performance of the fully renovated resources to manage financial strong financial performance. Despite and expanded Extra-Schengen area; performance. Over the years these a fragile economic environment in the while car parking revenues remained at management tools have proliferated country, passenger traffic dynamics prior year’s levels. Property revenues and have matured to a great degree. remained strong within the year and slightly increased by 2.1% compared to More specifically, in addition to robust growth momentum in terms previous year mainly due to last year’s legal requirements for financial of traffic and revenues continued. In burden from retroactive 2013 PV tariff recording and monitoring, AIA has addition, despite growth AIA sustained cuts recorded in 2014 revenues. IT&T also put in place numerous controls costs at low levels further strengthening revenues performed marginally (1.2%) through systems (e.g. our Corporate efficiency and productivity. above prior year’s levels. It should Business Information System with Aeronautical revenues, inclusive be noted that 2015 non-aeronautical its numerous modules), central and of AIA’s share from the Airport revenues incorporate a positive oncede-central financial monitoring and Development Fund, contribute the off item of €8.2 million relating to control within the Organisation most to business, accounting for 61% of favourable arbitral award. (Accounting, Procurement, Corporate its total income. Revenues from airport With respect to operating costs, Finance, Treasury, Business and charges increased by 14.5% compared AIA succeeded in managing 2.9 million Corporate Controllers, Internal to prior year. AIA kept airport charges additional passengers with almost Audit), effective procedural controls unchanged and continued its incentive the same level of operating costs, (processes, procedures, etc.), business policy to encourage traffic growth in a further enhancing productivity and performance tools (e.g. Value Based targeted manner so as to assist airlines cost efficiency. It is worth noting that Management) etc. Finally, a corporate to enhance their operations to the additional requirements which emerged financial performance cycle which extent possible. AIA’s share from the during the year in some cost areas includes financial planning (business Airport Development Fund (ADF) mainly due to business growth were plan, budget) and financial reporting increased by 14.0% compared to prior successfully covered by savings in other (monthly, quarterly and annual results) year, aligned with passenger traffic mix. cost categories. Economic Figures 2015 2014 Total Revenues & ADF Stated in €mio. 403.4 351.7 Total Operating Expenses Stated in €mio 110.6 111.5 EBITDA including ADF Stated in €mio. 292.8 240.1 EBITDA margin % Stated in €mio. EBITDA plus ADF / Total revenues & ADF 72.6% 68.3% Total Assets Stated in €mio 1,215.7 1,207.5 Added Value on Assets Stated in €mio. AVA: Added Value on Assets = Net Operating Profit after Tax Cost of Capital x Net Asset Value 99.7 70.5 Dividends Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. 87.3 65.1 Increase in Retained Earnings Stated in €mio 27.3 22.1 Income & Other Taxes Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. 32.7 26.4 Sustainability Value Stated in €mio. Social Product is the total valuation of amounts paid for AIA payroll, contracted services payroll, social security contribution, income/municipality/other tax, 106.9 100.6 corporate responsibility opex, environmental and safety-related capex. Includes provisions Corporate Responsibility % OpEx Corporate Responsibility as % of total OpEx. Corporate Responsibility is the total valuation of activities relating to environmental, local community, art&culture, 2.92% 2.50% other social contribution, employee benefits & engagement, safety and CR management. 20 | aia.gr aia.gr | 21 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Revenues Structure served by LCCs. Overall, for 2015 the of 14% compared to prior year levels. 118 destinations (85 international) in number of flights amounted to 176.2 Lastly, in 2015, Athens was directly 46 countries, operated by a total of 64 % total mio € thousands and demonstrated a rise connected with scheduled services with carriers. 169.1 76.1 44.8 63.6 33.0 7.4 9.3 Passenger Traffic 2015 2014 var % Total number of passengers (mio) (including transit passengers) 41.9% 18.9% 11.1% 15.8% 8.2% Domestic 6.4 5.3 22.1% 1.8% 2.3% International 11.7 9.9 17.4% Total 18.1 15.2 19.0% Aeronautical ADF Groundhandling Consumers Property IT&T Other Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to mios. Charges & Airside Concessions Arriving Departing Total Operating Expenses Structure 2015 2015 Total number of arriving and departing passengers (mio) (not including transit passengers) % total mio € Domestic 3.3 3.1 6.4 Personnel Related Expenses International 5.8 5.8 11.6 36.7% 40.6 Total 9.0 9.0 18.0 Outsourcing Services & Other Professional expenses Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to mios. 45.9% 50.7 Origin & Destination Transfer Terminal P.R. & Marketing Activities Passengers (O&D) Passengers Passengers Transit Total 3.8% 4.2 2015 Total number of passengers by airport use (in million) Utilities 2015 Total number of passengers by airport use 13.84 4.20 18.04 0.05 18.09 7.2% 8.0 Note: The breakdown in O&D and transfer passenger is an estimation based on the results of 2015 AIA’s Passenger Other Operating Expenses Survey. The breakdown of terminal passenger is an estimation of O&D passenger and transfer passengers. Variation has been calculated based on the full figured and not the rounded figures shown above. 6.4% 7.1 Aircraft Movements 0 10 20 30 40 50 2015 2014 var % Aeronautical Business Aircraft Movements (Thousands, Take-Offs and Landings) Domestic 74.7 67.2 11.2% International 101.4 87.3 16.2% Market Presence Material for Athens Airport since despite the tourism of Greece and Athens to Issue Total 176.2 154.5 14.0% (traffic development) economic and political developments record levels with the city of Athens The core business of every airport, in the country the airport’s traffic not not only strengthening its position as Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to thousands. as clearly identified even in the only enjoyed strong growth but also a popular destination per se but also definition of the word, is to safely reached record levels. This was the being increasingly selected by foreign Commercial Commercial General Aviation Passengers Flights Cargo Flights Flights and other and efficiently accommodate aircraft outcome of a number of important passengers as an intermediate stop. landings and take-offs; hence the air travel growth drivers: the dynamic As a result of all the above, in 2015 2015 no. of aircraft movements (take-offs and landings) broken in the following flight categories importance of aviation traffic is selfexpansion of the Greek home-based passenger traffic reached the record Domestic 65,777 2,585 6,378 proofing. Moreover, with a corporate carrier’s international network and levels of 18.09 million exceeding priorgoal to create sustainable value to the strengthening of the low-cost year levels by 2.9 million (+19.0%) and International 86,827 3,076 11,513 all stakeholders by offering value-for home-based carrier’s position, both by 1.55 million (+9.4%) the previous money services, AIA works closely supported by the pricing and targeted best, which was the pre-crisis year Scheduled passenger Charter passenger General State Aviation Total Movements (incl. combi) (incl. combi) Cargo Aviation & Other* (incl. Helicopters) with home carriers and international incentives policy of AIA. Both carriers 2007. Both domestic and international carriers, legacy airlines and LCCs, expanded their network and attracted passengers achieved record levels and Aircraft Movements 2015 (Flight categories, incl. helicopters) in order to ensure sustainability and an increasing number of passengers reached 6.4 million and 11.7 million development of domestic, regional while the competition between them demonstrating strong growth levels of Domestic 65,663 114 2,585 3,254 3,124 74,740 and international traffic by offering especially in the domestic sector led to 22.1% and 17.4%, respectively. International 85,846 981 3,076 8,227 3,286 101,416 one of the most advanced incentive lower air ticket prices and promotional During 2015 nine new airlines and 176,156 and marketing support schemes in the fares and helped Greeks increase their ten new routes were added to AIA’s Note: The day/night segregation is not applicable in our airport, because the airport operates 24/7 and there is no night framework of its aeronautical strategy. air travel despite the ongoing economic network with an equally important curfew (night flight restrictions). *State Aviation & Other: Special (FAA/Government), State Police/Fire/Diplomatic, Year 2015 was a milestone year crisis. Lastly, the increase of inbound increase (+29.0%) of destinations being Military, Ambulance, Training, Technical test, Technical Stop, Positioning/Ferry. 22 | aia.gr aia.gr | 23 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Quarterly Passenger Traffic markets throughout the year. the 20% mark, although compared “Tailor made aviation marketing”, by AIA, took place in March 2016 reached a total uplift of 80,476 tonnes. Development 2015 Following a very strong first quarter to a strong 2014 summer period. reflecting AIA’s willingness and efforts during AIA’s 16th Airline Marketing This was the second consecutive Looking in more detail at the which continued the trend of the last As expected, the last three months to proactively look into the actual Workshop. year that air freight volumes expanded passenger traffic evolution in the months of 2015, the period April to of the year demonstrated a growth needs of each of its airline partners and benefiting mainly from the improved course of the year, the sharp rise of September witnessed passenger traffic slowdown, yet achieving doubleconsequently design and implement its Air Cargo Development 2015 positive performance of international the airport’s passenger traffic was growing fast both domestically and digit growth rates, indicative of the marketing strategy accordingly. In 2015 the local airfreight market traffic (+5.3%). On the other hand, the result of the significant growth internationally and achieving growth favourable developments of the winter Airlines’ contribution to the continued to see considerable the domestic sector suffered a further of both domestic and international rates approaching or even surpassing 2015/2016 period. airport’s performance in 2015 was growth despite the notable financial sharp decline by 6.2% despite a acknowledged by AIA for the 12th developments in Greece. Cargo considerable improvement of the consecutive year by rewarding them for volumes posted a healthy 4.1% inbound traffic (+4.7%). the most successful passenger traffic increase compared to the previous Finally, cargo carried on freighter Quarterly Passenger Traffic Development 2015 development during 2015. The awards year exceeding both the European flights increased by almost 2% in 2015 growth 2015/2014 Domestic International Total ceremony, the major airline networking and the global average (-0.1 and 2.2% while passenger flights transported event for Greece which is hosted respectively as per IATA statistics) and 5.5% more volumes compared to 2014. 40 37.0 19.6 25.7 21.7 21.8 21.8 21.1 16.9 18.3 14.4 11.3 12.4 Cargo Traffic 2015 (in/out) thousand tonnes Cargo Aircraft Passenger Aircraft Total 30 Cargo Aircraft / inbound cargo 17.87 20 29.82 Cargo Aircraft / outbound cargo 11.95 10 Passenger Aircraft / inbound cargo 19.46 50.66 0 Passenger Aircraft / outbound cargo 1 Quarter st 2nd Quarter 3 Quarter rd 4 Quarter th 31.20 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Airline Community Culture the airline offer by encouraging airlines both for development and sustainability During 2015 AIA continued its dynamic to at least maintain the same level of were in effect during 2015. More than Cargo Traffic 2015 (domestic/international) marketing strategy and incentives operated flights versus the previous 80% of the operating carriers made thousand tonnes 2015 2014 var % policy. AIA’s aeronautical marketing corresponding period; the Transfer use of one or more targeted incentives. strategy includes comprehensive Incentive focusing on the development Furthermore, more than 40 of our Domestic developmental and targeted of transfer traffic; and the Load Factor airline partners enjoyed benefits Incentive, targeted to encourage airlines from AIA’s traditional developmental 8.14 programmes for airlines including 8.67 incentives and marketing support to increase the amount of passengers incentives and marketing support to a -6.2% packages; it constitutes a cornerstone of per flight. The developmental scheme significant degree. In this year’s “Routes International AIA’s aeronautical strategy for healthy was also enriched by the recently Europe”, the largest airline and airport 72.34 financial growth. established Niche Routes Incentive networking route development forum 68.67 AIA maintained all charges aiming at attracting new services with in Europe which was held in Aberdeen, 5.3% unchanged without any increase for niche markets that are currently not Scotland, AIA was voted by the airlines Total the seventh consecutive year. This operated from Athens. Lastly and and was awarded as the winner in the 80.48 freezing of charges was complemented further to the special Low Fares ‘4-20 m. passengers’ category in the 77.34 4.1% by the continuous development and Incentive during winter given the 2015 Routes Marketing Awards. At the fine-tuning of our incentives scheme extraordinary circumstances the highly significant Routes forum, airlines 0 20 40 60 80 100 and comprised growth incentives country was experiencing with the evaluate the airports’ marketing plans and a number of targeted incentives implementation of capital controls and programmes rewarding the ones for airlines. In particular, taking into during the summer season and in order that most efficiently address airlines’ Cargo Community Culture Within this context, in 2015 AIA transportation of pet animals, while consideration market developments and to mitigate at the extent possible the efforts to develop new routes or sustain Over the last years, Athens cargo together with its cargo partners extended its close cooperation the double-digit growth, AIA extended negative effects on Greek citizens and existing ones. It is noteworthy that in community has placed considerable explored new development with Customs for the further three significant targeted incentives the domestic aviation market, for a the context of the prestigious ROUTES effort in bringing together airlines, opportunities through the available EU implementation of the electronic throughout 2015, at the same time limited period of two weeks’ time AIA events, Athens International Airport handlers, Customs and other Partnership Agreements, organised customs system. Further, Athens cargo fine-tuning their terms of applicability offered domestic operators the amount is the most awarded airport with 15 stakeholders forming a multi modal various workshops related to the new community participated for a sixth time and lowering their levels during the of 25€ per departing passenger for all distinctions in 11 years. platform; the aim is to promote market European guidelines for the handling of in a row at the biennial international current Winter season by approximately tickets issued with a nominal value of AIA’s customised approach towards sustainability by matching strengths medicinal products, hosted a seminar exhibition “Air Cargo Europe” in order 25%: the Sustainability Incentive 10€ or less. airlines was also the main element in and becoming more proactive in for the illegal wildlife trade, discussed to showcase once more the airport’s aiming at sustaining and stimulating In total, fourteen different incentives the 2015 campaign under the slogan generating new business. the new EU regulation for the proper development potential. 24 | aia.gr aia.gr | 25 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 This collaborative approach which pursuit of this objective, ΑΙΑ is actively awards, Service Level Agreements IT&T Service Portfolio at an international level to offer a set associated with IT services, increase over the years has led to the creation involved in a close relationship with (SLAs) were also renewed and signed AIA aims to comprehend and fulfill of cloud-based tools to the airport of customer satisfaction, control and of strong ties and the development the ground handling providers and the with the respective parties (i.e. Goldair the business needs of both from within community. The new “Airportal” reduction of costs. Overall, IT Service of numerous synergies was highly airlines. Handling, Skyserv Handling, and and outside of the airport community site gradually replaces the existing Management is a tool for increasing evaluated by the jury of the Transport Within this framework, ground Swissport Greece). customers and deliver advanced www.athensairport.gr aiming to offer employee engagement and improving & Logistics Awards 2015 who gave handling operations’ restricted rights In addition to the above, concession technological solutions which airport community partners access to performance. their vote of confidence to the Athens term completed successfully the second for the assistance services to disabled ensure a robust, flexible and secure the “Google Apps for Work” services Material Issue Airport Cargo Community by awarding seven-year cycle (2000-2007 & 2007persons and persons with reduced environment. The main objectives are based on Google’s platform. Innovation an “outstanding performance” 2015) at Athens Airport. In accordance mobility (PRM) has completed a to evolve the experience that Athens The generation of new ideas can be distinction. with the respective European and seven-year cycle (2008-2015). For Airport delivers by providing more IT Service Quality critical to our business success. AIA In addition to the above while in National legislation, in May 2014 this purpose, an open (one phase) digitalized services for passengers, 2015 was a year for bonding with believes that successful business does respect to the Syrian migration crisis, AIA commenced a tender for the European Tender was initiated in April airlines and terminal and infrastructure users and setting new standards for IT not only entail responding to current AIA cargo assisted the International award of the restricted third-party 2015 while the selection process was users, to transform passenger service quality and continual service customer or corporate needs, but often Federation of Red Cross and Red rights for baggage and ramp, in-flight completed in October 2015 with the interactions with mobile solutions and improvement. AIA embarked on to anticipate future trends and develop Crescent Societies’ endeavour to catering ramp transportation, freight signing of the related agreements with to develop a personalized experience an on-going journey to consistently new services that will allow AIA to set up an efficient supply chain of and mail and fuel into-plane services. Goldair Handling, Skyserv Handling for each passenger. deliver and improve cost effective meet this future demand rapidly and relief material from abroad mainly The respective tender process was and Swissport Greece. In the area of integrated IT and high quality IT&T services which effectively. Innovation enables AIA to by introducing them to facilities and successfully concluded within 2015 Total number of PRM passengers solutions, the service portfolio has provide value to corporate users and stay ahead of its competition. resources that support such operations. with the signing of related agreements provided with assistance services in been expanded with the launch of a external customers. In an effort to elaborate IT&T awardee to Goldair Handling, Skyserv 2015 amounted to 127,276, resulting in new integrated solution of managed Carving new pathways in the innovation and applicable technology Provision of Ground Handling Handling, Swissport Greece, Olympic a 12.8% increase vs 2014. Web hosting services. This turn-key airport IT service excellence, AIA’s concerning airport passenger services, Services Catering, Newrest In-flight Services Within the scope of ensuring high solution, designed and implemented IT&T Business Unit was awarded the as well to contribute to young people AIA is committed to ensure reliable and SAFCO. quality of services to PRM, AIA hosted by AIA’s IT&T Business Unit, includes ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011 certification self-development, in April 2015 AIA supply of quality ground handling With the conclusion of the the refresher training for trainers in both a primary Web hosting system in from TÜV HELLAS in November launched the “Digital Gate” airport services at an optimal price level. In aforementioned ramp and baggage March 2015. a high availability setup and a disaster 2015. AIA became one of the contest in cooperation with the recovery web site hosted at off-Airport few airports worldwide certified Athens University of Economics and premises with automatic transition for implementing an IT Service Business (AUEB) and the scientific PRM Assistance Services from the production to the disaster Management system. In accordance support of the Laboratory of Electronic 2015 2014 infrastructure. The service is entirely to this standard, the Business Unit Commerce and Business. The target supported via AIA’s IT&T integrated demonstrates adequate controls was to explore and promote digital Service Desk on a 24 hour basis. for continual improvement, greater innovation and young entrepreneurship Total PRM Passengers 127,276 112,824 Empowering its role as a Data effectiveness and efficiency and the in the air-transport and tourism sector. Pre-notified PRM Passengers 40.2% 41% Centre and Disaster Recovery procedures in place which require AIA awarded prizes for the best digital Non Pre-notified PRM Passengers 59.8% 59% services provider, our IT&T secured personnel to be well organized and ideas with potential for implementation the necessary levels of diversity, coordinated. at the Airport and in the broader redundancy and resilience required airport community. by the Data Centre customers via a Participation in the competition Non-Aeronautical Business second telecom provider. A number was really impressive, with 162 entries of customers from the bank assurance and 83 proposals, out of which seven and telecommunications industry were finally selected. Eventually, six Airport Shopping Centre retail space. New retail and catering successfully refurbished four units two selected AIA as its trustworthy partner companies will have the chance to Over the last two years key areas of units were developed in the renovated of which entirely. for their Business Continuity plan. implement a proof of concept (PoC) at the Airport Shopping Centre have area incorporating elements from In order to further improve Focusing on the airport Among key benefits for AIA the Athens Airport environment while been radically transformed in terms the prevailing new contemporary customer satisfaction within the community’s business needs, Athens is the quality management for the one company will receive specialised of design and aesthetics as part of design approach as a result of a close ongoing crisis AIA implemented a International Airport is the first airport offered IT services, minimising risks support from AUEB. a major AIA intervention plan at cooperation between AIA and the series of promotional activities. The the main terminal facilities aiming individual concessionaires operating most successful of these marketing at offering a unique and upgraded therein. The product range offered efforts were executed in cooperation Assurance Comment from EY on Non-Aeronautical Business Innovation experience to all passengers. Within to passengers through the new with Hellenic Duty Free Shops (HDFS) this context the Extra-Schengen area commercial facilities was equally addressing perfumes and cosmetics. During dedicated interviews with IT&T corporate representatives, we discussed AIA’s focus on anticipating future trends was fully redesigned in early 2015; updated being aligned with the latest Moreover, other co-promotional that will enhance its competitiveness and non-aeronautical business innovation and reviewed the updated organizational main design characteristics were the market trends and customer needs, activities were realised during the year structure of the IT&T Business Unit, which includes a dedicated Innovation Lab. In this context, we also reviewed evidence centralization of the security screening successfully adapting to the positive involving promotions, draws and prizes related to the “Digital Gate” airport contest, including the relevant result reports to AIA Management, and substantiated facilities at the entrance of the Extrapassenger traffic trend recorded which aimed to increase passenger the program’s focus on promoting digital innovation and young entrepreneurship. We also observed evidence on how the Unit’s business objectives to promote innovation are aligned with the Unit’s employees’ performance appraisals. Finally, Schengen area allowing passengers throughout the year. enthusiasm. Finally, the “Vote for a we reviewed evidence of the submitted “Digital Gate” contest proposals, as well as the finalists’ list. In the same context of to visit the retail units located therein What is more, keeping in pace with Smile” activity that commenced in emphasis on business innovation, we reviewed the 2015 year-end report on passenger surveys, which includes results on the stress-free from any security screening fashion and taste trends, AIA in close 2014 continued in 2015and provided “i-mind” program, a multi-disciplinary quality perception measurement custom IT application, and substantiated the number procedures, the creation of a duty cooperation with the concessionaires – incentives to Food and Beverage of inspections and participating employees. We would suggest that AIA continues to place emphasis on such innovative free walk-through concept and the introduced three new units, deployed employees so as to maximise their programs for service quality measurement and improvement. addition of approximately 500 m2 of three new commercial concepts and customer serving performance. 26 | aia.gr aia.gr | 27 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Airport Retail Park free of charge for up to 20 minutes while and funded by AIA since 2005, conduct, respect and support human service chain leading to AIA’s delivery of agreements related to airport critical In 2015 the Airport Retail Park frequent shuttle bus transportation to/ illustrating all available services to rights, operate in an environmentally services to the end customer. infrastructure, technical, facility and welcomed almost 2.95 million visitors, a from long term parking area (P3) from/to and from the Airport by public bus, responsible and effective manner and As a company that heavily relies environmental management systems. number improved by 3.4% versus 2014 the MTB is offered. regional bus, metro and suburban abide by all health and safety rules. on outsourcing for services relating We aim to develop long-term despite the adverse economic situation, Dedicated parking spaces are train including the full list of stations AIA’s supply chain is part of its to facility and systems management relationships with suppliers, providing thereby affirming its reputation as one of provided for persons with reduced in between. By way of indication, a “sphere of influence” in the sense and maintenance, AIA places strong added benefits associated thereto. In the top regional shopping destinations mobility on both short and long-term total of approximately 140,000 copies of promoting its corporate values focus on the selection of business 2015 we cooperated with 743 different in Athens. parking lots at an identical price in all are distributed on a yearly basis. through its suppliers of materials, partners and their operation in line suppliers (87% domestic and 13% parking lots (i.e. P1, P2 and P3) to further services and works. AIA’s corporate with airport rules and regulations. foreign) ensuring beneficial partnerships Airport Hotel facilitate access to/from MTB. Utilities Management values are transmitted to partnering Related agreements bear all necessary in all purchasing areas concerning airport In 2015 Sofitel Athens Airport reached Baggage trolleys are available on Since January 2011, AIA is a licensed third parties through agreements and provisions in order to ensure that the technical works, services and supplies. the Gold level in “PLANET 21” all parking lots and in case of a vehicle Electricity Grid Manager that owns cooperation with the common goal required service level is adequately Through our corporate procurement ACCOR’s corporate social responsibility breakdown a courtesy road assistance and operates the airport electricity of service excellence. Solid example defined, quantified and in line with procedure a suppliers’ annual evaluation programme. programme is available on a 24hour grid/ network supplying the airport of such practice is the environmental required performance thresholds. AIA process ensures the best possible Furthermore, the hotel was honoured basis to assist with minor repairs. community with medium and low effect of agreements as the “polluter applies contract management best performance. for its excellent operation during 2015 Τhrough the “e-parking” electronic voltage electricity. As such, AIA bears pays” principle is exercised across practices that include performance by the industry and related organisations service additional discounts are offered overall responsibility over the electricity the airport community and service monitoring mechanisms that are in Procurement Ethics with the following distinctions: during the year. grid/ network including consumption contractors are expected to contribute place to ensure the attainment of high We promote competition and principles • Trip Advisor’s “Certificate of data reporting, development, to AIA’s environmental objectives. We service level for the benefit of the airport of transparency, equal treatment, Excellence” was awarded for the 5th Ground Transport and maintenance, upgrade and most award contracts which integrate green community and end customers. Through non-discrimination and proportionality consecutive year thereby achieving Intermodality importantly safe operation. Furthermore, procurement guidelines and implement a corporate-wide methodology and inwhich apply to all procurement phases the “Hall of Fame” status As the Greek suburban railway network employing a transparent method and in energy efficient supplies and projects house developed monitoring tools, AIA in compliance with our corporate • Hospitality Awards 2015 in two is still being under development, the line with the current legislation of the combating climate change and improving monitors contractor performance with procurement procedure and our Code categories: Best Greek Airport Hotel attractiveness of Athens International national energy market AIA ensures AIA’s CO2 emissions footprint. respect to predetermined critical service of Relations with Business Partners. We and Best Greek Hotel & Resort Airport intermodal product is that all airport users have fair and equal parameters. The methodology described comply with the EU Directive 17/2004 Mobile Application subsequently limited. AIA focuses on access to electricity supply. Procurement and Efficiency in corporate procedure promotes and we apply electronic procurement • “Recommended on Holiday Check deploying intelligent systems to improve In addition, as stipulated in the Procurement is an integral part of our win-win partnerships with the assigned practices (e-auction) to ensure the best 2015” certificate with 5.2 / 6 score. the reliability of the network and increase utilities’ provision agreement signed with efficiency. Our suppliers for materials, service contractors and is applied for possible purchasing terms and the public awareness on the range of the pertinent suppliers, AIA is responsible services and works are part of our a significant number of contractual highest level of compliance. Airport Exhibition Centre available services. To this end a number for the distribution of natural gas and Since its opening in January 2009, of initiatives have been developed: water to users/consumers connected Athens Metropolitan Expo, the airport’s • The implementation of a Dynamic to the airport grids, as well as assuring exhibition and conference centre, Information System on Public the grids’ development, maintenance, has been established as the leading Transport routes serving the upgrade and safe operation. Operational Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Material Issue venue for many notable exhibitions Airport, that has been developed in Finally, it is responsible for the and conferences organised in Athens. close cooperation with the ground consumption measurements and overall AIA ensures efficient and provision. “Availability” of critical organisational resilience ensuring that In 2015 18 exhibitions and events transportation authorities (Transport reporting of the said commodities uninterrupted airport operations in system is therefore considered a critical corporate functions continue took place, slightly lower than the for Athens, Metro, Athens Road addressed to pertinent stakeholders regards to airport facilities and systems crucial performance indicator. In to operate in contingency in case of number hosted in 2014. However, Transport). The system consists of (such as consumers or electricity operations. In order to achieve this, this respect, AIA has developed serious incidents or – if affected – to almost 300,000 visitors were recorded, two sets of monitors positioned at suppliers, etc.) including our own needs. AIA relies on smooth operation and its corporate Business Continuity operate with alternative means and significantly more than the previous year. the MTB, displaying transportation availability of system that are critical System which provides a framework effectively restore operations with the The exhibition that attracted the most information such as itineraries for all Electricity Producer for airport operations and service for operational readiness and set timeframes. visitors was HORECA, the leading trade public transport means serving the AIA holds an energy production licence show for the hospitality and foodservice Airport and walking distance to the that permits the production and sale of Critical Systems Availability industry. terminals, so as to enable arriving renewable energy from its 8,05MWp passengers plan a pre-route mode. In Photovoltaic Park (PVP). Operating since Calculated based on the failures down time of these systems. 2015 2014 Airport Car Parking Services cooperation with the Piraeus Port the July 2011, AIA’s PVP produces energy 99.87% There are 7,160 parking spaces available system is currently being expanded to that is sold exclusively to the national Baggage Handling System 99.87% for short, long-term or executive valet also include ferries’ info. Operator of Electricity Market under parking at the airport. Parking service at • The preparation and circulation of an energy sales agreement, dated June 100.00% Medium Voltage the short-term parking areas (P1 & P2) is the Airport Access Map, designed 2010. 100.00% 100.00% Airfiled Lighting 100.00% Sustainable Procurement Practices 99.96% Passenger Boarding Bridges 99.95% Sphere of Influence pursue mutually beneficial relations suppliers are required to comply with all Average of UFIS/FIDS, CUTE, 99.92% Committed to acting fairly and with with third parties who share our applicable laws and regulations, conform Voice & Data Networks 99.99% integrity towards our stakeholders we dedication to sustainable practices. Our to the highest standards of ethical 0 20 40 60 80 100 28 | aia.gr aia.gr | 29 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Planning and Practicing Railway operator . All involved entities Handling, Swissport Greece and Customer and Public Safety Material Issue Emergency Crisis Management responded under a common emergency AIA providing an opportunity to In order to maintain a safe and resilient umbrella. Preparedness of the whole understand the current structure, airport operating environment and mechanism was tested under a scenario roles and responsibilities of the Aviation Safety system even safer and together with all effort of all stakeholders operating on mitigate all impacting factors of of emergency events escalation. involved stakeholders, according to Billions of passengers in addition operational stakeholders seek ways to the airside. operational adversities, AIA undertakes With AIA’s assistance emergency the Airport Emergency Plan and the to cargo and mail travel in the air reduce the risk of aviation accidents. During 2015 AIA’s emergency preventive and corrective measures and audit of Tarom airlines was completed actions that should be implemented. transportation system around the AIA’s Aviation Safety Management response system addressed 121 establishes a collaborative framework in June 2015 by visiting critical world every year demonstrating that System consists of four components: incidents in which effective stakeholder with the active participation of the infrastructure of AIA (i.e. Call Centre, • October 2015: The annual aviation is the fastest and safest means the corporate policy and objectives, engagement concluded to successful airport stakeholders that strengths Gate B30-31, etc.). theoretical and practical disabled of transport. All airports face numerous safety risk management, safety handling. The Airport Hellenic Fire airport community relations. aircraft removal exercise aiming aviation safety-related challenges on assurance and safety promotion. AIA Corps (AHFC) personnel were alerted A mixture of classroom training and Emergency Exercises to refresh AIA’s knowledge in the their daily operations. With reference to focuses on identifying areas for airside to a total of 303 cases while the Airport learning through practical exercises The Airport Emergency Plan was fundamentals of aircraft recovery, its top material issue, AIA is committed safety improvements as a continuous Emergency Medical Care (ASEMC) and assessments enhances AIA’s ability extensively tested to ensure the practicing the necessary skills and to contribute in making the safe strategic objective leading the common personnel handled 4,199 cases. not only to integrate aviation safety readiness of all entities involved in the equipment readiness for use while components and meet the regulatory event of an accident. Seven emergency addressing the removal process requirements but more importantly exercises were conducted: complexities against all safety rules. to ensure an effective mechanism for Emergency Response System 2015 (Breakdown of incidents) confronting unforeseen events. • March 2015: Functional • October 2015: The British AIA’s emergency response system responded to 121 incidents Furthermore, AIA’s volunteer training titled “Accident during Airways (BA) emergency tabletop programme for contingency plan the transportation of Radioactive exercise which AIA facilitated and Bomb Threat Security Event 6 assistance by non-operations personnel Material (class 7)” with the participated in. The complicated Full Emergency 11 was once again on call to assist with participation of the Airport Hellenic scenario involved an aircraft passenger support in case of lengthy Fire Corps (AHFC) and the Greek accident off-Airport (beyond 8 km) Local Standby 40 operational irregularities. Almost 40 Atomic Energy Committee (GAEC). and the exercise aimed to check Medical Emergencies 36 staff members from various corporate The scenario involved the evacuation BA’s Emergency Plan through key Incidents on-Airport involving airraft 7 departments participated in the of the two occupants of the vehicle personnel response readiness and Incidents not involving airraft 21 programme which focuses on providing as well as the handling of radioactive the support provided by Swissport traveller care and relief assistance material by both AHFC and GAEC. Greece (involved ground handling during extended crisis situations such company). as prolonged bad weather, natural • April 2015: Tabletop emergency disasters or an aviation incident. exercise conducted by Emirates • November 2015: Partial scale Aviation Safety (Key Performance Indicator) Airline in cooperation with AIA emergency exercise in compliance 2015 2014 Emergency Training and the involved Embassies and with the relevant ICAO regulations Apart from trainings routinely the participation of HCAA and involving a cargo aircraft crash Serious incidents / 100, 000 aircraft/ helicopter movements 34.06 36.23 organised for the Airport Hellenic Airline Operators Committee’s during take-off due to technical Fire Corps and the Airport Services of Chairman. The exercise offered a malfunction, resulting in the aircraft Note: This performance fulfills the related corporate target for 2015, at the “outstanding” level. Emergency Medical Care, additional great opportunity to discuss local exiting the Runway 03R/21L and activities were carried out. Training emergency processes and gain sustaining significant damage. regarding the Airport Emergency Plan insights with regard to the Embassies’ The exercise was conducted was provided to all AIA operational support and role following an aircraft successfully with the participation Assurance Comment from EY on Operational Readiness and Emergency Preparedness staff, to the ground handling incident or accident. of AIA, HCAA/ Aviation Authority, companies operating at Athens HCAA /Air Traffic Control, Airport Through walkthroughs and a series of dedicated interviews with AIA representatives, we reviewed evidence of the Airport as per HCAA’s framework • May 2015: An emergency exercise Hellenic Fire Corps (AHFC), airport’s approach to operational readiness and critical systems’ availability, as well as business continuity. In particular, Basic for the Ground Handling entitled “Fire at fuel tank no. 1” at Airport Hellenic Police (AHP), we performed walkthroughs, reviewed evidence and tested sample data, regarding the availability of critical systems Regulation and to the Hellenic Air the Olympic Fuel Company (OFC) Airport Services Emergency including, among other: airfield lighting, baggage handling, flight information, medium voltage, and passenger boarding Force Safety School. premises with the participation Medical Care (ASEMC), Air bridges. We also reviewed evidence of the airport’s emergency training initiatives and exercises aiming to maintain In May 2015 AIA participated in of AIA, the Airport Hellenic Fire Accident Investigation and the preparedness in cases of unexpected events. In this context, we reviewed minutes of an emergency exercise involving a workshop conducted by the Greek Corps (AHFC), the Special Fire Aviation Safety Board (AAIASB), an aircraft accident and observed the participation of different parties and agencies, as well as AIA’s “orchestrator” role Atomic Energy Commission for the Fighting Unit, the Airport Hellenic National Centre for Emergency in the establishment of aviation and non-aviation safety. “Management of Radiological and Police (AHP) and the Airport Care, UPS of Greece Inc./Star Air Nuclear incidents for first responder” Services of Emergency Medical and Goldair Handling. The exercise where topics of detecting and Care (ASEMC). The scenario confirmed the operational readiness examining the threat and assessing involved the explosion and the and excellent cooperation and incident probability were addressed. rescue of an injured person. teamwork of all involved agencies Airport Security or airport. AIA has defined this issue industry developments as to adopt best In June 2015 AIA representatives while enhanced awareness on Airlines and airports have made as top material and complies with all practices. attended a tabletop exercise with • May 2015: A tabletop exercise handling incidents with dangerous airport security a continued priority national and international regulatory In 2015 the State regulatory the code name “Ch. Trikoupis 2015” related to the scenario of an goods, since according to the and focus on preventing any threats provisions. We apply efficient processes authority, HCAA/Security Inspecting pertaining to an incident involving aircraft crash with the cooperation scenario the aircraft contained and potentially dangerous situations in a state-of-the-art infrastructure Division, implemented several the Greek National and Suburban of Etihad Airways, Goldair Lithium Ion Batteries. that could possibly enter the aircraft while continuously monitor aviation inspections as to audit the airport 30 | aia.gr aia.gr | 31 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 security system. In particular, two safety is also of utmost concern for and corporate health and safety Service Quality & Passenger Experience Material Issue security inspections referred to each employee occupied at the Airport rules. During 2015 those inspections passenger and hand baggage screening premises. resulted to the issuance of 163 health whilst an additional one was conducted AIA’s target is to ensure as far as and safety improvement notices and Responsible Information Provision rate of nearly 93% of passengers email service managed almost 2,900 on the hold baggage screening process. is reasonably practicable health, safety the subsequent recommendations for During the year nearly 2 million airport being served within 20 seconds. In electronic inquiries. Further to the aforementioned and welfare of the general public. AIA corrective actions were communicated users interacted with our Terminal recognition of the excellent customer Terminal ambience was further successful audits, AIA’s security ensures compliance with all applicable to the relevant departments and Services staff for airport information service provided to the public, the enhanced with the provision of low technology and equipment operation health and safety regulations as those monitored for implementation. and assistance. Rapid and efficient Airport Call Centre was honoured for instrumental background music by a was also tested by the same authority. are implemented effectively within the Overall, every notice that required responce to inquiries is a core element a second consecutive year in the Greek new music provider. Music selections New security measures for the areas of its responsibility and undertakes preventive or corrective actions has of service quality, attributing to the “CRM Grand Prix Customer Service reflected a wide range of preferences, usage of Explosive Trace Detectors all necessary measures to identify, been effectively dealt with or actions overall passenger experience. The Annual Awards” and received the origins and rythms aspiring to make (ETD) during screening departing evaluate and reduce every public safetyhave been scheduled by the respective Airport Call Centre responded to more Bronze Award in the category of “Large visitors’ stay at the terminal more passengers commenced in September or health-related hazard. departments. than 500,000 calls with an answer Call Centres” . The “Airport-info” comfortable and enjoyable. 2015. New measures involve ETD Airport public areas are well AIA carries the responsibility to sampling on 10% of all departing maintained both proactively and co-ordinate all health & safety issues passengers and their personal correctively, precautionary signage is among stakeholders in the common Passenger Service Parameters belongings on a continuous and installed and related equipment is kept areas. In order to ensure that associated 2015 2014 random basis. Implementation of in sound condition while certifications regulations are properly implemented, this new procedure was planned are obtained for hazardous equipment. AIA incorporates pertinent clauses in all Call Center Service Level (% calls answered in under 60 sec) 98.59% 97.52% and prepared in detail by AIA and All technical and construction activities contract agreements with third parties. Call Center Efficiency (% calls answered / total calls received) 99.50% 99.18% thus resulted in full compliance with are thoroughly monitored and permits Within the scope of health and safety legislative requirements as well as in are required for a number of serious management all third parties operating Avg Waiting Time for Check-in (min) 4.3 4.0 having the minimum possible impact works while hazardous activities are at the Airport should submit health and Avg Waiting Time for Security Screening (min) 1.8 2.0 on passenger flows. only executed by licensed and highly safety plans which are subsequently Avg Response Time to Passenger Comments (days) 6.4 6.2 trained professionals in order to avoid subject for AIA’s review and audit. Baggage Handling Shortshipped Bags (per mio bags handled) 10 12 public exposure to any related hazard. In 2015 193 health and safety plans Security queuing time average Baggage Handling Average time for First Bag reclaim (min:sec) 13:00 12:22 Especially for construction works and 6 safety management systems of AIA ensures that all preventative third parties were reviewed. Further, 23 1.8 min in 2015 measures and precautions are in place audits took place in companies engaged before commencement of works in order in security, maintenance, ground Enhanced Airport Efficiency Wi-Fi Services programme in July 2014. In an 2.0 min in 2014 to avoid public exposure to hazards handling, cargo and retail services at the In an effort to pair enhanced terminal Taking into account the emerging innovative manner this custom IT and to prevent unauthorised entry to Airport. The outcome of these audits efficiency with a seamless passenger demand of Wi-Fi service within the application engages all AIA employees construction sites while frequent floor illustrated that companies audited journey, major upgrades were Main Terminal Building, we upgraded to record the level of services and and pavement checks are carried out in 2015 operated in an acceptable undertaken such as the one of the the free wireless internet access infrastructure at the Main Terminal Customer and Public Health in order to eliminate slip, trip and fall compliance level. Common Use Terminal Equipment service – the “ATH Free” which Building and surrounding area and Safety & Hygiene hazards. Potable water is another major (CUTE) with new Common Use is now governed by even greater review the entire airport experience AIA and its stakeholders identify All public and working areas are aspect of public safety due to its direct Passenger Processing Systems simplicity and user-friendliness. “ATH as perceived daily by thousands of customer and public health as a top daily inspected by the Corporate and broad impact on public health. It is (CUPPS) compliant equipment, Free” is provided over a responsive passengers and visitors. material issue, due to moral, social, Health & Safety function in order to continuously monitored for its quality new information display and digital design web layout which supports During 2015 the application legal, and economic reasons as well ensure that not only AIA’s but also all by accredited laboratories against signage monitors and that of the automatic adaptation to every screen expanded to cover operations as its crucial impact on corporate stakeholders’ and contractors’ personnel microbiological, chemical and pesticides baggage handling data network. resolution, dimension and orientation, at Satellite Terminal Building. responsibility and public profile. Public comply with legislative requirements contamination. Both upgrades delivered improved thus enabling compatibility with all Continuous commitment of AIA’s performance and increased passenger devices (smartphones, Management safeguards the redundancy mechanisms to further tablets and laptops). application’s sustained success. safeguard service availability. Free-of-charge unlimited internet “I-mind” was designed to: access coupled with the increased • complement existing monitoring Self-processing of Passengers passenger traffic resulted in the mechanisms and provide With self-processing of passengers rapid growth of Wi-Fi users : AIA’s departments with additional • daily free chlorine tests from 10 different sampling points, being the new emerging trend, networkserved an average of 25,000 feedback to ensure service level, • 92 microbiological tests from 40 sampling points, we initiated the bag-tag printing connections per day and reached up to • improve follow-up actions for functionality at the Common Use 700 concurrent users at peak times. To the rectification of faults / poor • 8 chemical measurements from 3 sampling points, Self-service (CUSS) kiosks which meet demand for faster Internet and conditions by ameliorating crossPotable started as a trial service in cooperation less website restrictions the option of company communication, and • 102 checks at water fountains for cadmium, water testing with Aegean Airlines but expanded to a paid “ATH Premium” Wi-Fi service • enhance ownership of AIA in 2015 copper and iron and include today Olympic Airlines, SAS was introduced. employees with respect to core and Lufthansa. The year closed out business activities. included • 19 legionella measurements from 19 sampling points. with the launch of boarding pass and The “i-mind” Programme The programme places all AIA bag-tag mobile scanning at the checkA significant addition to AIA’s employees, regardless of level or in area. arsenal of service quality tools was operational expertise, in the position the introduction of the “i-mind” of a virtual passenger and asks for 32 | aia.gr aia.gr | 33 3 Our Business Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 their personal look, their care and Monitor Survey findings remain a main Respecting Customer Privacy comments. passenger satisfaction measurement tool A custom user-friendly application for AIA and its business partners. was developed to facilitate data Service quality and passenger AIA endeavors to create an rights. In this context, the Hellenic officially informs pertinent authorities. collection. For employees not familiar experience is also evaluated through environment where individuals may Data Protection Authority (HDPA) is Lastly, all corporate policies with all Terminal areas instructions are Measuring Passenger Satisfaction regular monitoring of passenger queues have access to trustworthy sources officially and regularly kept informed and procedures regarding airport provided on-screen at each step. A daily monitor survey called Passenger in critical operational airport services, of technological means and a policy of customers’ messages in the Airport customer data collected through An important function of the Survey is carried out by AIA as to such as ticketing, check-in, passport environment that fosters innovation Call Centre’s voice recording system, telephone or the internet are subject application is the ability for users to appreciate passenger perception. control and security screening. Data and empowers individuals to be able as well as for the use of the closedto regular audits by the Hellenic raise alerts for situations that require The survey is addressed to more than analysis enables AIA departments and to protect their personal and business circuit monitoring security system. Authority for Communication immediate action by sending direct 40,000 passengers on an annual basis business partners to assess and further data. Furthermore, whenever the necessity Security and Privacy (ADAE) messages to shift supervisors. who evaluate airport performance and enhance the level of offered service. AIA complies with the applicable to collect and process personal data evidencing AIA’s commitment to During 2015 there were 999 express their expectations and needs. AIA also operates a passenger national legislation and international arises, AIA ensures the properly abiding by the law, human rights and walkthroughs from 619 AIA employees The 2015 Passenger Survey results were comment management service through regulations with reference to human controlled implementation and all ethical standards. which corresponded to 64,803 distinct slightly improved compared to 2014 the corporate brochures “Your Opinion checks. (4.25 on a 5-point scale), a very positive Counts”, available both at Terminal In the “2015 Cyta Mobile performance considering the significant premises and through the corporate Excellence Awards” AIA was traffic increase. website. During 2015 there were 3,620 honoured with the silver award in For more in-depth analysis AIA comments from 1,611 passengers. In an the category “Innovative Mobile also undertakes a Quality Monitor average response time of 6.4 days, 992 Application / Service” for the particular Survey that monitors performance reply letters were dispatched of which programme. trends and passengers’ drivers. Quality 91% were customised case-specific letters. Passenger Complaints Analysis 2015 Score on a 5-point scale 2015 2014 Customization rate of Responses (custom / total responses) 91.0% 89.3% Distribution Of Complaints People With Reduced Mobility (Prm) 0.73% 1.07% Way Finding / Signage 1.91% 2.10% Security Services 7.93% 9.88% Seating / Rest Facilities 2.64% 2.48% Retail & Services 3.85% 4.12% Parking Services 3.71% 6.45% IT Public Systems 6.79% 4.39% Information Services 3.56% 3.17% Information Screens 0.92% 0.57% Food & Beverage 6.02% 5.34% Facility Maintenance 1.28% 2.25% Cleaning Services 2.28% 2.56% Baggage Trolleys 0.51% 0.92% Aviation Services 39.83% 24.19% 34 | aia.gr aia.gr | 35 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our In 2015 AIA received several important distinctions and awards for its environmental performance and activities in the fields Environment of Waste and Recycling, Energy, Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability. Environmental Management & Compliance Environmental protection is among the and accurate information on our level significant environmental challenges top priorities for the Airport Company. of compliance and our efforts for take place within the context of our We aim to responsibly and effectively excellence to the Audit Committee of Environmental Management System monitor all environmental aspects and the Board of Directors. (EMS) which has been certified to minimise or prevent, where possible, The Environmental Services according to the international the airport’s environmental impact on Department reports to AIA’s Chief standard ISO 14001 since 2000. In the Mesogeia region through initiatives Operations Officer who has the 2015 the recertification audit of our that exceed regulatory requirements. responsibility to ensure that the EMS was successfully conducted by Our Corporate Environmental Company adapts to all current an independent certification body Policy focuses on our commitment legal and regulatory requirements, extending our certification through to continuous improvement of our proactively responds to possible September 2018. environmental performance and corporate environmental risks and All contractual agreements with initiatives to reduce emissions from implements remedial actions whenever third parties operating at the airport airport operations, while maximising required. entail environmental requirements. energy efficiency in our infrastructure. Environmental awareness amongst For example, all major third parties Principles of sustainable development employees, members of the airport must establish an EMS and certify are incorporated in our corporate community and local municipalities it in accordance with ISO 14001 procedures. is a key driver for the successful and/or the Eco-Management and In accordance with our corporate implementation of all our action plans. Audit Scheme (EMAS) regulation. Compliance Policy we are committed Furthermore, sharing information at To date, forty-four (44) companies to ensuring that all aspects of our all levels with employees, business of the airport community have been activities are in full compliance with partners, state authorities and certified. Furthermore, environmental the current environmental legal and the public in general is strongly audits of third parties are conducted regulatory framework [International encouraged. on a regular basis in order to assess Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) We regularly review and update compliance with the applicable Annex 16, our Airport Development our environmental objectives and national and European environmental Agreement (ADA) and Article 8 of the targets while our performance and legislation, Airport guidelines and Ratifying Law 2338/1995]. All relevant achievements are regularly disclosed to regulations as well as their approved compliance risks, under the applicable the public. Environmental Management Plans. legal and regulatory framework are During 2015 no legal action was The 6th Third-Party Workshop was identified and efficiently addressed taken against AIA nor was any fine or successfully conducted in December while remedial actions are performed monetary sanction imposed related to 2015 with the participation of 48 in a prompt and effective manner environmental aspects. representatives from 34 companies when necessary. We provide regular Our efforts to effectively address all operating at the Airport. 36 | aia.gr aia.gr | 37 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Energy, Emissions and Climate Change Material Issue Airport Carbon Accreditation AIA participates in a voluntary Climate Change Corporate Action Plan • Upgrade and expansion of existing corporate backup infrastructure initiative launched by the European Addressing our contribution to climate to latest generation backup and Air travel has a significant impact on during flight, airports still have a role to renewable energy from its 8,05 MWp region of Airports Council change is a central element of our disaster recovery technologies. the local and global environment as well play in addressing climate change. As a Photovoltaic Park (PVP). The PVP International (ACI Europe), aimed at sustainability strategy allowing us • Upgrade of telephone and data as the quality of life of local citizens, result, increasing demands have been is located south–east of the eastern managing greenhouse gas emissions to maintain our license to grow. In networks as part of the airport-wide arising primarily from aircraft but also placed on airlines but also on airports to runway and covers an area of 160,000m2 under the control of airport operators addition to measuring and managing Next Generation Network (NGN) from airport operations on the ground. report on these issues. producing electricity at Medium Voltage which eventually evolved into a global greenhouse gas emissions under our project. National and international legal and feeding the national electricity system programme following the induction of direct control, we also aim to influence • Achievement of a recycling rate of regulatory provisions are in place, Energy through AIA’s own grid. all other ACI regions. our partners within the airport 52% (AIA’s target for 2016: 60%). requiring compliance of all organisations Energy management is essential for Closing 2015 annual operations, To date we have achieved a 42% community to do the same. • Continued replacement of AIA’s in the aviation industry. For example, all aeronautical activities and over the AIA’s PVP produced more than 13,400 reduction in our carbon footprint In 2015, its 8th year of physical servers with virtual ones. ICAO sets international standards for years AIA has implemented a series of MWh of clean energy, 2.8% higher between 2005 and 2015, which implementation, our Climate Change • Conversion of corporate paperaircraft engine emissions. With regard to intensive energy saving actions/projects than 2014 due to favourable weather corresponds to a reduction of Corporate Action Plan had the based forms to electronic format. climate change, aviation is responsible without compromising the airport conditions, also reaching a 10% higher approximately 28,000 tonnes of CO2, following results: for a small but growing percentage of operations while promoting these output than initially anticipated for the equivalent to planting 4.7 million trees. • Replacement of existing runway We continued to actively participate global carbon dioxide emissions which measures within the airport community. said year. The energy produced during In 2015 AIA renewed its accreditation sweeper vehicles with more fuelin the global initiative “Earth Hour” by must be addressed in order for aviation AIA holds an energy production 2015 is equivalent to 13.4% of the at Level 3 (Optimisation) of Airport efficient models. shutting down one of the airport’s two to be able to maintain its license to grow. licence (commissioned in July 2011) airport’s total electricity consumption or Carbon Accreditation and managed to • Reinforcement of stakeholder runways and reducing lighting in all Although the majority of emissions occur that permits the production and sale of 26.5% of AIA’s own electricity needs. further engage (through workshops, engagement and environmental buildings, staff parking areas and other training sessions, etc.) other members awareness. airport areas for one hour (on March of the airport community in the fight • Partial replacement of AIA’s vehicle 28, 2015). These symbolic actions were Electricity Consumption against climate change. fleet, based on operational, financial also accompanied by informative public 2015 2014 var % and environmental criteria. announcements. Total Airport (MWh) (Refers to the entire airport community) 100,396.7 103,121.0 -2.6% AIA only (MWh) (Refers to the Company only) 50,665.1 51,515.0 -1.6% AIA’s 2015 Carbon Footprint Total Airport consumption per passenger (KWh/PAX) 5.55 6.79 -18.3% 2015 CO2 Emissions (tonnes) *based on pax numbers Grid Electricity (*) 50,665,069 KWh 34,706 Natural Gas Consumption Natural Gas 1,146,746 Nm3 2,415 2015 2014 var % 144,694 lt of petrol 329 Vehicle Fleet 384,393 lt of diesel 1,029 Total Airport (Nm3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 2,199.0 2,043.0 7.6% 6,099 lt of LPG 10 Equivalent to (MWh) 25,722.0 23,761.0 25,978 lt of diesel 69 AIA only (Nm3 x 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 1,147.0 1,009.0 13.7% Stationary Sources 3,334 lt of heating oil 8 Equivalent to (MWh) 13,406.0 11,747.0 Total (**) equiv. to: 69,658.13 MWh 38,566 Total Airport consumption per passenger (Nm3/PAX) 0.12 0.13 -7.7% (*) 2015 Total scope 1 emissions: 3,860 tonnes / 2015 Total scope 2 emissions: 34,706 tonnes (**) Source for conversion to MWh:Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland (SEAI) Energy Conservation Measures* 2015 2014 var % Total Airport Savings (MWh) 2,725.0 4,776.0 -42.9% Air Quality Network (AQMN), a Differential station, has been in operation since Total Airport Savings CO2 emissions equivalent (tonnes) 1,866.6 3,085.0 -39.5% AIA continuously monitors air quality Optical Absorption Spectroscopy 1998, well before the airport’s and meteorological conditions both system (DOAS), a SOnic Detection opening. Ground-level concentrations AIA Savings (MWh) 850.0 455.0 86.8% within the airport perimeter and in and Ranging system (SODAR), a of the major pollutants (NOx, O3 , Total Energy Conservation CO2 emissions equivalent (tonnes) 582.3 362.5 60.6% the adjacent communities. In addition, Radio Acoustic Sounding System PM10 , PM 2.5 , SO2 , CO and HCs), *(Refers to the electricity consumption throughout entire airport community) (vs. previous year) emissions of air pollutants from all (RASS) and a Meteorological Station. as well as basic meteorological relevant airport sources are assessed The AQMN, which consists of parameters (wind speed and PV Plant Operation while measures are taken to reduce five permanent monitoring stations direction, temperature, relative these emissions where possible. installed in the neighbouring areas humidity, precipitation, total solar 2015 2014 var % AIA’s monitoring equipment of Glyka Nera, Koropi, Markopoulo, radiation and atmospheric pressure), includes an Air Quality Monitoring Pallini and Spata and one mobile are measured. Total Energy Production (MWh) 13,427.2 13,067.0 2.8% Total PVP CO2 emissions savings equivalent (tonnes) 9,197.6 10,410.5 -11.7% *based on pax numbers 38 | aia.gr aia.gr | 39 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Mean Concentrations of Monitored Pollutants at the AQMN Stations Preferential Runway Use System Results Runway 2015 2014 NO2 (μg/m3) O3 (μg/m3) PM10 (μg/m3) PM2.5 (μg/m3) SO2 (μg/m3) CO (mg/m3) HCs (ppm) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Take-offs Glyka Nera 17.3 17.9 87.0 80.1 27.2 25.7 N/M N/M 6.7 5.9 0.3 0.3 N/M N/M Percentage of take-offs to the north from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 03R 5% 4% Koropi 13.4 14.9 79.2 72.8 N/M N/M 22.0 25.4 N/M N/M N/M N/M 1.9 2.1 Percentage of take-offs to the north from 15:00 to 18:00 hrs. 03R 2% 2% Markopoulo 14.0 14.0 79.9 75.9 39.8 43.4 N/M N/M N/M N/M 0.3 0.3 N/M N/M Landings Pallini 11.6 12.5 85.5 82.5 N/M N/M 14.3 14.9 5.4 5.3 0.3 0.3 N/M N/M Percentage of landings to the south from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 21L 10% 13% Percentage of landings to the south from 15:00 to 18:00 hrs. 21L 5% 2% Spata 17.2 16.9 79.3 73.0 28.7 27.7 N/M N/M 4.3 3.3 0.3 0.3 2.2 2.1 Legend: AQMN: Air Quality Monitoring Network / N/M: The pollutant is not measured at the specific station Average Noise Level per Noise Monitoring Terminal (NMT) Noise Material 2015 2014 Issue NMT Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) Aircraft noise is one of the main is an essential element of our corporate revised in 2012 in accordance with the 2 38.4 18.5 36.2 21.9 environmental challenges associated environmental strategy. Noise abatement requirements stipulated by the relevant 3 59.6 43.1 59.1 42.5 with airport operations. Noise arises procedures have been defined since the national and European legislation, 4 60.9 52.3 57.5 49.3 from different sources, primarily the airport opened and are implemented the results of which indicated that no aircraft’s engines but also airflow in collaboration with HCAA and other revision of the relevant action plan 5 53.8 36.7 49.5 32.6 around aircraft. ICAO is responsible for state entities, airlines and representatives was required since the extent of the 6 51.4 39.7 49.8 37.7 adopting increasingly stringent noise from the local communities in order to airport’s noise footprint had decreased 7 52.5 45.0 53.0 45.4 standards. Since airports are the face reduce noise levels in the residential considerably. of aviation on the ground, they are the areas in the vicinity of the airport and We address noise issues responsibly 8 50.4 37.2 49.2 37.4 primary recipients of complaints from underneath flight paths. The Strategic by taking measures aiming at reducing 9 55.3 41.6 53.5 40.2 local citizens. As such, noise abatement Noise Map (SNM) for our airport was annoyance to our neighbours. 10 32.3 15.7 32.6 17.5 Legend: Lden and Lnight are calculated as defined in Government Decision 13586/724 (GGG 384Β, 28/3/2006). Noise levels are measured in dB(A), a unit that denote the human ear’s response to sound. The data for 2015 refer to noise levels Map of Flights Paths and NMTs generated from a/c flights only as required by the relavant new JMD (JMD 210474/2012) whereas in former years the total noise level was presented. Rafina Gerakas Pallini 7 We have installed a NOise correlations can be made based on have established and operate – on a Pikermi MOnitoring System (NOMOS) actual flight track information. 24-hour basis – a dedicated telephone 4 consisting of 1 mobile and 10 Since noise exposure is one of line (“We Listen”) and have created a 6 permanent Noise Monitoring Terminals the primary environmental aspects form on our corporate website where Glyka Nera (NMTs) which provide a detailed impacting residents in the vicinity of the concerned citizens may register their profile of aircraft noise in the residential airport, we hold regular meetings with complaints or request clarifications on 10 5 Spata Artemis areas near flight routes. This system is representatives from local authorities noise related issues. In 2015 a total of 3 connected with HCAA’s radar so that and citizen groups. Furthermore, we forty-one complaints were handled. 2 1 Koropi Noise Complaints 2015 2014 9 8 Markopoulo Number of citizen complaints received broken down by origin (Neighboring communities) Indicative landing flight path Indicative take-off flight path Artemis 33 17 Noise Monitoring Terminal Koropi 1 1 Kalivia Ag. Kiriaki 1 5 Thorikou Other areas 6 11 Total 41 34 40 | aia.gr aia.gr | 41 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Comparative Noise Levels Wastewater Treatment (Refers to the entire airport community) dB (A) 2015 2014 var % Pain Limit 130 Processed through Sewage Treatment Plant (m3 x 1000) 341 313 8.9% Night Club 115 Processed through Industrial Water Treatment Facility (m x 1000) 3 2.3 3.1 -25.8% Car horn 110 Bus 82.5 Refers to AIA & airport community. All sewage treated by airport’s STP are used for irrigation of non-public green areas at the airport. Boeing 737-400 in NMT 3 80 Normal conversation 75 Car in residential area 75 Effluents & Waste Boeing 737-400 in NMT 5 74 Boeing 737-400 in NMT 2 73 In accordance with our commitment to cooperation with Alternative administrative tasks (e.g. recycled Propeller Aircraft in NMT 2 & 3 72.5 comply with environmental regulations, Management Systems for the final paper for stationery use and corporate Propeller Aircraft in NMT 5 70 standards and best practices, we disposal of hazardous waste. The 32% correspondence). In parallel, various Quiet residential area 50 have developed a comprehensive of hazardous waste produced onsite corporate tasks (contract review, waste management system based in 2015 was transferred to Alternative expense claims, annual leave forms, Whisper 30 on “The Polluter Pays” principle that Management Systems, while the etc.) are administered electronically. promotes separation at source and remaining 68% was transferred to Our efforts to encourage airport recycling. Solid Non-Hazardous other licensed management facilities. employees to recycle resulted to the Waste, Hazardous Waste and Medical/ Moreover, all industrial wastewater collection of approximately 8.9 tonnes Water Clinical Waste are the major types of waste generated at the airport. In produced at the airport is treated onsite at the Industrial Wastewater Treatment of recyclable materials at our Recycling Centre in 2015. Furthermore, we 2015 the amount of food waste from Facility (IWTF). Our commitment encourage our partners to develop We systematically monitor water water separators etc). In order to raise time a spillage occurs. Due to the local international flights was 1,590 tonnes. to recycling is complemented by our similar environmentally-friendly consumption (potable and irrigation), awareness, AIA encourages all airport climate, aircraft/helicopter and runway Since 2005 we have established use of recycled materials for daily business practices. as well as the quality of surface and users to limit their water consumption anti/de-icing operations are limited. groundwater. The water supply when using restrooms and kitchen Nevertheless, relevant procedures network is closely monitored so that facilities. have been established for the ground possible leaks may be detected and The quality of surface water is handling companies which have the Hazardous Waste Processing 2015 promptly addressed. In addition, monitored regularly through ad hoc responsibility for the provision of de2015 2014 we apply a number of water-saving sampling and analyses following icing services in accordance with ICAO measures, such as the use of treated rain events as well as on a constant and IATA standards and based on our Managed by Alternative Management Practices 32% 28% wastewater from our own Sewage basis by an Online Water Monitoring Local Ground Handling Regulation and Treatment Plant (STP) for irrigation of System (OWMS) installed prior to the respective concession agreements Transferred to Licensed Management Facilities 68% 72% non-public green areas at the airport. the airport’s main off-site discharging with airlines and ground handling An Industrial Wastewater Treatment point. Possible hydrocarbon spillages companies. The total amount of aircraft Facility (IWTF) operating on site are immediately managed using and pavement de/anti-icing material receives wastewater primarily from the bioremediating substances and used in 2015 did not exceed 36 m3. Breakdown of Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 2015 (tonnes) aircraft maintenance activities but also appropriate sweeping vehicles. An During 2015, no water treatment from other sources (wastewater from approved Spillage Response Plan actions were required as per the criteria 2015 2014 runway derubberisation process, oil/ is in place and is implemented each defined in our Corporate Procedures. Municipal Waste 5,344 5,278 Recyclables 5,737 5,754 Special Waste 0 4 Water Consumption Total 11,081 11,036 2015 2014 var % Total Airport (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 604 565 6.9% AIA only (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 408 349 16.9% Total Airport consumption per passenger (m3/PAX) 0.033 0.037 -10.8% *based on pax numbers 42 | aia.gr aia.gr | 43 4 Our Environment Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Recycling Breakdown of Non-Hazardous Waste in 2015 (tonnes) Biodiversity 2015 2014 We implement a comprehensive biopositive results. 1 very rare species of fresh water fish, monitoring programme in the vicinity We continue our successful as well as 15 habitat types as defined of the airport aimed at protecting partnership with the Hellenic within the relevant EU legislation. Paper -2% Metal 12% Glass 7% the region’s biodiversity by applying Ornithological Society to protect The following actions were international best practices. The and promote the Vravrona Wetland, implemented in 2015 for the number of bird species spotted at the a local site of unique ecological and conservation and promotion of the site: airport has risen in recent years and archaeological value included in Natura • Clean-up of the wetland, especially 2,083 226 172 serves as an indicator of the overall 2000 European network of protected the coastal zone. health of the local ecosystem. areas, identified as a Site of Community • Maintenance of existing footpaths, In addition, a team of specialists Importance (SCI). In 2015, the project signage, vegetation and fencing. 2,130 201 161 monitors and records wildlife at the was extended to include initiatives at the • Monitoring of bird populations in airport and takes measures to control Alyki Wetland in Artemis. the wetland. and reduce wildlife hazards for aircraft According to data collected so far the • Environmental presentations where necessary. The programme biodiversity of the Vravrona Wetland and guided tours for schools, Plastic 12% Wood 4% Tetra Pak -5% of trapping and relocating raptors includes 100 plant taxa, 210 bird taxa, conservation groups and other launched in 2009 continues to bear 27 taxa of other terrestrial vertebrates, organisations visiting the wetland. 999 301 37 894 289 39 Aluminium 44% Tyres 60% Edible Oils -10% Number of habitat types 15 36 8 46 25 5 51 27 Number of terrestrial vertebrates Bio-waste Sludge STP Construction & -21% -21% demolition waste 11% 100 Number of plant species recorded 353 493 983 in the Vravrona Wetland (aprox.) 447 623 889 210 Number of bird species recorded Other recyclables 92% Total -0.3% in the Vravrona 1 Number of very rare fresh Wetland water fish 0.23 5,737 Legend: AIA began recycling sludge from the STP to create compost in mid-2011, 5,754 while recycling of 0.12 construction and demolition waste started in 2012. 44 | aia.gr aia.gr | 45 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our People AIA’s people are a valuable resource and a key business differentiator. AIA always aims at treating all employees equitably, providing them with a safe and sustainable work environment and investing in continuous development which in turn yields consistent and above average performance. Presenting our Team At the end of 2015 our headcount term staff, was at 1.4% for 2015. However, due to the nature of such a was 620 people under open-ended Having a diverse workforce means specialized business and particularly contracts and 52 under fixed-term that the organization can offer a the nature of most technical jobs the contracts. All AIA employees are wide range of ideas, skills, resources ratio of women to men is relatively low. employed on a full-time basis. The and potential retaining an important Thus, in 2015 34.4% of all employees average age of our employees is 44.1 competitive edge. Diversified were female while women made up years old with significant educational workplaces are proven to improve 14.3% of Management. background. A high percentage of 30% productivity and constitute an element Considerable importance is given to of our personnel residing at the local of a desirable employer, in this way the educational level of our workforce communities reflects our seamless attracting talented employees. It is and our aim is to attract, develop connection to the Mesogeia area. The for this reason that AIA favors equal and retain capable and competent entire Management Team resides in treatment and equal opportunities employees. Our workforce is highly the Attica region. therefore supports and offers job educated and a significant proportion Turnover ratio, excluding fixed prospects without discrimination. of them hold post-graduate degrees. Employment by Gender Men Women 2015 2014 66% 672 34% 66% 674 34% men AIA employees women men AIA employees women 46 | aia.gr aia.gr | 47 5 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Employment by Type of Contract Employee Health & Safety Material Issue Men Women Total At AIA we recognize the importance employees’ health and safety. Within the efficiency and effectiveness of the 412 of employee overall wellness, thus framework of our accident prevention processes. Especially, first-aid and Open-end contacts 620 208 particular care is taken to provide a programme we encourage employees near-misses records are considered contemporary, healthy and safe working to report all incidents regardless of their important for assessing the effectiveness 29 environment by keeping risks to a severity (including first-aid incidents, of existing controls to identify whether Seasonally employed 52 23 minimum. At the same time, we comply near misses and property damages) new trends are developing and to with the national and international and we have developed procedures implement new procedures in order to 441 Total 672 regulations and standards concerning and e-tools in order to improve the avoid future serious incidents. 231 0 100 200 300 400 500 Occupational Accidents 2015 2014 Female Managers Total Accidents (excluding to/from work accidents) 13 4 2015 2014 Accident Frequency Rate 0.59 0.14 Frequency Rate: Number of lost work day cases x 200,000 / total workhours Breakdown of Accidents 2015 2014 Diversity in Management as % of total Management Lost workday cases 4 1 First Aid Cases 9 3 Accidents to / from work 5 2 Fatal accidents 0 0 14.3% 15.8% * restated 2014 figure The Airport Company has established of best practices and the Corporate when workplace hazards cannot good occupational standards, not only as Health & Safety Manual determine the otherwise be prevented or a legal compliance aspect but also due relevant strategy and framework. The controlled. Educational Status (open-end contract employees) to its strategic impact on the company’s Airport Company takes all necessary Occupational Health and Safety Men Women Total responsibility towards employees. actions in order to: is practiced through a system of Consistent with its public profile, the • provide and maintain workplaces, procedures, inspections and workplace need for a safe and efficient work machinery and equipment and use measurements, in line with legal environment, as well as its continuing work methods which are as safe requirements, international best commitment to ethics, AIA follows all and without risk to health as is practices, and methods developed necessary standards that contribute to reasonably practicable, within AIA. Employees occupied in 412 men 620 208 women economic development while improving • give necessary instruction and hazardous tasks or hazardous areas in total the quality of life of employees and training taking into account functions are given special attention. Training their families and, further, the local and capabilities of different types of sessions particular for risks pertaining community and society at large. workers, to their activities are organized in order The Airport Company takes the • provide adequate supervision of to inform and increase awareness level. necessary preventive measures and work practices ensuring that proper For risks that cannot be otherwise 200 4 1 5 60 34 94 76 69 145 55 17 72 123 50 173 84 37 121 10 0 10 precautions in order to ensure a safe use is made of relevant occupational eliminated appropriate Personal place of work (including access and health and safety measures, Protective Equipment is provided. 150 egress), safe plant and equipment and • institute suitable occupational Being responsible for safe systems related to work. Similarly, health and safety management occupational health and safety, AIA’s it places great importance in providing arrangements appropriate to the management together with the joint 100 the level of competency to all employees working environment, the size of Management-employees Health and for supervision, information, instruction the undertaking and the nature of its Safety Committee (elected by and and training. activities and representing all employees) holds 50 Key element of this system is the • provide without any cost to the meetings on a regular basis. During corporate safety policy which reflects worker adequate personnel those meetings working conditions 0 all national and international regulatory protective clothing and equipment are evaluated and suggestions for PHD Master’s University TEI College Lyceum Basic provisions. Additionally, the monitoring which are reasonably necessary improvement are raised. 48 | aia.gr aia.gr | 49 5 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Training Categories Assurance Comment from EY on Occupational Health & Safety In hours 2015 2014 Through meetings with HR corporate representatives on the issue of occupational health and safety (OHS), we discussed how AIA’s management approach extends beyond legal compliance, to include an integrated management, monitoring and reporting system for overseeing employee health and safety issues. More specifically, we reviewed the corporate safety policy, health and safety manual, as well as quarterly audit reports to AIA Management. Additionally, we reviewed minutes of the Health and Safety Committee meetings to substantiate that working conditions are evaluated and suggestions for improvement are raised. Finally, we discussed AIA’s focus on fostering an overall culture of health and safety through training initiatives, including e-training courses, as well as through AIA employee 27% 9% 12% 52% engagement in airside and fire safety emergency exercises and specialized emergency teams. Protecting Employees’ Health AIA cooperates with the occupational the fast and easy access of employees) Corporate Compliance Training Developmental Training Job-related Training The Airport Company does not doctor who keeps all employees’ medical is available for the employees on a limit itself to protecting its people records in order to ensure that AIA staff daily basis. In 2015, AIA employees from occupational hazards; over and is in good health to perform their job. were submitted to preventive medical above, AIA fosters the adoption of This process is periodical and bound by examinations (hearing acuteness control, Corporate health-defending conduct by means confidentiality. cardiograms, visual acuteness control) 5,600.0 of information programmes through An infirmary staffed with an and visited the Occupational Doctor in 0.0 the Intranet and information provided Occupational Doctor, a Health Visitor order to have their medical files updated Compliance Training directly to groups of employees. and a Medical Doctor from the Social (bound by the medical confidentiality) 1,634.5 As per relevant legal requirements, Security Institution (IKA) (facilitating and receive an anti-flu vaccination. 898.0 82.0% Developmental Training 2,305.0 Investing in Employees’ Training and Development 2,009.0 14.7% Job-related Training 10,096.5 In a highly specialized industry is of vital importance and significant of interactive training methods to 5,997.0 68.4% such as aviation implementing our resources are allocated to pertinent develop employees’ abilities, such as business strategy is closely linked activities. During the implementation classroom training, on-the-job training, 0 2.000 4.000 6.000 8.000 10.000 12.000 with developing our people’s skills of AIA’s training plan and with the workshops, job assignments and and capabilities. Thus, continuous aim to design the most effective e-learning. Note: Training figures relate to all AIA employees prticipate in training courses (including separations and fixed-term employees). Outlines the distribution of training categories vs. related training hours. professional and personal training training solutions, we use a variety Employee Development Management System” was offered to a Education and Training with ten AIA AIA’s Training Plan in 2015: In 2015 the Employee Performance total of 524 appraisees. employees visiting Munich Airport. Management System was renewed as Other noteworthy AIA training to improve target setting at individual activities in 2015 included the Investing in Human Resources level and employee competency “Emerging Leadership” seminar for Information Systems (e-services) 19,636 100% 28.97 measurement to reinforce the corporate our first line supervisory staff and three Recognizing the importance of offering mission, vision and values. Global “Train the Trainer” workshops for AIA high level services to all employees, best practices were adopted and an internal trainers leading to certification. e-services are offered for various training hours in total of employees attending at training hours / per FTE extensive training was deployed in two AIA serves as an accredited activities related to time-attendance, least one training session phases: ACI Training Center and three training, performance management The workshop “Effective Target training courses took place in 2015 and benefits administration. The goal Setting” was addressed to the team at our premises targeted at airport is to limit to the absolutely necessary of 75 appraisers, aiming to build a professionals form the global the time spent by the employees Training for Third Parties in 2015: common understanding towards the aviation industry. Forty-five aviation and their immediate supervisors goal setting process. professionals including twelve AIA on related administrative tasks Environmental Safety & Security Training: Airside Driving Permit: Basic Ground Handling Regulation In the fourth quarter of 2015 employees participated in the courses focusing on paperless administration, Awareness Training: and Passenger Boarding Bridges: a major training activity involved of airline management, air traffic employee engagement and efficiency 51.3 training man-hours 6,670 training man-hours 1,228 training man-hours 1,387 training man-hours all AIA employees. Specifically, all appraisers attended the course “Employee Performance Appraisal & forecasting and the workshop for PRMs. Furthermore, during 2015 AIA maximization. The services introduced in 2015 include: • e-time attendance, e-overtime Giving Feedback Workshop”, while the participated in the “Erasmus+” and shift management modules Initial training courses: 379 Refresh training courses: 849 course “New Employee Performance European project for Vocational decentralize the monitoring process 50 | aia.gr aia.gr | 51 5 Our People Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 to line Management providing them • e-pension relates to employee been successfully upgraded to the level with the participation of more in the 1st business Championship We are very proud of both of our with immediate access submission of pension plan latest version of the SAP Business than 110 corporate teams and 1,100 following an excellent performance sports teams and eagerly support any • e-training provides access to all information. Intelligence suite, which now includes athletes. In 2015 our team excelled in the last 12 consecutive years which employee wishing to engage in these or employees and their immediate All abovementioned e-services functionalities such as: advanced and got promoted in the next league. have resulted in three titles (the most of any relative activities. supervisors to individual training reduce the time consumed by reporting, self-service data analysis, Our football team this year participates any other team). records enabling them to identify employees and the HRE department, mobile dashboards and analytics. This and plan training needs when dealing with pertinent tasks. It is new MIS platform, allows AIA to • e-performance management also noteworthy that Managers gained address state-of-the-art data analysis system introduces online access access to functions and information that while sharing this valuable information to performance targets and enabled them to monitor their business with its stakeholders. performance evaluations and made closely and effectively. MIS was also enhanced through the process more substantial and the integration of Retail Data analytics, productive Business Automation tools AIA Web-Analytics analytics, noise • e-transportation facilitates for enhancing productivity monitoring analytics, while at the same employees to submit transportation AIA’s Airport’s Management time initiated the effort of identifying preference for the following year and Information System (MIS) has passenger data analytics techniques. Employee Benefits Pension Plan responsibility approach) with the highly appreciated by the eligible The pension programme established aim to reduce the gap between the employees, 96.3% of which have in 2003 is based on the philosophy State pension and the salary before selected to participate with their own of matching contribution (a shared retirement. The pension scheme is contribution. Group Life & Medical Insurance Programme for 2015: 1,857 persons covered (AIA employees and dependents) 4.099 insurance claims served (reimbursed) As a responsible employer aligned Nursery Allowance families or close relatives. Employees with market practices, AIA provides all Acknowledging the financial difficulties voluntarily participated in the blood open-ended and fixed-term employees that most people encounter these days, donation programme and 99 units of a group insurance programme which in 2015 the company continued its blood were donated. includes medical, life, and disability financial support to employees with coverage. 1,857 persons are insured children. Specifically, 127 employees, Work Life Balance including dependants who are covered eligible due to income and family Work life balance is about creating with the medical plan. circumstances, received a lump sum and maintaining a supportive and amount to partially subsidies prehealthy work environment. At AIA Caring for Employees school child care. we recognize this important aspect by Family Events offering our employees the opportunity In December 2015 AIA held its Blood Donation to work in a consistent balanced time customary event for employees and Blood donation is an act of humanity, frame thus supporting equilibrium their families in a central hotel where an action of social solidarity, between work and personal life. Christmas-themed festivities and fun compassion and kindness. In 2015, AIA encourages athletic activities. activities for children were organised. AIA continued its cooperation with For the 10th consecutive year AIA’s All children from the age of 0 to 14 the Blood Transfusion Centre of Aglaia basketball team participated in the years old were offered presents –a total Kyriakou Children Hospital which “Nikos Galis” championship for of 639 gifts were offered this year. hosts AIA’s blood bank for the needs companies, the oldest and largest of children, the blood donors, their corporate athletic league at a European 52 | aia.gr aia.gr | 53 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Community Engagement Material Issue Our The Airport Company aims to have a actions are prioritised and evaluated in diversified and lasting impact on the Stakeholder the context of continuous cooperation local region in which it operates through and dialogue with local authorities and Engagement: its constant and continuous support citizen associations. Taking into account Citizenship that goes well beyond the scope of any In 2015 a total of 229 the on-going economic recession legal obligations. Numerous voluntary meetings were held with in Greece, our 2015 Community initiatives and programmes address representatives from local Engagement Plan focused on emerging aspects such as education, culture authorities, associations, social needs while responding to and athletics, transportation, society schools and individuals. requests from the surrounding and the environment. All projects and municipalities. Engaging Local Entities 2015 2014 (breakdown of meetings) Municipalities 116 127 Associations 59 73 Schools 38 35 Individuals 16 20 Total 229 255 Local Community Investment 2015 2014 (breakdown of projects/activities in thousands €) Education 121.8 93.8 Culture & Athletics 24.6 31.4 Society 83.5 50.4 Environment 30.9 (**) 16.1 Transportation 25.5 52.9 Other Community Activities 209.2 0 Total (*) 495.5 244.6 (*) Community Projects valued at €300,000 will be implemented in 2016. (**) Restated 2014 figure. Community Investment 17 high school students in Spataparticipation of local school students The major actions implemented in Artemis, Koropi, Markopoulo and volunteer associations. 2015 are described below: & Rafina-Pikermi, who excelled • An environmental programme academically and were admitted to aiming to increase student Transportation higher educational institutions. awareness on water management • Electrical equipment (lamps) was • Two scholarships were awarded issues was implemented provided to the Spata-Artemis to postgraduate students studying in cooperation with NGO Municipality to replace damaged environmental science at the Mediterranean SOS. An informative equipment. University of the Aegean. leaflet was published and distributed • Two local elementary schools for this purpose. Education were hosted at the Main Terminal • The Experimental Music School of • All 27 public schools in the Building where they gave an antiPallini was supported for the tuning Municipality of Spata-Artemis were bullying dance performance. of their musical instruments. rewarded for their participation in • The clean-up of Artemis OTE Forest • Christmas presents were distributed our recycling programme. was supported on the occasion of to 121 kindergartners in Artemis. • Financial rewards were offered to World Environment Day with the • Electronic equipment and 54 | aia.gr aia.gr | 55 6 Our Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 household appliances were provided Artemis Municipality. At the start implemented in collaboration with combining ideas focusing on the Schulte, CEO, Fraport AG, analytically connecting people, cultures, routes, to schools in the neighbouring of the school year, school supplies the Hellenic Ornithological Society strategic topic of the contribution of referred on behalf of the FRAPORT and most of all cities! Having fostered communities of Rafina-Pikermi, were provided to Spata-Artemis (HOS) and the Municipality of hub airports serving the development AG-SLENTEL Ltd consortium to the a “City Pair” tradition and being a Koropi and Kalyvia. Municipality while foodstuffs were Markopoulo, which in 2015 was of origin & destination strategy (O&D) privatisation, as well as the upgrade of music-loving airport we welcomed provided to the social supermarket extended to include the Aliki and recent regulatory developments at the airport and tourism infrastructure well-known Greek singer Elly Paspala Culture and Athletics of Koropi Municipality. Wetland in Artemis. EU level in the aviation industry. at the Greek regional airports. In the and the Underground Youth Orchestra • Financial support was offered to • Supermarket vouchers were • Prasinos Lofos area in Artemis Moreover, during the works of context of the initiatives undertaken for her first official live performance of major local cultural associations distributed to nearly 680 individuals was cleaned up for the ninth this year’s ACES keynote speakers, each year for the promotion of Athens, the song “I love Athens!” . Dedicated for their annual cultural events and and families in need during Easter consecutive year as a fire A. Gittens, Director General ACI our CEO, Dr Ioannis Paraschis, to our beloved city “I Love Athens!” to major athletic associations for and Christmas in collaboration with prevention measure. World, and Mr. O. Jankovec, Director presented a first “taste” of the new, was presented for the first time along their athletic events. In this context, the Social Services of Spata-Artemis • Financial support was provided to General ACI Europe, “set the scene” inspirational campaign “Speak with a selection of wonderful melodies airline tickets were provided to Municipality. the Association for the Protection of the world aviation and referred AΘenian. Be an AΘenian”. performed by Elly Paspala’s exquisite athletes and coaches of the Hellenic • Medicine for the treatment of stray and Welfare of Wildlife (ANIMA) to the ever changing conditions and popular voice in the presence of National Pangration Team to animals was supplied to Spatawithin the framework of our challenges in the global aviation sector, “I Love Athens” initiative passengers, music lovers, and Athens participate in the 4th European Artemis Municipality while financial cooperation for the treatment of whereas in his keynote speech Dr. St. Athens International Airport loves fans. Championships in Romania. support was provided to local animal injured wildlife and its subsequent • Support was provided to the welfare associations. release back to the wild. Vravrona Museum for the • Two used self-propelled road maintenance and repair of several sweepers were donated to SpataOther Community Activities Art & Culture systems as well as for the purchase Artemis Municipality and funds were • An extensive vehicle maintenance of materials and equipment approved for the renovation of homes and tire replacement programme necessary for the smooth operation that will house homeless families with the fire departments of During the 14 years of its operation, lens of distinguished photographer cross daily in order to get to their and security of the Museum. through the social programme Markopoulo and Koropi was apart from its operational excellence A. Kontogeorgis, curated by Prof. M. final destination. Participating artists “Housing and Rehabilitation Actions funded in order to improve fire and successful business model, Stefanidis. Shot from various angles included M. Vernicos, A. Georgiou, Society in Eastern Attica”. readiness and response in the area Athens International Airport has also and under different lighting conditions, A. Lambrovassilis, N. Markou, V. • A joint “double” donation by surrounding the Airport. become a cultural hub for travellers Kontogeorgis photos capture the city Bechraki, M. Myrogianni and Y. AIA and one of its shareholders, Environment • Members of the Airport Community and visitors and an active member of without idealising it and reflect the way Hadjiaslanis. AviAlliance, was implemented to • For the eighth consecutive year, were supported in their efforts to Athens’ cultural life. Approximately in which the city cohabits with its past as At the “Art & Culture” Terminal support the social supermarket the Vravrona Wetland Protection maintain a smooth operational 250,000 visitors per year visit the well as its present. exhibition area we presented the and the medical services of Spataand Promotion Programme was environment. permanent airport exhibitions, namely “The walls of Athens and their exhibition titled “Stolen Bubbles” by J. the exhibition of Archaeological Destiny” exhibition emphasised on Marketou curated by A. Potamianou, Findings, the “Acropolis Museum – A graffiti street art, the monumental record an animation project which attempted classic destination” exhibition and of the forbidden and the ephemeral, to re-approach and reinterpret Karel Promoting the City of Athens the interactive exhibition dedicated an art outside established institutions. Zeman’s classic film The Stolen Airship, to Eleftherios Venizelos, which has Internationally acclaimed V. Caniaris (1966). In the original film an “airship” been refurbished with the support of (1928-2011) is considered a pioneer flying over Prague around the turn of During the last five years we have of the city’s diverse attractive faces, held under the auspices of the City of the National Research Foundation apologist of the walls of Athens and their the twentieth century attracts the gazes supported Athens and enhanced its its historical profile and distinctive Athens with the support of the Athens“Eleftherios K. Venizelos” and the bittersweet story and a predecessor of of the locals who gather in the streets attractiveness as a tourist destination modern character through a creative Attica & Argosaronic Hotel Association Region of Crete. today’s street artists. His work opened to admire it while even the statues on and assisted in the recovery of the synthesis of Greek and English words; and Aegean Airlines. AIA also regularly hosts temporary the exhibition of the contemporary Charles Bridge seem to point at the city’s image through cooperation additionally, the campaign’s activation exhibitions at its two exhibition areas, graffiti artists of Athens, their ‘tags’ strange machine. Five contemporary and strategic synergies with tourism within 2016 through a series of actions 3rd Airport Chief Executives’ “Art & Environment” and “Art & and their large narrative compositions. artists, F. Gousseti, L. Theodorou, organisations and associations and initiatives at the airport and in the Symposium – ACES Athens Culture.” Curated by M. Stefanidis the show Y. Grigoriadis, E. Hatzisavva, and A. (Ministry of Tourism, Association city will be “telling the story of the live The 3rd Airport Chief Executives’ In 2015 AIA launched its featured works by M. Anastasakos and Spartalis presented their video works of Tourism Enterprises, GNTO, Athenian experience”. Symposium (ACES – Athens), an collaboration with the Art-Athina A. Vasmoulakis. under the general exhibition title “The Marketing Greece, etc.) as well as Through the specific campaign Athens International Airport initiative International Exhibition of The group photography and video Journey: 5 different viewpoints”, curated a series of actions and initiatives we invite city’s visitors all year long hosted in Athens on a yearly basis, was Contemporary Art which celebrated exhibition titled “Final destination”, by A. Potamianou. through our “Destination Marketing” to discover the Athenian identity at successfully held on November 19th its 20th year, by hosting throughout curated by the art historian A. We concluded the artistic programme. the airport and in the city; the “new with the participation of more than the year six special exhibitions at the Chatzinassiou, followed. Contemporary collaboration with Art Athina through language” created leads visitors to 140 top executives from air transport, airports’ premises. Greek artists photographed interiors, the photo exhibition of the prominent “Speak Athenian. Be an find their own “Athenian DNA” in the the financial sector and the tourism At the “Art & Environment” cities and landscapes, depicting the artist-traveller D. Alithinos titled Athenian” history, the city life, the flavours and the industry. Terminal exhibition area we hosted natural or artificial environment that “Travelling with a body” curated by The digital campaign for Athens everyday Athenian experience. The ACES Symposium aims to three thematic displays which presented is subject to continuous change. In Deputy Professor of the University of launched in December 2015 was The campaign was designed based strengthen the connection between the history of the city of Athens and their works their love for the Greek Athens, M. Stefanidis. This was a series designed and implemented by the on surveys and research on the Athens’ aviation/airports and the economy of its environment as well as that of landscape is evident while selection of of 26 photographs creating a polyptych Airport Company and the Marketing tourism product and constitutes the the destinations they operate in and contemporary art in public spaces. works attempts to create interesting and a landscape study comprised of Greece association. third phase of the “trilogy” that started also launch initiatives to strengthen “Athens of yesterday, today” correlations between the artists details of human bodies photographed Aiming to promote Athens and its with “PerhaΨ you’re an AΘenian too!” Athens as a tourism destination. exhibition presented selected and their photographs by using the all around the world 30 years earlier. dynamics as a city break destination , followed by the “I’m an Athenian This year’s ACES Athens photographs of statues located in uniqueness of the airport area and The common thread of the narrative is the campaign reveals the unique match too” campaign. The campaign is being functioned as an ideal platform for Athens through the highly “humoristic” space which hundreds of travellers the curve that joins each photograph 56 | aia.gr aia.gr | 57 6 Our Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 with the next. The artist this time presented the human body in a series became even more interactive by inviting everyone to play floor games in major Greek cultural entities such as the Architecture Biennale , Elliniki Enhancing Social Commitment becoming a visual essay on time and the the airport terminal. A big chessboard Etairia (Society for the Environment way in which time puts human relations of 64 black-and-white squares, knights, and Cultural Heritage), Onassis An important pillar of our corporate for the support to the children in need, Transport & Economics, the University to the test. kings and queens was set and invited Cultural Center, the Athens Video Art responsibility’s strategy is to support child welfare organisations ActionAid, of Aegean for the International The “Fly me to the Moon” passengers and visitors to powerful and Festival, LEA (Festival-Intercultural children and social groups in need. “Make-A-Wish”, “The Smile of the Academy Study of Tourism, the initiative was launched in May 2013 in definitely unpredictable chess games. Development), the Greek National We continued our multi-dimensional Child”, Association “Agoni-GrammiErasmus Student Network, the a joint collaboration with “ελculture” Hence, through the performances of Theatre, the Benaki Museum, the social programme which entails Gonimi” by supporting their actions London School of Economics’ platform of contemporary art. This the Athens State Orchestra, the Greek Megaron Athens Concert Hall, the contributions to national and for the elementary students of the Student Union’s Hellenic Society year’s successful multidimensional National Opera, Angelika Dusk, “His Herakleidon Museum, the Goulandris international non-governmental schools of the non-trunk routes of the for their 3rd Hellenic Forum of LSE entertainment programme included Majesty the King of Spain” the Melios Natural History Museum, the Greek humanitarian endeavours such as the Greek Islands, Association “Kardia tou and the Worldwide Airport Lawyers concerts, happenings and other art Balkana Mama, Penny & the Swingin’ Theatre show, Keras Cultural & promotion of the “Travelling Greece Paidiou” and UNICEF for the children Association (WALA) which was hosted projects that inspired popular and new Cats, the Wedding Singers, as well as Development Organisation, etc. in comfort and Safety” campaign of in need worldwide. for the first time in Athens and its main artists to showcase their work at the of Ilias Karellas’ Theatre Company, AIA also contributed to the 2nd I.O.AS. (Panos Mylonas Institute for We also actively participate in purpose was to raise awareness on the airport premises contributing to the passengers and visitors had the chance Symposium of the Seven Wise Men Road and Safety), the Greek branch of the “Amber Alert” and “Silver Alert” importance which the airport plays in passenger and visitor airport experience. to live a unique experience. which aims to revive the idea of the Transparency International in support programmes, a volunteer partnership the aviation sector. Furthermore, this year the initiative AIA also provided support to ancient Greek Symposium in Greece. of transparency in the country, the between law enforcement agencies, Furthermore, for the 7th Environmental Association of Attica broadcasters, transportation related consecutive year we participated in “Time for Action” for the promotion parties and the wireless industry which the MBA International Programme of Art & Cultural Investment of the voluntary campaign “Let’s do notifies the public on child abduction the Athens University of Economics in thousands of € 2015 2014 it Greece”, the Galilee Metropolis or missing persons’ cases. and Business by offering a scholarship of Mesogaia & Lavreotiki for their On the education front we to a candidate from the Balkans. We Cultural Sponsorships 31.2 (*) 40.6 contribution to the relief care of supported ALBA Graduate Business continued to support initiatives related people in need, the CSR – Hellas, School for the organisation of to the education of unemployed young Art Exhibitions / Events 85.0 70.7 MEDASSET Hellas, KETHEA the International Congress of the people. Under this new pillar of our (*) Restated 2014 figure. (Therapy Center for Depended European Group for Organisational corporate citizenship commitment, Individuals), “ΦΡΟΝΤΙΔΑ” Studies (EGOS), the Democritus for the third consecutive year, we Sponsorship Program 2015 (Panhellenic Association of Care for University of Thrace for the supported the “Entrepreneurship & the support of people with mental organisation of the Conference Career Panorama 2015” organised in thousands of € 2015 2014 retardation and down syndrome), “Intermodal Transports: Innovations by the Research Centre of Strategic Elpis Philanthropy Advisors for the in Planning, Management, Business Business Management of the Athens Sports 5.1 3.0 Development & Decision Making”, University of Economics and Business, strengthen of the project “MedChild” Business General 115.2 38.0 –mobile application for child the University of Piraeus for their focusing on business start–up seminars Business Aviation Sector 7.2 (*) 43.5 development, Kivotos of the World MBA programme on the subject Air for unemployed young people. Social Various Humanitarian 18.3 15.2 Social Children / Youth 21.0 13.1 Science 19.6 25.0 AIA’s Digital Engagement (*) Restated 2014 figure. Always committed to provide airport mobile, tablet or laptop. All users can people to develop their capabilities A Welcoming Airport for Children services of the highest level to receive live flight and commercial by designing innovative services and passengers and visitors, AIA’s digital information using hashtags (#) and contributing to the development of footprint was enhanced during 2015 special key words (e.g. flight & code applications and new digital business Airport Visitors Service three state and private vocational not easy for a young traveller. Since with the unlimited free Wi-Fi wireless number, offers). In cooperation with activities. The contest attracted 162 We host field trips at the airport schools, the University of Athens, the 2002 a colourful Children’s Play Area access in the airport areas through the Economic University of Athens participants with 83 proposals, 35 of premises to help pupils and students University of Piraeus, the University provides a feast of fun and “VIP its “ATH Free” and “ATH Premium” and with the scientific support of the which could be directly applied in the broaden their horizons through of Patras, the State University of N.Y, treatment” during their stay. The Wi-Fi networks. In addition, aiming Laboratory of Electronic Commerce airport environment. AIA awarded visiting airport facilities and learning the Brown University, the Airlines facility which is operated by specialised at providing accurate and instant and Business, Athens International the best innovative proposals and about operational procedures. These Services Training (A.S.T.), the Wirral personnel of the Association “The information to the public, Athens Airport launched a competition under applications for new digital services visits last 2½ hours and include a Metropolitan College and five Smile of the Child” has received more International Airport launched the the title: “The Digital Gate: Airport and business activities. presentation of the Main Terminal specialised educational institutions. We than 64,000 young visitors and their “ATH Messenger service”, based Innovation Challenge – Transforming Focusing on the needs of Greek Building, the Airport’s Museum, also hosted visits of Vocational Training families since it first opened 13 years on Facebook Messenger. Athens the Airport Environment”. The travellers amid the adverse conditions the cultural exhibitions, the baggage Institutes AKMI and Smyrnis and of ago. In August 2015 the Play Area International Airport is the first contest explored and promoted of the economy, AIA implemented reclaim area and a visit to the airport non-profitable associations for children reached its peak number of visitors: airport worldwide to offer flight digital innovation and young the online prepayment option for the fire station where the impressive with special needs. 1,132 children found a cosy corner to information by simply logging in entrepreneurship in the air-transport e-parking service. PANTHER fire trucks are kept. In 2015 relax and play while waiting for their Facebook Messenger through and tourism sector, allowing young we welcomed in total 1,300 visitors Airport Children’s Play Area flight. Various travel bloggers share from three kindergartens, twenty two Standing still at the airport’s check–in their impression for the Play Area with elementary schools, six high schools, desks and waiting to get on board is positive comments. 58 | aia.gr aia.gr | 59 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Sustainability AIA has adopted a structured reporting framework in order to reinforce credibility in disclosing sustainability information. Framework About this Report This is the 13th edition of the annual refers to the period of January through December 2015 through certain data Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ‘in accordance’ and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report of repeated from previous editions, core requirements, including the GRI Athens International Airport S.A. (AIA) necessary for comprehending the text. Airport Operators Sector Disclosures, which aims to provide all stakeholders It covers the full spectrum of AIA’s as appropriate, depending on AIA’s with consistent and thorough information programmes and activities under the reported material aspects. Additionally, on sustainability issues. In order to cover direct control of AIA operating within the the Report content is based on the comparability of information disclosed, Athens International Airport “Eleftherios provisions of ISO26000:2010 standard, previous Corporate Responsibility Venizelos” in the Spata region of Athens, as well as the ten principles of the United Reports are available on the company’s Greece. The Report further discloses Nations Global Compact (UNGC). website (www.aia.gr), the GRI portal information within the wider sphere This is AIA’s 3rd Report in (www. globalreporting.org) as well as of influence – related to companies accordance to the GRI G4 Sustainability in the UNGC CoP Directory (www. operating in our airport business Reporting Guidelines. unglobalcompact.org/participants). community – in the context of AIA’s role The responsibility for preparing, as the community “orchestrator”. submitting and distributing the Report Purpose & Scope lies under the Corporate Quality This Report focuses on AIA’s Methodology Department, which coordinates the input management constant commitment on The Report elaborates on corporate from the CR Report Team members the sustainable and socially responsible targets, management practices and key and other colleagues representing the operation and development of Athens performance indicators for 2015 in majority of Company departments. The International Airport. Through a simple, comprehensive way, with a CR Report Team is supervised by the this edition AIA aims to increase flowing content. Report content has been cross-company CR Committee, which in stakeholders’ interest through accurate set as defined by AA1000 Accountability turn reports to the CEO and the Chief and validated information. The Report Principles Standard, the Global Reporting Officers. UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress (COP) Since June 2008, of the Global Compact Network Hellas improvement per principle area, on AIA committed and participates in multi-stakeholder an annual basis. UNGC COP is a through its CEO, Dr engagement activities that promote the communication tool towards the UNGC Ioannis N. Paraschis, initiative’s character and the company’s Headquarters and AIA’s stakeholder to embed the UN support to deepen its commitment and groups. Global Compact ten ethical principles actions. In order to enhance credibility Here under is the reference of and accountability within its sphere of towards its commitment to the UNGC AIA’s practices related to the UNGC influence. AIA is a company-member principles, AIA reports its continuous principles: Area UNGC Principles page 1: Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights 14, 31, 28-29, Human Rights 32, 35, 49-50, 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses 59 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 14, 28-29, 35, Labour Standards 47-53 5: Business should uphold effective abolition of child labour 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 15, 28-29, Environment 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 37-45 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies 13-14, 28-29, Anti-corruption 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 35 60 | aia.gr aia.gr | 61 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Link with Sustainable Development Goals Boundaries for Material Issues In 2015, AIA advanced its materiality familiarization, definition of priorities for embedding SDGs and AIA shall In line with GRI G4 provisions and Committee, the following table presents Community and Greater Society) as analysis by correlating with Sustainable and reporting. AIA used both the GRI monitor and even contribute to related based on the rating of Stakeholders’ AIA’s Material Issues correlated they were defined above a specific Development Goals (SDGs) building Aspects and the SDG structure for market practices as these mature. The Concern by the members of the CR across three boundaries (AIA, Airport threshold of significance. on our steady commitment towards the describing the sustainability context correlation among AIA’s 12 Material UN Global Compact. and for referencing the company’s Issues, the Sustainable Development SDGs were approached in line with material issues to broader sustainable Goals and GRI-AOSS Material Aspects the recommended five-step method development conditions and goals. This are described below: Concern by AIA (Shareholders, A Management & Employess) (described in sdgcompass.org) for is a preliminary high-level approach Stakeholder Concern by Airport Concern C Community Stakeholders Concern by Greater Society Step 03 S Stakeholders Setting goals Step 01 Step 02 Step 04 Understanding Defining Integrating the SDG’s priorities AIA Material Issue Concern Boundary Step 05 Reporting & A C S communicating Financial Performance √ √ Market Presence (Traffic development) √ √ √ Linkage Table between AIA’s Material Issues / GRI-G4 Aspects / SDG Indirect Economic Impact √ √ √ AIA’s Material Issues GRI G4 AOSS Aspects Link to Sustainable Corporate Governance √ Development Goal Energy, Emissions & Climate Change √ √ Financial Performance Economic Performance Noise √ √ √ Market Presence (Traffic Development) Market Presence Employee Health & Safety √ √ Indirect Economic Impact Indirect Economic Impact Customer & Public Safety (incl. aviation safety & airport security) √ √ √ Economic Performance Operational Readiness & Emergency Preparedness √ √ √ Corporate Governance Procurement Practices Service Quality & Passenger Experience √ √ √ Energy Community Engagement √ √ Energy, Emissions & Climate Change Emissions Innovation √ √ Noise Noise Employee Health & Safety Occupational Health & Safety Customer & Public Safety Customer & Public Safety (incl. aviation safety & airport security) Operational Readiness & Emergency Preparedness Business Continuity & Emergency Preparedness Service Quality & Passenger Experience Service Quality Community Engagement Local Communities Innovation Indirect Economic Impact 62 | aia.gr aia.gr | 63 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index for “In accordance” Core General Standard Standard Disclosure Title Page Number / Link / Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance Disclosures Direct answer Report any significant changes This Content Index provides an overview of the G4 Standard Disclosures based on the selections made, including the GRI G4 during the reporting period regardAirport Operators Sector Disclosures. G4-13 ing the organization’s size, structure, p.6-9, 11, 61 √ ownership, or its supply chain Report whether and how the preG4-14 cautionary approach or principle p.13-14 √ is addressed by the organization. General Standard Disclosures List externally developed ecoGeneral Page Number nomic, environmental and social Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External Standard Standard Disclosure Title / Link / Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance G4-15 charters, principles, or other inip.37, 61 √ Disclosures Direct answer tiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, G4-16 and national or international advop.19 √ or equivalent senior position) cacy organizations G4-1 about the relevance of sustainp.6-9 √ ability to the organization and Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries the organization’s strategy for List all entities included in the oraddressing sustainability. ganization’s consolidated financial Organizational Profile statements or equivalent documents, report whether any entity Report the name of the organiG4-17 p.11 √ G4-3 zation. p.11 √ included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements Report the primary brands, prodor equivalent documents is not G4-4 ucts, and services. p.11, 21, 63 √ covered by the report. Report the location of the organiExplain the process for definG4-5 zation’s headquarters. p.11 √ ing the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and how the Report the number of countries G4-18 organization has implemented the p.14-19 √ where the organization operates, Reporting Principles for Defining and names of countries where Report Content. G4-6 either the organization has signifip.11, 61 √ cant operations or that are specifList all the material Aspects idenically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-19 tified in the process for defining p.14-19 √ report content. Report the nature of ownership For each material Aspect, report G4-7 and legal form. p.11 √ G4-20 the Aspect Boundary within the p.63 √ Report the markets served (inorganization. p.22,23 / cluding geographic breakdown, G4-8 Aerostat √ For each material Aspect, report sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). Handbook ‘15 G4-21 the Aspect Boundary outside the p.63 √ organization. p.11, 21, 23, Report the effect of any restate24, 47 / ments of information provided in G4-9 Report the scale of the organiAnnual √ G4-22 previous reports, and the reasons p.55, 58, 61 √ zation Report 2015, for such restatements. Aerostat Handbook ‘15 Report significant changes from Report the total number of emG4-23 previous reporting periods in the p.17, 61, 63 √ ployees by employment contract Scope and Aspect Boundaries. and gender,the total number of Stakeholder Engagement permanent employees by employment type and gender, the Provide a list of stakeholder groups total workforce by employees and G4-24 engaged by the organization. p.16 √ supervised workers and by gender, the total workforce by region Report the basis for identification and gender, whether a substantial G4-25 and selection of stakeholders with p.16 √ portion of the organization’s work whom to engage. G4-10 is performed by workers who are p.47-48 √ Report the organization’s legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other approach to stakeholder enthan employees or supervised gagement, including frequency workers, including employees and of engagement by type and supervised employees of contracG4-26 by stakeholder group, and an p.16-17 √ tors and any significant variations indication of whether any of the in employment numbers (such as engagement was undertaken seasonal variations in employment specifically as part of the report in the tourism or agricultural preparation process. industries). Report key topics and concerns All AIA that have been raised through employees stakeholder engagement, and are covered how the organization has rep.14, 30-31, Report the percentage of total by the minimum G4-27 sponded to those key topics and 34, 50, 55 √ concerns, including through its G4-11 employees covered by collective require√ reporting. Report the stakeholder bargaining agreements. ments of the National groups that raised each of the key Collective topics and concerns. Labor Agreement. Report Profile Reporting period (such as fiscal Describe the organization’s supply G4-12 chain. p.28 √ G4-28 or calendar year) for information p.61 √ provided. 64 | aia.gr aia.gr | 65 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 General Page Number Page Number Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External DMA and Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External Standard Standard Disclosure Title / Link / Standard Disclosure Title / Link / Direct Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance Disclosures Direct answer answer Date of most recent previous p.25/ G4-29 report (if any). p.61 √ AO3 Total amount of cargo tonnage. Aerostat √ Handbook‘15 Reporting cycle (such as annual, G4-30 biennial). p.61 √ Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact Provide the contact point for Generic Disclosures on ManageG4-DMA p.18-19, 21 G4-31 questions regarding the report or p.71 √ ment Approach its contents. Development and impact of infraReport the ‘in accordance’ option G4-EC7 structure investments and services p.55, 56 the organization has chosen, the supported GRI Content Index for the chosen option and the reference to the Category: Environmental External Assurance Report, if the p.61, 64-68, G4-32 report has been externally as72-75 √ Material Aspect: Energy, Emissions & Climate Change sured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a p.37-40 / Generic Disclosures on ManageCare for the requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-DMA ment Approach environment √ issue 18 Report the organization’s policy Energy consumption within the and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for G4-EN3 organization p.39 √ the report, if not included in the Energy consumption outside of assurance report accompanying G4-EN4 the organization p.38 the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any exG4-EN5 Energy intensity p.38 √ G4-33 ternal assurance provided, report p.72-75 √ Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) the relationship between the G4-EN15 emissions (Scope 1) p.39 √ organization and the assurance Energy indirect greenhouse gas providers and whether the highest governance body or senior G4-EN16 (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p.39 √ executives are involved in seeking Ambient air quality levers accordassurance for the organization’s ing to populant concentrations in sustainability report. AO5 microgram per cubic meter(μg/ p.39-40 m3) or parts per million(PPM) by Material Aspect: Governance regulatory regime. Report the governance structure of the organization, including Material Aspect: Noise committees of the highest goverp.40-41/ G4-34 nance body. Identify any commitp.11-12, 71 √ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on ManageCare for the √ tees responsible for decision-makment Approach environment ing on economic, environmental issue 18 and social impacts. According to Ethics and Integrity the results of the Airport Describe the organization’s values, Strategic principles, standards and norms G4-56 of behavior such as codes of p.14 √ Number and Percentage Change Noise Map, inhabited areas conduct and codes of ethics. AO7 of People Residing in Areas included are √ Affected by Noise not exposed Specific Standard Disclosures to noise levels Page Number above the DMA and Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External limits set by Standard Disclosure Title / Link / Direct Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance authorities. answer Category: Economic Category: Social Material Aspect: Economic Performance Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Generic Disclosures on Managep.21-22 / Material Aspect: Employee Health and Safety G4-DMA ment Approach Annual Generic Disclosures on ManageReport ‘15 G4-DMA ment Approach p. 49, 50 √ Direct economic value generated p.21 / Annual G4-EC1 and distributed Report ‘15 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint manp.50-51 agement-worker health and safety G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations / Annual G4-LA5 committees that help monitor and p.49 √ Report ‘15 advise on occupational health and Material Aspect: Market Presence (traffic development) saftey programmes. Generic Disclosures on Managep.11, 22-25, 47 Sub-Category: Society G4-DMA ment Approach / Aerostat √ Handbook ‘15 Material Aspect: Community Engagement Proportion of senior management Generic Disclosures on ManageG4-EC6 hired from the local community at p.47 G4-DMA p.55, 56 ment Approach significant locations of operation Percentage of operations with Total number of passenger annuimplemented local community ally, broken down by passengers G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, p.55 on international and domestic p.23/ and development programs AO1 flights, and broken down by oriAerostat √ gin-and-destination and transfer Handbook‘15 No persons passengers,including transit from local passengers area or any Total annual number of aircraft Number of persons physically or other economically displaced, either origin were movements by day and by night p.23/ AO8 voluntary or involuntarily, by the physically or AO2 broken down by commercial pasAerostat √ airport. economically senger, commercial cargo,general Handbook‘15 aviation and state aviation flights. displaced due to airport development. 66 | aia.gr aia.gr | 67 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 DMA and Standard Disclosure Title Page Number / Link / Direct Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External Linkage table between ISO 26000:2010 & GRI G4 Guidelines Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Assurance answer Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Within the framework of the alignment of AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Policy with ISO26000, the following table summarizes the representation of adherence to the standard through the application of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Material Aspect: Customer & Public Safety (including aviation safety & airport security) Generic Disclosures on ManageG4-DMA ment Approach p.31, 32 √ Health and safety impacts are ISO26000:2010 CLAUSES GRI REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARD DISCLOSURES Percentage of significant product assessed and service categories for which Principles of social responsibility 4 G4-PR1 health and safety impacts are for both √ aviation and assessed for improvement. Accountability 4.2 The application of the GRI Guidelines provides AIA with a tool for accounting non-aviation service for and being transparent in its impacts on the economy, the environment and Transparency 4.3 society. categories Data is officialEthical behaviour 4.4 General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and Integrity ly reported to the relevant Respect for stakeholder interests 4.5 Stakeholder Inclusiveness Principle authority (HelMonetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanclenic Civil AviaRespect for the rule of law 4.6 tions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (page 37) Total number of wildlife strikes per Wildlife strike tion Authority) AO9 data cannot in accordance Sustainability Context Principle 10,000 aircraft movements be disclosed. with all requireRespect for international norms of behaviour 4.7 General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis ments arising from national Respect for human rights 4.8 Ch.2 Business Conduct and European legislation. Recognizing social responsibility 5 and engaging stakeholders Material Aspect: Operational Readiness & Emergency Preparedness Report policies/programs on Recognizing social responsibility 5.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries business continuity in the event Stakeholder identification and engagement 5.3 General Standard Disclosures: Stakeholder Engagement of an emergency, any policy for mitigating risk that is reviewed Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) AIA uses and revised regularly should be Guidance on social responsibility the Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) to report G4-DMA included. Report on management p.13, 29-30 √ core subjects 6 its approach to managing each of the ISO 26000 social responsibility of events affecting service quality, on procedures/process for quality core subjects and issues and the related actions and expectations control of service and on programs /procedures for facilities which are General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis used by person with special needs. Organisational governance 6.2 General Standard Disclosures: Governance AIA INDICATOR Critical Systems Availability p.29 √ General Standard Disclosures: Organisational Profile Material Aspect: Service Quality & Passenger Experience Report policies /programs for Human rights 6.3 Ch.2 Business Conduct quality control of service. Include Percentage of operations with implemented local community the mechanism for how the airport G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs establishes service level expectations for the airport customers (e.g. General Standard Disclosures: organisational Profile G4-DMA airlines, concessions, employees). p.33, 34 √ Labor Practices and Decent Work sub-Category Report the organisations's method for measuring service quality, for Labour practices 6.4 Proportion of senior management hired from the local communiG4-EC6 example the Airports Council ty at significant locations of operation International (ACI)Airport Service Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint manQuality (ASQ) passenger survey. G4-LA5 agement–worker health and safety committees that help monitor Airport Service Quality Satisfaction and advise on occupational health and safety programs AIA INDICATOR Score p.8, 34 √ Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Material Aspect: Innovation AO5 (SecGeneric Disclosures on Managetor SuppleAmbient air quality levels G4-DMA ment Approach p8, 27 √ ment) Execution of Innovation Action AIA INDICATOR Plan p.27 √ G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs The environment 6.5 G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 68 | aia.gr aia.gr | 69 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 ISO26000:2010 CLAUSES GRI REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARD DISCLOSURES Committees Fair operating practices 6.6 General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and Integrity Percentage of significant product and service categories for Consumer Issues 6.7 G4-PR1 which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement The following committees are responsible for their corresponding aspect of Corporate Responsibility, in line with AIA CR Percentage of operations with implemented local community Governance Structure: G4-SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Committee AIA’s CR Report Team Community Involvement and Development 6.8 G4-EC3 Coverage of the Organisation’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations I. Papadopoulou P. Papademetriou Proportion of senior management hired from the local communiDirector, Communications & Marketing (chair) Manager, Corporate Quality (Chair) G4-EC6 ty at significant locations of operation G. Kalimassias I. Kapetaniou Percentage of significant product and service categories for G4-PR1 Director, Corporate Planning Supervisor Quality Systems & CSR which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Guidance on integrating social G. Tzavaras A. Orfanou 7 responsibility throughout an organisation Director, Aviation Business Unit Quality Systems & CSR The relationship of an organisation’s charac7.2 General Standard Disclosures teristics to social responsibility G. Stergiopoulou Director, Human Resources C. Mitsotakis Due diligence 7.3.1 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Head, Public Relations M. O’Connor Determining relevance and significance of core subjects and issues to an organisation 7.3.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Manager, Environmental Services K. Zalavra Head, Corporate Information & Market Intelligence An organisation’s sphere of influence 7.3.3 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries P. Papademetriou Manager, Corporate Quality A. Anagnostopoulou Establishing priorities for addressing issues 7.3.4 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Coordinator, Consumers Business Unit Setting the direction of an organisation for A. Kostiani 7.4.2 General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis social responsibility Environmental Affairs Specialist Building social responsibility into an organiGeneral Standard Disclosures: Governance E. Tsitouna 7.4.3 Coordinator, Employee Services sation’s governance, systems and procedures Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Types of communication on social respon7.5.3 General Standard Disclosures: Report Profile Text and indicators contained herein have been complied with the contribution of numerous colleagues, representing all AIA Units. sibility Enhancing the credibility of reports and 7.6.2 General Standard Disclosures: Report Profile claims about social responsibility Reviewing an organisation’s progress and 7.7.3 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) performance on social responsibility General Standard Disclosures: Governance Improving performance 7.7.5 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Voluntary initiatives for social responsibility 7.8 General Standard Disclosures: Organisational Profile: Commitments to ExterContact Details nal Initiatives Readers’ comments regarding our corporate responsibility performance enable us to improve the structure and quality of information disclosed. We would highly appreciate any suggestions or requests for clarification on any related issue. About this Report and AIA’s For noise-related issues, kindly contact: corporate responsibility matters, “We Listen” hotline kindly contact: tel: (+30) 210-3530003 Irene Kapetaniou tel: (+30) 210-3537240 For any other contact within e-mail: KapetaniouI@aia.gr Athens International Airport, please contact: AIA / Administration Building Call Centre: For Local Communities issues, kindly contact: tel: (+30) 210-3531000 Anna Kostiani AIA Call Center (24 hours): tel: (+30) 210-3536493 tel: (+30) 210-3530000 e-mail: KostianiA@aia.gr 70 | aia.gr aia.gr | 71 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Tel: +30 210 2886 000 8B Chimarras street, Maroussi Fax:+30 210 2886 905 151 25 Athens, Greece ey.com INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the management of Athens International Airport S.A. ▶▶ Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating and reviewing sustainability data reported for internal and public reporting purposes, linked to the G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our The Athens International Airport 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report (“the Report”) has been prepared by the management assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 64-68). of Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA”), which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility, in accordance with AIA management’s instructions, is to carry out a “limited level” ▶▶ Reviewed the Report for the appropriate transposition and presentation of the sustainability data linked to the G4 assurance engagement on the English pdf version of the Report, and to include assurance comments from our work in relevant General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance sections of the Report. column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 64-68), including limitations and assumptions relating to how these data are presented within the Report. Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the management of AIA and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any responsibility and for any other purpose, to any ▶▶ Reviewed information or explanations to substantiate key data, statements and assertions regarding the sustainability other person or organization. Any reliance any third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk and responsibility. disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement. Work scope and criteria ▶▶ Reviewed the AIA UNGC CoP against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with ISAE3000 and the requirements of a Type 2 ▶▶ Reviewed the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”, found on pp. 69-70 of the Report, to assurance engagement, as defined by AA1000AS, in order to provide a limited level assurance opinion on: check AIA’s adherence to Clause 4. 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the relevant criteria Level of assurance found in the AA1000APS. The evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI G4 General formed our conclusions. The extent of these evidence gathering procedures is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable and Specific Standard Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a checkmark, pp. level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. This is also expressed by the ‘moderate’ level of 64-68), against the “In accordance – Core” requirements. assurance, under AA1000AS, according to which “the assurance provider achieves moderate assurance where sufficient evidence has been obtained to support their statement, such as the risk of their conclusion being in error is reduced but not 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, against the reduced to very low or zero”. guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Limitations of our review 4. Adherence to Clause 4 “Principles of Social Responsibility” of ISO26000:2010, as this is reported in the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”, found on pp. 69-70 of the Report. ▶▶ Our review was limited to the English version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the English version of the Report prevails. What we did to form our conclusions ▶▶ The scope of our work did not include any review of third party activities or performance, nor attending any stakeholder In order to form our conclusions in relation to the scope and criteria mentioned above, we undertook (but were not limited to) engagement activities. In addition, it did not include any review of the accuracy of research results assigned to third parties, the steps outlined below: nor Information Technology systems used by third parties. ▶▶ Interviewed a selection of AIA Executives, Directors and Managers to understand the current status of corporate ▶▶ Our review did not include financial data and the corresponding narrative text and testing of the Information Technology responsibility activities and progress made during the reporting period. systems used or those upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by AIA. ▶▶ Reviewed AIA’s approach to stakeholder engagement through interviews with managers responsible for engagement ▶▶ We do not provide any assurance relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their activities at corporate level and reviews of associated documentation. achievability. ▶▶ Reviewed AIA’s processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report, as well as the coverage of material issues within the Report, against aspects found in the “GRI G4 Airport Operators Sector Disclosures”, material issues and areas of performance covered in external media reports, and sustainability reports of selected European peers. 72 | aia.gr aia.gr | 73 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our conclusions 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are outlined below: Does AIA’s UNGC CoP adhere to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP? 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s UNGC CoP is not fairly stated, according to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP. Inclusivity: Has AIA been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop its approach to sustainability? 4. Adherence to Clause 4 “Principles of Social Responsibility” of ISO26000:2010, as this is reported in the “Linkage ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any key stakeholder groups have been excluded from table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”, found on pp. 69-70 of the Report. stakeholder engagement activities, or to conclude that AIA has not applied the Inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. Does AIA adhere to the ISO26000 Clause 4, as this is disclosed in the “Linkage table between ISO26000:2010 and GRI G4 Guidelines”? Materiality: Has AIA provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance? ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s adherence to ISO26000 Clause 4, as this is disclosed ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s materiality determination approach does not provide in the relevant table on pp. 69-70, is not fairly stated. a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance. Our independence Responsiveness: Has AIA responded to stakeholder concerns? We have not provided any services relating to the preparation of AIA’s 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report. ▶▶ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AIA has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported. Our assurance team 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI G4 The professionals which participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Climate Change and General and Specific Standard Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI G4 Content Index with a Sustainability Services global network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a Global level. checkmark, pp. 64-68), against the “In accordance – Core” requirements. How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report linked to qualitative information on GRI G4 General and Specific Athens, 17 June 2016 Standard Disclosures under scope? ▶▶ We have reviewed information or explanations on selected statements on AIA’s sustainability activities presented in the For and on behalf of Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) How complete and accurate are the quantitative data linked to the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. scope? Vassilios Kaminaris ▶▶ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that quantitative data linked to the GRI G4 General and Partner Specific Standard Disclosures under scope has not been collated properly at corporate level. ▶▶ We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the data as presented in the Report. Does the Report meet the GRI G4 requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option? ▶▶ Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option, as presented in the GRI G4 Content Index, found on pages 64-68. 74 | aia.gr aia.gr | 75 Sociétés Anonymes Registration Number: 35925/04/B/96/60 General Commercial (G.E.MI) Registration Number : 2229601000 This document has been printed on environmentally friendly, high quality paper with the following composition: 40% recycled paper, 55% FSC certified paper pulp (certificate of sustainable forest management) and 5% cotton fibres to improve paper texture and appearance. It is eco label compliant, adhering to all environmental management ISO standards as well as the relevant ISO standard for reduced carbon dioxide (CO2) generation and emissions during manufacturing. It features neutral ph; it is free of heavy metals and is non-chlorinated to avoid contamination of water, the ground water table and the sea. It is durable but also fully self degradable and recyclable. 76 | aia.gr
