When two visions align, how will the world benefit? As a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we believe the Ten Principles of the UNGC align closely with our own purpose of building a better working world. The better the question. The better the answer. The better the world works. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights Labor • Businesses should support and respect • Businesses should uphold the freedom of the protection of internationally proclaimed association and the effective recognition of the human rights right to collective bargaining • Make sure that they are not complicit in • The elimination of all forms of forced and human rights abuses compulsory labor • The effective abolition of child labor • The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Anti-corruption • Businesses should support a precautionary • Businesses should work against corruption in approach to environmental challenges all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Read on to learn how we uphold the UNGC by: Supporting our people Increasing the sustainability Supporting our clients, our and communities of our planet profession, and our marketplace 04 08 10 We are taking action on a global basis to advance the UNGC principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. For more information, please contact Nicky Major Global Corporate Responsibility Leader +44 20 7951 1198 ey.com/ungc 2 EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 A statement from our Chairman and CEO EY is committed to building a better working world. Through this purpose, we build trust and confidence in the capital markets and support our clients to drive sustainable growth the world over. By fulfilling this purpose, we leave a lasting legacy for our clients, our people and society as a whole. The connection with the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is clear. It’s why EY remains a proud signatory and will continue to support and advance them. It’s also why we see our annual Communication on Progress as a welcome opportunity to underline our commitment to responsible and sustainable business in everything we do. I hope you will read it with interest. Mark A. Weinberger EY Global Chairman and CEO @Mark_Weinberger EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 3 Where the value of water is so high, can prices come down? With EY’s help, social entrepreneur Jibu is on course to provide more than one million East Africans with permanent access to safe, affordable water by 2020. Supporting At EY, we recognize our responsibility to promote equity our people of opportunity, not only within our own organization and supply and communities chain, but also more broadly across the communities in which we operate. Our vibrant culture is the result of decades of investment in leveraging the diversity of our people. Whenever people join EY and however long they stay, we aim to give them an exceptional experience that lasts a lifetime. We strive to create a flexible, inclusive, engaging environment where people can build rewarding careers and develop as leaders. 4 EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 Inside EY 30 % EY added a record number of women to its ranks of partners in FY15. More than 30% of 753 newly promoted partners are women, a 33% increase on FY14. Recruiting and Developing Creating a great developing inclusively future leaders place to work To deliver exceptional client service, In 2015 we invested more than US$500m We promote a trust-based, flexible working we continue to increase workplace equity on training — part of our continued environment that supports our people to across all areas of difference, from gender, commitment to provide our people with work fluidly, both in and out of the office, ethnicity and sexual orientation to thinking outstanding learning opportunities, and contributes to a positive work-life and leadership styles. purposeful and stimulating experiences balance. and transformational coaching. • Visit our Diversity and Inclusiveness • Read about EY’s recent recognition website • Learn more about FY15 partner as a most favored employer promotions • Download our Diversity and • Read about our Workplace of the Inclusiveness roadmap • Learn more about leadership at EY Future program and our promise to our people • Read about recognition for EY leaders’ contribution to LGBT inclusion • Visit our global Careers website Listening to our people Looking after health Celebrating success and well-being We use many different channels to The safety of our people is overseen by Recognizing our people’s contributions is encourage input from our people. This all a dedicated Global Security team. We integral to fulfilling our purpose. Our new helps us to understand what we’re doing also invest in a range of resources to help flagship awards program — Better begins well and where we have opportunities to our people to look after their long-term with you — helps us share and celebrate make things better. physical, emotional and financial health. how our people are bringing our purpose to life. • Learn more about our inclusive culture • Read about examples of supporting health and well-being across EY • Learn more about Better begins member firms in EMEIA with you • Find out more about the impact of EY Netherlands’ Fit4TheJob program EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 5 In our supply chain Compliance with the provisions of EY’s Supplier Code of Conduct is a standard requirement of all procurement contracts. A supplier’s performance and adherence to high business standards is an important and integral part of the value chain for EY. We expect high legal, ethical and employment-related standards to be applied by our suppliers, and these are set out in our Supplier Code of Conduct. • View our Supplier Code of Conduct 6 EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 In our communities With help from Enterprise Growth Services to improve its financial and operational controls, social entrepreneur Jibu projects extending permanent access to safe, affordable water to more than 1 million people across East Africa by 2020. million Making a positive difference in the world is not a side activity. It’s our reason for being. We target the issues where we believe we can make the greatest impact — issues where the needs of society intersect with the distinctive capabilities of our people and our organization. Supporting the Driving entrepreneurship Valuing diversity next generation Young people are the leaders of tomorrow. Entrepreneurs are responsible for an Diverse perspectives are proven to help We continue to expand our efforts to outsized share of job creation the world drive better decision-making, stimulate increase their access to quality education over. We continue to expand our efforts to innovation and increase agility and and work experience and to encourage the help these businesses scale their reach and resilience. We continue to promote the development of entrepreneurial skills. impact. value of difference, especially focusing on the role of women. • Learn more about our FY15 • Learn more about how Enterprise achievements as a founder member Growth Services (EGS) is extending • Learn more about Women. Fast of the Alliance for Youth the reach and impact of social forward — our unifying platform to entrepreneurs accelerate women’s progress in the • Learn more about our latest efforts workplace to unlock young people’s potential • Learn more about how EY Vantage by developing and measuring helps high-impact entrepreneurs entrepreneurial skills accelerate growth and job creation EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 7 How can we turn environmental pressures into a source of innovation? EY analysis has shown the potential of Formula E to contribute to sales of 77 million electric vehicles by 2040 and create 42,000 permanent jobs in the car industry. Increasing Sustainable growth depends on living within the carrying the sustainability capacity of our planet. We believe we make our biggest of our planet contribution by supporting our clients in transitioning to a lowcarbon economy. At the same time, we continue to challenge ourselves to work in a more environmentally sustainable manner. 8 EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 Supporting our clients Positively influencing Managing our own impact change Our Climate Change and Sustainability As a leading provider of sustainability We continue to invest in ways to address Services (CCaSS) professionals help services, we continue to contribute to the our biggest environmental impacts of governments and organizations around the sustainability dialogue, share knowledge office energy use and business travel. We world address the environmental, social with clients and the broader business are also continuing to improve the way we and economic impacts of climate change. community, and influence leading practice. measure the progress of efforts to reduce our carbon footprint. • Read an example of the continuing • Read our latest research into growth and development of our CCaSS prevailing business attitudes toward • View our latest global carbon practice carbon emissions and pricing footprint data • View other CCaSS research • Read about our UK member firm’s and thought leadership progress in managing greenhouse gas emissions • View our latest sustainability reports from around the world EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 9 When your employees get down to business, what guides their choices? EY’s Global Code of Conduct binds every one of our 212,000 people, regardless of his or her individual role, position or practice. Supporting our clients, Increasing trust and confidence in business is our profession fundamental to our purpose of building a better working and our marketplace world. We believe that every audit, every tax return, every interaction with a client or colleague, is an opportunity for our people to demonstrate our commitment to responsible business. 10 EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 EY’s Global Code of Conduct applies to everyone in the organization, regardless of his or her individual role, position or practice. In our organization Through our services Through stakeholder engagement Our steadfast commitment to conducting Our services reflect and embrace the We take our public interest responsibilities business responsibly is enshrined in vital role our profession plays in serving very seriously, and we are proud to our values, our Code of Conduct, our the public interest, for example, by work with governments, policymakers, independence processes and in globally providing assurance to investors regarding nonprofits and regulators to influence consistent policies and practices. companies’ financial statements. positive, long-term change. • Learn more about EY’s values • Learn more about our services • Read an example member firm and how they help to build a better Transparency report to learn more • Read EY’s Global Code of Conduct working world about our dialogue with stakeholders • Read an example member firm • Read our latest articles on building • Learn more about our involvement Transparency report to learn more a better working world at the World Economic Forum about our independence processes and Annual Meeting commitment to quality EY UNGC Communication on Progress 2015 11 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2016 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. FY0036 BMC Agency GA 0409_03705 ED None In line with EY’s commitment to minimize its impact on the environment, this document has been printed on paper with a high recycled content. This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com
