Annual report 2015 Aiming to be a forerunner in paving in northern Europe An expert in versatile and complex infrastructure construction Good service, high quality and location are key in building ­construction ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Contents YEAR 2015 1 Group key figures 60 Strategy 61 Lemminkäinen in brief 1 Group performance 61 CEO's review 3 Balance sheet, cash flow and and financing 63 Strategy 4 Business segments 64 Financial development 7 Investments 67 Operating environment 12 Personnel 67 Changes in the Executive Team 67 BUSINESS 14 Occupational safety and environment 68 Paving 14 Research and development 68 Case: Runway experts 15 Shares and shareholders 68 Case: Strict requirements for tunnel work 16 Resolutions of the AGM and administration 69 Infra projects 16 Legal proceedings 69 Case: Rotermann underground parking facility 18 Risks and uncertainties 70 Case: A new wastewater treatment plant is 18 Outlook 71 being built underground Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution 72 Case: Environment at centre stage of the 19 of profit Rantaväylä tunnel Profit guidance for 2016 72 Case: Making traffic safe for all 19 Consolidated financial statements 73 Case: From wasteland to a living city district 20 Consolidated income statement (IFRS) 73 Building construction 20 Consolidated statement of comprehensive 74 Case: From an office property to a hotel 22 income (IFRS) Case: Capacity of Helsinki Airport to increase 23 Consolidated statement of financial position 75 Key figures by business segment 24 (IFRS) Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) 76 SUSTAINABILITY 27 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 77 Our way of working 27 (IFRS) Cooperation with stakeholders 29 Accounting policies applied in the IFRS 79 Financial responsibility 32 consolidated financial statements, 31 December Environmental responsibility 35 2015 Social responsibility 36 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 90 (IFRS) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 41 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods 91 2 Unusual events during the accounting period 91 Corporate Governance Statement 41 3 Seasonality of business 91 Remuneration 48 4 Operating segments 92 Board of Directors 52 5 Information by market area 93 Executive Team 55 6 Construction projects 93 Risk management 57 7 Other operating income 94 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of 94 FINANCIALS 60 personnel Board of Directors' report 60 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 95 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 10 Other operating expenses 95 7 Finance income and costs 136 11 Investments 96 8 Extraordinary items 136 12 Finance income and costs 98 9 Direct taxes 137 13 Taxes 98 10 Non-current assets 137 14 Discontinued operations 101 11 Investments in Group companies 138 15 Earnings per share 102 12 Current assets 139 16 Other comprehensive income items 102 13 Shareholders' equity 140 17 Dividends paid and proposed 103 14 Provisions 140 18 Property, plant and equipment 103 15 Liabilities 140 19 Intangible assets 105 16 Guarantees and commitments 141 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial 108 Financial indicators (IFRS) 142 assets Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) 143 21 Non-current receivables 108 Calculation of key ratios 144 22 Inventories 108 Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution 145 23 Current receivables 109 of profit 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets 109 Auditor's report 146 25 Cash and cash equivalents 109 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category 110 INVESTOR INFORMATION 147 27 Shareholders' equity 112 Shares and shareholders 147 28 Interest-bearing liabilities 113 Information for shareholders and investors 150 29 Pension obligations 113 30 Share-based payments 116 31 Provisions 117 32 Trade and other payables 118 33 Financial risk management 118 34 Derivative financial instruments 124 35 Adjustments to cash flows 124 36 Operating lease commitments 125 37 Contingent assets and liabilities 125 38 Related party transactions 126 Parent company financial statements 130 Parent company income statement (FAS) 130 Parent company balance sheet (FAS) 131 Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) 132 Parent company's accounting principles, 31 Dec 133 2015 Notes to the parent company financial 134 statements (FAS) 1 Net sales by market area 135 2 Other operating income 135 3 Materials and services 135 4 Notes concerning personnel, management and135 board members 5 Depreciation and reduction in value 136 6 Audit fees 136 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Year 2015 › Lemminkäinen in brief Lemminkäinen in brief We are an expert in complex infrastructure construction and building construction in northern Europe and one of the largest paving companies in our market area. Together with our customers and 4,800 professionals we employ, we build a sustainable society. During the coming years, our target is to improve our In 2015, our net sales were EUR 1.9 billion. Lemminkäinen competitiveness in all business segments and to build a solid Corporation’s share is quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. foundation to enable profitable growth in selected businesses. Key figures 2015 2014 Change Net sales, EUR million 1,879.0 2,044.5 -165.5 Operating profit, EUR million 37.3 36.3 1.0 Operating margin, % 2.0 1.8 Pre-tax profit, EUR million 16.7 -1.7 18.4 Profit for the period, EUR million 7.2 18.1 -10.9 Basic earnings per share, EUR -0.15 0.40 -0.6 Dividend per share, EUR 0.12* 0.00 0.1 Cash flow from operating activities, EUR million 106.6 -48.4 155.0 Gross investments, EUR million 10.3 30.0 -19.7 Key figures 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Change Order book, EUR million 1,180.3 1,456.1 -275.8 Personnel at the end of period 4,059 4,748 -689 Interest bearing net debt, EUR million 126.8 213.6 -86.8 Equity ratio, %** 40.6 37.1 Gearing, %*** 33.6 51.8 Return on investment (ROI), %**** 10.2 13.5 Return on capital employed (ROCE), %***** 5.3 4.5 Operating capital, EUR million 474.8 590.4 -115.6 *Board of Directors' proposal to the AGM **Equity ratio, if hybrid bonds were treated as debt: 12/2015: 28.6% and 12/2014: 24.6% ***Gearing, if hybrid bonds were treated as debt: 12/2015: 89.6% and 12/2014: 128.4% ****Includes the effect of discontinued operations *****Calculation: Operating profit, rolling 12 months / (Total equity (quarterly average) + interest-bearing liabilities (quarterly average)) x 100 1 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Year 2015 › CEO's review Heading in the right direction Dear Lemminkäinen shareholders, targets of the current strategy period. We will focus even stronger on improving our operational efficiency in our In 2015, our result improved from the previous year and we businesses. In the paving business, we will use the new were able to strengthen our financial position. operating model to pursue more transparency and efficiency in our business and ability to react faster to changes in the Our balance sheet is lighter than in 2014, and the cash flow market. The Infra projects operating model will be developed from our business operations remained positive throughout to support profitable growth in the Scandinavian market. In the year. Our interest-bearing net debt decreased from EUR Building construction, Finland, we will harmonise our ways of 214 million to EUR 127 million and our operating capital from working and shorten project lead times without EUR 590 million to EUR 475 million. In spring 2015, we compromising quality. carried out a partial repurchase of our first hybrid bond. We continued to streamline our portfolio and divested nonUnfortunately, our accident frequency rate increased slightly strategic businesses. These actions will improve our compared to the previous year. In 2016 we will concentrate competitiveness going forward. on turning the trend to the right direction. The sustainability project launched in 2015 helps us to better define the During 2015 we updated our strategy to align it with environmental impact of our operations in our markets. We changes in the operating environment and our risk tolerance. are making determined efforts to reduce the environmental The area with the best growth outlook in our market is still in impact of our operations by focusing especially on energy and infrastructure construction in Scandinavia, and this is where material efficiency. our Infra projects segment seeks growth. In addition, we decided to postpone the start of new residential development We published our new vision in autumn 2015: we want to be projects in Russia for the time being. a best-in-class construction company. For us, this means, first and foremost, satisfied customers, employees and We are concerned about the traffic policy debate in our home shareholders. We want to employ the best talent in the market Finland. The government’s plan to cut the funding for industry and, together with our customers, develop the new major traffic projects in the coming years will affect construction industry. Finland’s competitiveness as well as the functionality and comfort of living in urban growth centres. Many studies show I would like to thank our customers, employees and that an investment in a well-planned infrastructure project shareholders for the good cooperation in 2015. We want to pays itself back many times over in the form of taxes to the retain your trust also in the coming years. society, as new traffic arrangements enable residential and commercial construction in their immediate surroundings. Casimir Lindholm President and CEO We still have a lot to do to achieve the profit 3 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Year 2015 › Strategy Strategy for 2016–2019 In October 2015, we published our reviewed strategy for 2016–2019 in which we move gradually from strengthening our balance sheet to improving our competitiveness and profitable growth. Our target in the coming years is to improve our by focusing on investments and by releasing capital through competitiveness in all business segments and build a solid improved internal processes and procedures. foundation to enable profitable growth. We will continue strengthening the balance sheet structure and further improving our capital efficiency our expertise gained in the Finnish market, we aim to grow Operational efficiency in Paving into one of the leading providers of infrastructure We seek to improve our competitiveness in the Paving construction solutions in selected business areas in northern business segment in all markets through a more optimised Europe. operating model and more efficient processes. We are moving from a regional structure towards an agile, customerWe seek growth especially in Sweden and Norway where the and activity-oriented operating model, which allows us to market outlook is attractive, as governmental infrastructure react to the changes in the market more quickly and to utilise development programmes will continue until the 2020s. economies of scale better. At the same time, we are improving the implementation of best practices across Our growth areas are especially infra projects related to country borders. complex transport infrastructure, heavy industry and power plants as well as heavy city infra. The operating model renewal is being carried out in phases during the strategy period, and the new operating model was Focus of Building construction, Finland, on urban first taken into use in Finland in the beginning of 2016. growth centres In connection with the operating model renewal, we turned In Building construction, Finland, we continue to focus our the mineral aggregates business into an independent operations to urban growth centres in the Helsinki business unit, and earthworks operations in Finland was Metropolitan area and Vaasa, Turku, Tampere, Oulu, Kuopio transferred to the Infra projects business segment. and Lappeenranta. In these cities we aim to maintain a production volume that will enable profitable business and Infra projects seeks profitable growth positive cash flow. Urbanisation and investments in the energy sector increase the demand for complex infra projects. By utilising 4 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 At the end of 2019, we aim at a ROCE above 15%, which is New development project start-ups on hold in equivalent to the earlier target ROI of 18%. In addition, an Russian operations EBIT margin above 4% at the end of 2019 is a new target. In order to maintain a moderate risk level, we will not start The equity ratio target above 35% remains unchanged. new development projects in building construction in Russia for the time being. We are continuing negotiated contracting We aim at a stable distribution of dividends, with at least 40 in building construction. In paving, we seek growth per cent of the profit for the financial year distributed to the particularly in special works, such as special surfaces for shareholders. bridges. Financial targets We also made adjustments to our financial targets. Financial target Target Actual 2015 Actual 2014 Actual 2013 Previous: Return on investment, ROI*, % 18% over cycle (15% at the end of 2016) 10.2 13.5 -9.4 New: Return on capital employed, ROCE**, 15% at the end of 2019 5.3 4.5 -10.8 % New: EBIT margin, % More than 4% at the end of 2019 2.0 1.8 -4.4 Equity ratio***, % Above 35% 40.6 37.1 27.3 Dividend policy, % At least 40% of the profit for the financial 38.5**** 0 0 year * Includes the effect of discontinued operations ** Calculation: Operating profit, rolling 12 months / (Total equity (quarterly average) + interest-bearing liabilities (quarterly average)) x 100 *** Equity ratio, if hybrid bonds were treated as debt: 12/2015: 28.6% and 12/2014: 24.6%. **** Board of Directors’ proposal for the AGM 5 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Actions to reach our targets in 2015–2016 Target Actions in 2015 Actions in 2016 Strengthening the balance sheet and Divestment of non-core business operations Boosting of housing sales capital and assets Releasing of capital through improved Improvement in working capital efficiency internal processes and procedures Implementation of new processes and operation models related to risk management and investments Improving profitability and Completion of the Deliver 2014 cost saving New operating model in Paving in competitiveness programme Finland Internal development initiatives: The planning of the new operating model in Paving in Norway and in the Development of tendering processes Baltic countries Development of project management The shortening of turn-around times in Fleet optimisation building construction projects Development of procurement Internal development initiatives Profitable growth in selected areas Building a foundation for profitable growth in New operating model in Infra projects Infra projects: Development of unified tools Tendering processes Project management 6 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Year 2015 › Financial development Financial development in 2015 GROWTH Net sales, EUR million The Group’s net sales declined year-on-year and were EUR 1,879.0 million (2,044.5). The company 2,500 did not aim for net sales growth in 2015. During the 2,000 year, the company divested the building construction business in Sweden and the road 1,500 maintenance business in Norway. Changes in currency exchange rates had a negative 1,000 impact of EUR -67.2 million on net sales compared to the corresponding period in 2014. 500 Nearly half of the Group’s net sales came from the paving, mineral aggregates and earthworks 0 businesses. 11 12 13 14 15 Net sales by country were 60% from Finland, 27% from Scandinavia, 7% from Russia and 6% from the Baltic countries. Distribution of net sales by business, % Paving 48% Building construction 38% Infra projects 14% Order book, EUR million The order book decreased year-on-year and stood at EUR 1,180.3 million (1,456.1) at the end of the year. 2,000 Strategic decisions decreased the order book: If the building construction business in Sweden, the road 1,500 maintenance business in Norway and the development projects in building construction in Russia are removed from the previous year’s order 1,000 book, the comparable order book for 2014 stands at EUR 1,146 million. 500 0 11 12 13 14 15 7 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 PROFITABILITY Operating profit, EUR million The operating profit increased year-on-year, amounting to EUR 37.3 million (36.3). 100 The operating profit improved in Infra projects and Building construction, Finland, but declined in 50 Paving and Russian operations. Measures related to streamlining the portfolio had a 0 negative impact of more than EUR 20 million on the operating profit for 2015. The largest individual item was the EUR 12.9 million write-down related to the -50 company’s decision to withdraw from the planned Ilmatar project in Russia. -100 11 12 13 14 15 Profit for the period, EUR million The profit for the period was EUR 7.2 million (18.1). The profit for the financial year 2014 includes a 50 non-recurring EUR 23.6 million capital gain recorded for the divestment of the technical building services business. 0 The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that for the financial year that ended on 31 December 2015, the company will distribute a per-share dividend of -50 EUR 0.12 (0.00). -100 11 12 13 14 15 8 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BALANCE SHEET Equity ratio, % Shareholders’ equity decreased and stood at EUR 377.6 million (412.5) at the end of the year. It was 50 decreased by the partial repurchase of the first 40 hybrid bond (EUR 27 million) in the second quarter. The equity ratio improved to 40.6% (37.1). 30 Shareholders’ equity includes EUR 111.6 million (138.4) in hybrid bonds. If the hybrid bonds were 20 recognised as debt, the equity ratio would be 28.6% (24.6). 10 0 11 12 13 14 15 Gearing, % Interest-bearing net debt decreased and was EUR 126.8 million (213.6). 125 Gearing decreased to 33.6% (51.8). 100 If the hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, gearing would be 89.6% (128.4). 75 50 25 0 11 12 13 14 15 Operating capital, EUR million Operating capital decreased and stood at EUR 700 474.8 million (590.4). The change from the previous year is attributable to 600 a reduction in net working capital, decreased 500 investments and the sale of tangible assets. 400 At the end of the year, net working capital stood at EUR 258.7 million (335.1). Net working capital was 300 reduced by decreasing housing start-ups in Russia 200 and Finland, improving invoicing efficiency, increasing the use of factoring and improving 100 inventory turnover in the Paving segment, among 0 other things. 14 15 9 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CASH FLOW Cash flow from operating activities amounted to Cash flow from operating activities, EUR 106.6 million (-48.4), remaining positive EUR million throughout the year. The 2014 cash flow includes the payment of 150 EUR 59.7 million in damages related to the asphalt cartel. 100 Changes in operating capital strengthened the cash flow. 50 0 -50 -100 11 12 13 14 15 FINANCING Interest-bearing debt decreased and stood at Debt portfolio, EUR million EUR 254.7 million (347.8). A total of 48% (40) of debt was long-term and 400 52% (60) short-term. The borrowings of housing and commercial property 300 127 companies included in inventory are transferred to the buyers of the co-op shares when the units are 200 8 104 handed over. 63 The company has a syndicated credit facility 13 3 50 35 (EUR 185 million) that was completely unused on 100 31 December 2015. 100 100 The company has two hybrid bonds (nominal value 0 EUR 113 million) that are not included in interest14 15 bearing debt. The company is entitled to redeem its hybrid bonds in 2016 (EUR 43 million) and in 2018 Borrowings of companies (EUR 70 million). included in inventory Other financial liabilities Commercial papers Finance lease liabilities Bonds 10 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Net finance costs, EUR million Net finance costs decreased clearly year-on-year, amounting to EUR 20.6 million (37.9). 5 Net finance costs were reduced by a decrease in 0 1 1 interest expenses and currency hedging costs -5 -12 compared to 2014, among other things. -16 -10 The net finance costs for 2014 include a EUR 7 -15 -4 -1 million write-down of loan receivables related to the -20 -5 -5 -25 divestment of Lemcon Networks business. -9 -30 The interest expenses of the hybrid bonds are not -35 -7 recorded under finance costs in the income -40 statement; instead, their impact can be seen in 14 15 earnings per share and changes in equity. Finance income Interest costs Interest rate derivatives Currency hedging costs Other finance costs Write-downs of loan receivables 11 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Year 2015 › Operating environment Operating environment PAVING INFRA PROJECTS BUILDING CONSTRUCTION Growth drivers The public sector’s investments in road The public sector’s and industry’s Urbanisation maintenance investments in infrastructure Population growth in cities Low oil price Urbanisation Ageing of population Poor condition of the road network Population growth especially in Apartment as part of investment assets Population growth cities Building stock’s need for repair Major road projects Climate change In Russia, constant need for apartments and high Urban growth centre development Weak infrastructure in the Baltic dwelling density, the number of industrial projects has Several years’ investment gap and major road countries and Russia decreased projects in Russia Outlook for the near future In Finland, the weak economic situation of the Fewer new major infrastructure Commercial construction is supported by major public sector affects road maintenance projects about to start in Finland projects and public construction negatively New and replacement Renovation continues to be brisk In Finland, governmental policy to make up for investments in energy production Demand for housing still focuses on urban growth maintenance backlog increase demand in all Nordic centres In Sweden and Norway, demand will probably countries Sales to investors supports residential construction remain at the current level In Sweden and Norway, several In Russia, the outlook is very uncertain and the In Denmark, growth is restricted by a decrease in major projects are underway and direction of growth is difficult to forecast public investments being planned Stable market situation in the Baltic countries In the Baltic countries, In Russia, funding depends on economic infrastructure construction is development. Allocation decisions are political. supported by EU funding Competitive field and the most significant competitors Lemminkäinen holds a strong position in the In Finland, Lemminkäinen is the In Finland, Lemminkäinen is among the five largest Nordic and Baltic countries; it is one of the market leader in the industry in builders when measured in net sales largest paving companies terms of net sales When it comes to small and medium-sized contracts, In Russia, we operate in the paving business Of different forms of contract, there are many minor competitors and the industry mainly as a subcontractor and specialised work new cooperative models are entry threshold is low contractor increasing In Russia, many competitors in contracting. The most significant competitors: NCC, Skanska, In Scandinavia, competition is The most significant competitors: YIT, SRV, NCC, Veidekke, Peab, Colas; in Russia: major Russian increased by Central European Skanska; in Russia also LSR and Settle Group, in players, such as Autobahn and VAD competitors contracting local and smaller foreign players The most significant competitors: NCC, Skanska, Veidekke, Peab, YIT, SRV and Destia 12 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Market development in the near future Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Baltic Countries Russia* Paving Infra projects Residential construction Other building construction *includes high political and economic risk Black arrow = Lemminkäinen operates in this market Grey arrow = Lemminkäinen doesn't operate in this market Source: Euroconstruct, company's own estimate 13 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business › Paving Aiming to be a forerunner in paving in northern Europe We are one of the largest paving operators in our market area, and we provide our customers with a comprehensive range of paving services, from basic road maintenance to specialised contracting. We place special emphasis on ensuring that asphalt is tonnes of pavement. Our project management expertise durable and that the selected material is the best possible for played a key role due to the demanding operating the location. We aim to supply environmentally sustainable environment and the special safety and quality requirements. solutions to our customers, while offering high-quality The contract was completed under a tight 12-week schedule. special surfaces for roads and areas with special requirements related to wear resistance. Paving in The liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal contract in Pori, the challenging locations, such as airports, is one of our areas of construction of the Meri-Pori gas pipeline and the launch of special expertise. the Äänekoski pulp mill project also had a positive effect on our year in Finland. For the mineral aggregates business, the A streamlined operating model year went as planned, despite the tight market situation. Our paving, mineral aggregates and earthworks businesses in In Norway, we continued the development programme we Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and the Baltic countries started in 2014 and clarified our portfolio with divestments. have operated as a one business segment, Paving, since the We were in charge of many state road contracts, and an beginning of 2015. Thus we can more comprehensively and airport paving contract in western Norway. In the summer of efficiently utilise the economies of scale yielded by our 2015, we also carried out an airport paving contract at one of expertise, fleet and extensive asphalt plant network. the busiest Norwegian airports, in Tromsø in northern We aim to be the best operator in the industry when it comes Norway. to value creation for stakeholders, customer satisfaction and In Sweden, our business continued to grow in 2015. We personnel commitment throughout our market area. During opened a new asphalt plant in Skåne and increased our sales 2015, we concentrated on improving our operational in all of our operating areas, especially in Gothenburg. efficiency by further streamlining our operating model. In Copenhagen, Denmark, we participated in the construction We are dissolving the regional structure in Finland starting of the new Nordhavnsvej road, which will be put into use in from the beginning of 2016 and moving towards a more agile 2017. We paved the more-than-600-metre tunnel of this activity-oriented operating model. four-lane road. We also carried out the first-phase paving The mineral aggregates business will be managed as a contract of the new highway being constructed around the separate entity. In addition, we moved earthworks into the city of Silkeborg. Operating on a tight schedule was our Infra projects business segment in Finland. During the strength in the Sønderborg airport project in southern strategy period, we will also apply this operating model in our Denmark, where we paved a runway in 30 hours. other operating countries. We will pursue further economies We carried out several paving contracts throughout Estonia. of scale and share best practices across borders. During 2015, our asphalt production in the country reached a historic record: approximately 460,000 tonnes. Building smooth connections In 2015, we maintained the road network in all of our In Latvia, we completed a total of 38 contracts during the operating countries. In Finland, we won nearly half of the year, a record in the country. We are an industry forerunner state road contracts, and cities and towns awarded us and the largest utiliser of recycled asphalt in Latvia. several significant paving contracts, which laid a good foundation for the year. In Lithuania, the beginning of 2015 was challenging but we were able to improve our performance towards the end of the During the summer, we carried out the runway 1 repair project year. for Finavia at Helsinki Airport; the project involved the production and spreading of approximately 150,000 In Russia, we carried out bridge-paving contracts, 14 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 especially in the Moscow region. In addition, we were in In Norway, we increased the use of recycled asphalt in 2015. charge of several renovation projects on the heavily trafficked The use of recycled asphalt is also increasing in Sweden. In M4 highway connecting Moscow and the Black Sea coast, the Baltic countries, the rate of recycled asphalt use in 2015 for instance. We also carried out the renovation and paving of remained on par with the previous year. a 4-kilometre bridge on the M4 highway. When paving the bridge, we used mastic asphalt, which, as special surfacing, We have improved our energy efficiency by streamlining our gives us one of our most significant competitive edges in the asphalt spreading process. The reduction of idle time and Russian market. loss of material is still a key target in all of our operating countries. Material and energy efficiency at centre stage We carried out research and development projects with Material and energy efficiency take centre stage in our paving different parties: for example, we studied wastewater and operations and we invest in both. Our target is to stormwater handling with water permeable pavement, in continuously increase the use of reclaimed asphalt and save order to be prepared for increasing rainfall in built energy in production. environments that have a high risk of flooding. Our reuse rate of old asphalt pavement in Finland and Denmark is very high by global standards. Especially in Finland, we do a lot of recycling on the road by utilisation of the different Remixing-methods. Business › Paving › Case: Runway experts Case Runway experts During the past few years, we have repaired many runways at 70 people worked nonstop for 30 hours on the runway, which Nordic airports. At the main airport in Finland, Helsinki was 1.8-kilometres-long and 30-metres-wide. Despite the Airport, we have repaired runway 3 and taxiways. In 2015, we tight schedule, the asphalt and the work had to be of prime also paved aprons and main runway 1. quality. When selecting the contractor, the customer's top three Arctic conditions pose their own challenges in airport paving priorities were: flight safety, quality and rapid completion. operations: for example, the airport in Svalbard, Norway, is “The quality of the work must be so high that nothing has to located on an island far in the Arctic Ocean. With no local be redone. The schedule is tight, with absolutely no leeway. asphalt production, we shipped an asphalt plant and other The contractor must have capacity, proven professional skills necessary materials to the site. We had to carefully plan a and flexibility,” says Ari Sireeni, Project Manager at Finavia. suitable asphalt mix for the location, as the temperature at the airport ranges between -44 °C and +22 °C. Top speed, prime quality In Denmark, we repaired a runway overnight in the summer of In addition to these examples, we have paved many other 2015. The work had to be completed rapidly, as Sønderborg runways in Finland as well as at the Andøya and Tromsø Airport only has this one runway. Our team of airports in Norway. 15 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business › Paving › Case: Strict requirements for tunnel work Case Strict requirements for tunnel work Every morning and afternoon, commuter traffic gets jammed special characteristics into account in order to ensure the at the end of Lyngbyvej, the road which leads into Denmark’s driving comfort and safety of the road as well as the longest capital Copenhagen from the northern part of the island possible durability and functionality of the asphalt. Sjælland. As a solution to these traffic jams, the City of Copenhagen is building a completely new road, The combined road and tunnel should open to traffic by the Nordhavnsvej, which will include a 620-metre tunnel, for end of 2017. After this, traffic will become easier and faster cars and heavy traffic. The tunnel will go under a road and both for commuters and residents of the area. four railway tracks. Part of Denmark’s traffic network improvement We are paving the Nordhavnsvej road and the tunnel. The Nordhavnsvej is part of a more comprehensive traffic network paving requirements are strict. Particularly in the long, fourimprovement in Denmark. As a next step in this process, the lane tunnel, the various phases require special City of Copenhagen will build the Nordhavn tunnel, which will meticulousness. For example, the thickness and curve of the connect Nordhavnsvej with Copenhagen Harbour. In addition, paving layers must be absolutely right and the paving has to the City of Copenhagen and the Danish State are negotiating be completely even. on the Havnetunnel, which, when completed, would enable passage under the harbour and would connect the Nordhavn Durable paving for a busy road tunnel with the motorways south of the city in the area near When Nordhavnsvej is opened, it will be a busy road with a the airport and the bridge leading to Sweden. lot of heavy traffic. When choosing the paving material and carrying out the different phases, we have taken the site’s Business › Infra projects An expert in versatile and complex infrastructure construction We have substantial experience in complex infrastructure construction in northern Europe. Our areas of special expertise include challenging urban environments and traffic projects, as well as major industrial and power plant projects. In addition, we offer versatile specialised contracting services for the construction of underground facilities, demanding foundation engineering and foundation reinforcement, to name just a few. In line with our strategy, we aim to grow into one of the In all operating countries, we need strong country leading providers of infrastructure construction solutions in organisations that thoroughly understand the local needs of selected business areas in northern Europe. We seek growth our customers and networks and are also capable of especially in Sweden and Norway. anticipating these needs. In 2015, we focused on reinforcing our country organisations in Sweden, Norway and the Baltic A solid foundation for profitable growth countries. We also developed our procurement function. For us, 2015 was a year of strengthening the foundation of Procurement plays a key role in project construction, as about our operations. We placed special emphasis on improving 60‒70% of our operations consists of subcontracting. operational efficiency by developing our internal processes and tools, among other things. The streamlining of our Complex projects completed internal processes enables us to serve our customers better, In 2015, our completed projects in Finland included the too. With determined actions, we have been building a solid Kivisydän underground parking facility in northern Finland, in foundation for profitable growth. the centre of Oulu, with more than 900 parking spaces. The 16 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 parking facility makes it possible to further develop the city station contracts underway: Tapiola, Niittykumpu and centre and increases its attractiveness. Matinkylä. The station contracts continued as planned throughout 2015 and will be completed in 2016. In southern Finland, we also completed an exceptional project: the ski jumping hill renovation contract and the In Pasila, Helsinki, an entirely new city district, Central Pasila, renewal of the in-run tracks and landing slope in the Lahti is being built. We are involved in the development of the area. Sports Centre. The contract included diverse earthworks and During 2015, we carried out repairs on Pasilankatu street, foundation engineering tasks. realigned tram rails and replaced municipal infrastructure. In addition, on the district’s busy Teollisuuskatu street, we are In Tallinn, Estonia, we completed the Rotermann building a new concrete-structure tunnel, two bridges, underground parking facility in the city’s culturally and superstructures and green structures. historically rich centre. We are also participating in the development of Tampere, In Sweden, we operated as a subcontractor in Förbifart where we are building the longest road tunnel in Finland, over Stockholm tunnel contract. 2.3 kilometres, as part of a cooperative alliance. In addition to the tunnel, we will construct two graded interchanges and New demanding infra projects underground and related road arrangements in the area. Upon completion, the above Rantaväylä tunnel will improve the flow and safety of traffic In the autumn of 2015, we started the excavation project for and contribute to the development of Tampere city centre. Småkraft AS’s hydropower plants in an exceptionally Tunnel excavation was completed in the summer of 2015. challenging mountainous environment in western Norway. Thanks to the alliance co-operation, we are ahead in The project consists of tunnel construction, concrete work schedule, and our goal is to open The Rantaväylä tunnel to and dams. As the location is difficult to access, we use traffic in the end of 2016. construction site office floating in the fjord, for example. The project will be completed in late 2016. The alliance contract project is pioneering in its field in Finland. In the alliance contract, the customer, the designer In Lofoten in northern Norway, we launched an infrastructure and the construction company design and implement the project in the heavily trafficked Kanebogen intersection. The project as a joint organisation with shared goals. The model contract covers the widening of the road, the construction of encourages open cooperation and innovation. Shared risks two new roundabouts and the excavation of a 40-metre and benefits ensure that the parties have shared interests tunnel for pedestrians and bicycles. and guarantee the overall economic efficiency of the project. In Finland, we launched several major infra projects. In Urban infra projects benefit all of society Blominmäki, Espoo, we started the construction of a Most northern European urban centres are in constant need wastewater treatment plant. We are responsible for the of new apartments and smoother traffic connections, as excavation of the underground caves for the new wastewater urbanisation is advancing quickly. Increasing traffic flows treatment plant and for rock support works. Our work will require infrastructure solutions that are planned and continue until 2018. implemented with care and foresight. The best outcome is achieved when projects are carried out in cooperation with In Estonia, we launched the demanding repair project of the different parties. Tihase tunnel collector in Tallinn. The tunnel collector gathers wastewater and storm water from two large Well-planned urban infra projects are social investments that residential areas and conducts them to the wastewater generate economic growth through residential construction, treatment plant in Paljassaare. The tunnel collector is in use jobs and tax revenue. Together with different operators in throughout the repair project. The contract will continue into society, we participate actively in the development of new 2016. kinds of cooperation and financing models so that demanding infra projects can be carried out in a manner that Smooth traffic connections for growing cities best serves future needs and ensures the best overall During 2015, we had several urban transport infrastructure economic efficiency. development projects underway, especially in Finland. One of the significant transport infrastructure projects in the Helsinki metropolitan area is Espoo’s West Metro. In previous years, we completed several excavation contracts for the West Metro, and currently we have three underground 17 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business › Infra projects › Case: Rotermann underground parking facility Case Rotermann underground parking facility The Rotermann Quarter in the heart of Tallinn, Estonia, is a metres below groundwater level, so the enormous water former industrial area that has been given a new life as a pressure had to be taken into consideration. As part of the modern shopping, entertainment, business and residential solution, we installed sheet piles around the excavation as zone. the site’s permanent structure — the first for a similarlydesigned underground parking facility project in Estonia. We built a two-level underground parking facility underneath Pumps and drainage systems also played a role. the valuable heritage site where the soil was weak and historic structures overhead fragile. The parking facility was It was also essential to keep vibrations to a minimum to built at the same time as three new shop, office and prevent damage to the historical buildings above and nearby. apartment structures were being built directly overhead, one We used a special low-vibration press to install the sheet of them within the old facade of a salvaged building. piles and placed vibrographs in nearby buildings to monitor the situation. The area, located about 500 meters from Tallinn Bay, is old seabed with soft, weak soil layers and an unusually high An old 53-metre brick chimney standing directly on top of groundwater table of 1.5 to 2 metres below the ground. the future parking facility area also required special measures. A combination of load-bearing support piles New solutions in Estonia forming a retaining wall and tension strands was used to take The parking facility’s base slab is nearly seven the loads and keep the chimney stable. Business › Infra projects › Case: A new wastewater treatment plant is being built underground Case A new wastewater treatment plant is being built underground Helsinki Region Environmental Services in Finland is building a new wastewater treatment plant in Espoo’s Blominmäki Progress of excavation We started tunnel excavation in autumn 2015. Excavation bedrock to replace the current Suomenoja plant, which doesn't have enough capacity to handle the entire region’s and support works will continue until January 2018. wastewater in the future. In addition to open excavation, the excavation work for the aboveground facilities includes drilling, sheeting, loading and The caves excavated underground will house wastewater treatment basins and the majority of other facilities, too. The stone transport. In the tunnels, we are carrying out blasting aboveground parts of the wastewater treatment plant will and aggregate transport. Blasting work and excavation consist of the administrative and repair shop buildings, the vibration are measured and monitored during the entire methanol reception station, biogas storage facilities and the blasting phase. We will excavate approximately 910,000 cubic meters of rock through three tunnels. exhaust tower. Our contract includes the excavation works and rock support After its completion in 2020, the treatment plant will works of the new wastewater treatment plant. process the wastewater of 400,000 residents from Espoo, Kauniainen, Kirkkonummi, Siuntio and western Vantaa. It is “We are excavating multiple parallel caves at the same time. estimated that by 2040, a total of 150,000 cubic metres of We will utilise our experience from our similar earlier projects. wastewater will flow through the new treatment plant daily. Our customer will benefit this through effective project execution,” says Harri Kailasalo, Executive Vice President, Infra projects. 18 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business › Infra projects › Case: Environment at centre stage of the Rantaväylä tunnel Case Environment at centre stage of the Rantaväylä tunnel Major infrastructure projects affect the environment and In addition, we clean the streets in the construction site area people living in the nearby areas in many ways. A variety of regularly. During excavation, we even washed truck tyres to environmental aspects has been taken into account in the prevent dirt from being carried from the construction site to construction of the Rantaväylä tunnel in Tampere, Finland. the surrounding areas. As a part of the project, we closely monitor the water quality Customer feedback works in Lake Näsijärvi, the groundwater level, subsidence of Based on the feedback from residents, we changed buildings and excavation vibration, among other things. timetables for blasting in order to minimise noise caused by Furthermore, we constantly monitor air quality at the tunnel excavation work. Residents also wanted more attractive entrances and update the information on the project website. fencing at the long-term construction site: as a result, street We used rock excavated during the project as fill on the art events were organised with a local youth culture shores of Näsijärvi in the Ranta-Tampella and Santalahti association and the fences served as a canvas for graffiti. areas, where the City of Tampere is planning to construct park areas. Before starting, we installed protective screens around the filling areas in order to contain the water cloudiness caused by filling. The waterway monitoring results show that the protective screens functioned well. Business › Infra projects › Case: Making traffic safe for all Case Making traffic safe for all Some 15,000 cars a day pass through the Kanebogen We will excavate a total of seven kilometres of pipes for intersection in the southern part of the city of Harstad in water, sewage, electricity and fibre optic data, move them 50 Norway, making it one of the most heavily trafficked metres south of their current position and bury them six crossroads in Sør Troms county. The area is home metres underground. This is the most challenging aspect of to shopping malls, car dealers, residences and a school. The the project. intersection is also the sole point of entry into and exit from the city. Dialogue with the surrounding community The project affects the surrounding community, so dialogue The old road was starting to become dangerous, as nothing with the locals is important. separated the vehicle lanes from the footpaths alongside them. Today, we are leading a full reconstruction of the “Together with Lemminkäinen, we went around visiting local intersection, which includes building a new, wider road schools and talked about the project and discussed its around two roundabouts and a linked 40-metre-long impacts with local residents. We want to keep traffic outside pedestrian and bicycle underpass. When the project is the centre of Harstad, in part to help with our green travel completed in summer 2016, there will be dedicated lanes for initiatives. There is so much foot traffic around here, cars and pedestrians, in addition to 70 new streetlights especially among schoolkids, and now it will be even safer. installed around the site. We are building for a better future,” explains Arnt-Børge Jensen, Project Manager at the Norwegian Public Roads “This new construction will make the road safer for everyone Administration. — drivers, cyclists and those on foot,” says Jørn Leo Johansen, Site Manager at Lemminkäinen. 19 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business › Infra projects › Case: From wasteland to a living city district Case From wasteland to a living city district In Finland, a new city district is emerging in Pasila, Helsinki, project is visible first and foremost through the clearer traffic which requires diverse infrastructure construction projects in arrangements,” says Sauli Kivivuori, project manager at the a small area. Central Pasila still resembles wasteland but the Public Works Department of the City of Helsinki. city is changing and evolving. Strict criteria for the partner In the future, Pasila will be home to 20,000 residents and a The criteria in the tendering organised by the ordering workplace to 50,000 employees. The area will also feature a customer, the Public Works Department, included price, new shopping centre. The changes being made require sufficient quality management systems and plans, a report unimpeded and safe access routes as well as water, on weeding out the grey economy and RALA certificate of electricity, heat and data networks. competence. The RALA qualifications are issued by an Our two-part contract in Pasila is urban construction in its independent assessment board representing the construction truest sense. We will extend the Teollisuuskatu street under industry and enable companies to prove their expertise, the railway to Central Pasila. We will turn an old railway responsibility and reliability to their customers and tunnel into a tunnel for cars and build a new tunnel as its stakeholders. continuation. In addition, we will build two new bridges as “We wanted the partner to be a company that can handle a well as high-quality paving and green structures on demanding contract in an area with busy traffic; the Teollisuuskatu. company must have the capacity to handle surprises and On Pasilankatu, we have built new tram rails and renewed additional work that may come up as the project proceeds,” public utilities, in addition to paving and road work. At the Sauli Kivivuori summarises. same time, preparations have been made for future The contract is due for completion in the spring of 2017. infrastructure. “For the city's residents, the Business › Building construction Premises for living and working We build apartments as well as commercial and industrial premises in Finland and Russia. We also carry out demanding renovation and repurposing projects. We started the construction of 693 (979) residential development units in 2015 in Finland. Demand for small apartments has increased in Finland Only a few new commercial properties are being built in Our customers include both private buyers and investors. Finland, with the exception of the major commercial property projects in the Helsinki metropolitan area. Users are still In the Helsinki metropolitan area, we had several new cautious with regard to leasing premises, as there are plenty residential area development and construction projects of commercial properties that are vacant. Investor interest is underway during 2015. In Kahvikortteli in Vuosaari, Helsinki, focused on the centre of Helsinki or on fully-let buildings in we completed the Kahvimylly complex and continued the the best locations. construction of the Mutteripannu complex. The block will be completed in 2022, and, upon completion, will consist of 19 In Russia, the economic situation remained unstable. housing co-operatives with a total of approximately 950 Towards the end of 2015, we decided not to start new apartments. In the Saukonranta area in Jätkäsaari, Helsinki, residential development projects in Russia for the time being, we completed the Ruori complex and continued the in order to maintain a moderate level of risk. construction of the Kompassi and Loisto complexes. 20 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 By 2019, approximately 510 apartments will be completed in the area. In Vantaa, we continued to build in the Leinelä, An expert in major commercial property projects Myyrmäki and Viertola areas. Approximately 290 apartments We build premises that support working, productivity and will be completed in Leinelä by 2018, complemented by 163 end user comfort. We pay attention to the adaptability and apartments in Myyrmäki by 2018 and 110 apartments in energy efficiency of the premises. Viertola by 2016. In August, we started the Helsinki Airport terminal expansion In addition to area development and construction, we started and alteration work for Finavia. We are executing the project to build the 57-apartment Käpylän Posteljooni in Helsinki, as a cooperative management contract in which we are among other projects. working in close cooperation with the customer, users, designers and builders. The project will be completed in In Jyväskylä, in central Finland, we completed the 482020. apartment Hehkulinna in the Palokunnanmäki area. In Turku, in western Finland, we continued the construction of the In 2015, we continued the construction of the S Group Telakkaranta complex and completed the 35-apartment logistics centre in Sipoo, in southern Finland, in cooperation with Skanska. The logistics centre will be completed in Sataman Tähti. In Vaasa, we completed the 42-apartment Julia complex in the Teatteri block. We will build a total of 2018. The project was selected as the best commercial 194 apartments in the block. We have several residential property project in the Tekla Global BIM Awards 2015, an development projects underway in all of our operating areas international competition for Building Information Modelling in Finland, including Kuopio, Lappeenranta and Oulu. (BIM). We have solid experience in building production facilities in In addition, the second phase of our Tapiola residential development project, a total of 418 apartments was Russia. In 2015, we completed the Teknos paint factory in St completed in St Petersburg. We also continued the Petersburg. contracting for 46 low-rise apartment buildings in Istra, near Moscow. Demanding renovation projects We specialise in major, demanding renovation projects. We Target: satisfied customers modernise the premises to bring them up to the current According to our customer satisfaction survey, our customers standards or completely transform them for a new use. appreciate our good service, the quality of our apartments In early 2015, we completed the Sibelius Academy concert and their location near good traffic connections and services. hall alteration work in Helsinki, converting the concert hall Our management system helps to ensure the quality of into a temporary Session Hall for the Parliament. We started the Parliament Building renovation project, which will go on construction. The system contains quality, safety and environmental specifications and guidelines, encompassing until 2017. The building is a historically valuable and the entire process from design to handover. In 2015, we demanding target for renovation. Its main building has never added sustainability procedures and the specifications for been fully renovated. When the renovation is complete, the continuous improvement of energy efficiency into the Parliament will have fully restored, energy-efficient premises. system. In 2015, we began the renovation of the Auratalo office We inquire about our customers’ satisfaction and we inspect property and its conversion into a hotel in Helsinki’s Meilahti each apartment for errors and faults before handover in order district. Restel will open a new city hotel in the building in to ensure the quality. 2016. Our housing sales representatives serve our customers in all PPP projects keep up the value of the investment questions related to buying an apartment, and alteration In PPP projects, we take care of the overall design, engineers help in designing unique homes. In Finland, we are construction, property upkeep and maintenance services, in developing the Nettikoti online service, where our customers addition to basic renovation investments, among other can also choose materials and submit alteration work orders things. If necessary, we also participate in arranging online. financing. We keep the premises covered by the contract in good condition so that the comfort, safety, energy efficiency In early 2015, we published our renewed Finnish housing and functionality of the premises are maintained. We website at www.lemminkainen.fi/asunnot. The aim of the maintain the premises for 20 years, for instance, taking care website is to guarantee our customers even better online of the agreed user services. service. 21 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In 2015, we continued building the timber school in as everyone works together, in line with the agreed objectives, Pudasjärvi, in northern Finland, using the PPP model. The and the project data is simultaneously available to everyone. school will be completed in 2016. We also started the The risks and the benefits are shared. An alliance can also be construction of a care facility made of timber in Pudasjärvi described as a think tank. We can rapidly test new insights using the same model, as well as the construction of two and use them to shorten the construction time, mitigate risks schools in Hollola, in southern Finland. In the spring of 2016, and save costs. we will start building schools and day-care centres in Porvoo, in southern Finland. These projects will be completed in 2017 We are building a health centre in Kempele, in northern and 2018. Finland, under an alliance contract. In the development stage, we invested in user-orientation so that the end users will get Cooperation in alliance contracts modern, functional premises once the project is completed. We also execute projects through alliance contracting. In this model, the designers, contractors and the customer work in the same organisation. The work is efficient, Business › Building construction › Case: From an office property to a hotel Case From an office property to a hotel In January 2015, we began the renovation of the Auratalo premises for its new purpose. The building’s 12-storey tower office property located in Helsinki’s Meilahti district and its block will house 188 hotel rooms, the ground floor will have conversion into a hotel and renovated business premises. two restaurants, and a grocery shop will be located in the When the project is completed in spring 2016, Restel, the upper basement level. We will completely renew the interior main user of the premises, will open a new, modern city hotel and technical building systems and restore the facade to its in the building. original 1960's appearance utilising modern solutions. Auratalo was built as business premises for the Aura We are carrying out the project as a management contract. insurance company in the early 1960s. Nowadays, the The contract also includes design management. property is owned by LocalTapiola. In recent years, it has served as office and business premises for several operators. Auratalo’s renovation will increase the value of the property. In addition to complete renovation, the property will require a Once the project is completed, the tenants and end users will space reconfiguration. have modern, efficient and comfortable premises. The cityscape board considered Auratalo’s facade as a valuable Modernisation for today’s needs gem of its own period and soon the restored facade will again We are modernising the 14-storey Auratalo to meet today’s be an important element in Helsinki’s urban idyll. requirements and convert the office 22 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business › Building construction › Case: Capacity of Helsinki Airport to increase Case Capacity of Helsinki Airport to increase We are the project management contractor in the Helsinki throughout the expansion, and our aim is to carry out the Airport terminal expansion in Finland. After the expansion, work so that the impact on the airport’s smooth flow of the airport will be able to accommodate a higher number of passenger traffic is as minimal as possible. new wide-body aircraft, for example. The expansion also includes a new security control. In addition, we will expand The project is led using the Big Room method, with us in luggage handling facilities and build a separate bus terminal charge of it. In the Big Room, the various parties of the to serve the increasing number of aprons stands. project work in the same space. One of these parties is Destia which is the alliance contractor for the airport groundwork of Construction started in the autumn 2015 and will be the expansion. Lemminkäinen and Destia share common completed in 2020. During the autumn 2015, we planned project targets. the different phases of the project in cooperation with the customer and planners. In September, we started the “Helsinki Airport is one of the leading airports in Europe when construction of the bus terminal after only a month of measured in the number of airline passengers heading preparations. towards Asia. By expanding the terminal, we will be able to offer them higher quality service and receive larger wide-body In use throughout the construction aircraft at Helsinki Airport,” says Kari Savolainen, CEO of The airport is an extremely demanding as a working Finavia. environment, due to tight restrictions and special safety regulations, for instance. The terminal building will be in use 23 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business › Key figures by business segment Key figures by business segment PAVING INFRA PROJECTS 24 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, FINLAND Distribution of net sales, % Residential construction (development and negotiated) 49% Commercial construction (development and negotiated) 18% Competitive contracting and other operations 33% 25 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 RUSSIAN OPERATIONS Distribution of net sales, % Residential construction 60% Paving 21% Building construction contracting 19% 26 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability › Our way of working Our way of working Our target is to be a best-in-class construction company, developing our business sustainably over the long term while growing profitably. Together with our customers and partners, we build a sustainable society. We base our operations on our values: We encourage all Lemminkäinen employees to report to their supervisors or to the internal audit unit any suspected We put people first. malpractice or behaviour that does not comply with our Code We respect and trust. of Conduct. We use the SpeakUp service where We partner to succeed. Lemminkäinen employees and our external stakeholders can report any suspected malpractice anonymously. The internal As a major player in the construction industry, our goal is to audit unit investigates all reports it receives. In addition, its consider both the direct and indirect impacts of our tasks include conducting regular audits of business operations on the surrounding community as thoroughly as operations and reporting its findings to the Board of possible. We are building a sustainable society together with Directors. In 2015, the internal audit unit launched further our customers and partners. investigations into 11 cases of suspected malpractice, four of which led to further action. Our daily operations are guided by our Code of Conduct, which is based on international regulations and agreements. The most significant of these are: Operating model and objectives for sustainability In 2015, we defined the sustainability themes that are most The UN’s Declaration of Human Rights relevant to our operations and that have the greatest impact The UN Global Compact initiative in the field of corporate on our result as well as related targets. In addition to the responsibility, promoting human rights, labour rights, internal working group, external stakeholders contributed to environmental protection and anti-corruption the definition work. The ILO’s employment rights and principles The OECD’s operational guidelines for multinational The results of this work are described in the materiality companies matrix: The International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) recommendations Our Code of Conduct is supplemented by various Group-level policies and principles. We do not condone bribery, nor do we enter into business relationships that could lead to conflicts of interest. We require every Lemminkäinen employee to adhere to current legislation and the Group’s internal guidelines at all times. Our supervisors are responsible for familiarising employees with our working methods and for ensuring compliance. 27 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The project also resulted in an operating model for in annual planning. The Group’s Sustainability Director leads sustainability where we specified roles and responsibilities as daily operations and helps business segments and countries well as follow-up and reporting methods and related in achieving the targets. Progress is followed up as part of indicators. From these we derive business segment-specific business reporting. targets with which we ensure that efforts to promote sustainability can be seen in our result. Lemminkäinen employs management systems that meet the requirements of the international standards ISO 9001:2008 Long-term sustainability objectives (quality management system), ISO 14001:2004 (environmental management system) and OHSAS Achieving zero lost-time accidents 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety management Deploying Lemminkäinen-level standards for safety, system). workability management and career planning to ensure life-long workability Lemminkäinen has separate, certified management systems Improving our customer satisfaction for each business segment. The company’s mineral Ensuring that suppliers are in conformity with aggregates and asphalt plants are CE marked in those Lemminkäinen Supplier Requirements countries where legislation so requires. Improving our energy efficiency Increasing our material efficiency and recycling Financial responsibility management systems A description of the financial responsibility management Sustainability management systems systems can be found in the Corporate Governance Under the operating model for sustainability, launched at the Statement. end of 2015, sustainability is the responsibility of the assigned member of the Group Executive Team, the Social responsibility management systems Executive Vice President of the Paving business segment. Lemminkäinen’s social responsibility management is The Executive Team decides on sustainability targets and the decentralised. Human resources management is led by the management of business segments and support functions is Executive Vice President, HR. Our people policy aims to responsible for taking them into account ensure that the company has the the competent, motivated and satisfied personnel required by the operational targets. 28 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The goal of Group-level policies and principles, such as the related to business operations are handled by the lawyers in equality action plan, is to promote fairness and to ensure the business segments. Furthermore, additional guidelines equal treatment. Compliance with these Group-level policies about competition law and insider issues are provided to and principles is managed and monitored within the scope of complement the Code of Conduct. Business management is line operations. responsible for monitoring compliance with these guidelines, and internal training on them is also provided. Our company Lemminkäinen’s partner and supplier network is expected to has zero tolerance with regard to activities violating comply with laws, international human rights, labour rights, competition legislation. environmental regulations, the Code of Conduct and Lemminkäinen’s Supplier Requirements. The Group’s Senior Product responsibility is led by the Executive Vice Presidents Vice President, Procurement, is responsible for the partner of Lemminkäinen’s business segments. They are responsible and supplier network. for customer service and they ensure that our products and marketing comply with laws and regulations. Legal affairs are coordinated at the Group level in order to promote consistent practices. The General Counsel is responsible for this. Legal affairs Sustainability › Cooperation with stakeholders Cooperation with our stakeholders Continuous engagement with our stakeholders is an important way to develop our operations, and we monitor its results regularly. In all stakeholder cooperation, we adhere to our Code of We regularly collect customer feedback, which enables us to Conduct as well as to local and international commitments develop our business in the right direction. and legislation. Our key stakeholders are current and potential customers, current and potential employees, shareholders, During the reporting year, we renewed our Finnish housing investors, financiers, partners, opinion leaders and the media. sales website in order to offer our customers an easier way to learn about our offering. In addition, we renewed our Swedish, Our business segments have the main responsibility for Norwegian, Danish, Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian customer relations and the business segments’ procurement websites. Our target is to provide even better online service to professionals for our partner network. Our Group functions different stakeholders and to offer a consistent overview of are responsible for relations with shareholders, investors, our products and services in all of our operating countries. financiers and the media. Both business segments and Group functions are responsible for relations with industry As for personnel-related developments, we launched an associations, decision makers and authorities. online personnel magazine that is published in all our operating countries. Continuous dialogue Due to the cost-saving programme initiated in 2014, we did In 2015, our stakeholders were particularly interested in our not sign any new sponsorship or cooperation agreements financial situation and in our operating environment, during the year 2015. especially in the development of the Russian and Finnish housing markets. Other topics of discussion included the development of services and solutions as well as our revised We monitor the results of stakeholder cooperation strategy. annually In order to develop our operations, we measure the results of As a significant employer and buyer of services, we engage in stakeholder cooperation regularly. a continuous dialogue with local authorities and decision makers. At the planning and launching phase of large Our most important Group-wide surveys are: construction projects and during projects we also arrange The net promoter score (NPS) hearings and town hall meetings for those stakeholders The employee survey whose daily lives will be affected by our projects. The employer image survey 29 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The customers considered our strengths to include, for The public image analysis example, our personnel’s expertise and the ease of doing In 2015, we conducted a net promoter score survey that business with us. Areas for improvement included the measured our customers’ satisfaction with Lemminkäinen on handling of problems and complaints. the basis of their willingness to recommend our services to More information about the employee survey 2015 can be their colleagues and friends. The survey was taken by found on Social responsibility. customers from all of our operating countries. Our stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations Actions in 2015 Industry associations, such as the Confederation of Finnish Continuous development of the Active participation in Construction Industries RT and industry associations’ work, work groups Infra Contractors Association in Finland Promoting common interests and projects Harri Kailasalo, Executive Vice President, Infra projects business segment: Vice Chairman of the Board of the Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries RT Chairman of the Board of Infra Contractors Association in Finland Customers High-quality, reliable and Face-to-face meetings sustainable solutions Customer events Good project management, Dialogue at industry trade fairs and delivery reliability, transparency, other events and the right price-quality ratio Newsletters and websites Understanding customer needs, customer service, and customer relations management Personnel Good leadership and supervisory Developing supervisory work and work leadership Motivating remuneration and Developing remuneration opportunities for training and Continual development of personal development occupational safety Equality and openness within the Open communications and organisation building an open corporate culture Occupational safety and wellPersonnel magazine, intranet, being internal newsletters 30 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Media Reliable and up-to-date Visits by editorial staff information about the Interviews and off-the-record company’s operations meetings Open communications Stock exchange and press releases culture Easy to contact Shareholders and investors Return on investment and Shareholder, investor and analyst a sufficient analysis of the meetings company’s risk Interim report briefings management Annual General Meeting Open and timely Stock exchange and press releases information about the Investors section of company’s financial Lemminkäinen’s website position, profit drivers and Easy to contact outlook Students and job applicants Interesting and challenging Summer jobs and trainee tasks positions, opportunities for writing Comprehensive theses, and cooperation with information about career educational institutions opportunities offered by Dialogue at the recruitment events Lemminkäinen organised by educational institutions Decision makers and opinion leaders Compliance with laws and Dialogue through industry regulations organisations in, for example, Transparency and political decision making minimising hazardous Meetings with decision makers impacts Open, regular reporting Regular reporting Increasing employment and good corporate citizenship Payment of taxes Partners Safeguarding earnings and Meetings and direct contacts growth Supplier audits Opportunities for Development of procurement networking and developing systems operations Operational reliability and continuity 31 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability › Financial responsibility Financial responsibility We provide our customers with solutions for demanding infrastructure construction, paving and building construction. We want to be one of the leading experts in the industry and we aim at exceeding our customers’ expectations. This enables us to contribute to the success of our customers’ operations. We want to create added value for our stakeholders in a We develop our operations and expertise continuously to manner that benefits all parties. In line with our strategy, our ensure the quality and competitiveness of our solutions and target is to bear our financial responsibility by improving our services. In 2015, we received EUR 70,015 grants for competitiveness in all business segments and by building a development projects from the Finnish government. solid foundation to enable profitable growth. By doing this, we can ensure that we are a good investment, an attractive employer, a reliable partner and a responsible corporate citizen. 32 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Suppliers and partners EUR 1,437.1 million (EUR 1,699.1 million) Direct impact 2015 2014 Materials and services 1,299.6 1,506.5 Other operating expenses 137.5 192.8 Indirect impact We are a significant buyer of raw materials, products and services in our operating countries. Our purchases create local jobs and generate new business opportunities for our partners. The procurement agreement terms and conditions comply with our Code of Conduct that also highlight ethical values and environmental issues. We work in close cooperation with both authorities and suppliers to enhance transparency in the construction industry and to promote general operating principles to prevent the grey economy, for example. Personnel EUR 294.9 million (EUR 376.1 million) Direct impact 2015 2014 Salaries and remuneration 245.7 313.4 Other personnel expenses 49.2 62.7 Indirect impact We are a significant local employer. The salaries and remuneration we pay to our personnel support private consumption and commercial activity in local communities. We develop our personnel’s competence. We invest in our personnel’s occupational safety and well-being and employee satisfaction in order to lengthen careers. Shareholders and financiers EUR 28.9 million (EUR 35.3 million) Direct impact 2015 2014 Interest and finance costs 28.9 35.3 Dividends, Lemminkäinen Corporation 0.0 0.0 Indirect impact We continuously strive to improve our result and to increase the value we create for our shareholders. Our shareholders benefit from potential rises in the share price and from dividends paid to them. When it comes to financing, we meet our payment obligations as agreed, which reduces the creditors’ risk. Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors proposes to the General Meeting that a EUR 0.12 dividend per share, i.e. EUR 2,786,388 in total, be paid for the financial year ended on 31 December 2015. 33 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Society EUR 13.3 million (EUR 32.1 million) Direct impact 2015 2014 Gross investments 10.3 30.0 Income taxes on normal business operations 2.7 2.9 Taxes of earlier financial years 0.3 -0.8 Indirect impact We are a visible operator in society; our solutions in traffic infrastructure and housing, for example, are used by the population over the long term and contribute to the safety, convenience and comfort of the end users. For the public sector, we offer solutions that enable the use of different financing and cooperation models and make large-scale public investments easier to execute. We support social well-being and development by paying taxes and making other mandatory payments. In addition, our personnel pay taxes from their salaries and remuneration. We comply with the local tax legislation in all of our operating countries and we do not operate in tax havens. In our operating countries, we apply the principles of the OECD’s transfer pricing guidelines. We invest in environmentally friendly production methods, which helps to reduce our environmental footprint and that of our customers as well as to promote sustainability in society. With optimally targeted investments, we can achieve production cost savings and develop our business operations in those areas where we perceive growth opportunities. At the same time, we safeguard jobs. For example: By investing in a mobile fleet, we can improve the efficiency of fleet utilisation and save in transportation By ensuring that our mineral aggregate quarrying sites are in reasonable locations enabling long-term use, we can better take into account the requirements of the surroundings and shorten transportation distances By investing in the recycling of materials, we save the environment and material costs. 34 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability › Environmental responsibility We improve our energy efficiency and save the environment We minimise the environmental impact of our operations, use natural resources sparingly, generate as little waste as possible and sort it appropriately. By recycling raw materials, we reduce both the amount of In addition, we produced a significant amount of lowwaste and the need for virgin materials. In the production of temperature asphalt. Low-temperature asphalt is produced the products and services we offer to our customers, we at a substantially lower temperature than normal asphalt, and strive for the highest possible energy and material efficiency. thus reduces fuel consumption, emissions and odour pollution. Gas emissions generated by energy consumption in Our most energy-consuming operations are asphalt production are halved when the temperature is brought down production and construction sites. In 2015, we started using by 15 degrees Celsius. a certified energy efficiency monitoring system in Finland to comply with the energy efficiency law. We have taken We have a paving laboratory in each of our operating measures required by the energy efficiency legislation in our countries. In Finland, our laboratories in Tuusula and in Oulu other operating countries too. are the only officially accredited asphalt industry laboratories. In 2016, our target is to develop the monitoring and reporting Ecological earthworks of energy consumption in all of our operating countries. Our As a major northern European construction group, we use long-term goal is to expand the energy efficiency monitoring large volumes of different mineral aggregates as raw system to all operating countries and improve energy material. For this reason, we have approximately 300 mineral efficiency by unifying our operation models. aggregate areas around our operating countries. Our mineral aggregates and paving operations require We aim to reduce the environmental impact of quarrying by permits. In 2015, our operations in all operating countries investing in large, long-term mineral aggregate quarrying were granted 21 new mineral aggregates permits, 19 sites near urban growth centres. This makes transportation environmental permits and 24 registrations of asphalt distances shorter and allows us to make investments that plants. reduce the impact that the sites have on their immediate Country-specific laws and requirements define those projects surroundings. These investments include noise and that require a separate environmental impact assessment protection barriers and stable and impermeable support (EIA). We launched one EIA project during the reporting year. areas. We also ensure that areas that have been used for mineral aggregate quarrying can be turned into construction We made environmental investments of approximately EUR areas if needed. Mineral aggregate quarrying sites may be 750,000. Investments were mainly associated with zoned for residential or recreational use, in which case the equipment and machinery purchases for the production of quarrying needed for construction has already been carried recycled asphalt and low-temperature asphalt, for example. out as part of mineral aggregate operations. We develop environmentally friendly paving Utilising by-products Most of our environmental footprint comes from our own Our goal is to constantly develop the recycling of raw production, especially our paving and mineral aggregates materials and to utilise waste generated as a by-product of business. In these sectors, we strive to develope construction projects to an increasing extent. environmentally friendly products and operating methods. Stabilisation is a foundation reinforcement method that uses The use of recycled asphalt is constantly increasing in all of a mineral aggregate based binder in reinforcing soft soil, our operating countries. We turn recycled asphalt into making it suitable for construction. Using recovered material reclaimed asphalt. Old asphalt pavement can be completely in the binder, material that would otherwise be, otherwise utilised in the production of new asphalt. During 2015, we transported to a landfill site, reduces energy consumption increased the use of reclaimed asphalt about 5%. The use of and the environmental impact of construction. We are recycled asphalt reduces the overall emissions by reducing currently carrying out mass stabilisation in Finland, Sweden both material and transport volumes. and Estonia. 35 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 We develop and implement methods that make it possible to For example, many property investors require their replace the natural mineral aggregates used in earthworks commercial properties to be very energy efficient and with recovered materials. These materials can be recovered executed in a manner that allows them to obtain a general from surplus soil, industrial by-products and waste, mildly construction industry environmental certification, such as contaminated soil and materials used in old earthworks BREEAM or LEED. We consider these requirements already structures. For example, we use blasted rock from tunnel during design management. construction sites as raw material in foundation engineering and asphalt production. In 2015, we were building two sites in Helsinki that meet the requirements of the LEED environmental certification: the We are developing the entire industry in active cooperation Ilmalanrinne office building, with Sponda as the customer, with the authorities and other industry players. For example, and Etera’s office building. In northern Finland, ongoing in 2015, we were actively involved in the Finnish UUMA2 construction projects that aim for the LEED certification programme in which Finnish authorities and industry players include a school campus and a care facility, both built of join forces to look for solutions on how to promote the use of timber and located in Pudasjärvi, and the Hiukkavaara recovered materials in earthworks and thus decrease the use community centre in Oulu. of virgin materials and the environmental effects of earthworks. In addition, in collaboration with Skanska we are currently building a logistics centre for S Group in Sipoo, in the Towards zero energy level in new construction Helsinki metropolitan area, and applying for a BREEAM We comply with regulations defined in legislation for the environmental certificate for it. The certificate is awarded for energy efficiency of new buildings. In 2020, all new buildings above-the-norm performance in energy efficiency and the in EU countries must have a zero energy rating. We continue minimisation of the environmental impact of a building. to prepare for this new requirement. All public buildings must have a zero energy rating already in 2018. Sustainability › Social responsibility We put people first Our social responsibility emphasises efforts that support Lemminkäinen’s strategy by creating ways of working and an environment in which we can fulfil employee, customer and business requirements. This enables us to react to the changes in the market and to maintain our market position. We want to offer a safe, productive and healthy workplace where each employee and team can utilise their professional Employee satisfaction to form a part of annual expertise and achieve their targets in a well-led organisation. planning We conducted a Group-wide employee satisfaction survey in In 2015, in connection with the strategy revision, we updated 2015. We want to be an attractive and valued workplace for our vision, mission and values that guide our operations. construction industry professionals, offering interesting and These are described in Our way of working. challenging tasks as well as career development opportunities. The aim in updating the values was to develop them into a more action-encouraging and work-guiding direction so that On a scale of 1–5, our employees’ satisfaction with their the values support us in the strategy implementation. The work was rated 4. The general score is now higher than the practical implementation of the values started in late 2015, previous survey results (3.8 in 2013) and, according to and will be continued in 2016. responses, we have improved the organisation of work and the clarity of targets at the employee level. Furthermore, the In 2015, we harmonised HR-related operating methods in all personnel reported that they feel they are constantly learning of our operating countries and incorporated employee new things in their work. The areas for development included, satisfaction into the business targets in order to retain the in particular, equal treatment and the best talents in the industry and ensure future recruitment. 36 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 quality of the target-setting and performance discussions. The development actions have been integrated into the Services for maintaining occupational well-being annual planning of all business operations. and health Physically demanding work at construction sites may leave Target-setting and performance discussions are an employees susceptible to occupational diseases and injuries important leadership and management tool for us. During the and increase the risks of disability and early retirement. discussion, the employee and his/her supervisor agree on the Therefore, we ensure that our entire personnel has access to employee’s targets as well as the means for achieving them. occupational healthcare and occupational well-being For Lemminkäinen employees, the discussions clarify their services that support health maintenance and coping at role in the implementation of the strategy. According to our work. earlier surveys, employee satisfaction is clearly higher among employees who have had a target-setting and performance Our occupational healthcare is arranged in accordance with discussion is clearly higher than among those who have not the local operating model in each of our operating countries. had one. In 2015, approximately 86% of Lemminkäinen’s white-collar workers had a target-setting and performance Our target: zero accidents discussion. Typically, discussions with employees are We want to offer our employees safe working conditions and conducted as group discussions, and their implementation ensure that everyone gets home unharmed in the evening. model is continuously developed to make it more functional Our target in occupational safety is zero accidents, and we so that target setting and performance discussions can be constantly work to achieve this target by, for example, conducted at construction sites, too. focusing on the prevention of accidents and sharing best practices among all operating countries. We harmonised job levelling and remuneration Our target is transparent and equal treatment and To achieve our target, in 2015 we have harmonised operating remuneration of the personnel consistently throughout our methods related to the use of protective equipment and to operating countries. During the reporting period, we work instructions. harmonised remuneration procedures in our operating In 2015, our site accident frequency rate was 7.2 (6.9). The countries and renewed the executive job levelling method. figures do not include accidents during commuting or Uniform procedures create transparency, increase equality occupational diseases. and improve the efficiency of operations and the use of tools in recruitment and remuneration processes, for example. Focusing on the prevention of accidents By using different remuneration methods, our common target We pay particular attention to preventing accidents in is to encourage our personnel to achieve good performance various ways. and to increase their chances of influencing the financial We train our personnel in occupational safety issues. The aim results of their work and, consequently, the entire company’s of training is to reduce the risk of accidents at construction result. sites and to ensure that protective equipment is used appropriately. Personal protective equipment is mandatory at We support leadership and project management all of our construction sites. The rules also apply to our expertise subcontractors and their employees. In 2015, we fine-tuned our leadership principles. Our target is both to support supervisors and to create clear and uniform On-site weekly meetings are our most important channel for methods for leadership and for the development and handling current occupational safety issues. We use the measurement of leadership skills. meetings to ensure that safety issues are discussed and safe ways of working are brought up regularly. Weekly meetings When we develop our personnel’s talent, one of the most are mandatory at each of our construction sites and attended essential areas is project management expertise. Especially by our subcontractors and their employees, too. complex infra projects require that the entire Group has a uniform project management methodology in order for us to We conduct regular on-site occupational safety audits during be able to operate consistently and achieve results in all which we review the site-specific risks and agree on projects. In 2015, we launched a project management measures to improve safety. excellence programme, and we will continue this training in We investigate each serious accident thoroughly and 2016. determine how the task could have been performed safely. We distribute information about safe ways of working to all of our business operations. 37 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 We also plan occupational safety improvements by collecting occupational safety week in all of our operating countries. occupational safety observations from our construction sites The aim is to draw attention to occupational safety and the and by regularly monitoring the number of observations. In importance of its continuous development. The activities 2015, the number of safety observations in the entire Group organised during the week included management visits to our increased compared to the previous year. construction sites and other events where occupational safety was highlighted and and useful information We encourage supervisors at construction sites to lead by distributed. example when it comes to taking safety into account. The Group’s Executive Team, the business segment management We want to be among the best in the industry when it comes teams and the Board of Directors regularly monitor the to occupational safety. We are working towards this target development of the site accident frequency rate. by, for example, continuing preventive measures, by holding fast to unified practices throughout the Group, and by further Continuous development improving the efficiency of information sharing and safety In 2015, we held the now traditional Lemminkäinen dialogue within the Group. Social performance indicators 31 December 2015 Personnel Personnel by market area, % 6,000 4,500 3,000 1,500 Finland 54% (48%) 0 11 12 13 14 15 Sweden, Norway, Denmark 20% (24%) Baltic countries 15% (14%) Russia 10% (13%) Other countries 1% (1%) 38 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Personnel by segment, % Personnel by employment group, % Paving 52% (47%) Infra projects 12% (9%) Blue-collars 55% (56%) Building construction, Finland 23% White-collars 45% (44%) (22%) Russian operations 10% (13%) Parent company 3% (9%) Age distribution 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 <19 20–24 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 55–59 60–63 >63 39 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Permanent and temporary Full-time and part-time employment, % employment, % 100 100 75 75 50 50 25 25 0 0 15 15 Temporary Part-time Permanent Full-time Gender distribution, % Male 87% Female 13% 40 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance › Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Statement Lemminkäinen Corporation is a Finnish public listed company The AGM carries out all of the tasks stipulated in the whose administration complies with current legislation, such Companies Act, such as adoption of the Financial as the Finnish Companies Act, the Accounting Act and the Statements, profit distribution, granting discharge from Finnish Securities Markets Act, and the company’s Articles liability to the members of the Board of Directors and the of Association. We also observe the rules, regulations and President and CEO, and making any potential changes to the guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. and the Finnish Financial company’s Articles of Association. The AGM also elects the Supervisory Authority, and we adhere to the Finnish members of the Board of Directors and the auditors, and Corporate Governance Code for Stock Exchange companies decides on their remuneration. that came into effect on 1 January 2016 (the Corporate Governance Code) and substituted the Finnish Corporate All members of the company’s Board of Directors, the Governance Code for listed companies (the Corporate President and CEO, the Group Executive Team members and Governance Code 2010). This Corporate Governance the auditor are present at the AGM. Unless there is a pressing Statement is prepared in accordance with the Corporate reason for their absence, any prospective members of the Governance Code 2010. The Corporate Governance Code and Board of Directors who have been nominated for the first the Corporate Governance Code 2010 are publicly available, time should be present at the AGM that votes on their e.g. on the Securities Market Association website nomination. www.cgfinland.fi. 2015 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2015 Annual General Simultaneously with this statement, Lemminkäinen has Meeting was held in Helsinki on 25 March 2015. 53 published the Board of Directors’ report for the financial shareholders attended the meeting, either in person or period 1 January–31 December 2015. through an authorised representative, representing about 65 per cent of the company’s total number of shares and votes. Lemminkäinen's administrative bodies Board of Directors The General Meeting is where shareholders exercise their Lemminkäinen Corporation’s AGM elects at least four and at voting rights and is Lemminkäinen’s highest decisionmost eight members each year to serve on the company’s making body. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) elects the Board of Directors, which elects a Chairman and Vice Board of Directors, which appoints the President and CEO. Chairman from among its members. The Board members’ The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are terms of office end upon the conclusion of the first AGM held responsible for the management of the Group. The Group after their election. Executive Team and other management personnel assist the President and CEO in his or her duties. The Board of Directors The Board of Directors handles the company’s administration decides on the Group’s administrative systems and ensures and the appropriate arrangement of its operations. The Board compliance with good governance principles. also ensures that the supervision of bookkeeping and asset management is appropriate. The Board of Directors decides General Meeting of Shareholders on matters of principle and on any issues that would have Lemminkäinen’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) is held wide-ranging implications for the company. The Board’s task annually within six months of the end of the previous is to steer the company’s operations in a manner that adds financial year on a date determined by the Board of Directors. the greatest possible value to the capital invested in the An Extraordinary General Meeting may be held if the Board of company over the long term. The Board appoints and Directors deems it necessary, or if one is legally required. dismisses the President and CEO, supervises his or her Notice of a general meeting of shareholders is published on actions, and decides on his or her remuneration and other the company’s website no later than three weeks prior to the terms and conditions of service. The Board also approves the meeting. All of Lemminkäinen’s shareholders have the right values, Group’s strategy and policies, as well as monitors to attend general meetings, as long as they follow the their implementation and timeliness. The Board also ensures instructions given in the notice. Shareholders may either that the Group has a functional system of internal controls attend in person or authorise a representative to represent and that the Group’s risk management principles have been them. Each share carries one vote at a general meeting. defined. It also ensures that key business risks have been identified and are being systematically monitored. 41 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Board approves the operational guidelines and annual Each member’s attendance is shown in the table below. plan for the Internal Audit, and also assesses its effectiveness. Lemminkäinen’s President and CEO attends The Board’s focus areas in 2015 included the continuation to the Board’s meetings to present matters for the Board’s improve Lemminkäinen’s profitability and to strengthen its consideration, as does the CFO. Other members of the balance sheet and financing position. The most important Executive Team and the company’s management attend agenda topics discussed included the preparation of the meetings as required. The Group’s General Counsel acts as reviewed strategy for 2016‒2019, the streamlining of the the secretary of the Board of Directors. business portfolio as well as the preparation of common policies. 2015 At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 March 2015, the following were elected as members of the Board of The Board carried out a self-assessment of its structure, Directors: Berndt Brunow, Noora Forstén, Finn Johnsson, working methods, and compliance with its rules of procedure. Juhani Mäkinen, Heppu Pentti, Kristina Pentti-von Walzel The results of this self-assessment are used to develop the and Heikki Räty. At its organisational meeting on 25 March Board’s working methods. The Board also assessed the 2015, the Board appointed from among its members Berndt independence of its members. Brunow as Chairman and Juhani Mäkinen as Vice Chairman. The Board of Directors convened 11 times in 2015. Members of the Board of Directors Independent of the Independent of major Board of Audit Nomination HR Member company shareholders Directors Committee Committee Committee Berndt Brunow, born 1950, Yes Yes Chair (11/11) Chair (2/2) Chair (5/5) B.Sc. (Econ.) Juhani Mäkinen, born 1956, Yes Yes Vice (11/11) Member (4/4) Counsellor of Law Noora Forstén, born 1981, Member Yes No Member (11/11) Member (2/2) Secondary School Graduate, (5/5) entrepreneur Finn Johnsson, born 1946, Yes Yes Member (10/11) M.Sc. (Econ.) Heppu Pentti 1), born 1979, Yes No Member (9/9) Secondary School Graduate, entrepreneur Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, born 1978, Member M.Sc. (Econ.), Yes No Member (11/11) Member (3/4) Member (2/2) (4/5) B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.), Director, Libera Heikki Räty, born 1953, M.Sc. (Econ.), Yes Yes Member (11/11) Chair (4/4) Managing Director, Helectron Oy Ab 1) As of 25 March 2015 Chair=Chairman, Vice=Vice Chairman Attendance rate in brackets Board committees by preparing and drawing up proposals and recommendations The Board of Directors has three committees: the Audit for the Board’s consideration. The Board of Directors has Committee, Nomination Committee, and HR Committee. The approved the rules of procedure governing these committees. Board of Directors appoints the chairman and members for Audit Committee each committee from among its members. These The Audit Committee monitors and supervises committees assist the Board of Directors Lemminkäinen’s financial statements and 42 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 financial reporting processes and the statutory audit of the nominees for Lemminkäinen’s Board and a recommendation consolidated and parent company’s Financial Statements. on the remuneration of the Board of Directors’ and its The Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of Committees’ members. The AGM approved the Nomination the Group’s risk management, internal control and internal Committee’s proposal, which was presented at the AGM on auditing. It also handles the section of the Group’s Corporate 25 March 2015. Governance Statement that describes the main features of HR Committee the internal control and risk management systems associated The HR Committee handles matters relating to senior with the financial reporting process. management’s salaries and incentives, as well as other key The Audit Committee deals with reports and plans prepared terms and conditions of their service agreements. The by the Internal Audit unit. It also assesses the independence Committee also deals with Group-level remuneration, of the statutory auditor or firm of authorised public incentive and retention schemes as well as other HR issues. accountants and, in particular, the provision of ancillary The HR Committee meets at least once per annum. It services to the audited firm. The Audit Committee evaluates consists of Chairman and two to four members appointed by potential auditors and submits a proposal for the Board of the Board of Directors. The majority of the members of the Directors’ consideration. HR Committee must be independent of the company. The The Audit Committee meets at least four times per annum. It President and CEO and other members of the company’s comprises a Chairman and at least two members appointed management may not be members of the Committee. by the Board of Directors. The company’s auditor, Internal 2015 The HR Committee convened five times in 2015. The Auditor and management representatives are also invited to members and their meeting attendance are presented in the the meetings. Members of the Audit Committee must be Members of the Board of Directors table. independent of the company, and at least one member must also be independent of the company’s major shareholders. All At its meetings, the HR Committee discussed management members must be competent in the Audit Committee’s task incentive practices, shortand long-term management domain, and at least one member must have expertise in incentives, the elements and earning criteria of shortand accountancy, bookkeeping or auditing in particular. long-term incentives in 2016, and who falls within the scope of the management incentive scheme. The Committee also 2015 The Audit Committee convened four times in 2015. discussed long-term incentives for 2016–2018 and the The members and their meeting attendance are presented in results of the employee satisfaction survey. The Committee the Members of the Board of Directors table. made remuneration recommendations, which were approved In addition to mandatory items, other matters discussed by by the Board of Directors. the Audit Committee included the strengthening of the Group’s balance sheet and financing position, Internal Management President and CEO Audit’s reports as well as risk management. The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day Nomination Committee management of the company in line with the Board of The Nomination Committee makes preparations for the AGM Directors’ guidelines and instructions. He or she is by drawing up a list of proposed nominees for the Board of responsible for the management and planning of the Group’s Directors and making a recommendation on their business in practice. The President and CEO undertakes the remuneration. execution of measures approved by the Board of Directors and handles preparations for any measures that are The Nomination Committee meets at least once per annum. strategically important at the Group level. The President and It consists of Chairman and two to four members appointed CEO makes sure that the Group has adequate management by the Board of Directors. The majority of the members of the resources and that the company’s bookkeeping complies Nomination Committee must be independent of the with legislation. He or she also ensures the appropriate company. The President and CEO and other members of the arrangement of the Group’s administration and asset company’s management may not be members of the management. Committee. As of 1 August 2014, Casimir Lindholm, M.Sc. (Econ.), MBA 2015 The Nomination Committee convened twice in 2015. (born 1971), has served as the President and CEO of The members and their meeting attendance are presented in Lemminkäinen Corporation. the Members of the Board of Directors table. Executive Team The Committee made a proposal containing a list of proposed Lemminkäinen’s Group Executive 43 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Team consists of the parent company’s President and CEO Harri Kailasalo (Infra projects), Pauli Mäkelä (Building and other members appointed by the Board of Directors. The construction, Finland), Tania Jarrett (HR) and Ilkka Salonen, President and CEO acts as the Chairman of the Executive CFO. The Head of Group Communications and Marketing Team and appoints its secretary. acted as the secretary of the Executive Team. Executive Vice President, Russian operations, Maaret Heiskari served as a The Executive Team meets regularly, at least once a month member of the Executive Team until 30 June 2015. and supports the President and CEO in, for example, the preparation and execution of strategy, operating plans as well The Executive Team held fourteen meetings in 2015. The as matters of principle and any other significant matters. The Executive Team’s key topics during 2015 were the Executive Team also assists the President and CEO in strengthening of the company’s balance sheet and capital ensuring information flow and smooth internal cooperation. structure, the improvement of the company’s profitability as well as the reviewed strategy and operating models related to 2015 In 2015, Casimir Lindholm served as Lemminkäinen’s it. President and CEO and the Chairman of the Executive Team. The other members of the Executive Team were Executive Vice Presidents Robert Blumberg (Paving), instructions issued by the Board of Directors. In order to Controls ensure adequate risk management, the Board of Directors The principles of the internal control, risk management and discusses the Group’s financial reports, business segment internal audit adhered to by Lemminkäinen Corporation have reviews and any substantial changes that have occurred in been approved by the Board of Directors. the company’s business. The Board’s Audit Committee also Internal control and risk management seek to ensure that the assesses the adequacy and efficiency of internal control and company’s business is efficient and profitable, that reporting risk management. is consistent and reliable, and that applicable laws, The President and CEO is responsible for the organisation of regulations and the Group’s operating principles are internal control. Among other duties, he or she ensures that observed. the company’s bookkeeping complies with the law and that asset management is handled in a reliable manner. Internal control The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Lemminkäinen’s business is organised into business Group’s internal control and risk management are adequate segments whose Executive Vice Presidents report to the for the scope of the company’s business operations, and that President and CEO. The Group’s other management and their supervision is appropriately organised. The Board supervisors are responsible for internal control within their supervises the President and CEO to ensure that he or she own areas of responsibility. handles the company’s business operations and administration in accordance with the guidelines and Business areas’, business segments’ and Group level 44 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 financial reports and business reviews are a key measure to in systematic and effective risk management, including legal control and monitor the functions’ efficiency and and contractual matters. Detailed guidelines for different appropriateness. In addition, the Investment Board that areas, such as competition law and insider issues, have also convenes once a week decides on the Group’s investments, been drawn up. Monitoring compliance with these guidelines project start-ups and tenders according to the defined falls within the scope of line operations and management, approval limits. and internal training on them is also provided. Risk management The main features of internal control and risk management Risk management is an essential part of leading systems associated with the financial reporting process Lemminkäinen’s business operations. Risk management Internal control associated with the financial reporting seeks to ensure that the Group’s strategic and operational process aims to ensure that the company’s management has targets are achieved with the best possible result and by accurate and sufficient information available for leading the increasing shareholder value. company and that the financial reports published by the company give a true view of the company’s performance and Risk management is based on the risk management policy financial position. approved by the Board of Directors. The Board also supervises the implementation of risk management. If The structure and management of Lemminkäinen’s financial reporting process necessary, the Board assesses and updates the Group’s Lemminkäinen’s financial administration is organised into specified risk levels and decision-making authorisations. The the Financial Shared Services function, the Group Controlling President and CEO may tighten, but not loosen, these (internal accounting) and Taxes function, the Group specifications set by the Board. The Board’s Audit Accounting (external accounting and Group consolidation) Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the function, Group Treasury as well as segment-specific Group’s risk management in accordance with the annual business controlling functions. The basic processes of action plan. financial administration in Sweden and Finland are handled The President and CEO is responsible for the implementation in the Financial Shared Services, whereas other foreign of risk management. Members of the Group Executive Team subsidiaries have separate financial administration are responsible for the execution of risk management in their organisations. All of the units mentioned above report to the respective areas of responsibility. Personnel receive training Group’s CFO. Lemminkäinen’s financial reporting process consists of Main features and control environment of internal control of the financial reporting process internal and external accounting. Internal accounting focuses The company publishes an external accounting Interim on the monitoring and forecasting of the Group’s profit Report quarterly (each year’s final quarter is reported as part performance, financial position and measures, whereas of the Financial Statements Bulletin). The Interim Report external accounting fulfils the information presentation includes a description of the Group’s performance and requirements of the International Financial Reporting financial position during the review period with comparative Standards endorsed by the European Union and, with regard figures as well as a short-term forecast about the to the notes to the Financial Statements, the presentation development of the operating environment and the result. requirements set by the Finnish accounting and company The Board of Directors discusses and approves the Interim legislation. The accounting principles used in internal and Reports, the Financial Statements Bulletin as well as the external accounting are consistent. The Board of Directors’ Financial Statements and the Board of Directors’ report. Report and the parent company’s Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Act and Group Controlling provides instructions on internal the instructions and statements issued by the Finnish accounting reporting timetables and content and combines Accounting Standards Board. financial information from different business 45 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 segments to prepare a monthly management report. The the financial reporting process with instructions related to monthly management report includes the Group’s and the accounting, reporting and investments and the Group’s business segments’ income statement, cash flow, operating treasury policy. One of the aims of the unified SAP reporting capital, investments, order book, operative key figures as well system is to harmonise and simplify the financial reporting as a description of the most business-critical events and process and to mitigate the risks related to the management risks. In addition, the report contains a rolling forecast of the of several parallel systems. development of the Group’s and the business segments’ financial position. The Group Executive Team, the Group’s Project-type operations, in which the percentage-ofBoard of Directors and the Board’s Audit Committee monitor completion method and the recognition-on-completion the development of the financial position and assess the method of revenue recognition are applicable, are achievement of targets monthly. characteristic of Lemminkäinen’s business. Approval authorisations determined by the magnitude and risks of the Group Accounting provides guidance for Group companies in undertaking are defined for projects. The day-to-day financial drawing up their quarterly external accounting Group reports. control of construction projects is supervised by the project In addition to Group guidance, the Group Accounting and the organisation. The business segment management regularly Group Controlling functions also support and coordinate the monitors the project forecast and any changes in it, project Financial Shared Services, the business segments’ business risks, the degree of project completion, and revenue controlling functions, and subsidiaries in their financial recognition. Recognition of revenue from construction reporting. The business segments’ business controlling projects is based on the management’s judgement and functions also ensure that the segments’ profit units draw up estimates. the monthly internal accounting report in accordance with the specified principles and instructions. The Group Internal Audit Controlling function reconciles internal and external The Internal Audit unit is subordinate to the Board of accounting every quarter to verify the reliability of financial Directors and operates under the supervision of the President information. and CEO. It consists of the Head of Internal Audit and as many internal auditors as are required for the unit to carry out Group Treasury provides reporting instructions for internal its work. Internal auditing resources are strengthened as and external accounting related to financial transactions. In required by procuring internal auditing services from external addition, the function monitors the accuracy of the reporting. service providers. Its operating principles are defined in the Based on the rolling and short-term cash flow forecast, internal auditing instructions approved by the Board of Group Treasury ensures that the company has sufficient Directors. liquidity and adequate financial instruments. Group Treasury also supports the entire financial organisation in treasuryThe Internal Audit unit assists the Board of Directors in its related reporting and reporting reconciliation. supervisory role by obtaining information on the adequacy and functionality of risk management and internal control in The Internal Audit function assesses processes associated the Lemminkäinen Group and its business units. The Internal with financial reporting. In 2015, the Internal Audit unit Audit unit assesses the economy and efficiency of resource examined procedures related to management reporting and usage, the reliability of reporting, the protection and security the project reporting process as well as procedures related to of assets, and compliance with regulations, operating the risk management of financial reporting. principles and guidelines. Malpractice reports are regularly Risk management associated with the financial reporting submitted to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. process One of the tasks of risk management is to identify and 2015 The internal audits focused on fraud investigations, proactively deal with threats associated with the accuracy of assessment of decision-making procedures, risk financial reporting, the realisation of which could lead to a management process and business process controls as well situation in which the management would not have as assessment of development project, among other areas. sufficient and accurate information available for leading the company or the financial reports published by the company Insider administration would not give materially correct information and Lemminkäinen observes Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd’s insider assessment about the company’s performance and financial guidelines, which are supplemented by the insider guidelines position. The Group’s CFO is responsible for risk approved by Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors. The management associated with financial reporting. company maintains a public and company-specific register using Euroclear Finland Oy’s Sire system. Lemminkäinen manages the risks associated with 46 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Insiders subject to disclosure requirements are the members Report and the administration for each financial year. The of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors, the President and auditor reports regularly to the Audit Committee and submits CEO, and the chief auditor of the firm of authorised public an Auditor’s Report to the Annual General Meeting. The accountants. The company also defines the members of Auditor’s Report contains a statement as to whether the Lemminkäinen’s Group Executive Team as insiders subject Financial Statements and the Board of Directors’ Report give to disclosure requirements. The share ownership of all a true and fair view, as defined in the rules governing insiders subject to disclosure requirements has been made financial reporting, of the Group’s financial performance and public. financial position, and as to whether the information contained in the Board of Directors’ Report is consistent with Lemminkäinen also maintains permanent company-specific the Financial Statements. The auditor’s fee is paid annually, registers of people who regularly receive inside information in accordance with the Annual General Meeting’s decision. due to their position or duties. Their share ownership has not been made public. When necessary, registers of project2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, a firm of authorised specific insiders are also kept. public accountants, is Lemminkäinen’s auditor. Kim Karhu, Authorised Public Accountant, was the chief auditor until the Auditing Annual General Meeting held on 25 March 2015 after which Lemminkäinen has one auditor, which must be a firm of Markku Katajisto, Authorised Public Accountant, became the authorised public accountants approved by Finland’s Central chief auditor. Lemminkäinen invited bids from firms of Chamber of Commerce. The Annual General Meeting elects authorised public accountants in 2010. the auditor for a term of office that runs until the end of the following Annual General Meeting. In 2015, Lemminkäinen’s audit fees totalled EUR 383,783 (416,302) and consultancy fees EUR 174,500 (600,553). The scope of the audit encompasses the Group’s accounting records, the Financial Statements, the Board of Directors’ 47 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance › Remuneration Remuneration Chairman of the Board is paid a fee of EUR 10,000 (10,000) Remuneration – Board of Directors per month and Board members each receive EUR 3,000 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting elects (3,000) per month. Members of the Board also received an the members of the Board of Directors on an annual basis attendance fee of EUR 500 (500) per meeting. and also determines their fees. These fees are paid entirely as monetary compensation. The Board members’ terms of office The Chairman of the Audit Committee was paid an end upon the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting attendance fee of EUR 1,000 (1,000) and members held after their election. EUR 500 (500) per committee meeting. Members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not fall The members residing abroad were paid the attendance fee within the scope of the company’s share scheme, nor do they increased by EUR 1,000 (1,000). have an employment contract with Lemminkäinen. Travel expenses were reimbursed as invoiced. 2015 The 2015 Annual General Meeting decided that the Fees – Board of Directors, EUR per annum Member 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Berndt Brunow 120,000 120,000 Juhani Mäkinen 36,000 36,000 Noora Forstén 36,000 36,000 Finn Johnsson 36,000 36,000 Heppu Pentti 1) 30,832 12,000 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 36,000 36,000 Heikki Räty 36,000 36,000 Total 330,832 312,000 1) As of 25 March 2015 Heppu Pentti has been a member of the Group’s Board of Directors. During 2014 and until April 2015 he was a member of the Board of Directors of two subsidiaries. Meeting fees – Board of Directors, EUR per annum Member 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Berndt Brunow 5,500 10,000 Juhani Mäkinen 7,500 12,500 Noora Forstén 5,500 10,000 Finn Johnsson 15,000 28,500 Heppu Pentti 1) 4,500 13,000 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 7,000 Heikki Räty 9,500 16,000 Total 54,500 90,000 1) As of 25 March 2015 salaries, shortand long-term incentives and other benefits Remuneration – Management received by the President and CEO and the Group Executive On the basis of a proposal submitted by the HR Committee, Team. Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on the 48 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The remuneration policy approved by the Board of Directors 60 per cent for other members of the Group Executive Team. states that Lemminkäinen’s management consists of the President and CEO, the Group Executive Team, the members Share-based incentive plans of the business segment management teams and the The 2013–2015 share-based incentive plan At the end of 2012, Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Board of Group’s other key personnel on the basis of the significance Directors decided to introduce a share-based incentive plan of their responsibilities. According to the remuneration policy, for key personnel. The plan consists of both a performancethe remuneration of the management consists of a fixed based and a conditional reward. The conditional reward seeks basic salary, other benefits, annual short-term incentives (a to encourage the Group’s key personnel to increase their performance bonus), and long-term incentives (share-based holding in the company. The Board of Directors recommends incentives and pension schemes). that the President and CEO and members of the Group A fixed basic salary denotes monthly monetary Executive Team retain ownership of half of all the shares they compensation, which is determined by the nature of the receive through the plan until the value of their holding position and the person’s experience and performance. corresponds to half of their annual salary. They should maintain this holding during the validity of employment or The content of the benefits defined in the remuneration service. policy varies from country to country. The benefits available to the President and CEO and the Group Executive Team A reward paid through this plan may correspond to the value include the use of a company car and mobile phone, the meal of a maximum of 700,000 Lemminkäinen Corporation benefit and extended insurance coverage for accidents and shares (including the monetary portion). The value of the travel during their leisure time. The meal benefit is generally reward will be determined by the market price of the reward available to persons whose employment started before 1 shares on the payment date. The Lemminkäinen Corporation January 2012. For the President and CEO and the Group shares handed over as rewards will be bought from the stock Executive Team, total remuneration therefore consists of market. Therefore, the incentive plan will not have a diluting both a basic salary and benefits (excluding the meal benefit). effect on the value of the shares. Each year, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on Performance-based reward The plan consists of three earning periods: the calendar years indicators and targets for shortand long-term incentives. 2013, 2014 and 2015. The company’s Board of Directors These seek to support the achievement of the company’s decides on the plan’s earning criteria and the targets to be strategic targets. On the basis of a proposal by the President and CEO, the Board decides on the targets to be reached and set at the beginning of each earning period. the size of the incentives. A possible performance-based reward for the earning period will be paid out partly in company shares and partly in cash. Short-term incentives The cash portion will cover any taxes and tax-related costs Management’s short-term incentives are based on the arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred opportunity to receive an annual performance bonus. The size during the two-year commitment period. If a key person’s of this reward depends on whether or not the financial and employment or service contract ends during the commitment operational targets specified at the beginning of each year period, they will generally have to return any reward shares to have been achieved. Lemminkäinen’s management is divided the company without compensation. into five groups, which determine the maximum percentage applicable to each individual. Individuals are allocated to Conditional reward these groups on the basis of the nature and commercial value In addition to the performance-based reward, the aboveof their position. mentioned individuals also have the opportunity to receive a conditional reward based on share ownership and a 2015 In 2015, the size of the performance bonus for the continuation of their employment or service contract. In order President and CEO and the Group Executive Team was based to receive the conditional reward, a key person must already on the Group’s operating profit and other financial targets as own or acquire a specified number of company shares, or a well as the achievement of targets associated with the percentage thereof, by a specified date. The number and date improvement of efficiency or other development-related are set by the Board of Directors. If they do so, key personnel targets. Performance bonuses for the Executive Vice will then be granted one share for each share acquired, as Presidents of business segments who are members of the long as their employment or service contract remains valid Group Executive Team were also based on each segment’s and they retain ownership of these shares until the operating profit. Achievements were monitored every six conditional reward is paid. The earning period for the months. The maximum performance bonus payable to the conditional reward is the calendar President and CEO was 80 per cent of the annual salary and 49 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 years 2013–2015. The conditional reward will be paid by the A reward paid through this plan may correspond to the value end of April 2016, partly in shares and partly in cash. of a maximum of 1,200,000 Lemminkäinen Corporation shares (including the monetary portion). 2015 About 35 people fell within the scope of the plan during the 2015 earning period. The Board of Directors recommends that the President and CEO and members of the Group Executive Team retain The performance-based reward was based on Lemminkäinen ownership of 50 per cent of the shares they receive through Group’s equity ratio and its return on capital employed. The the plan until the value of their holding corresponds to their reward for the earning period 2015 will be paid out in 2016 six months’ salary. They should maintain this holding during partly in company shares and partly in cash. The cash portion the validity of employment or service. will cover any deferred taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred during Other long-term incentives the commitment period, which ends two years after the end An agreement has been made on a performance bonus of the earning period. The company’s President and CEO and payable to the President and CEO, the Executive Team and the members of the Group Executive Team must retain separately specified key personnel for 2016–2018. The aim ownership of half of all the shares they receive through the of the bonus is to ensure the continuity and profitability of plan for two years after the end of the commitment period. the business over the long term. The bonus, if any, will be paid in 2016 and 2018, and it is equivalent to a maximum of In order to receive the conditional reward, a key person had to 15 months’ cash salary. The criteria for the payment of the own or acquire a specified number of company shares, or a bonus include the Group’s financing arrangements percentage thereof, by 30 June 2013. The number was set succeeding as planned. by the Board of Directors. The conditional reward will be paid by the end of April 2016, partly in shares and partly in cash. Pension plan The 2016–2018 share-based incentive plan As of 1 January 2010, additional pension plans for the At the end of 2015, Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Board of President and CEO and the Group Executive Team have been Directors decided to introduce a new share-based incentive based on a defined contribution plan and obtaining a paid-up plan for key personnel. The plan aims to combine the policy. Contributions are calculated as a percentage of annual objectives of the shareholders and key personnel in order to salary. increase the value of the company, while committing the The President and CEO and other members of the Group participants of the plan to the company and increasing their Executive Team are entitled to retire upon reaching 63 years ownership in the company. of age. The plan consists of three earning periods: the calendar years 2016, 2017 and 2018. At the beginning of each earning The President and CEO’s contract of service period, the company’s Board of Directors decides on the The President and CEO’s contract of service may be plan’s earning criteria, the targets to be set, the number of terminated with six months’ notice. Upon termination of the shares to be allocated and the plan’s participants. The contract by the company, the President and CEO shall be potential reward for each earning period will be paid in four entitled to receive a one-off severance payment equivalent to instalments, each of them 25 per cent of the total reward. 12 months’ salary in accordance with his or her salary rate at The reward payment will take place during the four years the time of termination. following the earning period. If a participant’s employment or service contract ends during the earning or payment period, they will not, as a rule, be entitled to any unpaid rewards. The reward will be paid as a combination of shares and cash. The aim is that the cash portion will cover any taxes and taxrelated costs arising from the reward. In paying rewards, Lemminkäinen Corporation may, at its discretion, use one or more of the following: new issued shares, the company’s own existing shares, shares purchased from the market or cash. Approximately 110 people fall within the scope of the plan during the 2016 earning period. In 2016, the reward is based on Lemminkäinen Group’s return on capital employed (ROCE). Remuneration and fees – Executive Team (Excluding the President and CEO) 50 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration and fees – Executive Team (Excluding the President and CEO) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 EUR per annum Monetary salary 1) 1,464,294 2,276,414 Benefits 81,162 111,198 Performance-based incentives 127,063 222,329 Pension schemes 298,017 496,557 Total 1,970,535 3,106,498 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 11,066 2,269 1) Includes compensation related to redundancy Remuneration and fees – President and CEO 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 1) EUR per annum Monetary salary 496,462 1,568,570 2) Benefits 19,801 20,010 Performance-based incentives 42,762 85,608 Pension schemes 120,200 261,789 Total 679,224 1,935,977 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 6,782 267 1) As of 1 August 2014, Casimir Lindholm has served as the President and CEO. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Berndt Brunow, acted as the interim President and CEO from 2 April to 31 July 2014, after Timo Kohtamäki left the company on 2 April 2014. 2) Includes compensation related to redundancy. 51 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance › Board of Directors Board of Directors Berndt Brunow b. 1950, B.Sc. (Econ.) Chairman of the Board since 2008 and a member of the Board since 2002 Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the HR Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders Juhani Mäkinen b. 1956, Counsellor of Law Vice Chairman and member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Audit Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders Noora Forstén b. 1981, Secondary School Graduate Member of the Board since 2012 Member of the Nomination Committee and the HR Committee Independent of the company and non-independent of its major shareholders 52 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Finn Johnsson b. 1946, M.Sc. (Econ.) Member of the Board since 2013 Independent of the company and its major shareholders Heppu Pentti b. 1979, Upper Secondary School Graduate Member of the Board since 2015 Independent of the Company and non-independent of its major shareholders Kristina Pentti-von Walzel b. 1978, M.Sc. (Econ.), B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.) Member of the Board since 2007 Member of the Nomination Committee, the HR Committee and the Audit Committee Independent of the company and non-independent of its major shareholders 53 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Heikki Räty b. 1953, M.Sc. (Econ.) Member of the Board since 2009 Chairman of the Audit Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders More detailed information about Board members can be found on our website at www.lemminkainen.com/investors 54 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance › Executive Team Executive Team Casimir Lindholm b. 1971, M.Sc. (Econ.), MBA President and CEO since 2014, member of the Executive Team since 2013, Group employee since 2013. During 2013‒2014 Lindholm worked as Executive Vice President, responsible for building construction in Finland. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Lindholm worked at Eltel Networks as President Fixed Telecom and as CEO of Eltel Networks in Sweden. Robert Blumberg b. 1974, M.Sc. (Eng.), MBA Executive Vice President, responsible for paving, mineral aggregates, earthworks and sustainability. Member of the Executive Team since 2015, Group employee since 2015. Blumberg has previously worked in international management positions in Valmet Automotive Inc. as well as Metso Paper. Tania Jarrett b. 1963, Master of Arts Executive Vice President, responsible for HR in Lemminkäinen Group as well as Paving and infra projects business segments. Member of the Executive Team since 2014, group employee since 2014. Jarrett has previously worked in both international and country-specific HR management roles for Microsoft Mobile and Nokia. 55 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Harri Kailasalo b. 1969, M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Executive Vice President, responsible for infrastructure construction projects and procurement. Member of the Executive Team since 2012, Group employee since 1995. Kailasalo previously held a variety of executive positions in infrastructure construction at Lemminkäinen, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Pauli Mäkelä b. 1954, M.Sc. (Eng.) Executive Vice President, responsible for building construction in Finland. Member of the Executive Team since 2014, Group employee since 1982. Mäkelä has had a long career at Lemminkäinen and held a variety of executive positions both at Oy Alfred A. Palmberg AB and Lemminkäinen Corporation. Ilkka Salonen b. 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Chief Financial Officer, responsible for finance, risk management, investor relations and ICT. Member of the Executive Team since 2014, Group employee since 2014. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Salonen held executive positions in finance at several companies, most recently as Chief Financial Officer at Neste Oil. More detailed information about Executive Team can be found on our website at www.lemminkainen.com/investors 56 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance › Risk management Risks and uncertainties Risk management is an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s business operations; it ensures that the most significant strategic, operative, financial and accident risks are identified, analysed, assessed and managed proactively. Risk management aims to ensure the achievement of the Group’s strategic and operational targets with the best possible results, including the continuity of the operations under changing conditions. Our risk management is based on the risk management policy develop their operating models to increase agility, cost approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors efficiency and operational consistency. defines the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance in conjunction with its strategic and annual planning processes In Russia, the weakened economic situation, the exchange and through its decisions. We assess liquidity monthly by rate fluctuations of the rouble and the prolonged political taking cash flow and risk forecasts into account. The Board’s uncertainty or the significant escalation in the sanctions Audit Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of between the EU and Russia could have a negative effect on the Group’s risk management in accordance with the annual our business operations. Furthermore, the political culture, planning. legislation, its interpretation and procedures of the authorities in Russia compared to Finland, in addition to the The Group’s President and CEO is responsible for the uncertainty of the legal system, administrative procedures implementation of risk management. Members of the Group and interpretation of law enforcement mechanisms, as well Executive Team are responsible for the execution of risk as changes in them, may result in significant risks. We have management in their respective areas of responsibility. The improved the efficiency of housing sales in Russia, and in Group Executive Team monitors the implementation of risk order to maintain a moderate risk level in Russia, we will not management regularly. Every Lemminkäinen employee is start new development projects in building construction in responsible for identifying any risks related to their own work Russia for the time being. and for bringing them to the attention of their supervisor. We train our personnel to implement risk management Legislative and political changes can affect market systematically and effectively. We provide training in legal development and, consequently, the profitability of our and contractual matters. The Group also has detailed business operations. We continuously monitor and analyse guidelines for different areas, such as competition law and our operating environment, invest in the maintenance and insider issues. We monitor compliance with these guidelines implementation of our Code of Conduct and Corporate as part of line operations and management. Governance and provide guidelines and training to our employees. Most significant risks Operative risks Strategic risks In the residential and commercial development and Uncertainty in the global economy and financial markets may construction projects, we are exposed to sales and price risks have a negative effect on Lemminkäinen’s operations, due to the market situation continuing to be challenging and performance, financial position and sources of capital. Our due to the full responsibility over the entire project, starting business operations are sensitive to new construction cycles with plot acquisition. Our target is to actively manage and in Finland in particular. We manage these kinds of risks monitor the risk related to the capital tied up in unsold structurally by distributing our business operations completed apartments and other assets. throughout Scandinavia, the Baltic countries and Russia. We take market changes and risks into account when Change management, successful recruitment and skilled and assessing whether to start new development and motivated personnel play a key role in ensuring that construction projects. We only start new housing operations are in line with the targets set, yield results and construction if a sufficient number of units have been comply with business-related laws and regulations and good reserved in advance. The number of unsold completed business practices. The business segments apartments is kept to a minimum. Commercial 57 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 development projects are usually sold to property investors in defines the operating principles and division of responsibility the early stages of construction, thereby reducing sales risks. in financial risk management and funding activities. External events may also impact negatively with regard to the Lemminkäinen’s financial performance depends on availability of funding, its costs and/or repayment plans. successful permit, contract and project management, which involves risks related to, for instance, project pricing, use of We seek to ensure the availability of funding, optimise the resources, project planning and scheduling, ability to procure use of liquid assets in funding its business operations and to raw materials at competitive prices, cost control, change minimise interest and other finance costs. Lemminkäinen management as well as handling of claims for damages. In protects itself from currency exchange risks primarily through addition, project-related legal proceedings may have a operative means. If necessary, transaction risks are hedged negative effect on our financial performance. We are with the aid of foreign currency loans and currency continually developing our contractual expertise and project derivatives. In 2015, approximately 34% of our net sales management practices during the tender and execution were generated in functional currencies other than the euro, stage. In addition, we are renewing project tracking systems the major currencies being the Norwegian, Swedish and and steering models. Danish kronas as well as the Russian rouble. We do not hedge translation risk. The translation difference risk of our Fluctuations in the price of raw materials may have an shareholders’ equity is mainly related to the Russian business impact on financial performance. Lemminkäinen’s biggest operations. individual outsourced raw material is bitumen, and its price largely depends on the world market price of oil. We manage Accident risks the bitumen price risk with contractual terms and derivatives. The majority of our environmental impact stems from our production facilities, construction, and transportation. We Furthermore, changes in the weather may cause fluctuations regularly monitor our environmental impact. We constantly in our income. Weather conditions influence especially the seek to reduce our environmental impact by, for example, lengths of the Paving segment’s paving and mineral enhancing our production methods and optimising aggregates businesses working seasons, which may have an transportation. Our guidelines, compliance with our effect on the company’s profit and its timing. management systems and personnel training help us to As our business operations develop, we also need new kinds manage our environmental risks. of expertise. The success of our development and business We manage risks associated with occupational safety by projects is greatly affected by the availability and providing regular training for our personnel and by investing in commitment of competent personnel. In addition, the reporting of safety observations. Lemminkäinen’s Board Lemminkäinen’s turnaround requires change management of Directors, the Group Executive Team and the business expertise. We manage these risks by supporting supervisory segment management teams regularly monitor the work and providing training as well as by investing in the development of occupational safety. competence development of current employees and in increasing their work motivation, whenever possible. Accidents and damage involving IT systems, personnel security and information security may also pose accident Financial risks risks for us. We manage these by making plans for In its business operations, Lemminkäinen is exposed to exceptional circumstances. The implementation of new IT impairment risk of tangible and intangible assets and to systems also involves risks which we manage through careful financial risks, mainly funding, liquidity, foreign exchange planning and training. rate, interest rate and credit risks. Management of financial risks is based on Lemminkäinen’s treasury policy, which 58 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Legal proceedings essential risks in the Interim Reports and the Financial A one-off risk is posed by the legal proceedings concerning Statements Bulletin that can be found on our website at damages related to the asphalt cartel as well as charges for www.lemminkainen.com/investors. an alleged environmental offence related to the amounts of More information about financial risks and their management recycled asphalt used in asphalt mass production. More information about the legal proceedings and related claims can be found in the consolidated financial statements. can be found in the Board of Directors’ report and on our website at www.lemminkainen.com/investors. More information about risks and risk management We publish an up-to-date assessment of the most 59 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Group key figures Board of Directors’ report Group key figures Key figures, IFRS Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Net sales, EUR million 1,879.0 2,044.5 -165.5 Paving 874.5 907.5 -33.0 Infra projects 263.1 286.0 -22.9 Building construction, Finland 537.8 539.0 -1.2 Russian operations 136.7 196.1 -59.4 Other operations and Group eliminations 66.8 115.9 -49.1 Operating profit, EUR million 37.3 36.3 1.0 Paving 16.9 32.2 -15.3 Infra projects 11.8 7.2 4.6 Building construction, Finland 12.9 9.3 3.6 Russian operations 2.9 19.7 -16.8 Other operations -7.2 -32.2 25.0 Operating margin, % 2.0 1.8 Paving 1.9 3.5 Infra projects 4.5 2.5 Building construction, Finland 2.4 1.7 Russian operations 2.1 10.1 Pre-tax profit, EUR million 16.7 -1.7 18.4 Profit from continuing operations, EUR million 7.2 -5.0 12.2 Profit for the period, EUR million 7.2 18.1 -10.9 Earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR -0.15 -0.68 0.53 Earnings per share for the period, EUR -0.15 0.40 -0.55 Cash flow from operating activities, EUR million 106.6 -48,4* 155.0 * Cash flow from operating activities includes EUR 59.7 million of damages paid in Q1/2014 related to asphalt cartel. Key figures, IFRS 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Change Order book, EUR million 1,180.3 1,456.1 -275.8 Operating capital, EUR million 474.8 590.4 -115.6 Balance sheet total, EUR million 1,035.5 1,257.8 -222.3 Interest-bearing net debt, EUR million 126.8 213.6 -86.8 Equity ratio, % * 40.6 37.1 Gearing, % ** 33.6 51.8 Return on investment, rolling 12 months, % *** 10.2 13.5 Return on capital employed, rolling 12 months, % **** 5.3 4.5 * Equity ratio, if hybrid bonds were treated as debt: 12/2015: 28.6% and 12/2014: 24.6%. ** Gearing, if hybrid bonds were treated as debt: 12/2015: 89.6% and 12/2014: 128.4%. *** Includes the effect of discontinued operations **** Calculation: Operating profit, rolling 12 months / (Total equity (quarterly average) + interest-bearing liabilities (quarterly average)) x 100 60 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Strategy Strategy to urban growth centres. In Russia, the economic situation Strategy for 2016–2019 remains unstable. In order to maintain its moderate risk level, In October 2015, Lemminkäinen reviewed its strategy for Lemminkäinen has decided not to start new residential 2016–2019. The company seeks to continuously improve its development projects for the time being in Russia, but will performance and increase shareholder value through focus on continue negotiated contracting in building construction. In the balance sheet, more competitive operating models and paving, the company seeks growth particularly in special profitable growth in Infra projects in northern Europe. works in Russia. The company estimates that the outlook for Infra projects is Lemminkäinen also made adjustments to its financial good especially in Norway and Sweden where there are longtargets. At the end of 2019, the company aims at a ROCE term government programmes extending over election cycles. above 15%, which is equivalent to the earlier target ROI of In Paving, the target is to improve competitiveness in all 18%. In addition, an EBIT margin above 4% at the end of markets through a more streamlined operating model and 2019 is a new target. The equity ratio target above 35% more efficient processes. In Building construction, Finland, remains unchanged. the company continues to focus its operations Financial target Target Actual 2015 Actual 2014 Actual 2013 18% over cycle Previous: Return on investment*, % (15% at the end of 2016) 10.2 13.5 -9.4 New: Return on capital employed**, % 15% at the end of 2019 5.3 4.5 -10.8 More than 4% at the end of New: EBIT margin, % 2019 2.0 1.8 -4.4 Equity ratio***, % At least 35% 40.6 37.1 27.3 At least 40% of the profit for the Dividend policy, % financial year 38.5**** 0 0 * Includes the effect of discontinued operations ** Calculation: Operating profit, rolling 12 months / (Total equity (quarterly average) + interest-bearing liabilities (quarterly average)) x 100 *** Equity ratio, if hybrid bonds were treated as debt: 12/2015: 28.6% and 12/2014: 24.6%. **** Board of Directors’ proposal for the AGM. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Group performance Group performance Net sales Net sales by segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Paving, EUR million 874.5 907.5 -33.0 Infra projects, EUR million 263.1 286.0 -22.9 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 537.8 539.0 -1.2 Russian operations, EUR million 136.7 196.1 -59.4 Other operations and Group eliminations, EUR million 66.8 115.9 -49.1 Group, total, EUR million 1,879.0 2,044.5 -165.5 The Group’s net sales in 2015 declined year-on-year and exchange rates had a negative impact of EUR -67.2 million were EUR 1,879.0 million (2,044.5). Net sales decreased in compared to the corresponding period in 2014. Net sales by all business segments. The most significant decline took country were 60% (52) from Finland, 27% (32) from place in Russian operations where in 2015 one residential Scandinavia, 7% (10) from Russia and 6% (6) from other development project was completed compared to two countries. projects in 2014. In addition, building construction contracting was reduced in Russia from the previous year. The decrease in the net sales of other operations is due to the divestment of the building construction business in Sweden in the third quarter. Changes in currency 61 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Operating profit Operating profit by segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Paving, EUR million 16.9 32.2 -15.3 Infra projects, EUR million 11.8 7.2 4.6 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 12.9 9.3 3.6 Russian operations, EUR million 2.9 19.7 -16.8 Business segments, total, EUR million 44.5 68.5 -24.0 Other operations, EUR million -7.2 -32.2 25.0 Group, total, EUR million 37.3 36.3 1.0 Operating margin (%) by segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Paving, % 1.9 3.5 Infra projects, % 4.5 2.5 Building construction, Finland, % 2.4 1.7 Russian operations, % 2.1 10.1 Group, total, % 2.0 1.8 The Group’s operating profit in 2015 was EUR 37.3 million In Paving, the decline of the operating profit was mainly due (36.3). The operating margin was 2.0% (1.8). Changes in to a weaker year-on-year result in Norway, the divestment of currency exchange rates had a negative impact of EUR -0.5 the road maintenance business in Norway as well as million compared to the corresponding period in 2014. declining margins in individual earthworks projects in Finland. The operating profit for Russian operations declined The operating profit improved in Infra projects and Building year-on-year. In 2015, one residential development project construction, Finland, but declined in Paving and Russian was completed compared to two projects in 2014. The fulloperations. In Infra projects, profitability developed favourably year operating profit was also decreased by a write-down in all operating countries, except in Sweden, where lower related to the company’s decision to withdraw from the year-on-year volumes weakened the result. The Infra projects planned Ilmatar project. At the end of the review period, the segment’s comparison period included a write-down of EUR impact of the write-down in euros was EUR 12.9 million. The 3 million related to a customer’s bankruptcy. In Building result for other operations was mostly improved by lowered construction, Finland, the result was boosted by the good fixed costs. performance in the Helsinki metropolitan area and the profitability improvement in other regions. Order book Order book Order book Order inflow Order inflow Order book and order inflow 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Change 1-12/2015 1-12/2014 Change Paving, EUR million 225.0 334.3 -109.3 558.3 685.2 -126.9 Infra projects, EUR million 187.8 214.5 -26.7 173.8 99.2 74.6 Building construction, Finland, EUR million 760.6 687.1 73.5 569.2 599.0 -29.8 Russian operations, EUR million 7.0 86.4 -79.4 22.8 54.9 -32.1 Other operations, EUR million 133.8 -133.8 93.3 89.0 4.3 Group, total, EUR million 1,180.3 1,456.1 -275.8 1,417.4 1,527.4 -110.0 of which unsold, EUR million 156.1 188.7 -32.6 At the end of the period, the Group’s order book stood at EUR decreased year-on-year. In Building construction, Finland, 1,180.3 million (1,456.1). The order inflow amounted to EUR the order book grew. In line with the company’s strategy, no 1,417.4 million (1,527.4) in January–December. new development projects were started in building construction in Russia in 2015. The change of the order book Paving segment’s order book for the comparison period in other operations is due to the divestment of the building includes the divested road maintenance business in Norway, construction business in Sweden. which explains the change. In Infra projects, the order book 62 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Balance sheet, cash flow and and financing Balance sheet, cash flow and and financing Balance sheet and financing 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Change Key figures, balance sheet Equity ratio, %* 40.6 37.1 Gearing, %** 33.6 51.8 Return on investment, rolling 12 months, %*** 10.2 13.5 Return on capital employed, rolling 12 months, %**** 5.3 4.5 Capital invested, EUR million 632.3 760.3 -128.0 Operating capital, EUR million 474.8 590.4 -115.6 Net working capital, EUR million 258.7 335.1 -76.4 Financial position and liquidity Interest-bearing debt, EUR million 254.7 347.8 -93.1 of which long-term liabilities, EUR million 123.1 139.5 -16.4 of which short-term liabilities, EUR million 131.6 208.3 -76.7 Liquid funds, EUR million 127.9 134.2 -6.3 Interest-bearing net debt, EUR million 126.8 213.6 -86.8 Committed, unused credit limits, EUR million 185.0 185.0 0 Unused overdraft limits, EUR million 12.3 33.2 -20.9 * If the hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, the equity ratio would be: 12/2015: 28.6% and 12/2014: 24.6%. ** If the hybrid bonds were recognised as debt, gearing would be: 12/2015: 89.6% and 12/2014: 128.4%. *** Includes the effect of discontinued operations **** Calculation: Operating profit, rolling 12 months / (Total equity (quarterly average) + interest-bearing liabilities (quarterly average)) x 100 On 31 December 2015, the balance sheet total was EUR EUR 127.9 million (134.2). Of the company’s interest1,035.5 million (1,257.8), of which shareholders’ equity bearing debt, EUR 104.1 million (127.1) comprises accounted for EUR 377.6 million (412.5). Shareholders’ borrowings of housing and commercial property companies equity includes EUR 111.6 million (138.4) in hybrid bonds. In included in inventory, EUR 99.7 million (99.6) bonds, EUR the second quarter, the Group completed a partial repurchase 13.1 million (63.4) commercial papers, EUR 34.8 million of its EUR 70 million hybrid bond issued in 2012 by (50.2) finance lease liabilities and EUR 3.0 million (7.5) repurchasing notes to a nominal amount of EUR 27.1 million other financial liabilities. In addition, the company had in exchange for cash. The Group is entitled to redeem the unused credit facilities worth EUR 185.0 million (185.0) and remaining EUR 42.9 million hybrid bond in March 2016. The overdraft limits worth EUR 12.3 million (33.2) at the end of Group also issued a EUR 70 million hybrid bond in 2014, the period. Of all interest-bearing debt, 55% (41) was at a which it is entitled to redeem in March 2018. fixed interest rate. The Group’s operating capital on 31 December 2015 Net finance costs decreased, amounting EUR 20.6 million amounted to EUR 474.8 million (590.4). The change from (37.9) in January–December. The finance costs for 2015 the previous year is attributable to decreased investments, were reduced by a decrease in interest expenses and currency the sale of tangible assets and a reduction in net working hedging costs compared to 2014, among other things. In capital. At the end of the review period, net working capital addition, the figures for the comparison period were stood at EUR 258.7 million (335.1). Net working capital was negatively impacted by, for instance, a EUR 7 million writereduced by decreasing housing start-ups in Russia and down of loan receivables made in the third quarter, related to Finland, improving invoicing efficiency, increasing the use of the divestment of Lemcon Networks’ businesses in the factoring and improving inventory turnover in the Paving Americas, as well as the costs of renegotiated credit limits segment, among other things. and the negative valuation of interest rate derivatives as a result of lower interest rates. The interest expenses of the Interest-bearing debt at the end of the period amounted to hybrid bonds are not recorded under finance costs in the EUR 254.7 million (347.8) and interest-bearing net debt income statement; instead, their impact can be seen in totalled EUR 126.8 million (213.6). Strong cash flow from earnings per share and changes in equity. operating activities has impacted the net debt favourably. In addition, debt has been reduced by divesting assets. LongCash flow from operating activities amounted to EUR 106.6 term interest-bearing debt accounted for 48% (40) of the million (-48.4) in January–December. Changes in working loan portfolio at the end of the period. Liquid funds totalled capital strengthened the cash flow for January–December. 63 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The company has, among other measures, adjusted its housing production in Russia and improved invoicing efficiency. The Q1/2014 cash flow includes the payment of EUR 59.7 million in damages related to the asphalt cartel. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Business segments Business segments The reporting structure change in 2016 Along with the strategy review, the Paving segment’s project-related business operations, such as earthworks, was Paving transferred to the Infra projects segment starting from 1 Operating environment January 2016. The decrease in paving’s unit prices driven by the falling price of bitumen increased demand especially in Finland. Infra As of the beginning of 2016, the Paving segment includes projects in urban growth centres supported the demand for paving and mineral aggregates businesses and the Infra earthworks and mineral aggregates. In Sweden and Norway, projects segment consists of rock engineering, earthworks road construction and renovation projects increased the and civil engineering. The reportable business segments demand for paving. In Denmark, competition is intense and remain unchanged: Paving; Infra projects; Building the decline of public investments decreased paving volumes. construction, Finland; and Russian operations. In the Baltic countries, the market situation remained stable. The company will publish pro forma figures for 2015 according to the new reporting structure during the first quarter in 2016. Key figures for the Paving segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Net sales, EUR million 874.5 907.5 -33.0 Operating profit, EUR million 16.9 32.2 -15.3 % of net sales 1.9 3.5 Order inflow, EUR million 558.3 685.2 -126.9 Order book, EUR million * 225.0 334.3 -109.3 Operating capital, EUR million * 231.2 262.1 -30.9 * at the end of the period Net sales in January–December totalled EUR 874.5 million (907.5). Net sales by country were 45% (43) from Finland, Infra projects 43% (44) from Scandinavia and 12% (13) from the Baltic Operating environment countries. The operating profit was EUR 16.9 million (32.2). Urbanisation and investments in energy infrastructure The decline of the operating profit was due to a weaker yearincreased the demand for complex infrastructure on-year result in Norway, the divestment of the road construction. Especially in Sweden and Norway, the market is maintenance business in Norway as well as declining strong and there are several major projects ongoing or margins in individual earthworks projects in Finland. Paving planned. In Finland, construction was supported by complex businesses’ performance in Finland, Sweden and the Baltic infrastructure construction projects in urban growth centres. countries improved year-on-year, which supported the result. In the Baltic countries, the market situation was stable. Paving segment’s order book for the comparison period includes the divested road maintenance business in Norway, which explains the change. In January–December Lemminkäinen produced 6.5 million tonnes of asphalt (6.3). Key figures for the Infra projects segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change 64 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Key figures for the Infra projects segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Net sales, EUR million 263.1 286.0 -22.9 Operating profit, EUR million 11.8 7.2 4.6 % of net sales 4.5 2.5 Order inflow, EUR million 173.8 99.2 74.6 Order book, EUR million * 187.8 214.5 -26.7 Operating capital, EUR million * 1.2 -0.9 2.1 * at the end of the period Net sales in January–December totalled EUR 263.1 million (286.0). Net sales by country were 73% (59) from Finland, Building construction, Finland 18% (37) from Scandinavia, 5% (3) from the Baltic Operating environment countries and 4% (1) from other countries. The operating The market situation in building construction remained profit improved and was EUR 11.8 million (7.2). The stable during 2015. Housing production continued to focus operating profit increased the most in Finland due to good on small apartments in urban growth centres. Housing funds project management of major projects. Profitability are still very active and sales to investors compensated for developed favourably also in other countries, except in weaker consumer sales. Commercial construction, especially Sweden, where lower year-on-year volumes weakened the outside the Helsinki metropolitan area, was at a low level. result. The operating profit for the comparison period was weakened by a write-down of EUR 3 million related to a customer’s bankruptcy. Operating capital stood at EUR 1.2 million (-0.9) at the end of the period. Key figures for the Building construction, Finland segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Net sales, EUR million 537.8 539.0 -1.2 Operating profit, EUR million 12.9 9.3 3.6 % of net sales 2.4 1.7 Order inflow, EUR million 569.2 599.0 -29.8 Order book, EUR million * 760.6 687.1 73.5 Operating capital, EUR million * 274.8 303.7 -28.9 * at the end of the period Net sales in January–December totalled EUR 537.8 million by the completion of a major residential and commercial (539.0). Net sales grew in the Helsinki metropolitan area, but project in the Töölö Bay district in Helsinki. decreased in other regions. The operating profit improved year-on-year, amounting to EUR 12.9 million (9.3). The In the uncertain economic situation, the number of residential result was boosted by the good performance in the Helsinki start-ups was scaled down in 2015 and sale of completed metropolitan area and the profitability improvement outside units was enhanced. At the end of the review period, the the capital region. The full-year result was weakened by number of unsold completed units was lower than in the expenses recognised in the second quarter, exceeding EUR 5 comparison period totalling 283 (336). Operating capital million comprising losses from non-strategic plot sales and decreased and stood at EUR 274.8 million (303.7). provisions related to warranty repairs, among others. The In 2016, the number of completed residential development result for the comparison period was burdened by an projects will be lower than in 2015. The majority of these approximately EUR 4 million write-down related to an earlier projects will be completed towards the end of the year. consortium. However, the 2014 result was boosted Lemminkäinen’s residential production 65 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Lemminkäinen’s residential production (development projects and negotiated contracting) Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Started, units 1,253 1,410 -157 of which development projects, units 693 979 -286 Completed, units 1,236 1,363 -127 of which development projects, units 859 1,088 -229 Sold, units 1,377 1,280 97 of which development projects, units 817 849 -32 Sales to investors, % 51 47 Under construction at end of period, units 1,388 1,362 26 of which unsold, units * 464 522 -58 Unsold completed at end of period, units 283 336 -53 Land bank, balance sheet value at end of period, EUR million 105.3 105.4 -0.1 Started in competitive contracting, units 542 244 298 * at the end of period intensified and loan processing times have lengthened. Russian operations Construction and repair projects on major roads maintained Operating environment demand for paving. The operating environment in Russia remained uncertain. Consumer purchasing power has declined due to rising inflation. Competition in the housing market has Key figures for the Russian operations segment Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Net sales, EUR million 136.7 196.1 -59.4 Operating profit, EUR million 2.9 19.7 -16.8 % of net sales 2.1 10.1 Order inflow, EUR million 22.8 54.9 -32.1 Order book, EUR million * 7.0 86.4 -79.4 Operating capital, EUR million * 35.0 68.4 -33.4 * at the end of the period In January–December, net sales totalled EUR 136.7 million full-year operating profit was reduced by a write-down (196.1) and the operating profit was EUR 2.9 million (19.7). related to the company’s decision to withdraw from the Changes in currency exchange rates had a negative impact of planned Ilmatar project. At the end of the review period, the EUR -45.6 million on net sales and a negative impact of impact of the write-down in euros was EUR 12.9 million. In EUR -1.0 million on the operating profit compared to the order to maintain its moderate risk level, Lemminkäinen has corresponding period in 2014. decided, in line with its strategy, not to start new residential development projects for the time being in Russia. Net sales and the operating profit decreased. During 2015, one residential development project was completed At the end of the review period, the order book stood at EUR compared to two projects in 2014, which can be seen in the 7.0 million (86.4), consisting mostly of the paving order lower number of units completed and sold. In addition, book. Solid housing sales have reduced the amount of building construction contracting was reduced from the operating capital, which stood at EUR 35.0 million (68.4) at comparison period. In paving operations, profitability has the end of the period. improved due to a better contract portfolio. The segment’s Lemminkäinen’s residential development, Russia Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Change Started, units 0 0 0 Completed, units 418 545 -127 Sold, units 384 520 -136 Under construction at end of period, units 0 418 -418 of which unsold, units 0 283 -283 Unsold completed at end of period, units 51 139 -88 66 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Investments Investments Gross investments in 2015 showed a substantial year-onhas continued to implement stricter decision-making criteria year decline and amounted to EUR 10.3 million (30.0), regarding investments and to improve the efficiency of its representing 0.6% (1.5) of the company’s net sales. monitoring processes. The reduction of investments has Lemminkäinen’s investments were mainly replacement released capital, particularly in Paving. investments in Paving and Infra projects. The company Financials › Board of Directors' report › Personnel Personnel At the end of 2015, Lemminkäinen employed 4,059 people adjustment of Lemminkäinen’s building construction (4,748), a decrease of 689 people year-on-year. The number operations in Russia. Of the personnel in the review period, of personnel has decreased due to results of negotiations on 1,845 (2,070) were white-collar workers and 2,214 (2,678) personnel reductions and other similar measures in all were blue-collar workers. operating countries in 2014, the divestments of the building construction business in Sweden and the road maintenance business in Norway as well as the Personnel by business segment, continuing operations 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Change Paving, persons 2,124 2,225 -101 Infra projects, persons 463 439 24 Building construction, Finland, persons 947 1,038 -91 Russian operations, persons 405 635 -230 Parent company and others, persons 120 411 -291 Group, total, persons 4,059 4,748 -689 Personnel by country, continuing operations 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014* Change Finland, persons 2,204 2,286 -82 Sweden, Norway, Denmark, persons 804 1,155 -351 Baltic countries, persons 625 642 -17 Russia, persons 405 635 -230 Other countries, persons 21 30 -9 Group, total, persons 4,059 4,748 -689 * The figures for 2014 have been adjusted for Finland and Other countries Financials › Board of Directors' report › Changes in the Executive Team Changes in the Executive Team Robert Blumberg started as Executive Vice President, Paving and member of Lemminkäinen’s Executive Team on 1 January 2015. Executive Vice President, Russian operations and member of Lemminkäinen’s Executive Team Maaret Heiskari left the company and her position in the Group Executive Team on 30 June 2015. 67 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Occupational safety and environment Occupational safety and environment The goal of Lemminkäinen’s occupational safety measures is in its mineral aggregate areas. Lemminkäinen develops its to create a safe working environment for all employees and production technology in order to reduce its energy subcontractors. Lemminkäinen is committed to the shared consumption and environmental impact. occupational safety principles of the Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries RT, which aims to accelerate In 2015, Lemminkäinen defined the sustainability aspects the construction industry’s progress towards the zerothat are most relevant to the company’s operations as well as accident target. related targets. In addition to the internal working group, external stakeholders contributed to the definition work. The In 2015, the company continued the development of safety project also resulted in Lemminkäinen’s operating model for activities and the implementation of best practices in all of sustainability that specifies roles and responsibilities as well its operations. The company monitors the accident frequency as follow-up and reporting methods and related indicators. rate monthly and makes actions plans accordingly. The The indicators are related to energy consumption and company also monitors subcontractors’ accident frequency material efficiency, for instance. rates. More detailed information on Lemminkäinen’s sustainability Lemminkäinen minimises the environmental impact of its measures are presented in the company’s Annual Report and operations by using natural resources as sparingly as possible on its website. and by using recycled materials in its production, among other measures. The company invests in safeguarding biodiversity by developing post-extraction measures Financials › Board of Directors' report › Research and development Research and development The Group’s business segments are each responsible for their paving R&D. The company aims to constantly increase the own research and development activities. Research and percentage of low-temperature and recycled asphalts in its development at Lemminkäinen focuses on the improvement production, for instance. In 2015, the Group’s research and of environmental and energy efficiency as well as development expenditure accounted for approximately 0.2 development activities carried out in projects. In addition, the (0.5) per cent of net sales. company has ongoing projects to improve operational efficiency. Lemminkäinen’s Central Laboratory focuses on Financials › Board of Directors' report › Shares and shareholders Shares and shareholders The company has one share class. Each share carries one In addition to the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd, Lemminkäinen’s share vote at a general meeting of shareholders and confers an is also traded on alternative markets. A total of 2,759,034 equal right to a dividend. Lemminkäinen’s share capital is shares (1,268,320) were traded during January–December EUR 34,042,500 and the total number of shares was 2015, of which alternative markets accounted for 5% (14). 23,219,900 at the end of the review period. At the end of the (Source: Fidessa Fragmentation Index, review period, Lemminkäinen owned 16,687 of its own http://fragmentation.fidessa.com). shares. Shareholders Trading with shares On 31 December 2015, the company had 4,391 shareholders On 31 December 2015, the market capitalisation of (4,532). Nominee-registered and non-Finnish shareholders Lemminkäinen’s shares stood at EUR 320.0 million (220.9). held 12.5 per cent (12.7) of all Lemminkäinen Corporation The price of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share on the shares and voting rights. Information on company ownership Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd was on 1 January 2015 EUR 9.52 and division by segment and scale, major shareholders, and (15.20) and on 31 December 2015 EUR 13.79. share ownership of the Executive Team members 68 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 and the Board of Directors is available on the company’s received two flagging notifications. As a result of an estate website, www.lemminkainen.com/Investors/Owners. distribution, the number of shares and votes held by Olavi Pentti's estate in Lemminkäinen Corporation has decreased Shareholder agreements from 1,496,635, i.e. around 6.45 per cent, to zero. At the The company is not aware of any agreements between same time, the number of shares held by Lauri Pentti has, as shareholders that would have a significant bearing on the use a result of an estate distribution increased to 1,161,635 of ownership rights or voting behaviour at general meetings shares, which corresponds to over 5 per cent of all shares and of shareholders. votes in Lemminkäinen Corporation. Flagging notifications During the year 2015 (30 September), Lemminkäinen Financials › Board of Directors' report › Resolutions of the AGM and administration Resolutions of the AGM and administration On 25 March 2015, Lemminkäinen Corporation's Annual The General Meeting confirmed the number of members of General Meeting adopted the company's annual accounts the Board of Directors as seven. Berndt Brunow, Noora and consolidated financial statements for 2014 and granted Forstén, Finn Johnsson, Juhani Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von the members of the Board of Directors as well as the persons Walzel, Heikki Räty and Heppu Pentti were elected as having acted as the President and CEO and the Interim members of the Board. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, a firm of President and CEO discharge from liability. authorised public accountants, was re-elected to serve as the company's auditor. Kim Karhu, Authorised Public The General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the Board Accountant, was the chief auditor until the Annual General of Directors' proposal, that no dividend be paid for the Meeting held on 25 March 2015 after which Markku financial year ended on 31 December 2014. Katajisto, Authorised Public Accountant, became the chief auditor. The General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the Board of Directors' proposal, to authorise the Board of Directors to Lemminkäinen Corporation's Board of Directors‘ organising resolve on the repurchase of the company's own shares. In meeting was held on 25 March 2015. In the meeting the accordance with the authorisation, the Board of Directors Board of Directors elected the Chairman and the Vice may resolve to repurchase a maximum of 2,321,990 own Chairman of the Board and decided the composition of the shares. The authorisation is effective for a period of 18 Board’s committees. The Board re-elected Berndt Brunow as months from the resolution of the General Meeting. the Chairman and Juhani Mäkinen as the Vice Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors elected from among its The General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the Board members Heikki Räty to serve as the Chairman of the Audit of Directors' proposal, to authorise the Board of Directors to Committee, with Juhani Mäkinen and Kristina Pentti-von resolve on a share issue and/or an issue of special rights Walzel serving as members. Berndt Brunow was elected to entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10, Section 1 of the serve as the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, with Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act in one or several Noora Forstén and Kristina Pentti-von Walzel serving as instalments, either against payment or without payment. The members. Berndt Brunow was elected to serve as the number of shares to be issued, including the shares to be Chairman of the HR Committee, with Noora Forstén and received based on special rights, shall not exceed 4,643,980 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel serving as members. shares. The Board of Directors may resolve to issue either new shares or own shares possibly held by the company. The authorisation is in force for a period of 18 months from the resolution of the General Meeting. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Legal proceedings Legal proceedings decided on in November 2013 started at the Helsinki Court of Damages related to the asphalt cartel Appeal on 2 March 2015 and ended on 1 October 2015. The The oral hearing of the legal proceedings concerning the Court has not yet confirmed the exact time when it will give damages which the Helsinki District Court 69 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 its verdicts but has preliminary stated that the verdicts will used in asphalt mass production, as defined in the be given during 2016. The decisions could have a significant environmental permits of the company’s Sammonmäki impact on Lemminkäinen’s financial position. In addition, asphalt plant in Finland. The prosecutor demanded Lemminkäinen has been served summons regarding 21 Lemminkäinen a confiscation of illegal profit of EUR 3.4 claims against Lemminkäinen and other asphalt companies million and a corporate fine of at least EUR 120,000. The for damages. The capital amount of these claims is court ruled that neither Lemminkäinen nor the two employees approximately EUR 26 million. For these claims, were guilty of an environmental infraction. The prosecutor Lemminkäinen has made a provision worth EUR 13.0 million. and the Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the More information can be found on the company’s website Environment (ELY Centre) have appealed against the http://www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/ decisions of the District Court. The hearing will continue next Lemminkainen-as-an-investment/Asphalt-cartel-issue/. at the Court of Appeal. Quotas related to the use of recycled asphalt Crushing recycled asphalt for using it as raw material for new The situation has not changed after the publication of the asphalt is an ecological practice. It reduces the previous interim report on 30 October 2015. On 11 June environmental hazards of production when compared to 2015, the District Court of Tuusula acquitted Lemminkäinen asphalt made of virgin materials. Asphalt mass containing and two of its employees of environmental infraction recycled asphalt is of the same quality as asphalt mass made charges. The alleged offence was related to the quotas for of virgin materials. the amount of recycled asphalt Financials › Board of Directors' report › Risks and uncertainties Risks and uncertainties Risk management is an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s prolonged political uncertainty or the significant escalation in business operations. Its main target is to ensure the the sanctions between the EU and Russia could have a achievement of the strategic and operational targets with the negative effect on the company’s business operations. best possible results, including the continuity of the Furthermore, the political culture, legislation, its operations under changing conditions. The company’s risk interpretation and procedures of the authorities in Russia management is based on the risk management policy compared to Finland, in addition to the uncertainty of the approved by the Board of Directors. A more detailed legal system, administrative procedures and interpretation of description of risk management can be found on the law enforcement mechanisms, as well as changes in them, company’s website may result in significant risks. Lemminkäinen has improved http://www.lemminkainen.com/Lemminkainen/Investors/ the efficiency of housing sales in Russia, and in order to Corporate-Governance/Risk-management/. maintain a moderate risk level in Russia, the company will not start new development projects in building construction Uncertainty in the global economy and financial markets may in Russia for the time being. have a negative effect on Lemminkäinen’s operations, performance, financial position and sources of capital. The In the residential and commercial development and company’s business operations are sensitive to new construction projects, Lemminkäinen is exposed to sales and construction cycles in Finland in particular. Lemminkäinen price risks due to the market situation continuing to be manages these kinds of risks structurally by distributing its challenging and due to the full responsibility over the entire business operations throughout Scandinavia, the Baltic project, starting with plot acquisition. The company’s target countries and Russia. is to actively manage and monitor the risk related to the capital tied up in unsold completed apartments and other Change management, successful recruitment and skilled and assets. Lemminkäinen takes market changes and risks into motivated personnel play a key role in ensuring that account when assessing whether to start new development operations are in line with the targets set, yield results and and construction projects. The company only starts new comply with business-related laws and regulations and good housing construction if a sufficient number of units have business practices. The business segments develop their been reserved in advance. The number of unsold completed operating models to increase agility, cost efficiency and apartments is kept to a minimum. Commercial development operational consistency. projects are usually sold to property investors in the early stages of construction, thereby reducing sales risks. In Russia, the weakened economic situation, the exchange rate fluctuations of the rouble and the 70 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Lemminkäinen’s financial performance depends on to financial risks, mainly funding, liquidity, foreign exchange successful permit, contract and project management, which rate, interest rate and credit risks, and to impairment risk of involves risks related to, for instance, project pricing, use of tangible and intangible assets. Management of financial resources, project planning and scheduling, ability to procure risks is based on Lemminkäinen’s treasury policy, which raw materials at competitive prices, cost control, change defines the operating principles and division of responsibility management as well as handling of claims for damages. In in financial risk management and funding activities. External addition, project-related legal proceedings may have a events may also negatively impact the availability of funding, negative effect on the company’s financial performance. its costs and/or repayment plans. The company seeks to Lemminkäinen continually develops its contractual expertise ensure the availability of funding, optimise the use of liquid and project management practices during the tender and assets in funding its business operations and to minimise execution stage. In addition, project tracking systems and interest and other finance costs. Lemminkäinen protects steering models are being renewed. itself from currency exchange risks primarily through operative means. If necessary, transaction risks are hedged Fluctuations in the price of raw materials may have an with the aid of foreign currency loans and currency impact on financial performance. Lemminkäinen’s biggest derivatives. In 2015, approximately 34% of the company’s individual outsourced raw material is bitumen, and its price net sales were generated in functional currencies other than largely depends on the world market price of oil. The the euro, the major currencies being the Norwegian, Swedish company manages the bitumen price risk with contractual and Danish kronas as wells as the Russian rouble. terms and derivatives. Lemminkäinen does not hedge translation risk. The translation difference of our shareholders’ equity is mainly Furthermore, changes in the weather may cause fluctuations related to the Russian business operations. in the income. Weather conditions influence especially the lengths of the Paving segment’s paving and mineral A more detailed description of risk management can be found aggregates businesses working seasons, which may have an on the company’s website. A more detailed account of the effect on the company’s profit and its timing. financial risks is provided in the notes to the annual financial statements. In its business operations, Lemminkäinen is exposed Financials › Board of Directors' report › Outlook Outlook In Finland, the total volume of construction is expected to road and railway projects are ongoing or planned near urban grow slightly in 2016. Housing production is likely to remain growth centres in Sweden and Norway, which will increase stable and demand for apartments will still be focused on demand for infra projects. These countries are also investing small units in urban growth centres. Sales to investors are significantly in the development and renewal of energy expected to remain active. Commercial construction will production. Demand for paving in Sweden and Norway is increase, thanks to individual major projects and public expected to remain at the 2015 level. sector works. Renovation will continue to be brisk but its growth will slow down. In Denmark, growth in paving is restricted by a decrease in public investments. Cuts made by the government and economic uncertainty restrict infrastructure construction investments in Finland. In Russia, market uncertainty is likely to continue. The Construction of transport infrastructure is not expected to fluctuations in the price of oil are reflected in the currency grow in 2016 although the state’s planned investments in exchange rate. Rising inflation continues to decline consumer basic road maintenance will increase demand for paving purchasing power. The state of Russia still tries to maintain somewhat in the next few years. Demand for infra projects is demand for housing by subsidising consumer mortgages. maintained by complex projects in urban growth centres, but Construction and repair projects on major roads maintain the market is expected to decline in 2016 as many new demand for paving. decisions are still pending. In the Baltic countries, the volume of infrastructure In Norway and Sweden, infrastructure construction is construction is estimated to start growing moderately in boosted by multi-year, state-funded traffic infrastructure 2016. The possible launch of the Rail Baltica traffic project development programmes. In both countries, infrastructure would increase the demand for infrastructure construction in construction is expected to grow in 2016. Large-scale all of the Baltic countries. 71 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Board of Directors' report › Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit The distributable shareholders’ equity shown on the balance The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that for the sheet of the parent company, Lemminkäinen Corporation, financial year that ended on 31 December 2015, the amounts to EUR 138,209,602.00 consisting of EUR company will distribute a per-share dividend of EUR 0.12 to 90,580,653.68 in invested unrestricted equity fund, a total of EUR 2,786,388.00, after which retained earnings EUR 45,578,889.18 in retained earnings from previous would stand at EUR 44,842,560.32. years and EUR 2,050,059.14 in result for the financial year. Financials › Board of Directors' report › Profit guidance for 2016 Profit guidance for 2016 Lemminkäinen estimates that its net sales in 2016 will be on Helsinki, 4 February 2016 the level of EUR 1.8 billion. Operating profit (IFRS) in 2016 is expected to improve as compared to 2015 (EUR 37.3 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATION million). Board of Directors 72 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated income statement (IFRS) Consolidated income statement (IFRS) EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Net sales 4 5 6 1,879.0 2,044.5 Other operating income 7 11.0 18.3 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress -81.1 14.5 Production for own use 0.1 1.4 Use of materials and services 1,299.6 1,477.5 Employee benefit expenses 8 29 30 38 294.9 337.0 Depreciation and amortisation 4 9 38.0 43.2 Impairment 9 0.4 1.3 Other operating expenses 10 140.2 184.0 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 11 1.4 0.5 Operating profit 4 37.3 36.3 Finance income 12 33.9 41.3 Finance costs 12 54.5 79.2 Profit before income taxes 16.7 -1.7 Income taxes 13 -9.4 -3.3 Profit from continuing operations 7.2 -5.0 Profit from discontinued operations 14 23.1 Profit for the financial year 7.2 18.1 Profit for the financial year attributable to Equity holders of the parent company 7.2 18.2 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 Basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company, EUR From continuing operations 15 -0.15 -0.68 From discontinued operations 15 1.08 From profit for the year 15 -0.15 0.40 73 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (IFRS) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (IFRS) EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Profit for the financial year 7.2 18.1 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Defined benefit pension obligations 16 29 0.3 0.0 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation differences 16 27 -4.2 -18.6 Cash flow hedge 16 27 0.1 Other comprehensive income, total -3.9 -18.5 Comprehensive income for the financial year 3.4 -0.4 Comprehensive income for the financial year Equity holders of the parent company 3.4 -0.3 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 Comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of the parent company arises from Continuing operations 3.4 -23.5 Discontinued operations 23.1 74 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) EUR million Note 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 18 149.1 181.2 Goodwill 19 53.1 53.8 Other intangible assets 19 14.0 20.2 Investments in associates and joint ventures 11 4.7 6.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 2.7 3.2 Deferred tax assets 13 36.9 42.0 Other non-current receivables 21 0.5 0.5 261.0 307.9 Current assets Inventories 22 402.0 524.0 Trade and other receivables 23 241.9 290.0 Income tax receivables 2.7 1.7 Available-for-sale financial assets 24 25.1 Cash and cash equivalents 25 127.9 109.1 774.5 949.9 TOTAL ASSETS 1,035.5 1,257.8 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to owners of the parent company Share capital 27 34.0 34.0 Share premium account 27 5.7 5.7 Invested non-restricted equity fund 27 91.4 91.4 Hybrid bonds 27 111.6 138.4 Translation differences -25.9 -21.7 Retained earnings 153.4 146.4 Profit for the financial year 7.2 18.2 377.6 412.4 Non-controlling interests 11 0.1 0.1 Total equity 377.6 412.5 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 28 123.1 139.5 Deferred tax liabilities 13 14.7 15.6 Pension obligations 29 0.1 0.6 Provisions 31 26.6 27.5 Other non-current liabilities 32 0.5 0.8 164.9 183.9 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 28 131.6 208.3 Provisions 31 13.1 11.1 Advance payments received 32 105.4 145.4 Trade and other payables 32 242.1 295.5 Income tax liabilities 0.8 1.1 492.9 661.4 Total liabilities 657.8 845.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,035.5 1,257.8 75 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) Adjusted EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Cash flows from operating activities (including discontinued operations) Profit before taxes 16.7 21.6 Adjustments 35 Depreciation and impairment 38.4 44.7 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures -1.4 -0.5 Finance income and costs 12 20.6 37.9 Other adjustments 29.2 -22.9 Cash flows before change in working capital 103.4 80.8 Change in working capital Increase (-)/decrease(+) in trade and other receivables 19.7 13.0 Increase (-)/decrease(+) in inventories 79.6 -51.6 Increase (+)/decrease(-) in current liabilities -57.8 -54.2 Cash flows from operations before financial items and taxes 144.8 -12.0 Interest paid -29.8 -29.2 Other finance costs paid -6.2 -6.9 Dividends received 0.5 0.6 Interest received 1.3 0.7 Other finance income received 0.0 0.1 Income tax paid -4.1 -1.7 Cash flow from operating activities 106.6 -48.4 Cash flows from investing activities (including discontinued operations) Purchases of property, plant and equipment -9.2 -23.7 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7.4 15.3 Purchases of intangible assets -1.2 -3.7 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 1.0 0.2 Investments in other assets -93.8 Proceeds from sale of other investments available-for-sale 26.2 100.0 Acquired subsidiary shares less cash and cash equivalents at time of purchase -1.6 -2.8 Disposed subsidiary shares less cash and cash equivalents at time of sale 1.1 58.6 Disposed shares in associates and joint ventures 3.9 0.4 Cash flow from investing activities 27.7 50.5 Cash flows from financing activities (including discontinued operations) Increase (-)/decrease(+) of long-term loan receivables 0.1 -0.6 Rights offering 29.3 Transaction cost from rights offering -2.0 Proceeds from short-term borrowings 112.7 199.7 Repayments of short-term borrowings -182.7 -310.0 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 0.0 300.6 Repayments of long-term borrowings -4.9 -217.7 Increase(+)/decrease(-) of hybrid bonds -27.1 69.3 Repayments of finance lease liabilities -13.2 -12.0 Dividends paid -0.1 Cash flow from financing activities -115.0 56.4 Increase (-)/decrease(+) in cash and cash equivalents 19.4 58.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 109.1 51.1 Translation difference of cash and cash equivalents -0.5 -0.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of financial year 25 127.9 109.1 76 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) Invested nonParent Share restricted company NonShare premium Hedging equity Hybrid Translation Retained shareholders' controlling Total EUR million Note capital account reserve fund bonds differences earnings equity interest equity Equity 1 Jan 2014 34.0 5.7 -0.1 63.8 69.1 -3.1 154.1 323.5 0.6 324.0 Profit for the financial year 18.2 18.2 0.0 18.1 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Pension obligations 29 0.0 0.0 0.0 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation differences 27 -18.6 -18.6 -18.6 Cash flow hedge 27 0.1 0.1 0.1 Comprehensive income for the financial year 0.1 -18.6 18.2 -0.3 0.0 -0.4 Acquisition of shares of non-controlling interest 0.2 0.2 0.2 Change in noncontrolling interest -0.4 -0.4 Shares returned by the company, acquisition of non-controlling interest by share exchange in 2010 0.4 0.4 0.4 Rights offering 27 29.3 29.3 29.3 Transaction cost from rights offering 27 -1.6 -1.6 -1.6 Hybrid bonds' interests -8.3 -8.3 -8.3 Transactions with owners, total 27.7 -7.7 20.0 -0.4 19.6 Hybrid bonds 27 69.3 69.3 69.3 Equity 31 Dec 2014 34.0 5.7 91.4 138.4 -21.7 164.5 412.4 0.1 412.5 Invested 77 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Invested nonParent Share restricted company NonShare premium Hedging equity Hybrid Translation Retained shareholders' controlling Total EUR million Note capital account reserve fund bonds differences earnings equity interest equity Equity 1 Jan 2015 34.0 5.7 91.4 138.4 -21.7 164.5 412.4 0.1 412.5 Profit for the financial year 7.2 7.2 0.0 7.2 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Pension obligations 29 0.3 0.3 0.3 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Translation differences 27 -4.2 -4.2 -4.2 Comprehensive income for the financial year -4.2 7.5 3.4 0.0 3.4 Acquisition of shares of non-controlling interest -0.2 -0.2 -0.1 -0.3 Hybrid bonds' interests and costs -11.2 -11.2 -11.2 Transactions with owners, total -11.5 -11.5 -0.1 -11.5 Hybrid bonds 27 -26.7 -26.7 -26.7 Equity 31 Dec 2015 34.0 5.7 91.4 111.6 -25.9 160.6 377.6 0.1 377.6 78 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Accounting policies applied in the IFRS consolidated financial statements, 31 December 2015 Accounting policies applied in the IFRS consolidated financial statements, 31 December 2015 2016. Copies of the Lemminkäinen Corporation’s and the Basic information on the company consolidated financial statements will be available on the Lemminkäinen Corporation is a public limited company company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com from week 9 established under the laws of Finland and domiciled in of 2016 onwards. Printed copies of the consolidated Helsinki. The company’s registered address is financial statements can be ordered via e-mail Salmisaarenaukio 2, 00180, Helsinki, Finland. info@lemminkainen.com, from week 10/2016 onwards. Lemminkäinen Corporation is the parent company of the Group which shares are quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. The parent company comprises together with its subsidiaries the Principles of consolidation Lemminkäinen Group (later “the Group” or “the company”). Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include The Group produces infrastructure and building construction services mainly in Finland, other Nordic countries, Russia and Lemminkäinen Corporation and those entities (subsidiaries) over which the Group has control. Lemminkäinen Corporation the Baltic countries. controls an entity when it has power over that entity and it is Basis of preparation exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries accordance with the International Financial Reporting acquired during the accounting period are included in the Standards (IFRS), and the IAS and IFRS standards as well as consolidated financial statements from the moment of the the SIC and IFRIC interpretations that were in force on 31 Group gains control, and divested subsidiaries until the time December 2015 have been observed in their preparation. The that the control is lost. Direct acquisition costs are term ‘International Financial Reporting Standards’ refers to recognised as other operating expenses in the income standards and their interpretations authorised for use in the statement. European Union in accordance with the procedure prescribed in EU Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as well as in the Intra-group shareholdings are eliminated by means of the Finnish Accounting Act and the provisions laid down acquisition method. The acquisition price comprises the pursuant to the Act. The notes to the consolidated financial consideration paid, the non-controlling interest in the statements are also in accordance with Finnish accounting acquiree, and the fair value of the previously held interest. and corporate legislation supplemental to the IFRS The consideration paid is measured as the fair value of the regulations. assets given, liabilities assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. Any contingent consideration is The preparation of financial statements requires company’s measured at fair value at the time of acquisition and is management to make judgements, estimates and included in the consideration paid. It is classified as either a assumptions that affect the application of accounting liability or equity. Any contingent consideration classified as policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, a liability is fair valued on the reporting date of each reporting income and expense. Actual results may differ from these period, and the resulting gains or losses are recognised estimates. The areas involving management judgements, through profit or loss. A contingent consideration classified estimates and assumption are presented in paragraph as equity is not re-measured. Non-controlling interest in the Management judgements and estimates acquiree is recognised on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis The financial statements have been prepared in euros and are at either fair value or the amount corresponding to the share presented in millions of euros in the annual report. of the net assets of the acquiree held by non-controlling Transactions are treated on the basis of original acquisition interests. The amount by which the sum of the consideration costs, with the exception of financial instruments, pension paid, the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, and the fair obligations, contingent considerations in acquisitions value of the previously held interest exceed the fair value of recognised as liability and options to redeem shares from the acquired net assets is recognised as goodwill on the non-controlling shareholders recognised as liability. statement of financial position. If the total amount of consideration, the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, The Board of Directors approved the publication of the and the previously held interest is smaller than the fair value consolidated financial statements on 3 February of the acquired subsidiary’s net assets, the difference 79 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. The company consolidates joint ventures using the equity Fixed price symmetrical put and call option in relation to method. In equity method the Group’s share of the profit of acquisition of non-controlling interest is recognised at fair the joint venture corresponding to its ownership stake is value in the financial liabilities. When this kind of option included in the consolidated income statement. exists, the share of the non-controlling interest is not Correspondingly, the Group’s share of the equity in the joint recognised in the consolidated statement of financial venture, including the goodwill arising from its acquisition, is position. recorded as the value of the Group’s holding in the joint venture on the consolidated statement of financial position. The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests If the Group’s share of the losses of a joint venture exceeds is the same as that of transactions with the Group’s the investment’s carrying amount, the investment is shareholders. When shares are acquired from non-controlling assigned a value of zero on the statement of financial interests, the difference between the consideration paid and position and the excess is disregarded, unless the Group has the carrying amount of the acquired net assets in the obligations related to the joint venture. subsidiary is recognised in equity. Gains or losses from the sale of shares to non-controlling interests are also recognised Unrealised gains arising in connection with business and in equity. When control or significant influence is lost, the fixed asset transactions between the Group and joint remaining holding, if any, is measured at fair value and the ventures are eliminated in proportion to the holding. The change in the carrying amount is recognised through profit or eliminated gain is recognised through profit or loss as it is loss. This fair value serves as the original carrying amount realised. Any dividend received from the joint venture is when the remaining holding is subsequently treated as an eliminated from profit and from the acquisition value of the associate, a joint venture, or financial assets. In addition, the shares. amounts concerning said company that were previously recognised in other comprehensive income are treated as if Associates the Group had directly surrendered the related assets and An associate is an entity over which the company has liabilities. This means that amounts previously recognised in significant influence, but neither control nor joint control. If other comprehensive income items are recycled to profit or the company holds, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more loss. of the voting power of the entity, it is presumed that the company has significant influence, unless it can be clearly Intra-group transactions; unrealised internal margins; and demonstrated that this is not the case. The company internal receivables, liabilities, and dividend payments are consolidates associates using the equity method. The Equity eliminated on consolidation. The distribution of profit for the method is described above in Joint arrangements paragraph. financial year to the shareholders of the parent company and to the non-controlling interests is presented in the income Operating segments statement. On the statement of financial position, the nonThe company changed its reporting structure on 1 January controlling interest is included in the total equity of the 2015. The earlier Infrastructure construction operating Group. segment was divided into two new operating segments. The paving, mineral aggregates and earthworks businesses were Joint arrangements transferred to the new Paving operating segment. Foundation A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more engineering, civil engineering and rock engineering constitute parties have joint control based on a contractual the new Infra projects operating segment. As of 1 January arrangement. Joint control exists only when decisions about 2015, the company’s operating segments are: the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Control is defined similarly as with Paving; subsidiaries. Infra projects; Building construction, Finland and A joint arrangement is classified as a joint operation or a joint Russian operations. venture. The participating parties of a joint operation have the rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, The Group’s parent company, and other operations and relating to the arrangement. The company consolidates its assets unallocated to the segments, such as building share of the joint operation’s assets, liabilities, revenues and construction in Sweden, an associated company engaged in expenses. The company’s consortiums in Finland are the real estate rental business called Finavo Oy as well as typically classified as joint operations. companies managing individual plots and plants mainly The participating parties of a joint venture have the right to outside Finland are reported as part of the Group’s other operations. the joint arrangement’s net assets. 80 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In addition, the company has changed its accounting policies stops/ceases from the moment the asset is classified as held for segment reporting as of 1 January 2015. In the future, for sale. The company will report the operating capital for the Group and each segment to the chief operating decision maker. The A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that operating capital consists of property, plant and equipment, either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale. A goodwill, other intangible assets and net working capital. The discontinued operation represents a separate major line of net working capital includes inventories, current trade and business or geographical area of operations, or is part of a coother receivables, provisions, current trade and other payables ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business as well as income tax receivables and liabilities. However, the or geographical area of operations. As well a subsidiary net working capital allocated to the segments excludes acquired exclusively with a view to resale is classified as a accrued personnel expenses and accrued interest, accruals discontinued operation. The profit for the current and related to derivatives as well as accrued direct and indirect comparative period from discontinued operation is presented taxes. These figures are reported separately as items separately in the consolidated income statement. unallocated to segments. Foreign currency items Reported segment information is based on internal segment The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, reporting to the chief operating decision maker. which is also the functional and presentation currency of the Lemminkäinen Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Group’s parent company. The figures relating to the profit President and CEO of Lemminkäinen Corporation. Internal and financial position of Group companies are initially segment reporting to the management covers net sales, recognised in the functional currency of their operating depreciation, operating profit, and operating capital. The environment. Every Group company’s functional currency is figures reported to the management are accurate to the the primary currency of the economic environment in which nearest million euros. the entity/company operates. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the Reportable segment information is prepared according to the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. accounting policies applied for the consolidated financial Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies statements with the exception of discontinued operations, are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the which are not specified in the segment information. reporting date. Exchange rate differences resulting from Intra-group transactions are priced at market prices. The cost operating activities are recorded as adjustments to the plus method, wherein the price of a product or service is corresponding items above the operating profit. Exchange determined by the addition of an appropriate profit mark-up rate gains and losses related to financing are recognised as to the costs incurred, is the main transfer pricing method finance income and costs. applied. Income statements of Group companies outside the Euro area are translated into euros in line with the average Presentation of the financial statements exchange rates for the accounting period. Items in the The Group presents two separate income statements: the statement of financial position and in the statement of consolidated income statement and the consolidated comprehensive income are translated into euros at the statement of comprehensive income. The former includes the exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date. The components of profit and loss and the latter starts with the translation differences resulting from the translation of the profit for the financial period and presents the equity changes income statement and the statement of financial position at that are unrelated to the shareholders. The consolidated different exchange rates and from the elimination of the statement of changes in equity itemises the transactions acquisition cost of subsidiaries outside the euro area are with shareholders. recognised in equity and the changes presented in the statement of comprehensive income. When foreign Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued subsidiaries or businesses operating in foreign currency are operations divested, the translation difference accrued in equity is Non-current assets are classified (or disposal group) as held recognised through profit and loss as part of gains or losses. for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction and sale is highly probable. If the Goodwill arising from the acquisition of subsidiaries outside carrying amount of non-current assets will be recovered the euro area as well as fair value adjustments to the carrying principally through a sale transaction rather than through amounts of the assets and liabilities of the foreign continuing use, they are measured at the lower of its carrying subsidiaries are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign amount and fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation subsidiaries in question and are translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date. 81 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Financial assets effective interest rate method. Financial assets are recognised on the settlement date. The Group classifies financial assets on initial recognition into Cash and cash equivalents the following categories: financial assets at fair value Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, and account balances and liquid money market investments with loans and receivables. The category is determined in original maturities of three months or less. accordance with the purpose for which the financial asset has been acquired. Financial assets are derecognised once Impairment of financial assets the Group has lost the contractual right to their cash flows or On every reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is when it has substantially transferred their risks and rewards any objective evidence of impairment of the value of a to a party outside the Group. financial asset or a group of financial assets. If there is objective evidence of impairment, the amount recoverable Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss from the financial asset, which is the fair value of the asset, Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include all is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised wherever derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge accounting the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. criteria. These derivative contracts include interest rate, Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. Derivatives are For example, when a debtor is in significant financial carried at fair values based on market prices and generally difficulties, any probable bankruptcy, delinquent payments, accepted valuation models. Changes in the fair values are or payments that are more than 90 days overdue constitute recognised according to the nature of the derivative, either in evidence of possible impairment of the receivables. the Group’s financial items or in other operating income or expenses. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised on the settlement Available-for-sale financial assets date at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequently, all Available-for-sale financial assets are financial assets other financial liabilities except derivative instruments are than derivative contracts, that are specifically designated as measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate such or that are not classified in any other category. The method. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Group’s available-for-sale financial assets include property, include all derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge housing-company and other shares, as well as short-term accounting criteria. These derivative contracts include money market investments. Available-for-sale financial interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. assets are measured at fair value. Changes in the fair values Derivatives are carried at fair values based on market prices are recognised in equity and presented in other and generally accepted valuation models. Changes in the fair comprehensive income. If a fair value cannot be reliably values are recognised according to the nature of the measured, the asset is recognised at cost less impairment, if derivative, either in the Group’s financial items or in other any. The dividends from equity instruments included in operating income or expenses. available-for-sale financial assets and the interest from fixed-income instruments are recognised under financial Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are items. capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates. When financial assets classified as available-for-sale are sold or impairment is recognised, accumulated fair value The Group has non-current and current financial liabilities, changes recognised in equity are reclassified in profit or loss and they may be interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing. either under other operating income or expenses if the asset Financial liabilities are derecognised once the Group’s is an equity instrument, or under financial items if the asset obligations in relation to liability is discharged, cancelled or is other than an equity instrument. expired. Loans and receivables Capitalisation of borrowing costs Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets The company capitalises borrowing costs that are directly with fixed or determinable payments, and are not quoted in attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an active market. Loans and receivables of the Group also a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. A include trade and other receivables on the statement of qualifying asset is one that takes a substantial period of time financial position. Loans and receivables are initially to complete for its intended purpose. A qualifying asset may recognised at fair value added with transaction costs and be a fixed or movable asset, an inventory item or an intangible asset. 82 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Capitalisation commences when the company first incurs and contingent considerations, the company examines the expenditures for a qualifying asset giving rise to borrowing meeting of revenue recognition criteria concerning both costs, and when it undertakes activities that are necessary considerations separately. for preparation of the asset for its intended use or for sale. Capitalisation is suspended when effective production is Recognition of revenue from construction projects halted. Capitalisation ceases when all activities necessary to Percentage-of-completion When recognising revenue from construction projects, the complete the asset for its intended use or sale have been company applies the percentage of-completion method if the carried out. project in question possesses the characteristics of Derivative financial instruments and hedge construction contract and the project’s outcome can be estimated reliably. Construction contracts from which accounting revenue is recognised with percentage of-completion method Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the are specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset or statement of financial position on the date a derivative a combination of assets. In the case of real estate contract is entered into and subsequently re-measured at construction, the buyer must also be able to decide on the their fair value on each reporting date. The method of primary structural or functional characteristics of the project recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the before or during construction, in order for the real estate derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, construction project to be recognised using the percentagethe nature of the item being hedged. of-completion method. If the project’s outcome cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting for certain contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable variable-rate loans. The Group documents at the inception of and costs are expensed in the period in which they incur. the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risks The percentage-of-completion of a project is calculated as management objectives and strategy. The effectiveness of the ratio of actually incurred costs to estimated total costs. If the hedging relationship is assessed at inception and then at it is likely that the total costs needed for completion of a regular intervals at least on every reporting day. The gain or project on the order book will exceed the total revenue loss relating to the effective portion of the eligible derivatives receivable from the project, the anticipated loss is are deferred in hedging reserve of equity and presented in immediately recognised in its entirety as an expense. other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion is recognised under financial items in the income statement. When the costs incurred and recognised profits are greater The cumulative change in fair value is transferred from equity than billing based on the project’s progress, the difference is and recognised in the income statement for the periods in presented under the statement of financial position item which the hedged item affects the result. ‘trade and other receivables’ as project income receivables. If the costs incurred and recognised profits are less than the When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or the hedge no billing based on the project’s progress, the difference is longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedge presented in the statement of financial position item accounting is ceased. Any cumulative gain or loss from the ‘accounts payable and other current liabilities’ as received hedging instrument remains in equity until the forecasted advance payments or project expense liabilities. transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, In commercial building construction, the amount and the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is probability of lease liability commitment is estimated as a immediately transferred to the income statement within project progresses, and it is included in the total cost financial items. estimate. A lease liability commitment is recorded as a liability when the construction project has been completed., Derivatives that are not eligible for hedge accounting are There are long-term construction projects from which classified as current assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair revenue is recognised with percentage-of-completion value of these derivatives are recognised according to the method in all segments of the company. nature of the derivative, either in other operating income and expenses or in the financial items. Completed contract method Revenue from building construction projects, where the buyer Revenue recognition does not have a contractual right to specify major structural Revenues from goods and services sold are recognised as net elements of the building is recognised on completion in connection with delivery and in accordance with revenue sales less indirect taxes and discounts. If the sales transaction contains both unconditional recognition principles of the sale of manufactured goods. 83 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Projects from which revenue is recognised on completion are Mineral aggregate deposits depreciation based on mostly Building Construction’s own housing and commercial material depletion building developments. Other property, plant and equipment 10 years Recognition of revenue from services An asset is subject to depreciation when it is available for Revenue recognition from services is based on the use. Depreciation is charged over the period from the asset’s percentage-of-completion on the reporting date. The same introduction to use until the end of its useful economic life. revenue recognition principles are applied as for recognition The residual value and economic life of assets are reviewed in of construction projects under the percentage-of-completion connection with the preparation of each annual financial method. Service business exists in all segments of the statements and, if necessary, these are adjusted to reflect company. any changes that may have occurred in the economic benefit Recognition of revenue from the sale of manufactured goods expected. When all depreciation charges according to plan The company recognises revenue from the sale of have been made, the residual value of the asset is zero. manufactured goods at the time when the significant risks Depreciation of property, plant and equipment ceases when it and rewards associated with product ownership are is classified as held for sale. transferred to the buyer and the company no longer has any Normal maintenance and repair costs are expensed as authority or control over the product. As a rule, this means incurred. Significant improvements or additional investments the time when the product is handed over to the customer in are capitalised as part of the acquisition cost of the accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of delivery. corresponding asset and depreciated over the remaining The fair value of revenue received, adjusted for indirect taxes, useful economic life of the asset to which they pertain, discounts given and exchange rate differences on foreign provided that it is likely that the company will derive future currency sales, is presented in the income statement as net economic benefit from the asset. Gains on the sale of sales. Primarily, there are sales of manufactured goods, such property, plant and equipment are presented in other as mineral aggregates and asphalt mass, in the Paving operating income, and losses in other operating expenses. segment. The company expenses the interest costs of the acquisitions of property, plant and equipment, unless the project meets Revenue recognition of life-cycle projects the requirements for capitalisation of borrowing costs, in In life-cycle projects, the operator – that is, the service which case they are capitalised as part of the acquisition provider – builds or improves the infrastructure used for cost. service provision and provides operation services for said infrastructure. The company recognises revenue from Intangible assets construction and improvement services as well as from An intangible asset is recognised in the statement of operation services on the basis of the percentage-offinancial position, when the cost of the asset can be completion. measured reliably and it is probable that the expected economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow Recognition of interest and dividends to the entity. Intangible assets are recognised at cost less Interest income is recognised over the period of the borrowing amortisation and impairment in the statement of financial using the effective interest rate method. Dividends are position. Amortisation of an intangible asset is recorded from recognised when the right to receive payment is established. the moment the asset is available for use. Amortisations are recorded until the end of the asset’s useful economic life. Non-current assets When all amortisations according to plan are made, the Property, plant and equipment residual value of the asset is zero. Residual values and useful Property, plant and equipment are recognised on the lives of the assets are reviewed at each financial year-end statement of financial position at cost less depreciation and and, and adjusted, if necessary to reflect changes in the impairment. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated expected economic benefits. on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives. Land has indefinite useful economic life and is Goodwill therefore not subject to depreciation. Estimated useful Goodwill is the amount by which the acquisition cost economic lives of property, plant and equipment are as exceeds the Group’s interest in the net fair value of its follows: identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the time of acquisition. Possible non-controlling interest is Buildings and structures 10–40 years measured either at fair value, or a value equal to the nonMachinery and equipment 3–15 years controlling owners’ proportions of the identifiable net assets Impairment 84 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of the acquiree. The valuation principle is determined Impairment separately for each acquisition. The carrying amounts of assets are assessed on each reporting date to determinate whether there are indications of Goodwill is not amortised. Instead, the possible impairment impairment. If indications of impairment are found, the of goodwill is assessed at least annually. In the impairment recoverable amount for the asset in question is assessed. The testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units. recoverable amount for an asset is either its fair value less Goodwill is recognised on the financial statements at cost costs to sell or, if higher, its value in use. In the measurement less impairment, if any, which is expensed on the income of value in use, expected future cash flows are discounted to statement. their present value with discount rates that reflect the time Other intangible assets value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The Other intangible assets include IT software licence fees as Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) is used as the well as other licence fees and patents, including their discount factor. WACC takes into account the risk-free advance payments. Other intangible assets are recorded at interest rate, the liquidity premium, the expected market rate cost in the statement of financial position and are of return, the industry’s beta value, country risk and the debt depreciated over their useful economic lives. The estimated interest rate, including the interest rate margin. These useful lives of intangible assets are: components are weighted according to the fixed, average target capital structure of the sector. If it is not possible to IT software licence fees 5 years calculate the recoverable cash flows for an individual asset, Other intangible assets 5–10 years the recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. An impairment loss is Other capitalised expenditure recognised on the income statement if the carrying amount Intangible assets include other capitalised expenditure that exceeds the recoverable amount. are not related to property, plant and equipment and have economic effects lasting longer than one year. Other Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever it capitalised expenditure creates future economic benefits over may be concluded that there is a need to do so. Goodwill is their useful economic lives. The benefits can be either allocated to cash-generating units in a consistent manner. In income or cost savings. the impairment tests, the recoverable amount from the Research and development expenditure business of a cash-generating unit is derived from value-inResearch expenditure is expensed as incurred. Development use calculations using cash flow forecasts based on expenditure is recognised on the statement of financial comprehensive profitability plans confirmed by the position when the intangible asset satisfies all the following management for a specific period as well as other justifiable criteria: estimates of the future outlook for the cash-generating unit and its business sector. research and development phases can be separated from each other Impairment losses related to assets other than goodwill are it is technically feasible and it can be used or sold reversed if the estimates used for determination of the it will be completed and either used or sold recoverable amount of the asset have changed. The biggest it can be demonstrated that the asset will generate permitted reversal equals the carrying amount of the asset probable future economic benefit and that the less depreciation if impairment was not recognised in earlier company has the adequate resources to use or sell years. the intangible asset its development expenditure can be reliably measured Leasing agreements wherein the group is the lessee If the development expenditure does not satisfy all the above Leasing agreements that pertain to property, plant and capitalisation criteria, it is expensed as incurred. equipment in which a substantial proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are Grants received classified as finance leases. Finance leases are presented as Government grants received from a public-sector source are assets in the statement of financial position at a value equal recognised as income on the income statement at the same to the fair value of the leased item on the date of the lease’s time that corresponding costs are expensed. Investment commencement or, if lower, the present value of the grants are deducted from the acquisition cost of the asset in minimum lease payments. Corresponding liability is question. presented in current and non-current interest bearing liabilities. 85 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Assets leased under finance leases are depreciated over the defined contribution plans are expensed on the income useful economic life of the asset class or a shorter period as statement in the accounting period in which they accrue. the life of the lease elapses. Possible impairment losses are Other pension plans than defined contribution plans are recognised as reductions of the asset in question. Annual defined benefit plans. In the case of a defined benefit plan, a lease payments are divided into finance costs and debt pension liability is recognised to the extent that the plan amortisation instalments over the life of the lease so that the gives rise to a pension obligation. If a defined benefit plan same interest rate is applied to the outstanding debt in every gives rise to a pension surplus, it is recognised in accounting period. prepayments and accrued income on the statement of financial position. Leasing agreements in which the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are treated as operating The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by leases. Payments under operating leases are treated as lease independent actuaries using the projected unit credit expenses, and they are expensed over the lease term. If the method. The amount of pension obligation is calculated by lease agreement is not expected to yield future economic deducting the fair value of the assets belonging to the benefits, the minimum lease payments under the contract are pension scheme from the present value of the future pension recognised as costs. obligations. The defined benefit pension costs consist of employee service based expenses and are booked to Inventories employee benefit expenses for the duration of the employee Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and service. Net interests from defined benefit plans are booked net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all to finance income or costs. The actuarial gains and losses are costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs recognised through the statement of comprehensive income incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location as a change in pension obligation or asset. and condition. The costs of selling are not included in the valuation of inventories at cost. Finance costs are included in The Finnish group companies’ pension liability is determined the valuation of inventories at cost only when the particular by calculating the present values of estimated future cash project meets the requirements set for capitalisation of flows, using Eurozone high investment grade companies’ borrowing costs. The cost of materials and supplies is bond interest rates as discount rates. The bonds used in assigned by using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) principle. Net determining the discount rates are in the same currency as realisable value is the estimated selling price in ordinary pension benefits to be paid. The chosen discount rate business operations less the estimated expenditure on reflects the estimated average moment of payment of the product completion and sales. The carrying amounts of benefits. separate items in inventories are not decreased when the Market values are primarily used for defining the fair value of completed products in which the items belong to are plan assets. If a market value is not available, the fair value is expected to be sold at a price equalling or exceeding the estimated by discounting the expected future cash flows combined acquisition costs of the separate items. using the same discount rate that is used for defining the pension liability. Treatment of own building developments Expenditure committed to own building developments is Remuneration schemes capitalised on the statement of financial position as The Group has a share-based remuneration schemes. Shareinventories. Liabilities and prepayments related to real based rewards are measured at fair value of Lemminkäinen estates under construction are included in current liabilities. share on the date of their being granted and expensed over The share of loans obtained that corresponds to the unsold their vesting and commitment periods. Costs that arise from proportion of flats that are still under construction as well as the matching share system are expensed over their the proportion of loans for completed but unsold flats is commitment periods. The expenses of other management included in current interest-bearing liabilities. remuneration are recognised in the income statement as personnel expenses as they arise. Employee benefits Pension obligations Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent The pension schemes of Lemminkäinen’s Group companies assets are generally defined contribution plans. Defined contribution A provision is made when the Group has a legal or plan related payments are made to pension insurance constructive obligation based on some past event and it is companies, after which the Group has no other payment likely that exemption from responsibility would either require obligations. Payments in respect of a payment or would result in a loss, and that the 86 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 amount of liability can be reliably measured. Provisions have Contingent assets usually arise from unplanned or other not been discounted because of the minor effect of the unexpected events that give rise to the possibility of an discounting. inflow of economic benefits to the entity. Contingent assets are not recognised in financial statements but it is presented Warranty provisions cover after completion repair costs in the notes of the financial statement. arising from warranty obligations. Warranty provisions are calculated on the basis of the level of warranty expenses Income taxes actually incurred in earlier accounting periods and are Taxes calculated on the basis of the taxable profit or loss of recognised as a liability when a project is completed. If the Group companies for the accounting period, adjustments to Group will receive reimbursement from a subcontractor or taxes for earlier accounting periods, and change in the material supplier on the basis of an agreement in respect of deferred tax liability and assets are recognised as income anticipated expenses, the future compensation is recognised taxes on the consolidated income statement. The tax effect when its receipt is considered secure. associated with items recognised directly in equity is Provision is made for onerous contracts when the amount of recognised correspondingly in equity. The current tax charge expenditure required by the agreement to fulfil the obligations is calculated using the tax rate enacted at the end of the exceeds the benefits that may be derived from it. The reporting period. provisions made for onerous contracts do not include the The deferred tax is calculated from the temporary differences losses from construction contracts. between taxation and accounting, with either the tax rate in Landscaping provision is made in respect of those sites force on the reporting date or a known tax rate that will come where landscaping is a contractual obligation. The amount of into force at a later date. A deferred tax liability is not the provision is based on the use of ground materials. recognised in respect of a temporary difference that arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability (other than 10-year liability provision arising from Finnish residential and from a business combination) and affects neither accounting commercial construction is determined by considering the income nor taxable profit at the time of transaction. A class of 10-year liabilities as a whole. In this case, the deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is likelihood of future economic loss for one project may be likely that there will be future taxable profit against which the small, although the entire class of these obligations is temporary difference may be utilised. The most significant considered to cause an outflow of resources from the temporary differences arise from accelerated depreciations company. for tax purposes, the revenue recognition practice for construction projects, internal gains from sales of fixed Lease liability commitment arises, when the company has a assets, finance leases, provisions, unused tax losses, contractual obligation to obtain tenants for premises not yet measurements of fair value made in connection with leased in a commercial real estate under construction. The acquisitions, and pension obligations. amount and probability of lease liability commitment is estimated as the project progresses. The lease liability Carry-forward tax losses are treated as a tax asset to the commitment is recorded as provision when project has been extent that it is likely that the company will be able to utilise completed. them in the near future. A deferred tax liability is only The company recognises a provision for legal proceedings recognised in respect of the undistributed profits of when the company’s management estimates that an outflow subsidiaries if payment of the tax is expected to be realised in of financial resources is likely and the amount of the outflow the foreseeable future. The Group´s deferred tax assets and can be reliably estimated. liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. Contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by Distribution of dividends the occurrence of an uncertain future event that is not wholly The proposed dividend by the Board of Directors to the within the control of the Group. In addition, a present annual general meeting is recognised as a deduction of obligation whose settlement is not likely to require and distributable equity when it has been approved by the annual outflow of financial resources and an obligation whose general meeting. amount cannot be measured with sufficient reliability are deemed contingent liabilities. No provision is made for Hybrid bonds contingent liability and it is presented in the notes of the A hybrid bond is recognised in shareholders’ equity after financial statement. equity belonging to shareholders. The bond holders do not have any rights equivalent to ordinary shareholders, and the Goodwill impairment testing 87 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 bond does not dilute shareholders' ownership in the Goodwill impairment testing company. The company has no contractual obligation to Goodwill is tested for potential impairment at least annually repay the loan capital or the interest on the loan. The hybrid and whenever there are indications of impairment. The bond is initially recognised at fair value less transaction cost recoverable amount from the business of a cash-generating and subsequently the bond is measured at cost. If interest is unit is derived from value-in-use calculations. These paid to the hybrid bond, it is recognised directly into retained calculations require a significant use of estimates and earnings. assumptions. The cash flow forecasts are based on profitability plans approved by the company’s management Treasury shares for a certain period and on other justifiable estimates of the Where the parent company of the Group or any group prospects for the business sector and the cash-generating company purchases the parent company’s equity share unit. The key uncertainties in value-in-use calculations are capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including the discount rate and the long-term growth assumption. A any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from more detailed description of the estimates and assumptions equity attributable to the company’s equity holders until the concerning goodwill impairment testing is given in the notes shares are cancelled. Where such ordinary shares are to the financial statements. subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in the equity attributable to the company’s equity Deferred tax assets holders. No gain or loss is recognised in the income The management regularly estimates the recoverability of statement from purchasing, selling, issuance or cancellation deferred tax assets. Deferred tax assets from tax losses are of company’s equity instrument. recorded to the amount that the management estimates, based on its profit forecasts, to be utilisable in the future, Earnings per share considering the expiration period of tax losses. Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company, less Inventories hybrid bond interest calculated on accrual basis and adjusted The management regularly estimates, in its best judgement, with tax effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary the potential obsolescence of inventories by comparing their shares in issue during the year. Treasury shares held by the cost with the net realisable value. The net realisable value is company and outstanding ordinary shares that are an entity-specific value which is based on the most reliable contingently returnable are excluded from the weighted evidence available at the time. Materials and other supplies average number of ordinary shares in issue. Diluted earnings held for use in the production of inventories are not writtenper share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average down below cost if the finished products in which they will number of ordinary shares in issue to assume the conversion be incorporated are expected to be sold at or above cost. of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Trade receivables The valuation of trade receivables involves an impairment Management judgement and estimates risk. The management regularly estimates past-due trade The use of judgement and estimates receivables. The estimates are done according to the Group’s When preparing the financial statements, the company credit risk policy and are based on realised customer-specific management has to make accounting estimates and credit losses, the company’s empirical knowledge and assumptions about the future, as well as judgement-based surveys. decisions on the application of the accounting policies. These estimates and decisions affect the reported amounts Recognition of revenue from construction projects of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the accounting Revenue recognition on the basis of the percentage of period as well as the recognition of contingent items. The completion is based on estimates of the project’s expected estimates and assumptions are based on historical revenue and costs as well as on the reliable determination of knowledge and other justifiable assumptions which are the progress of the project. In order to make a reliable considered to be reasonable at the time of preparing the estimate, the project’s costs are determined and itemised as financial statements. It is possible that actuals differ from accurately as possible. To determine revenue, the the estimates used in the financial statements. Information management has to estimate factors affecting the total on key aspects of the financial statements for which revenue amount. If estimates of the project’s outcome management judgement and estimates have been necessary change, recognised revenue and profit will be adjusted for the is presented below. reporting period when the change first became known and could be estimated. Recognition of provisions 88 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Recognition of provisions to recognise revenue from contracts with customers. The Recognition of provisions involves probabilityand amountcompany examines the effects of the standard to the related estimates. The management estimates, based on its consolidated financial statements. best knowledge, the probability of the realisation of an obligation that exists at the reporting date as well as the IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016. The effective obligation’s amount. The estimate of the probability and date of the standard is a period beginning on or after 1 amount of realised costs is based on previous similar events January 2019. Earlier application is permitted if IFRS 15 is applied. An EU endorsement is required for the standard to and experience-based knowledge. become effective in the EU after which it is allowed to apply New standards and interpretations the standard. The standard is applied on lessee’s financial statements. All leasing contracts will be capitalized except New standards, interpretations and annual improvements to for low value assets and short term leases. The company will IFRSs applied by the company in 2015 start analysing the effects of the standard to the There are no IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations or annual consolidated financial statements during the coming improvements to IFRSs adopted by the company for the first financial year. time for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2015 that have had an impact on the company’s consolidated financial IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in July 2014 and statements. applies to an annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 2018. An EU endorsement is required for the New standards, interpretations and annual improvements to standard to become effective in the EU. The standard will IFRSs applied by the company after 2015 affect, among other things, the recognition of credit losses A number of new standards and amendments to standards from financial instruments. According to the standard, credit and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning losses are recorded based on expected losses and therefore after 1 January 2015, and have not been applied in preparing they will be recorded earlier. In addition, the standard will these consolidated financial statements. Of these standards, affect the classification and measurement of financial assets IFRS 15 and 16 might have a significant effect on the and liabilities, but this will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the company. company's consolidated financial statements. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued There are no other IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations or annual in May 2014. The effective date of the standard is a period improvements to IFRSs that are not yet effective that would beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier application is be expected to have a material impact on the company’s permitted. An EU endorsement is required for the standard to consolidated financial statements. become effective in the EU after which it is allowed to apply the standard. The standard specifies how and when 89 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods 2 Unusual events during the accounting period 3 Seasonality of business 4 Operating segments 5 Information by market area 6 Construction projects 7 Other operating income 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of personnel 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 10 Other operating expenses 11 Investments 12 Finance income and costs 13 Taxes 14 Discontinued operations 15 Earnings per share 16 Other comprehensive income items 17 Dividends paid and proposed 18 Property, plant and equipment 19 Intangible assets 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 21 Non-current receivables 22 Inventories 23 Current receivables 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets 25 Cash and cash equivalents 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category 27 Shareholders' equity 28 Interest-bearing liabilities 29 Pension obligations 30 Share-based payments 31 Provisions 32 Trade and other payables 33 Financial risk management 34 Derivative financial instruments 35 Adjustments to cash flows 36 Operating lease commitments 37 Contingent assets and liabilities 38 Related party transactions 90 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods 1 Adjustments concerning prior periods The company has adjusted the cash flow statement of the comparison period. The adjustment specifies the presentation of changes in exchange rates and it affects the cash flows from operating and financing activities. The items and sum rows which are affected by the changes are shown in the table below. 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 EUR million Cash flow before adjustment Adjustments Adjusted cash flow Other adjustments -37.6 14.8 -22.9 Cash flows before change in working capital 66.0 14.8 80.8 Increase (-)/decrease(+) in trade and other receivables 8.2 4.8 13.0 Increase (+)/decrease(-) in current liabilities -52.5 -1.8 -54.2 Cash flows from operations before financial items and taxes -29.8 17.8 -12.0 Interest paid -23.6 -5.6 -29.2 Other finance costs paid -35.9 29.0 -6.9 Other finance income received 34.9 -34.9 0.1 Cash flow from operating activities -54.8 6.4 -48.4 Repayments of short-term borrowings -303.6 -6.4 -310.0 Cash flow from financing activities 62.8 -6.4 56.4 Impact of the changes in accounting policy on comparison year's segment reporting figures Lemminkäinen has changed its accounting policy for segment reporting as of 1 January 2015. According to the changed accounting policy the company reports the operating capital for each segment to the chief operating decision maker. The operating capital reported by the company consists of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets and net working capital. The net working capital includes inventories, current trade and other receivables, provisions, current trade and other payables as well as income tax receivables and liabilities. However, the net working capital allocated to the segments excludes accrued personnel expenses and interest, accruals related to derivatives as well as accrued direct and indirect taxes. These figures are reported separately as items unallocated to segments. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 2 Unusual events during the accounting period 2 Unusual events during the accounting period On 31 March 2015, the company announced that it will withdraw from its role as developer in the planned Ilmatar residential project with Lipsanen & Co. Group. The parties’ negotiations regarding alternative ways to carry out the project were completed during the third quarter. The parties agreed that Lemminkäinen withdraws entirely from the project. As a consequence of the withdrawal, Lemminkäinen booked an inventory write-down in the third quarter of 2015. The impact of the write-down on the profit was EUR 12.9 million in 2015. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 3 Seasonality of business 3 Seasonality of business Seasonality of certain operations of the company affects the company’s profit and its timing. Weather conditions influence the lengths of the Paving segment’s paving and mineral aggregates businesses working seasons, which affects the company’s profit and its timing. The working seasons of these businesses and consequently their profits take place mostly in the second and third quarters. In addition, there may be some seasonality in the Infra projects segment’s foundation engineering business due to the timing of building construction projects. 91 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Revenue from residential and non-residential development projects is recognised, for the sold proportion, on completion which causes seasonal fluctuations to the company’s profit. The company seeks to balance this fluctuation by launching new developed projects evenly throughout the year in which case the projects will be completed and revenue from them is recognised as evenly as possible throughout the year. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 4 Operating segments 4 Operating segments Lemminkäinen changed its reporting structure on 1 January 2015. The reportable business segments are; Paving; Infra projects; Building construction, Finland; and Russian operations. Income statement items in segment reporting comply with the consolidated financial statement’s accounting policy. Operating capital is reported as segments' assets. Paving The Paving segment includes the Group’s paving and mineral aggregates business in Finland, Scandinavia and the Baltic countries and earthworks in Finland and the Baltic countries. Infra projects The Infra projects segment includes the rock engineering, foundation engineering and civil engineering businesses in Finland, Scandinavia and the Baltic countries. Building construction, Finland Building construction covers residential construction, commercial construction, industrial construction, renovation, property development and public-private partnership services. The company has both development and contracted projects. Russian operations In Russia, Lemminkäinen operates in the paving business as well as the building construction business in both development and contracted projects in St Petersburg and Moscow regions. The latest residential development project of the Russian operations was completed at the end of 2015. The company has decided to refrain from starting new residential development for the time being. Other operations The Group's parent company as well as other operations and assets unallocated to the segments are reported as part of the other operations. Unallocated items Unallocated items include accrued personnel expenses and interest, accruals related to derivatives as well as accrued direct and indirect taxes which are not allocated to the segments' operating capital. Operating segments Building 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 construction, Russian Other Group total, EUR million Paving Infra projects Finland operations operations Eliminations IFRS Net sales 874.5 263.1 537.8 136.7 106.1 -39.2 1,879.0 Depreciation and impairment 25.5 5.1 0.2 1.5 6.0 38.4 Operating profit 16.9 11.8 12.9 2.9 -7.2 37.3 Building 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 construction, Russian Other Group total, EUR million Paving Infra projects Finland operations operations Eliminations IFRS Net sales 907.5 286.0 539.0 196.1 179.2 -63.3 2,044.5 Depreciation and impairment 30.0 6.3 0.3 1.9 6.1 44.4 Operating profit 32.2 7.2 9.3 19.7 -32.2 36.3 92 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EUR million 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Operating capital by operating segment Paving 231.2 262.1 Infra projects 1.2 -0.9 Building construction, Finland 274.8 303.7 Russian operations 35.0 68.4 Segments, total 542.2 633.3 Other operations 8.6 35.5 Items unallocated to segments -76.0 -78.5 Group total, IFRS 474.8 590.4 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 5 Information by market area 5 Information by market area EUR million Finland Scandinavia Russia Baltic countries Other countries Total 1.1.–31.12.2015 Net sales 1,117.9 497.7 136.7 116.5 10.1 1,879.0 Assets 800.2 147.9 57.2 28.7 1.5 1,035.5 Investments 4.1 4.1 1.6 0.5 10.3 EUR million Finland Scandinavia Russia Baltic countries Other countries Total 1.1.–31.12.2014 Net sales 1,073.2 644.1 195.3 127.9 3.9 2,044.5 Assets 830.0 263.7 108.0 49.0 7.1 1,257.8 Investments 12.2 12.6 2.3 3.0 0.0 30.0 Net sales is determined by customer location and the carrying amount of assets based on their geographic location. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 6 Construction projects 6 Construction projects EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Percentage-of-completion method, continuing operations Revenue recognised according to the percentage-of-completion method 1,453.4 1,654.1 Incurred costs and recognised net profits (less booked losses) of work in progress projects 1,119.2 1,467.0 Gross project-related receivables from clients 29.6 32.7 Gross project-related liabilities to clients 54.5 67.4 Service concession arrangements Lemminkäinen currently has six major ongoing life cycle projects, where subscribers are the municipalities of Kuopio, Oulu, Pudasjärvi, Hollola and Porvoo. In each of the projects, Lemminkäinen refurbishes an old or builds a new building for the municipality as well as maintains the building in question for a service period specified in the contract. The municipality owns both the buildings and the land area where the buildings are located in each of the life cycle projects. In all of the contracts, the municipality has the right to terminate the contract during the service period under certain terms and conditions taking into consideration the interests of the service provider. The prices of both the construction phase and the service period have been tied to a building cost index according to which the prices are reviewed annually. Lemminkäinen does not have a significant right to organize supplementary use for any of the properties. Key information on each of the projects is presented in the table below. Construction Service Total 93 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Construction Service Total Project Contract date phase phase value* Kuopio, schools and a day-care center 14 Dec 2009 completed ends 2036 EUR 94 mill. Oulu, Kastelli community center 1 June 2012 completed ends 2039 EUR 86 mill. Pudasjärvi, school campus 13 March 2014 ends 2016 ends 2041 EUR 41 mill. Pudasjärvi, care facility 6 Nov 2015 ends 2016 ends 2036 EUR 12 mill. Hollola, Heinsuo and Kalliola schools 5 June 2015 ends 2017 ends 2037 EUR 49 mill. Porvoo, schools and day-care centers 16 Dec 2015 ends 2018 ends 2038 EUR 61 mill. *Estimate on the contract date Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 7 Other operating income 7 Other operating income EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment* 2.8 10.4 Gain on sales of available-for-sale financial assets 0.6 0.9 Rental income 2.5 1.9 Gain from hedging purchases and sales** 0.2 1.2 Grants and compensation on damages received 0.6 1.0 Gain on settlement of defined benefit plans 0.2 Others 4.3 2.6 11.0 18.3 *Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment are mainly related to equipment sales in Paving-segment. In 2014 the company also sold a land area in Norway from which it recorded a gain on sale of EUR 5.3 million. **Gain from hedging purchases and sales includes realised gains and changes in fair values of commodity derivatives which are used for hedging bitumen purchases and currency derivatives which are used for hedging purchases and sales. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of personnel 8 Employee benefit expenses and number of personnel EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Personnel expenses Wages and salaries 245.2 281.6 Share-based expenses 0.5 0.3 Pension expenses, defined contribution plans 32.9 36.1 Pension expenses, defined benefit plans 0.0 0.0 Other personnel-related expenses 16.2 18.9 294.9 337.0 The wages and salaries of the Group companies' managing directors and Board of directors, continuing operations 3.3 4.6 Defined benefit pension expenses are explained in more detail in the note 29 and share-based payments in the note 30 and related party transactions in the note 38. 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Personnel at the end of period White collar 1,845 2,070 Blue collar 2,214 2,678 4,059 4,748 Personnel by business segment at the end of period Paving 2,124 2,225 Infra projects 463 439 Building construction, Finland 947 1,038 Russian operations 405 635 Parent company and others 120 411 4,059 4,748 94 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Buildings and structures 1.0 1.1 Machinery and equipment 18.1 20.8 Leased machinery and equipment 11.2 13.0 Other tangible assets 1.4 1.8 31.8 36.8 Amortisation of intangible assets Intangible rights 5.2 5.3 Other capitalised expenditure 1.0 1.1 6.2 6.4 Depreciation and amortisation, total 38.0 43.2 EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Impairment Intangible rights 0.4 1.3 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 10 Other operating expenses 10 Other operating expenses EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.7 0.5 Loss on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 0.1 Voluntary personnel expenses 8.6 8.4 Rental expenses 30.3 31.3 Losses from hedging purchases and sales* 6.4 2.9 Damages-related legal proceedings** 0.7 6.4 Credit losses 1.1 6.0 Other expenses 92.4 128.2 140.2 184.0 * Losses from hedging purchases and sales includes realised losses and changes in fair values of commodity derivatives which are used for hedging bitumen purchases and currency derivatives which are used for hedging purchases and sales. ** Damages-related legal proceedings consist of the change in the provision related to the claims for damages related to the asphalt cartel pending a main proceeding. The table below shows the fees of the audit firm elected by the General Meeting. The fees have been recorded in other operating expenses. In addition, expenses recorded in invested non-restricted equity fund in 2014 that reduce the gross funds collected in the rights offering, include fees to the audit firm elected by the General Meeting a total of EUR 0.4 million. EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Audit fees 0.4 0.4 Other consulting 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.6 95 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 11 Investments 11 Investments Subsidiaries Consolidated Parent company Parent company 31 Dec 2015 shareholding, % shareholding, % shareholding, shares Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 2,183,663 Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 1,338 Lemcon Networks Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 392,000 UAB Lemcon Vilnius, Lithuania 100.0 100.0 UAB Lemminkainen Lietuva, Lithuania 99.9 99.9 3,747,989 Lemminkäinen International Oy, Helsinki 100.0 Lemminkäinen Russia Oy, Helsinki 100.0 Lemminkäinen Co., Ltd, China 100.0 Lemminkäinen Construction (India) Private Limited, India 100.0 Lemcon HR Oy, Helsinki 100.0 OOO Lemminkäinen Invest, Russia 100.0 Lemminkäinen Polska Sp.Z O.O, Poland 100.0 Lemminkäinen Ehitus As, Estonia 100.0 OOO Lemminkäinen Service, Russia 100.0 OOO Lemminkäinen Stroy, Russia 100.0 ZAO Lemminkäinen Rus, Russia 100.0 Lemcon Argentina S.R.L, Argentina 100.0 LEMCON Baumanagement GmbH, Germany 100.0 Lemcon Network Services Ltd, UK 100.0 Lemcon Venezuela C.A., Venezuela 100.0 Pasila Telecom Oy, Helsinki 100.0 Asfalt Remix AS, Norway 75.0 FD-Entreprise Aps, Denmark 100.0 Lemminkäinen A/S, Denmark 100.0 Lemminkäinen Industri AS, Norway 100.0 Lemminkäinen Eesti AS, Estonia 100.0 Lemminkäinen Norge AS, Norway 100.0 Lemminkäinen Sverige Ab, Sweden 100.0 Oü Järva Paas, Estonia 86.0 SIA Lemminkainen Latvija, Latvia 100.0 Landvetterkrossen AB, Sweden 100.0 All the company’s subsidiaries have been included in the consolidated financial statements. Non-controlling interests in the company’s subsidiaries have been recorded in relation to voting rights and ownership except for Norwegian Asfalt Remix AS. The company has an obligation to redeem the non-controlling interest of Asfalt Remix AS within an agreed period for which reason the share of the non-controlling interest has not been recognised in the statement of financial position. The obligation has been measured at fair value and recorded as a liability in the consolidated statement of financial position. The amount of the liability is not material. Non-controlling interest in the consolidated statement of financial position totalled EUR 0.1 million (0.1) at the end of 2015, and it is not material to the company. The company is not aware of any restrictions on its assets at the end of 2015. 96 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Joint ventures The Group’s joint ventures are not individually material. 31 Dec 2015 Consolidated shareholding, % Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 EUR million 2015 2014 Shares in joint ventures 1 Jan 6.9 8.2 Translation difference -0.3 -0.5 Decreases -2.8 -0.6 Dividends received -0.6 -0.7 Share of the profit for the period 1.4 0.5 Shares in joint ventures 31 Dec 4.7 6.9 EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Total of joint ventures that are not individually material (information presented in full) Profit from continuing operations 1.4 0.5 Comprehensive income for the financial year 1.4 0.5 Associates The Group’s associates are not individually material. 31 Dec 2015 Consolidated shareholding, % Finavo Oy, Helsinki 47.5 EUR million 2015 2014 Shares in associates 1 Jan 0.0 0.6 Decreases 0.0 -0.6 Share of the profit for the period 0.0 Shares in associates 31 Dec 0.0 0.0 EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Total of associates that are not individually material (information presented in full) Profit from continuing operations 0.0 Comprehensive income for the financial year 0.0 Finavo Oy is a real estate rental operator. The company has given a EUR 12.4 million (14.4) loan guarantee for the real estate shares owned by Finavo Oy. Due to the loan guarantee the company’s liabilities in Finavo Oy exceed the amount recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position. Other shares and holdings The company has other shares and holdings, which are mainly real estate shares. The company’s other shares and holdings are recorded as non-current available-for-sale financial assets in the statement of financial position. Changes in other shares and holdings are presented in the note 20. 97 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 12 Finance income and costs 12 Finance income and costs EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Finance income Interest income from loans and receivables 1.3 0.5 Interest income from available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 0.0 Dividend income from available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 0.0 Foreign exchange rate gains 32.5 40.6 Gain on the changes in fair value of interest rate derivatives 0.1 Other finance income 0.0 0.1 33.9 41.3 Finance costs Interest expenses for financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost 12.5 16.3 Foreign exchange rate losses 37.2 47.8 Losses on the change in fair value of interest rate derivatives 1.2 Credit losses from loan receivables 7.0 Other finance costs 4.8 7.0 54.5 79.2 Finance income and costs, total -20.6 -37.9 Exchange rate differences recognised in the income statement EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Exchange rate differences on sales 0.0 -0.1 Exchange rate differences on purchases 0.0 0.0 Exchange rate differences on hedging purchases and sales 0.0 0.3 Exchange rate differences on financial items -4.7 -7.1 Exchange rates differences, total -4.7 -6.9 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 13 Taxes 13 TAXES Income taxes EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Income taxes on ordinary business operations -2.7 -2.9 Income taxes in respect of prior years -0.3 0.8 Deferred taxes -6.4 -1.3 -9.4 -3.3 Reconciliation of taxes in the income statement and taxes calculated at the Finnish tax rate Profit before income taxes 16.7 -1.7 Taxes calculated on the above at the Finnish tax rate (20%) -3.3 0.3 Differing tax rates of foreign subsidiaries 0.3 -0.4 Tax-exempt income in income statement 0.4 0.5 Non-deductible expenses in income statement -1.5 -5.2 Deductible non-income statement items 0.9 0.1 Taxable non-income statement items -0.4 0.0 Use of unrecognised tax losses 0.0 Tax losses for the financial year for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 0.0 0.0 Effect of change in the corporate tax rate -0.9 Other items* -4.5 0.4 Taxes for the previous financial year -0.3 0.8 Taxes in the income statement, total -9.4 -3.3 *The 2015 figure includes EUR 1.6 million adjustments to previous periods’ taxable profit. The adjustments reduced the amount of the company’s confirmed tax losses. In addition, the figure includes other amounts arising from changes in deferred taxes. 98 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Deferred taxes Transactions with owners Recognised of the parent in other company Recognised compreand other Acquisitions, Translation in income hensive changes in divestments 31 Dec EUR million 1 Jan 2015 difference statement income equity and mergers 2015 Deferred tax assets Tax losses 37.5 -1.1 -3.6 32.9 Pension benefits 0.1 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 0.0 Provisions 6.8 0.0 -0.5 6.3 Financial instruments 0.0 -2.6 2.8 0.2 Property, plant and equipment 1.5 -0.3 -0.4 0.8 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 3.6 -0.5 1.0 0.4 4.5 Other temporary differences 2.2 0.3 -1.4 -0.4 0.6 Deferred tax assets, gross 51.8 -1.5 -7.6 -0.1 2.8 0.0 45.4 Offsetting -9.7 0.8 0.5 0.0 -8.4 Deferred tax assets 42.0 -0.8 -7.0 -0.1 2.8 36.9 Transactions with owners Recognised of the parent in other company Recognised compreand other Acquisitions, Translation in income hensive changes in divestments 31 Dec EUR million 1 Jan 2015 difference statement income equity and mergers 2015 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2.9 -0.1 0.7 3.5 Financial instruments 1.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.2 0.6 Accelerated depreciations and voluntary provisions 11.0 0.0 0.6 0.0 11.6 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 7.9 -0.7 -1.0 6.1 Other temporary differences 2.5 -0.1 -1.3 0.2 1.3 Deferred tax liabilities, gross 25.3 -1.0 -1.2 0.0 23.1 Offsetting -9.7 0.8 0.5 0.0 -8.4 Deferred tax liabilities 15.6 -0.2 -0.6 0.0 14.7 99 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Transactions with owners of the parent Recognised in company Recognised other and other Acquisitions, Translation in income comprehensive changes in divestments 31 Dec EUR million 1 Jan 2014 difference statement* income equity and mergers 2014 Deferred tax assets Tax losses 37.7 -1.8 1.8 -0.1 37.5 Pension benefits 0.3 0.0 -0.2 0.0 0.1 Provisions 6.3 -0.9 1.5 6.8 Financial instruments 0.0 -2.5 0.0 2.5 Property, plant and equipment 1.8 0,0 -0.3 1.5 Intangible assets 0.0 0.0 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 5.9 -1.9 -0.9 0.6 3.6 Other temporary differences 0.9 -0.1 2.4 -1.0 2.2 Deferred tax assets, gross 53.0 -4.8 1.7 0.0 2.5 -0.6 51.8 Offsetting -14.4 3.4 1.3 0.0 -9.7 Deferred tax assets 38.5 -1.4 3.0 0.0 2.5 -0.6 42.0 Transactions with owners of the parent company Recognised Recognised in and other Acquisitions, Translation in income comprehensive changes in divestments 31 Dec EUR million 1 Jan 2014 difference statement* income items equity and mergers 2014 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4.0 -0.1 -1.0 2.9 Financial instruments 0.4 0.0 0.5 1.0 Accelerated depreciations and voluntary provisions 11.0 0.0 0.3 -0.2 11.0 Temporary difference from revenue recognition of construction projects 9.7 -4.4 2.5 0.0 7.9 Other temporary differences 2.5 -0.4 0.7 -0.3 2.5 Deferred tax liabilities, gross 27.6 -4.8 3.1 -0.6 25.3 Offsetting -14.4 3.4 1.3 0.0 -9.7 Deferred tax liabilities 13.2 -1.4 4.4 0.0 -0.6 15.6 * Includes the effect of discontinued operations The company has recorded the deferred tax assets from tax losses to the amount it considers, based on its profit forecasts, to be utilisable in the future. The amount of tax losses has increased especially due to non-recurring items, which are not expected to reoccur in the future. A large part of the tax losses in Finland arise from the damages that the District Court ordered in 2013 related to the asphalt cartel. At the end of 2015, tax losses in the Group's Finnish companies totalled EUR 19.4 million (23.1) and they can be carried forward for 10 years. The amount of tax losses in the Group's Norwegian companies stood at EUR 11.5 million (12.1) at the end of 2015, and they can be carried forward indefinitely. The amount of the company’s tax losses, from which deferred tax asset has not been recorded, is not material. No deferred tax liabilities are recognised in respect of the undistributed profits of foreign subsidiaries because the funds are permanently invested in operations abroad. 100 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 14 Discontinued operations 14 Discontinued operations 2015 At the end of 2015 the company did not have any discontinued operations or assets classified as held-for-sale. 2014 Lemminkäinen announced on 14 May 2014 that it has divested its Technical building services business by selling the entire share capital of Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy. The transaction was completed on 13 June 2014 and the total purchase price was EUR 55.4 million. The company recorded a pre-tax gain on sale of EUR 23.6 million to the second quarter of 2014. The company classified Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy as discontinued operation at the time of sale. EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Profit from the discontinued operations Income 77.4 Expenses 77.8 Profit before taxes -0.4 Taxes 0.1 Profit for the financial period -0.4 Pre-tax gain on sale of the business 23.6 Taxes -0.1 Gain on sale after taxes 23.5 Profit for the period from discontinued operations 23.1 EUR million 2014 Cash flows from discontinued operations Cash flow from operating activities -3.9 Cash flow from investing activities -0.1 Cash flow from financing activities 4.3 Cash flows total 0.4 Milj. euroa 2014 The impact of the sale on Group's financial position Cash consideration received 55.4 Transferred assets and liabilities -29.1 Other related items -2.6 Gain on sale 23.6 101 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 15 Earnings per share 15 Earnings per share 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Weighted average number of shares, shares 23,219,900 21,362,255 Contingent shares, shares -10,453 -16,896 Treasury shares, shares -16,687 -16,687 Weighted average number of shares in issue, shares 23,192,760 21,328,672 Diluted weighted average number of shares, shares 23,192,760 21,328,672 Instruments that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they are antidilutive for the periods presented Dilutive shares of share based incentive and commitment plans, shares 88,188 33,779 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary equity holders, continuing operations, EUR million 7.2 -5.0 Interest of the hybrid bonds calculated on accrual basis less tax, EUR million -9.3 -9.6 Costs of hybrid bonds' redemptions less tax, EUR million -1.4 Profit for the year for the purpose of calculating earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR million -3.4 -14.5 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR -0.15 -0.68 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations, EUR -0.15 -0.68 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary equity holders, discontinued operations, EUR million 23.1 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations, EUR 1.08 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations, EUR 1.08 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary equity holders, EUR million 7.2 18.2 Interest of the hybrid bonds calculated on accrual basis less tax, EUR million -9.3 -9.6 Costs of hybrid bonds' redemptions less tax, EUR million -1.4 Profit for the year for the purpose of calculating earnings per share, EUR million -3.4 8.6 Basic earnings per share, EUR -0.15 0.40 Diluted earnings per share, EUR -0.15 0.40 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 16 Other comprehensive income items 16 Other comprehensive items EUR million Before taxes Taxes After taxes 2015 Translation differences -5.2 1.0 -4.2 Defined benefit pension obligations 0.4 -0.1 0.3 -4.8 1.0 -3.9 2014 Translation differences -18.6 -18.6 Cash flow hedges 0.1 0.0 0.1 Defined benefit pension obligations 0.0 0.0 0.0 -18.5 0.0 -18.5 102 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 17 Dividends paid and proposed 17 Dividends paid and proposed 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Dividend paid during the financial year Per share for the previous year, EUR 0.00 0.00 In total for the previous year, EUR million 0.0 0.0 Proposed for approval by the AGM Per share for the financial year, EUR 0.12 0.00 In total for the financial year, EUR million 2.8 0.0 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 18 Property, plant and equipment 18 Property, plant and equipment Advance Buildings and Machinery and Other tangible payments and EUR million Land structures equipment assets work in progress Total Cost, 1 Jan 2015 15.3 39.4 338.5 41.7 2.8 437.6 Translation difference -0.1 -0.2 -4.3 -0.6 0.1 -5.2 Increases 0.1 0.0 5.8 1.3 2.2 9.4 Disposals -0.1 -0.7 -30.0 -2.6 -0.1 -33.4 Transfers between items 0.0 0.5 3.6 0.2 -4.1 0.2 Cost, 31 Dec 2015 15.2 39.0 313.5 40.0 0.9 408.6 Accumulated depreciation, 1 Jan 2015 -28.3 -207.5 -20.6 -256.4 Translation difference 0.1 3.1 0.3 3.5 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 0.3 23.8 1.1 25.2 Transfers between items 0.0 0.0 Depreciation for the financial year -1.0 -29.3 -1.4 -31.8 Accumulated depreciation, 31 Dec 2015 -28.9 -209.9 -20.8 -259.5 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2015 15.2 10.1 103.6 19.2 0.9 149.1 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2015 15.3 11.1 131.0 21.1 2.8 181.2 Advance 103 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Advance Buildings and Machinery and Other tangible payments and EUR million Land structures equipment assets work in progress Total Cost, 1 Jan 2014 13.7 39.2 352.7 42.0 4.7 452.4 Translation difference -0.1 -0.3 -10.7 -0.9 -0.2 -12.1 Increases 1.6 1.2 17.0 2.3 5.9 27.8 Disposals -0.2 -1.0 -24.0 -1.6 0.0 -26.7 Discontinued operations -3.7 0.0 -3.7 Transfers between items 0.2 0.3 7.2 -0.1 -7.6 Cost, 31 Dec 2014 15.3 39.4 338.5 41.7 2.8 437.6 Accumulated depreciation, 1 Jan 2014 -28.3 -202.8 -20.2 -251.3 Translation difference 0.2 6.4 0.4 7.0 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 0.9 19.3 1.3 21.4 Accumulated depreciation on discontinued operations 3.3 3.3 Transfers between items 0.0 0.2 -0.2 -0.1 Depreciation for the financial year from continuing operations -1.1 -33.9 -1.8 -36.8 Depreciation for the financial year from discontinued operations -0.1 -0.1 Accumulated depreciation, 31 Dec 2014 -28.3 -207.5 -20.6 -256.4 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2014 15.3 11.1 131.0 21.1 2.8 181.2 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2014 13.7 10.9 150.0 21.8 4.7 201.1 The Group has no capitalised interest expenses in fixed assets. EUR million 2015 2014 Assets acquired under finance lease agreement are included in machinery and equipment as follows: Cost, 1 Jan 105.7 109.8 Translation difference -1.6 -2.0 Increases 0.5 5.3 Disposals -14.3 -7.3 Cost, 31 Dec 90.4 105.7 Accumulated depreciation, 31 Dec -55.5 -56.2 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 34.9 49.5 104 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 19 Intangible assets 19 Intangible assets Intangible Other capitalised Advance EUR million Goodwill rights expenditure payments Total Cost, 1 Jan 2015 53.8 31.4 11.4 0.5 97.2 Translation difference -0.8 0.0 -0.3 -1.1 Increases 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 Disposals -0.1 -0.2 -3.4 -3.7 Transfers between items 1.1 -0.1 -1.1 -0.2 Cost, 31 Dec 2015 53.1 32.3 7.7 0.1 93.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 1 Jan 2015 -14.6 -8.6 -23.2 Translation difference 0.0 0.3 0.2 Accumulated amortisation on disposals 0.1 3.4 3.4 Transfers between items 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amortisation for the financial year -5.2 -1.0 -6.2 Impairment -0.4 -0.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 Dec 2015 -20.1 -6.0 -26.1 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2015 53.1 12.2 1.7 0.1 67.1 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2015 53.8 16.8 2.9 0.5 74.0 Intangible Other capitalised Advance EUR million Goodwill rights expenditure payments Total Cost, 1 Jan 2014 80.1 23.8 18.4 7.9 130.2 Translation difference -1.0 -0.2 -0.5 -1.6 Increases 0.1 0.0 5.1 5.2 Disposals -0.6 -2.5 -3.1 -6.2 Discontinued operations -25.3 -3.8 -1.3 -30.4 Transfers between items 12.0 -2.6 -9.4 Cost, 31 Dec 2014 53.8 31.4 11.4 0.5 97.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 1 Jan 2014 -9.2 -11.6 -20.8 Translation difference 0.1 0.3 0.4 Accumulated amortisation on disposals 0.5 2.5 3.0 Discontinued operations 1.3 0.8 2.1 Transfers between items -0.6 0.7 0.1 Amortisation for the financial year from continuing operations -5.3 -1.1 -6.4 Amortisation for the financial year from discontinued operations -0.1 0.0 -0.2 Impairment -1.3 -1.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 Dec 2014 -14.6 -8.6 -23.2 Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2014 53.8 16.8 2.9 0.5 74.0 Carrying amount, 1 Jan 2014 80.1 14.6 6.7 7.9 109.3 In 2015, the company recorded EUR 0.4 million (1.3) impairment related to the Paving segment’s land use rights. 105 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Goodwill At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from synergies arising from the business combination. The company’s business was organised into four operating segments at the beginning of 2015. The reportable new operating segments correspond to the business based management model. Furthermore, the operating segments are the lowest level at which the company management monitors goodwill and the level on which the goodwill is tested. Before the segment change goodwill was monitored at country level. Goodwill by segment Discount rate, % EUR million Goodwill (pre-tax WACC) 31 Dec 2015 Paving 43.1 8.2* Infra projects 3.2 7.8* Building construction, Finland 6.2 6.6 Russian operations 0.6 23.2 53.1 Discount rate, % Other Nordic Baltic countries Market areas, (pre-tax EUR million Finland countries and Russia total WACC) 31 Dec 2014 Infrastructure construction 6.2 34.0 6.9 47.1 9.4** Building construction, Finland 6.2 6.2 8.6 Russian operations 0.6 0.6 17.6 12.4 34.0 7.5 53.8 * Country-specific operating capital-weighted average ** Country-specific sales-weighted average Goodwill impairment tests Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there are indications of possible impairment. The tests are carried out as value-in-use calculations of individual businesses in accordance with the smallest cash-generating unit principle. In impairment testing the discounted present value of the recoverable cash flows of each cash-generating unit is compared with the carrying amount of the unit in question. If the present value is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recognised through profit or loss as an expense in the current year. The goodwill impairment tests carried out during the fourth quarter of 2015, showed that the present values of the future cash flows exceed the carrying amounts in all segments. 106 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Forecasts and key assumptions used in goodwill impairment testing Cash generating units’ cash flow forecasts are prepared for a four year planning period based on management estimates based on actual past performance. Main assumptions used in the preparation of the cash flow forecasts are the growth of the market in question, the company’s profitability development as well as measures which the company has committed to. Main assumptions in the goodwill impairment testing are long term growth and discount rate. Cash flow forecasts beyond the four year planning period are based on the assumption of 1 percent annual growth which was lower than European Central Bank's target inflation rate over medium term in effect at the time of the impairment testing. Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), calculated for each individual unit, is used as the discount factor. WACC takes into account risk-free interest rate, illiquidity premium, expected market rate of return, the industry’s beta value, country risk and debt interest rate including interest rate margin calculated for each unit. When determining the debt interest rate level in 2015, the company took into account the following segment-specific interest rate levels: interest rate levels for project loans in building construction in Finland as well as interest rate levels for finance lease liabilities related to paving and infra projects business operations. The components of discount factor are weighted according to average target capital structure of the sector. Pre-tax WACC is determined separately for each tested unit. In the calculation of the segment-specific discount rates in 2015, the company used country-specific discount rates that were weighted with country-specific operating capital. Sensitivity analysis In connection with the impairment tests, sensitivity analyses are made to determine how possible changes in key assumptions of the unit-specific impairment tests would affect the results of those tests. The key assumptions affecting the present value of cash flows are the development of market and competitive conditions, and the discount factor. In the sensitivity analyses the calculation variables affecting these assumptions are varied and the effects of the changes on the margin between the carrying value and present value of the cash flows are examined. Sensitivity analysis prepared in 2015 shows that reasonable and ordinary variation to key assumptions used in the testing would not cause a need for impairment in Paving, Infra projects nor Russian operations segments. The most significant risk for impairment of goodwill arises from the Building construction, Finland -operating segment where the unit’s recoverable cash flow exceeds the unit’s carrying amount by EUR 37.1 million. Figures describing the goodwill impairment risk of units subject to impairment testing by business segment are presented below. Building Infra construction, Russian EUR million Paving projects Finland operations 2015 Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 43.1 3.2 6.2 0.6 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the long term were 1 percentage point lower 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 long term were 2 percentage points lower 0.0 0.0 6.2 0.0 Goodwill impairment if the dicount rate were half a percentage point higher 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 were one percentage point higher 0.0 0.0 6.2 0.0 Building Infrastructure construction, Russian EUR million construction Finland operations 2014 Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 47.1 6.2 0.6 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the long term were 1 percentage point lower 0.0 6.2 0.0 long term were 2 percentage points lower 0.0 6.2 0.0 Goodwill impairment if the dicount rate were half a percentage point higher 0.0 6.2 0.0 were one percentage point higher 0.0 6.2 0.0 107 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 20 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets EUR million 2015 2014 Balance sheet value, 1 Jan 3.2 3.8 Translation difference 0.0 Additions 0.0 Disposals -0.5 -0.6 Balance sheet value, 31 Dec 2.7 3.2 Available-for-sale financial assets include several different unquoted shares out of which majority are real estate shares. The value of one individual investment is not significant in relation to the total of all other investments. The fair value of unquoted shares could not be reliably determined, thus they are presented at cost less possible impairments. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 21 Non-current receivables 21 Non-current receivables EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Interest-bearing Loan receivables 0.0 Other receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-interest-bearing Trade receivables 0.5 0.5 Other receivables 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.5 Non-current receivables, total 0.5 0.5 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 22 Inventories 22 Inventories EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Materials and supplies 32.0 39.1 Building plots and real estate 107.2 118.2 Housing under construction 111.9 167.7 Commercial property under construction 6.4 7.9 Other work in progress 20.2 27.7 Advance payments 2.2 18.7 Completed apartments 77.0 96.0 Completed commercial property 21.2 21.1 Products and goods 24.0 27.5 402.0 524.0 In 2015, the company recorded costs, other than those arising from sale, reducing the carrying amount of inventories a total of EUR 20.3 million (8.3). The most significant single write-down in 2015 was the write-down of the planned Ilmatar residential project having EUR 12.9 million effect on the company’s result. In 2014 write-downs in Russian operations segment totalled EUR 3.0 million. Paving segment’s share of the write-downs totalled EUR 3.5 million (1.1), and were mainly due to write-downs of mineral aggregates inventory. Building construction, Finland -segment’s write-downs were primarily due to project development costs and their amount totalled EUR 2.6 million (4.1). In addition, other operations recorded a EUR 1.3 write-down to an individual plot. 108 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 23 Current receivables 23 Current receivables EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Interest-bearing Loan receivables 0.2 0.5 Non-interest-bearing Trade receivables 128.8 143.2 Project income receivables 65.6 72.4 Accrued interest 0.0 0.0 Accrued personnel expenses 2.1 3.0 Other accrued income 14.0 37.3 Derivative assets 2.2 7.1 Receivables from real estate companies under construction 5.9 3.2 Other receivables 23.0 23.3 241.7 289.5 Current receivables, total 241.9 290.0 In 2015, a net amount of trade receivable credit losses from continuing operations were EUR 1.1 million (5.1). Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets 24 Current available-for-sale financial assets EUR million 2015 2014 Balance sheet value, 1 Jan 25.1 30.0 Increases 0.0 93.9 Decreases -25.1 -98.8 Balance sheet value, 31 Dec 25.1 Available-for-sale financial assets included short term investments in bank deposits at the end of 2014. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 25 Cash and cash equivalents 25 Cash and cash equivalents EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Cash in hand and at banks 127.9 109.1 Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand and liquid deposits with solvent banks with original maturities of three months or less. 109 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category 26 Financial assets and liabilities by category Financial assets / liabilities Financial recognised at fair liabilities value through Loans and other Available-for-sale recognised at EUR million profit and loss receivables financial assets amortised cost Carrying amount Fair value 31 Dec 2015 Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 2.7 2.7 2.7 Other non-current receivables 0.5 0.5 0.3 Current financial assets Trade and other receivables 235.9 235.9 235.9 Derivative assets 2.2 2.2 2.2 Cash and cash equivalents 127.9 127.9 127.9 Financial assets total 2.2 364.3 2.7 369.3 369.1 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 123.1 123.1 126.6 Other non-current liabilities 0.5 0.5 0.5 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 131.6 131.6 131.6 Trade payables and other financial liabilities * 220.9 220.9 220.9 Derivative liabilities 5.4 5.4 5.4 Financial liabilities total 5.4 476.1 481.5 485.0 Financial assets / liabilities Financial recognised at fair liabilities value through Loans and other Available-for-sale recognised at EUR million profit and loss receivables financial assets amortised cost Carrying amount Fair value 31 Dec 2014 Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 3.2 3.2 3.2 Other non-current receivables 0.5 0.5 0.3 Current financial assets Trade and other receivables 282.9 282.9 282.9 Derivative assets 7.1 7.1 7.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 25.1 25.1 25.1 Cash and cash equivalents 109.1 109.1 109.1 Financial assets total 7.1 392.5 28.3 427.9 427.7 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 139.5 139.5 139.4 Other non-current liabilities 0.8 0.8 0.8 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 208.3 208.3 208.3 Trade payables and other financial liabilities * 273.4 273.4 273.4 Derivative liabilities 4.2 4.2 4.2 Financial liabilities total 4.2 622.0 626.1 626.0 * Trade payables and other financial liabilities do not include statutory obligations or prepayments received, as these are not classified as financial liabilities under IFRS. 110 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Fair value measurement Other non-current receivables include trade receivables and other interest-free receivables. Fair values are based on future cash flows discounted using risk free market yields plus appropriate credit spreads. The used discount rates vary between 3.1–20.7 per cent (3.6–19.3). The carrying amount of current trade and other receivables is equal to their fair value due to their short maturity. The most significant part of the non-current financial liabilities is a EUR 100 million senior bond, the fair value of which is based on the market price at the reporting date. The carrying amount of current financial liabilities is assumed to be close to their fair value due to their short maturity. A fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value The Group has categorised financial instruments recognised at fair value by using a three-level fair value hierarchy. Financial instruments within Level 1 of the hierarchy are traded in active markets hence prices are obtained directly from the efficient markets. Fair values of instruments within Level 2 are based on observable market inputs and generally accepted valuation methods. Fair values within Level 3 are not based on observable market data but on quotations provided by brokers and market valuation reports. EUR million Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 Dec 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets Equity instruments 2.7 2.7 Derivative instruments Derivative assets 2.1 0.2 2.2 Derivative liabilities 1.5 3.9 5.4 EUR million Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 Dec 2014 Available-for-sale financial assets Equity instruments 3.2 3.2 Money market investments 25.1 25.1 Derivative instruments Derivative assets 7.0 0.1 7.1 Derivative liabilities 2.3 1.8 4.2 Level 3 reconciliation statement The table below presents the changes in Level 3 financial instruments for the financial year. Financial instruments recognised at Financial instruments recognised at fair value through other EUR million fair value through profit or loss comprehensive income Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 -1.7 3.2 Disposals -0.5 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss, total -2.0 Fair values 31 Dec 2015 -3.7 2.7 Gains and losses on level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the accounting period In other operating income and expenses -3.7 Financial instruments recognised at 111 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial instruments recognised at Financial instruments recognised at fair value through other EUR million fair value through profit or loss comprehensive income Opening balance 1 Dec 2014 -1.2 3.8 Increases 0.0 Disposals -0.6 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss, total -0.5 Fair values 31 Dec 2014 -1.7 3.2 Gains and losses on level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the accounting period In other operating income and expenses -1.7 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 27 Shareholders' equity 27 Shareholders' equity Shares and share capital Lemminkäinen Corporation has one share class. On 31 December 2015, the company had a total of 23,219,900 (23,219,900) shares and 16,687 (16,687) treasury shares. Share premium account Share premiums are recognised in the share premium account. Hedging reserve Hedging reserve includes the effective portion of the fair value changes of interest rate derivatives designated for hedge accounting. Cash flow hedging is applied for hedging interest rate risk. During 2014, a fair value change of interest rate derivatives EUR -0.1 milllion before deferred taxes has been removed from the hedging reserve into the income statement. Hedging instruments have matured and hedge accounting terminated during the year 2014. An amount of EUR -0.1 million has been recognised in interest expenses in profit and loss during the financial year 2014 arising from cash flow hedging. Invested unrestricted equity fund Invested unrestricted equity fund includes the subscription prices of shares to the extent that they are not entered into share capital on the basis of a separate decision. Hybrid bonds eligible for equity classification Shareholders' equity includes two hybrid bonds each of which with original nominal value of EUR 70 million, one issued in 2012 and the other in 2014. During the second quarter of 2015 company repurchased notes of the first issued hybrid bond with a nominal amount of EUR 27.1 million. The bonds have no maturity dates but the company has the right to redeem the hybrid bonds after four years of the issue date. The bonds are unsecured and in a lower priority than the company's other debt obligations. A holder of hybrid bond notes does not possess any of the rights of a shareholder, and the bond does not dilute shareholders' holdings in the company. The annual coupon rate until the first redemption date of the bond issued in 2012 is 10% and the annual coupon rate of the bond issued in 2014 is 8.75% . Translation differences Translation differences include the differences arising from the translation of the Group’s foreign entities’ non-Euro denominated financial statements into Euros. In previous years the Group hedged the net investment in foreign entities and hedging gains and losses from hedge instruments are also included in the translation differences, provided they qualified for hedge accounting. The Group has not applied hedge accounting for hedging the net investment in foreign entities during the reporting period. 112 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 At the end of 2015 the translation difference amounted to EUR -25.9 million (-21.7), of which the share of Russian operations was EUR -24.0 million (-21.5). The change of the translation difference was EUR -4.2 million during 2015 (-18.6). The impact of Russian exchange rate changes on the translation difference was a total of EUR -2.5 million (-15.8) and the impact of Norwegian exchange rate changes was a total of EUR -1.6 million (-2.7). Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 28 Interest-bearing liabilities 28 Interest-bearing liabilities EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Non-current Borrowings from financial institutions 1.0 2.1 Finance lease liabilities 22.3 36.8 Bonds 99.7 99.6 Other non-current liabilities 1.0 123.1 139.5 Current Borrowings from financial institutions 0.9 1.2 Pension loans 2.0 Finance lease liabilities 12.5 13.4 Chequing accounts 0.4 Commercial papers 13.1 63.4 Borrowings of companies included in inventory 104.1 127.1 Other current liabilities 1.0 0.9 131.6 208.3 Most of the liabilities are drawn in the debtor's functional currency. Finance lease liabilities EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Finance lease liabilities and interest on them is due as follows In one year or earlier 13.4 14.8 Over one year, but less than five years 22.7 36.5 Over five years 0.6 2.2 36.7 53.5 Maturity of present value of minimum leases In one year or earlier 12.5 13.4 Over one year, but less than five years 21.7 34.6 Over five years 0.6 2.1 34.8 50.2 Accumulated future finance costs from finance lease liabilities 1.8 3.3 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 29 Pension obligations 29 Pension obligations The company has in its operating countries several defined contribution pension plans which are subject to local regulation and practices. The company’s one most significant pension plan is the Finnish Employees Pensions Act (TyEL), in which the benefits are determined directly on the basis of the level of the beneficiary’s earnings level. TyEL pension plan is mainly arranged through pension insurance companies and it is treated as a defined contribution plan. At the end of 2015, the company had defined benefit pension plans only in Finland. The plans at the year-end 2015 were final salary defined benefit plans, and they supplement the statutory pensions or enable retirement before the statutory retirement age. The company’s last two defined benefit pension plans in Norway were terminated during 2015. 31 Dec 2016 113 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 31 Dec 2016 EUR million (forecast) 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Recognised in the statement of financial position Present value of funded obligations 0.2 0.2 0.6 Fair value of plan assets -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 Total amount recognised in the statement of financial position 0.1 0.1 0.6 of which in Finland 0.1 0.1 0.5 of which in Norway 0.0 Company estimates that in 2016 it will not make any payments with material impact. Estimate may vary from actual figures. Present value of EUR million obligation Fair value of plan assets Total 1 Jan 2015 0.6 -0.1 0.6 Current service cost 0.0 0.0 Net interest 0.0 0.0 0.0 Curtailments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Remeasurements Return on plan assets 0.0 0.0 (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions -0.4 -0.4 Experience (gains)/losses 0.0 0.0 -0.4 0.0 -0.4 Employer contributions 0.0 0.0 Benefit payments 0.0 0.0 31 Dec 2015 0.2 -0.1 0.1 Present value of EUR million obligation Fair value of plan assets Total 1 Jan 2014 1.0 -0.1 0.9 Current service cost 0.0 0.0 Net interest 0.0 0.0 0.0 Settlements 0.0 0.0 Curtailments -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.2 Remeasurements Return on plan assets 0.0 0.0 (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions -0.2 -0.2 Experience (gains)/losses 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Exchange differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 Employer contributions 0.0 0.0 Benefit payments 0.0 0.0 Business combinations and disposals -0.1 -0.1 31 Dec 2014 0.6 -0.1 0.6 The company's defined benefit pension obligations do not include minimum funding requirements. 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2015 2014 2014 Finland Finland Norway Actuarial assumptions Discount rate, % 2.7 2.5 3.0 Inflation rate, % 1.2 2.0 1.8 Expected rate of salary increases, % 1.0 1.0 3.0 Future pension increases, % 1.4 2.1 2.3 114 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2015 2014 2014 Finland Finland Norway Life expextancy of plan members Male age 65 (current life expectancy), years 21.4 19.0 20.6 Female age 65 (current life expectancy), years 25.4 24.7 23.5 Male age 45 (at age 65), years 23.7 20.6 22.8 Female age 45 (at age 65), years 28.0 26.4 26.0 Defined benefit plans’ assets consist entirely of qualifying insurance policies and are fair valued on the accounting date. These assets do not include investments to Lemminkäinen or to real estate or other assets used by the company. The expected return on the plan assets is an estimate of a life insurance company's future long term total rebate. Plan participants at the end of period 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Active 4 6 Inactive not in pay status / other non-work obligated 7 9 Inactive in pay status / Pensioners 84 91 Total number of participants 95 106 The effect of a 0.5 percentage point change in the most significant actuarial assumptions to the amount of defined benefit pension obligations is presented in the tables below. 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2015 2014 2014 Finland Finland Norway 0.5% increase in the principal assumption will impact the liability as follows Discount rate, % -4.20 -4.76 -0.33 Inflation rate, % 109.20 55.41 Expected rate of salary increases, % 0.58 0.24 0.01 0.5% decrease in the principal assumption will impact the liability as follows Discount rate, % 4.60 5.22 0.33 Inflation rate, % -70.20 -35.66 Expected rate of salary increases, % -0.58 -0.24 -0.01 The above analyses are based on a 0.5 percentage point change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit pension obligation the same method has been applied as when measuring the defined benefit pension obligation recognized in the statement of financial position. EUR million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Plan assets and liabilities for the past five years Defined benefit obligation 0.2 0.6 1.0 19.0 21.7 Fair value of plan assets -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -13.8 -13.4 0.1 0.6 0.9 5.2 8.3 115 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 30 Share-based payments 30 Share based payments Performance-based reward Years 2013–2015 At the end of 2012, the Board of Directors of Lemminkäinen Corporation decided on a new share-based incentive plan for the Group’s key personnel. The plan included three one-year earning periods, calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The company’s Board of Directors decided on the earning criteria and the set targets at the beginning of each earning period. The potential performance-based reward for an earning period will be paid out in company shares and cash. The proportion to be paid in cash will cover the taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred during the commitment period of approximately two years. If a key person’s employment or service contract ends during the commitment period, they will generally have to return any reward shares to the company without compensation. Conditional reward As part of the plan the above mentioned key personnel has the opportunity to receive conditional reward, i.e. matching shares, on the basis of their share ownership and continued employment or service contract. In order to receive the conditional reward, a key person must already own or acquire a specified number of company shares, or a percentage thereof. The number and date are set by the Board of Directors. In this case, the key person will be granted, as a reward, one share for each share acquired, as long as their employment or service contract remains valid and they retain ownership of these shares until the conditional reward is paid. The earning period for the conditional reward was the calendar years 2013–2015. Information concerning share-based incentive plans are presented below: Conditional reward Performance-based reward 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Grant date 13 Feb 2014 6 Feb 2013 4 Feb 2015 7 Feb 2014 7 Feb 2013 Earning period start date 1 Jan 2014 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2015 1 Jan 2014 1 Jan 2013 Earning period end date 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Commitment period end date 30 Apr 2017 30 Apr 2016 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Share ownership Share ownership Equity ratio, Vesting conditions requirement requirement ROCE Equity ratio, ROI EBIT, ROI Payment method Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Cash & Equity Share price at grant date, EUR 13.41 15.80 13.96 13.83 15.85 Fair value of share at grant date, EUR * 12.81 15.03 13.86 13.31 15.26 Amount of granted shares during period, maximum 266,074 259,730 205,591 Changes in number of granted shares, maximum -12,686 -90,898 -3,449 Number of granted shares at the end of period, maximum 253,388 168,832 202,142 Number of shares earned at the end of period ** 71,010 16,883 Matching shares subscribed at grant year 860 16,036 Number of plan participants at end of period 1 15 32 49 43 Assumed fulfilment of earning criteria, % 30.0 10.0 0.0 Estimated number of shares returned prior to the end of commitment period, % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 * The fair value of share at grant date is the share’s grant date value less estimated dividend payments during the earning period. ** Presented amounts are estimates. Actual amounts may differ from the amounts estimated at the end of earning period. The accrued expenses from the share based incentive plans recognised in the income statement in 2015 were a total of EUR 0.5 million (0.3). The net liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of share-based incentive plan at the end of 2015 was EUR 0.1 million (0.1). The company estimates that expenses to be recognised in 2016 from incentive plans realised before 2016 will be approximately EUR 0.4 million. Actual amount may differ from the estimated amount. 116 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 31 Provisions 31 Provisions 10 year Lease Warranty liability Environmental commitment Litigation Other Total 31 Total 31 EUR million provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Provisions, 1 Jan 11.2 8.6 2.9 3.5 12.3 0.0 38.6 27.2 Translation differences -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 -0.3 Increases in provisions 8.4 3.8 0.3 5.7 0.7 19.0 22.5 Expensed provisions -8.2 -2.7 -0.3 -6.4 -17.6 -10.0 Reversals of unused provisions -0.1 -0.1 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries -0.1 -0.1 -0.7 Provisions, 31 Dec 2015 11.2 9.7 2.8 2.9 13.0 0.0 39.6 Provisions, 31 Dec 2014 11.2 8.6 2.9 3.5 12.3 0.0 38.6 10 year Lease Warranty liability Environmental commitment Litigation Other Total 31 Total 31 EUR million provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Provisions categorised as Long-term 1.0 6.9 2.8 2.9 13.0 0.0 26.6 27.5 Short-term 10.2 2.9 13.1 11.1 11.2 9.7 2.8 2.9 13.0 0.0 39.6 38.6 Warranty provisions cover after completion repair costs arising from warranty obligations. Provisions related to housing construction are expected to be used within one year after the provision is made. Warranty provisions related to other construction projects are mainly used in 1–2 years after the provision is made. 10 year liability provision related to housing and commercial construction is determined as a whole for all the projects including such liabilities. Environmental provisions are mainly related to a site's landscaping obligations. The expected time for using landscaping provisions depends on the use of the site, because in most cases the landscaping work starts after the use of the site ceases. In addition, environmental provisions cover other provisions related to environmental obligations. Lease liability commitment arises, when the company has a contractual obligation to obtain tenants for premises not yet leased in a commercial real estate under construction. Provisions for lease commitments are expected to be used in 1–3 years after the provision is made. Litigation provision is recognised for the asphalt cartel related claims for damages pending in the District Court of Helsinki, with 21 municipalities as plaintiffs. The court proceedings of these actions are expected to start in the District Court during 2016 at the earliest, and are expected to last 1–3 years. The amount of provision is estimated on the basis of the decisions given by Helsinki district court on 28th November 2013. 117 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 32 Trade and other payables 32 Trade and other payables EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Non-current Accounts payable 0.4 Other non-current liabilities 0.1 0.8 0.5 0.8 Trade payables and other current liabilities Advance payments received 101.9 140.9 Liabilities to owners of housing under construction 3.5 4.5 Trade payables 59.9 89.2 Project expense liabilities 51.1 59.5 VAT 19.3 22.5 Accrued interest 3.8 4.3 Accrued personnel expenses 53.4 58.2 Other accrued liabilities 17.7 16.4 Derivative liabilities 5.4 4.2 Other current liabilities 31.5 41.3 347.5 440.9 Non-current and current trade payables and other liabilities, total 347.9 441.7 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 33 Financial risk management 33 Financial risk management In its business operations, Lemminkäinen Group is exposed to financial risks, mainly funding, liquidity, foreign exchange rate, interest rate and credit risks. The aim of the Group's financial risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the possible impacts that changes in fair values on the financial markets could have on the Group's result, cash flow and value. The management of financial risks is based on principles of the treasury policy approved by the Board of Directors. The treasury policy defines the principles and division of responsibilities with regard to financial activities and the management of financial risk. The policy is reviewed and if necessary updated at least annually. Execution of the treasury policy is the responsibility of the Group Treasury, which is mainly responsible for the management of financial risks and handles the Group's treasury activities on a centralised basis. The Group's treasury policy defines the division of responsibilities between the Group Treasury and business units in each subarea. The group companies are responsible for providing the Group Treasury with up-to-date and accurate information on treasury-related matters concerning their business operations. The Group Treasury serves as an internal bank and co-ordinates, directs and supports the group companies in treasury matters such that the Group's financial needs are met and its financial risks are managed effectively in line with the treasury policy. Funding and liquidity risk The group seeks to ensure the availability of funding, optimise the use of liquid assets in funding its business operations and to minimise interest and other finance costs. The Group Treasury is responsible for managing the group's overall liquidity and ensuring that adequate credit lines and a sufficient number of different funding sources are available. It also ensures that the maturity profile of the Group's loans and credit facilities is spread sufficiently evenly over coming years as set out in the treasury policy. The maturity schedule of the interest-bearing liabilities, as per the Group’s accounting, is front-loaded. The reason for this is the EUR 104.1 million (127.1) borrowings of companies included in inventory, which are recorded in current interestbearing liabilities. These liabilities mainly consist of non-current loans of housing companies, which are under construction or completed, and these borrowings will be transferred to the buyers of the co-op shares when the units are handed over. Regarding unsold housing units, the group will bear the liability by paying financial consideration for the units in question during a long loan period. According to the treasury policy, the Group's liquidity reserve shall at all times match the Group's total liquidity requirement. Due to the nature of the group's business operations, seasonal borrowing is of great importance. The Group's liquidity management is based on cash flow forecasting. 118 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Liquidity reserve of the Group consists of a commercial paper programme, committed credit limits, bank overdraft facilities, and liquid funds. The total amount of the group's commercial paper programme is EUR 300.0 million (300.0), of which EUR 13.1 million (63.4) was in use at 31 December 2015. Lemminkäinen has a committed EUR 185.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility, which is unsecured and matures in March 2017. At the end of the year, the group had unused committed credit facilities amounting to EUR 185.0 million (185.0) and overdraft limits amounting to EUR 12.3 million (33.2). The amount of liquid funds at 31 December 2015 was EUR 127.9 million (134.2). The Group's available financing sources and liquid assets are sufficient to cover the obligations arising from current interestbearing liabilities. Contractual cash flows of financial liabilities and derivative instruments EUR million 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021– Total 31 Dec 2015 Interest-bearing liabilities 142.1 17.3 13.9 113.3 1.6 0.6 288.7 Interest rate derivatives 0.4 0.4 0.2 1.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash flows payable 60.2 60.2 Cash flows receivable -61.8 -61.8 Commodity derivatives Cash flows payable 3.5 0.7 4.2 Cash flows receivable -0.1 -0.1 Other financial liabilities 160.5 0.2 0.2 0,0 160.9 Trade payables 60.3 60.3 Financial guarantees given 9.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 2.0 12.0 374.3 18.8 14.5 113.6 1.6 2.6 525.5 EUR million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020– Total 31 Dec 2014 Interest-bearing liabilities 218.1 23.6 17.9 14.5 113.3 2.2 389.6 Interest rate derivatives 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 1.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash flows payable 77.2 77.2 Cash flows receivable -81.9 -81.9 Commodity derivatives Cash flows payable 1.3 0.5 1.8 Cash flows receivable -0.1 -0.1 Other financial liabilities 179.9 0.1 0,0 0.6 0,0 0.1 180.6 Trade payables 89.2 89.2 Financial guarantees given 14.4 1.5 0.3 16.2 498.4 26.0 18.2 15.3 113.3 2.5 673.8 Foreign exchange rate risk 119 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Foreign exchange rate risk The aim of foreign exchange rate risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the possible impacts that changes in exchange rates could have on the future values of cash flows, business receivables and liabilities, and other items in the statement of financial position. Exchange rate risk mainly consists of translation risk and transaction risk. Translation risk consists of foreign exchange rate differences arising from the translation of the income statements and the statement of financial position of foreign group companies into the Group’s functional currency. Translation risk recorded in accounting is caused by equity investments in foreign entities and their retained earnings, the effects of which are recorded under translation differences in shareholders’ equity. Lemminkäinen Group has foreign net investments in several currencies. The key currencies in which the Group was exposed to translation risk in 2015 were the Russian rouble and the Norwegian krone. The change in translation differences in 2015 was EUR -4.2 million (-18.6), of which EUR -2.5 million (-15.8) was attributable to the Russian rouble and EUR -1.6 million (-2.7) to the Norwegian krone. Reportable translation risk is also caused by the reporting period’s income statement, the impact of which can be seen, among others, directly in the Group’s reportable net sales and operating profit in euros. In 2015, the impact of exchange rate changes (2015 actuals compared to 2015 actuals recalculated with 2014 foreign exchange rates) on the Group’s net sales was EUR -67.2 million (-73.2), of which EUR -45.6 million (-40.0) was attributable to the Russian rouble and EUR -17.1 million (-19.7) to the Norwegian krone, and their impact on the operating profit was EUR -0.5 million (-5.0), of which EUR -1.0 million (-4.3) was attributable to the Russian rouble and EUR 0.3 million (-0.6) to the Norwegian krone. In accordance with the treasury policy, Lemminkäinen Group protects itself from translation risks primarily by keeping equity investments in foreign entities at an appropriately low level, and thus does not use financial instruments to hedge the translation risks. Transaction risk consists of cash flows in foreign currencies from operational and financial activities. The Group seeks to hedge business currency risks primarily by operative means. The remaining transaction risk is hedged by using instruments such as foreign currency loans and foreign currency derivatives. The group companies are responsible for identifying, reporting, forecasting and hedging their transaction risk positions internally. The Group Treasury is responsible for hedging the group's risk positions as external transactions in accordance with the treasury policy. The transaction risk positions of the Group were mainly due to sales and purchases within the next 12 months, and receivables and liabilities in the statement of financial position. The key currency pairs in which the group was exposed to transaction risk in 2015 and 2014 were EUR/RUB and EUR/SEK. In 2015 the Group did not apply hedge accounting to transaction risk hedging. Sensitivity analysis of transaction risk The following assumptions have been made when calculating the sensitivity caused by changes in exchange rates: the exchange rate change is assumed to be +/10% the position includes both external and intra-group financial assets and liabilities denominated in Swedish kronas and Russian roubles and derivatives hedging these items the position does not include forecasted future cash flows taxes are excluded in sensitivity analysis EUR million Open transaction risk position 10% strengthening of EUR 10% weakening of EUR 31 Dec 2015 EUR/SEK 0.6 -0.1 0.1 EUR/RUB 0.2 0.0 0.0 EUR million Open transaction risk position 10% strengthening of EUR 10% weakening of EUR 31 Dec 2014 EUR/SEK 0.4 0.0 0,0 EUR/RUB 0.3 0.0 0.0 Interest rate risk 120 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Interest rate risk The aim of Lemminkäinen Group's interest rate risk management is to minimise changes affecting the result, cash flows and value of the group due to interest rate fluctuations. The Group Treasury manages and monitors the interest rate position. The group's interest rate risk primarily comprises fixed-rate and variable-rate borrowings, interest-bearing financial assets and interest rate derivatives. Interest rate changes have an effect on items in the income statement and consolidated statement of financial position. The interest rate risk is managed by aligning the group's average period of interest fixing term with the interest rate sensitivity of the business. The interest rate sensitivity position of the Group's business is estimated to be about 15 months. In accordance with treasury policy average interest rate fixing term and fixed/floating ratio of the debt protfolio is being followed. The group can have both variableand fixed-rate long-term borrowings. The ratio of fixedand variable-rate borrowings can be changed by using interest rate derivatives. The Group has used interest rate swaps for managing interest rate risks. During 2014 a part of the interest rate swaps were used for hedge accounting and a hedging result of those derivatives have been recognised in interest expenses in 2014. There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from hedge accounting during the financial year 2014. Hedging instruments assigned to hedge accounting have matured in 2014 and hedge accounting was terminated during that reporting period. Interest rate fluctuations in 2015 did not have any unusual effect on the group's business, but a significant rise in the level of interest rates may have a detrimental effect on the demand for housing. Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk The following assumptions are made when calculating the sensitivity caused by a change in the level of interest rates: the interest rate change is assumed to be 1 percentage point interest rate changes have been calculated for a 12 month period the position includes variable-rate financial liabilities, variable-rate financial assets (including cash and cash equivalents) and interest rate derivatives market interest rate is assumed to be positive at the start of the year for all other instruments except for interest rate derivatives all factors other than the change in interest rates remain constant taxes have not been taken into account when calculating sensitivity EUR million Interest rate risk position Impact on profit or loss (+ 1%) Impact on profit or loss (1%) 31 Dec 2015 Variable-rate financial liabilities -140.8 -1.4 1.4 Variable-rate financial assets 127.9 1.3 -1.3 Interest rate derivatives 40.0 0.9 -0.9 27.2 0.8 -0.8 EUR million Interest rate risk position Impact on profit or loss (+ 1%) Impact on profit or loss (1%) 31 Dec 2014 Variable-rate liabilities -182.9 -1.8 1.8 Variable-rate receivables 134.5 1.3 -1.3 Interest rate derivatives 40.0 1.3 -1.4 -8.4 0.8 -0.9 Commodity price risk 121 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Commodity price risk The group's paving operations are exposed to bitumen price risk. The price of bitumen is mainly determined by the world market price of oil. The group protects itself against the bitumen price risk with price clauses in sales agreements, fixed purchase prices, and derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied. Group Treasury regurarly follows the bitumen position of the Group. Credit risk Credit risks arise when a counterparty is unable to meet its contractual obligations, casusing the other party to suffer a financial loss. Lemminkäinen has defined a credit policy for customer receivables that aims to boost profitable sales by identifying credit risks in advance and controlling them. The credit policy sets the minimum requirements concerning trade credit and collections for Lemminkäinen Group. The Group's credit control function defines credit risks and the business units are responsible for managing them. Most of the Group's business is based on established and trustworthy customer relationships and on contractual terms generally observed in the industry. The Group is exposed to credit risk mainly through the Group's trade receivables and receivables associated with deposits and receivables. The maximum amount of credit risk is the combined total values of the aforementioned items as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. The amounts and due dates of the Group's trade receivables are presented in the table below. The Group does not have any significant credit risk concentrations as trade receivables are distributed among many different customers in a number of market areas. The business unit that made the contract actively monitors the receivables situation. If the business units renegotiate the terms of the receivables, they must do so in accordance with the requirements of the group's credit policy. The risk of credit losses can be reduced by means of guarantees, mainly bank guarantees and bank deposits. In addition, Lemminkäinen uses factoring arrangements which also mitigates the credit risk. Lemminkäinen's credit losses have been minimal in relation to the scale of its operations. The main risks are associated with business in Russia. As a general rule, construction projects in Russia are only undertaken against receipt of advance payments. If, in exceptional situations, a credit risk is taken, the amount permitted is always proportional to the expected margin on the project in question. Receiveables transferred for legally enforceable collection are recognised as credit losses. The group is exposed to counterparty risk when investing liquid assets and using derivative instruments. Liquid assets are invested in short-term bank deposits, certificates of deposit issued by solvent partner banks, and commercial papers issued by corporations with a good credit rating. The Group Treasury is responsible for the management of the group's counterparty and credit risks related to cash, financial investments and financial transactions. The treasury policy specifies the approved counterparties and their criteria. At the end of 2015, the counterparty risk was considered to be low. Ageing analysis of trade receivables EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Not due 107.0 108.7 Past due 1-30 days 13.9 22.3 Past due 31-60 days 2.3 3.2 Past due 61-90 days 1.3 3.4 Past due over 90 days 4.8 6.1 129.3 143.7 Management of capital and the capital structure 122 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Management of capital and the capital structure Capital means the equity and interest-bearing liabilities shown on Lemminkäinen's consolidated statement of financial position. Lemminkäinen Group's capital management ensures cost-effectively that all of the group's business sectors maintain their business viability at a competitive level in all cyclical conditions, that risk-carrying capacity is adequate, for example, in construction contracts, and that the company is able to service its borrowings and pay a good dividend. The amount of the group's interest-bearing liabilities is affected by factors such as scale of operations and cash flow, seasonal changes in production, acquisitions, investments in or the sale of production equipment, buildings and land, and possible equity related arrangements. The company continuously monitors especially the amount of debt, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, and the equity ratio. The company also follows the development of equity by means of the return on capital employed. Lemminkäinen has determined its financial targets to be among others ROCE above 15% in 2019, equity ratio above 35% during 2016-2019, and in addition, Lemminkäinen aims at a stable distribution of dividends, with at least 40 per cent of the profit for the financial year distributed to the shareholders. The Group may from time to time seek to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. The amounts involved may be material. The Group may decide to hold, cancel or sell such repurchased debt. Possible subsequent sales of repurchased debt may be made against cash or other compensation or in exchange for equity securities and such sales may be executed as open market offers, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Repurchases or exchanges of outstanding debt or subsequent sales or exchanges of repurchased debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The Group has EUR 185 million committed unsecured revolving credit facility, which includes two financial covenants, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and the equity ratio, which are monitored quarterly and calculated as an average of four previous quarters. At the end of the year, the company met its covenants. In May 2014, the company agreed due to a covenant breach with the providers of EUR 185 million revolving credit facility that Lemminkäinen shall strengthen its statement of financial position by a total of EUR 100 million by 30 September 2015. As part of the financing negotiations, the company also agreed not to distribute dividends for the financial year 2014. In March 2015 the company agreed with the lenders that Lemminkäinen will commit to strengthen its statement of financial position by a total of EUR 60 million instead of the previous EUR 100 million. This requirement was fulfilled in the third quarter 2015. Furthermore, the company may distribute a maximum of 40 per cent of the Group’s net profit for the financial years 2015 and 2016 as dividends without a preapproval of the lenders. During the reporting period company repurchased notes to a nominal amount of EUR 27.1 million of its EUR 70 million hybrid bond which were issued in 2012. During the comparison period the company executed several actions to strengthen its balance sheet and financial position. In March 2014 the company issued a EUR 70 million hybrid bond, and in June 2014 the company issued a EUR 100 million unsecured senior five-year bond. In October 2014 the company repaid its EUR 60 million bond. In addition, during the year 2014 the company conducted a rights offering. With the offering, the company raised gross proceeds of EUR 29.3 million (net proceeds of EUR 27.3 million). The company also divested its technical building services business for EUR 55.4 million in 2014. The group's equity includes two with original nominal value EUR 70 million Hybrid bonds with no maturity date. The first of these was issued in March 2012 and as of 31.12.2015 EUR 42.9 million was outstanding (70.0). The second Hybrid bond was issued in March 2014 and as of 31.12.2015 EUR 70.0 million was outstanding (70.0). These Hybrid bonds are classified as equity instrument but the bond holders do not have any rights of a shareholders, and the bond does not dilute shareholders' ownership in the company. The Hybrid bonds are unsecured and junior to all other borrowings of the company. The bond have no maturity date but company has the right to redeem them at it's own discretion after four years of the issuance date. The annual coupon rate until the first redemption date of the bond issued in 2012 is 10% and the annual coupon rate of the bond issued in 2014 is 8.75% . The EUR 100 million unsecured senior five-year bond carries a fixed annual coupon at the rate of 7.375 per cent payable semiannually. The terms and conditions of the bond include two financial incurrence-based covenants: an equity ratio and net debt to EBITDA. If the equity ratio covenant is not met, the company is restricted from making certain payments, including repurchases of its own shares and redemption of hybrid bonds. If the net debt to EBITDA covenant is not met, the company is restricted in its ability to raise additional debt. EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 123 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Interest-bearing liabilities 254.7 347.8 Liquid assets 127.9 134.2 Interest-bearing net debt 126.8 213.6 Equity, total 377.6 412.5 Equity ratio, % 40.6 37.1 Gearing, % 33.6 51.8 Return on investment, % 10.2 13.5 Return on capital employed, % 5.3 4.5 Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 34 Derivative financial instruments 34 Derivative financial instruments Fair value, Fair value, Fair value, EUR million Nominal value positive negative net 31 Dec 2015 Foreign exchange derivatives 60.2 2.1 -0.3 1.7 Interest rate derivatives 40.0 -1.0 -1.0 Commodity derivatives 13.2 0.2 -4.1 -3.9 113.5 2.2 -5.4 -3.2 Fair value, Fair value, Fair value, EUR million Nominal value positive negative net 31 Dec 2015 Foreign exchange derivatives 77.2 7.0 -1.3 5.7 Interest rate derivatives 40.0 -1.0 -1.0 Commodity derivatives 2.7 0.1 -1.8 -1.8 119.8 7.1 -4.2 2.9 The fair value of derivative instruments is the gain or loss arising from the settlement of the contract at the market price prevailing on the reporting date. Hedge accounting has not been applied to all derivative instruments. Nevertheless, these derivative instruments have been utilised for hedging purposes. The derivatives are used in order to reduce business risks, interest rate risks and to hedge balancesheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of non-hedge accounted derivatives are recognised through profit or loss in accordance with their nature either in financial items or as other operating income and expenses. Financial derivatives are subject to master nettingor similar arrangements which are enforceable in some circumstances. According to these arrangements above mentioned derivative assets and derivative liabilities could be settled on a net basis. Netting arrangements are enforceable according to typical negligence events or other events of default as the general terms for derivative transactions applies. Items, to which settlement on a net basis could be applied under certain conditions, are recognised on gross basis in the statement of financial position. Gross figures would have been EUR 0.5 million (1.4) smaller than the figures presented in the table. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 35 Adjustments to cash flows 35 Adjustments to cash flows EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Depreciation and impairment of goodwill 38.4 44.7 Share of the profits of associates and joint ventures -1.4 -0.5 Finance income and costs recognised in the income statement 20.6 37.9 Change in provisions 1.3 12.5 Credit losses on trade receivables 1.1 6.0 Gains and losses on sale of fixed assets and other income and expenses not involving payments -0.6 -36.4 Others* 27.3 -5.0 86.7 59.2 124 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 * The company has adjusted the cash flow statement of the comparison period. The adjustment is described in more detail in the note 1. Others-item includes adjustments to exchange rate differences, inventory write-downs and other non-payment based items. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 36 Operating lease commitments 36 Operating lease commitments The company has adjusted the amounts of comparison period’s individual lease agreements. As a result, the total amount of 2014 minimum lease payments of irrevocable lease contracts grew by EUR 3.9 million. EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Minimum leases of irrevocable lease contracts due within One year or less 10.7 12.0 Over one year, but less than five years 21.1 23.7 Over five years 8.4 11.0 40.2 46.7 Minimum leases of irrevocable lease contracts include operating lease commitments due within One year or less 4.7 6.1 Over one year, but less than five years 6.5 8.8 Over five years 0.3 0.3 11.5 15.3 Irrevocable lease commitments include mainly leases of real estates and machinery. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 37 Contingent assets and liabilities 37 Contingent assets and liabilities Guarantees and commitments EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Collateral notes of companies included in inventory * 173.4 194.7 Pledged deposits For own commitments 0.0 0.3 Guarantees On behalf of associates and joint ventures 12.4 14.4 On behalf of consortiums and real estate companies 1.8 1.8 On behalf of others** 10.2 24.4 16.2 Investment commitments 1.1 2.1 *Collateral notes for companies included in inventories are given for collateral security for their debts. **The guarantees have been granted on behalf of the building construction business in Sweden (Rekab Entreprenad AB) which was divested on 1 September 2015. The acquiring parties have set a counter-commitment for part of these guarantees. In addition, at the reporting date, the company has EUR 2.7 million (3.4) accrued interest liabilities concerning its hybrid bonds which are not recognised in statement of financial position. 125 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Litigation On 28 November 2013, the District Court of Helsinki issued its decisions concerning damages related to the asphalt cartel. In line with the decisions, Lemminkäinen recorded approximately EUR 66 million in expenses in its 2013 result. Of this, approximately EUR 60 million consisted of damages ordered only to Lemminkäinen, Lemminkäinen’s share of the damages ordered to it and other asphalt industry companies to be paid jointly and severally, as well as interest and legal expenses related to the damages. This amount was paid by the company in January 2014. Lemminkäinen has appealed against all 35 decisions, where the plaintiffs’ claims were upheld partly, to the Helsinki Court of Appeal. In Lemminkäinen’s opinion, there are some judicial aspects in the decisions, where the conclusions of the District Court differ from previous legal practices. Such judicial aspects are related to the questions of prescriptions and value added tax, for example. The main oral hearing in the Court of Appeal will take place during 2015. The Finnish state and 22 municipalities have also submitted their appeals to the Helsinki Court of Appeal. The main oral hearing at the Helsinki Court of Appeal took place on 2 March 2015–1 October 2015, and on the basis of the Helsinki Court of Appeal’s preliminary announcement, decisions are expected during 2016. In addition to the claims decided on by the District Court in November 2013, 21 claims against Lemminkäinen and other asphalt industry companies for damages are waiting for the main proceeding to begin. These damages amount to a total of approximately EUR 26 million and the company has made a EUR 13 million provision for them. In addition, the company has other individual legal proceedings related to business operations, the outcome of which is uncertain. The company estimates that these legal proceedings will not have a material impact on the company’s financial position. Financials › Consolidated financial statements › Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) › 38 Related party transactions 38 Related party transactions Lemminkäinen Group's related parties comprise associates and joint ventures as well as members of the key management personnel including their related parties. Members of the key management personnel comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO as well as Executive Team. Transactions with related parties EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Sales of goods and services To associates and joint ventures 1.7 1.9 To key management personnel and their related parties 0.1 0.4 1.8 2.3 Purchases of goods and services From associates and joint ventures 5.2 15.7 From key management personnel and their related parties 0.2 5.3 15.7 EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Balance of purchases/sales of goods and services Trade receivables From associates and joint ventures 0.0 0.0 From key management personnel and their related parties 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Trade payables To associates and joint ventures 0.2 0.2 EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Loan receibables from associates and joint ventures 0.3 0.2 Related party transactions with associates and joint ventures are mainly asphalt works and mineral aggregate deliveries. A list of investments in subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures is presented in note 11. Sales to key management personnel and their related parties include sales of fixed assets and construction services. Purchases from key management personnel and their related parties include a service purchase from an entity controlled by a member of key management personnel. The transactions were made at market price. 126 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration of key management personnel On the basis of a proposal submitted by the HR Committee, the company’s Board of Directors decides on the basic salary and fringe benefits as well as on both short-term and long-term remuneration of the President and CEO and of the Executive Team. The Board of Directors decides annually both short and long-term indicators for management remuneration and the target values for the indicators which are designed to support achievement of the strategic goals. On the basis of the President and CEO’s proposal, the Board of Directors decides on the amount of fees and whether the indicator-based goals have been reached. According to management remuneration policy approved by the Board of Directors, the remuneration of the President and CEO, members of the Group's Executive Team, and other management personnel consists of a fixed basic salary, fringe benefits, other benefits, annual short-term incentives (performance-based pay) as well as long-term share based incentive plans and pension plans. Costs related to remuneration of key management personnel are presented in the table below. In 2015, the company booked social security costs of EUR 0.5 million (0.9) from key management personnel’s salaries, fees and other employee benefits. The social security costs are not included in the table’s figures below. The table’s figures are calculated on accrual basis and the performance and share-based rewards included in the figures are based on a year-end estimate. EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Short-term employee benefits 2.2 2.8 Timo Kohtamäki 0.2 Bernd Brunow (President and CEO term)* 0.2 Casimir Lindholm (President and CEO term) 0.6 0.3 Key management personnel other than the President and CEO 1.7 2.1 Post-employment benefits** 0.4 0.6 Timo Kohtamäki** 0.2 Casimir Lindholm (President and CEO term)** 0.1 0.0 Key management personnel other than the President and CEO 0.3 0.4 Share-based payments 0.2 0.1 Timo Kohtamäki 0.0 Casimir Lindholm (President and CEO term) 0.1 0.0 Key management personnel other than the President and CEO 0.1 0.1 Termination benefits*** 0.3 2.0 Timo Kohtamäki*** 1.1 Key management personnel other than the President and CEO*** 0.3 0.9 Other long term benefits Key management personnel other than the President and CEO 0.0 Remuneration of key management personnel, total 3.1 5.5 *Includes fees paid for Board work during the CEO period as well as fees for working as a President and CEO **The company has adjusted the comparison period figure by removing previously incorrectly included pension contributions ***Does not include share based payments or costs of additional pension plans for the term of notice 127 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits include fixed basic salary which is determined by the requirements of the position as well as the performance and experience of the person holding the position. In addition, short-term employee benefits include the use of a car benefit, mobile phone benefit, meal benefit and an extended insurance cover for accidents and travel in their leisure time. The amount of the management's performance-related reward is earned by exceeding financial and operational profit targets specified at the beginning of the year. Lemminkäinen's top management is divided into two performance-related reward groups which define the maximum performance-related reward percentage for each person. Defining a person's reward group is based on organisation level as well as the requirements and operational influence of the position. In 2015 the level of performancerelated reward of the management was based on profit before taxes, the Group's return on capital employed as well as efficiency and reaching goals related other development targets. Performance-related rewards of the Executive Vice Presidents of business segments, who are members of the Group's Executive Team, were also based on the operating profit of each segment. Achieving targets set on performance-related rewards were assessed semi-annually. The maximum performance bonus payable to the President and CEO was 80 per cent of the annual salary and 60 per cent for other members of the Group Executive Team. Lemminkäinen Corporation’s General Meeting elects each year the members to serve on the company’s Board of Directors and decides on their fees. The fees are paid fully in cash. The term of office of the Board members lasts until the end of the first Annual General Meeting held after their election. The members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not belong to the share-based incentive plan, and they are not employees of Lemminkäinen. The 2015 Annual General Meeting decided that the Chairman would be paid a fee of EUR 10,000 per month (10,000) and the Board members would each receive a fee of EUR 3,000 per month (3,000). The Board members also receive an attendance fee of EUR 500 per meeting (500). The chairman of the Audit Committee is paid an attendance fee of EUR 1,000 (1,000) and the members of the Audit Committee EUR 500 (500) for each meeting of the Committee. Board members living outside Finland receive an extra EUR 1,000 (1,000) to their attendance fees. Post-employment benefits The additional pension plan of the President and CEO and the members of Executive Team is based on cash basis and earning a paid-up policy. The amount of payment is defined as percentage of the annual salary. The President and CEO and other members of the Executive Team are entitled to retire at the age of 63. The amount of the President and CEO’s and other members' of the Executive Team defined contribution pension benefit equals 20 per cent of their annual fixed salary. Other long term benefits A performance bonus agreement has been made for the President and CEO and the Executive Team for 2016–2018. The aim of the bonus agreement is to ensure long term continuity and profitability of the business. The possible bonus will be paid in 2016 and 2018, and it is equivalent to a maximum of 15 months’ cash salary. The bonus criteria include, among other things, the success of the Group’s financing arrangements as planned. Other long term benefits expenses arose from service year awards and anniversary gifts to related-party personnel. The awards and gifts comply with the Group’s HR practices. 128 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Termination benefits Term of notice for the Lemminkäinen’s President and CEO agreement and for other members of the Executive Team is six months. If the company dismisses the President and CEO agreement, the President and CEO is entitled to an absolute severance pay equal to 12 months cash salary at the time of the agreement's termination. For other members of Executive Team the equivalent severance pay equals to six months cash salary at the time of the agreement’s termination. Share-based payments The share-based incentive plan for the Group's key personnel comprises of performance-based and conditional rewards. Performance based reward comprised of three earning periods, which were calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The company's Board of Directors decided on the earning criteria and the set targets at the beginning of each period. Performance based compensation targets for 2015 were related to the company’s return on capital employed and equity ratio. In addition to the performance-based reward, the key personnel also have the opportunity to receive a conditional reward based on share ownership and a continuation of their employment or service contract. The conditional reward seeks to encourage the Group’s key personnel to increase their holding in the company. The earning period for the conditional reward was the calendar years 2013–2015. Share-based payments are described in more detail in the note 30. 129 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company income statement (FAS) Parent company income statement (FAS) EUR million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Net sales 1 33.8 35.9 Production for own use 0.0 0.6 Other operating income 2 3.8 12.4 Materials and services 3 0.2 3.7 Personnel expenses 4 10.0 21.7 Depreciation and reduction in value 5 7.8 6.3 Other operating expenses 6 25.2 30.5 Operating profit/loss -5.5 -13.2 Finance income and costs 7 -18.5 -10.1 Profit/loss before extraordinary items -24.0 -23.4 Extraordinary items 8 26.5 15.8 Profit before taxes 2.5 -7.6 Direct taxes 9 -0.5 5.2 Profit for the financial year 2.1 -2.4 130 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company balance sheet (FAS) Parent company balance sheet (FAS) EUR million Note 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 ASSETS Non-current assets 10 Intangible assets 9.6 14.2 Tangible assets 12.0 14.5 Investments in Group companies 11 114.2 114.2 Other investments 1.0 1.4 136.8 144.2 Current assets 12 Non-current receivables 116.9 Deferred tax assets 20.9 21.3 Current receivables 61.6 274.1 Financial securities 25.1 Cash in hand and at banks 118.3 93.7 317.7 414.3 454.5 558.5 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholder's equity 13 Share capital 34.0 34.0 Share premium account 5.7 5.7 Invested non-restricted equity fund 90.6 90.6 Retained earnings 45.6 48.0 Profit for the financial year 2.1 -2.4 177.9 175.9 Provisions 14 Other provisions 13.0 12.3 Liabilities 15 Non-current liabilities 212.9 240.0 Current liabilities 50.6 130.3 263.5 370.3 454.5 558.5 131 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) Adjusted EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Cash flows from operating activities Profit/loss before extraordinary items -24.0 -23.4 Adjustments Depreciation and impairment 7.8 6.3 Finance income and costs 18.5 10.1 Other adjustments 0.4 -12.5 Cash flow before change in working capital 2.7 -19.5 Change in working capital Increase(-)/decrease(+) in trade and other receivables 4.4 0.1 Increase(+)/decrease(-) in current liabilities -0.9 -51.1 Cash flow from operations before financial items and taxes 6.2 -70.5 Interest and other finance costs paid -76.8 -51.7 Dividends received 12.4 Interest and other finance income received 40.2 57.1 Income tax paid 0.0 0.0 Cash flow from operating activities -30.5 -52.8 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of tangible and intangible assets -0.7 -5.1 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets 1.1 1.6 Investments in other assets 0.0 Return on invested capital 2.9 Proceeds from sale of other investments 0.7 1.2 Disposed subsidiary shares 53.9 Cash flow from investing activities 1.1 54.5 Cash flows from financing activities Increase(-)/decrease(+) of long-term loan receivables -120.1 1.7 Share issue for cash consideration 29.3 Group contributions received 22.2 1.2 Change in Group receivables/liabilities 206.0 43.0 Proceeds from short-term borrowings 29.5 128.0 Repayments of short-term borrowings -79.7 -304.3 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 370.0 Repayments of long-term borrowings -29.1 -210.0 Cash flow from financing activities 28.8 58.8 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in cash and cash equivalents -0.6 60.5 Cash and cash equivalents at begining of financial year 118.9 58.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of financial year 118.3 118.9 132 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Parent company's accounting principles, 31 Dec 2015 Parent Company’s Accounting Principles, 31 Dec 2015 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s financial statements are Lemminkäinen Corporation’s subsidiaries operating in the prepared in accordance with Finnish accounting standards paving business use commodity derivatives to manage (FAS). bitumen price risk. The execution of some of those derivatives with external counterparties is centralised to Foreign currency items Lemminkäinen Corporation, and the corresponding internal Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are derivative contracts are executed with intra-Group translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates transactions with each subsidiary. Consequently, commodity prevailing on the date of the transaction. Receivables and derivatives do not affect Lemminkäinen Corporation’s liabilities are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on income statement significantly. the balance sheet date. Fair value changes from derivative financial instruments Financial securities which are not used for hedge accounting are recognised according to the nature of the derivative, either in financial Financial securities are measured at fair value and the items or in other operating income and expenses in the changes in fair values are recognised in fair value reserve in income statement. Fair value changes are presented on equity. Fair values are calculated by discounting future cash section 7 of the notes to the financial statements. flows to present value. When financial securities are sold, accumulated fair value changes are transferred from fair value reserve to financial items in the income statement. Valuation and depreciation of fixed assets Fixed assets are shown on the balance sheet at their original Derivative financial instruments and hedge acquisition costs less planned depreciation over their expected economic lifetimes. In addition, the values of some accounting land, buildings and shareholdings include revaluations, The derivatives are used in order to reduce business risks, against which no depreciation is charged. The depreciation interest rate risks and to hedge balance sheet items periods are as follows: denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. Buildings and structures 10–40 years Machinery and equipment 3–15 years Foreign exchange derivatives are used to hedge against Other fixed assets 3–10 years changes in forecasted foreign currency-denominated cash flows and changes in value of receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies. The company has used foreign exchange Pension liability forward contracts which are re-measured at the balance The pension security of employees, inclusive of additional benefits, is covered by policies taken out from a pension sheet date by using the foreign exchange forward rates insurance company. prevailing on the balance sheet date. Interest rate derivatives are used to hedge against changes Research and development expenses affecting the result, balance sheet and cash flows due to Costs of research are expensed in the year during which they interest rate fluctuations. The company has used interest occur. Development costs are capitalized if requirements for rate swaps which are re-measured by discounting the capitalization are met. contractual future cash flows to the present value. Direct taxes The Company has applied cash flow hedge accounting to Taxes calculated on the basis of the result for the financial some variable-rate loans. The change in fair value of the year, adjustments to the taxes of earlier financial years, and interest rate swap agreements used as hedging instrument is the change in the deferred tax liability and asset are recorded recognised in the fair value reserve in equity as the hedging as direct taxes on the income statement. relationship is effective. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value is recognised in financial items in the income statement. Changes in fair value accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and recognised in financial items for the accounting period in which the hedged item affects the result. 133 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) 1 Net sales by market area 2 Other operating income 3 Materials and services 4 Notes concerning personnel, management and board members 5 Depreciation and reduction in value 6 Audit fees 7 Finance income and costs 8 Extraordinary items 9 Direct taxes 10 Non-current assets 11 Investments in Group companies 12 Current assets 13 Shareholders' equity 14 Provisions 15 Liabilities 16 Guarantees and commitments 134 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 1 Net sales by market area 1 Net sales by market area EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Finland 30.2 31.9 Scandinavia 2.1 1.0 Baltic countries 0.6 0.3 Russia 0.9 2.6 33.8 35.9 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 2 Other operating income 2 Other operating income EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Gain on sales of fixed assets 1.3 12.0 Others 2.5 0.4 3.8 12.4 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 3 Materials and services 3 Materials and services EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Raw materials and consumables 0.2 2.4 External services 0.0 1.3 0.2 3.7 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 4 Notes concerning personnel, management and board members 4 Notes concerning personnel, management and board members EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Personnel expenses Salaries, wages and renemunerations 7.1 17.6 Pension expenses 2.5 3.3 Other staff costs 0.5 0.8 10.0 21.7 Management salaries and renemunerations The President and CEO 0.7 1.6 Board of Directors 0.4 0.4 Average number of employees Salaried employees 127 234 Pension commitments concerning Board of Directors and the President and CEO The retirement age of the President and CEO of Lemminkäinen Corporation is 63 years. 135 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 5 Depreciation and reduction in value 5 Depreciation and reduction in value EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Depreciation Intangible rights 4.9 5.1 Other capitalised expenditure 0.3 0.3 Buildings and structures 0.7 0.8 Machinery and equipment 0.0 0.0 Other tangible assets 0.0 0.1 6.0 6.3 Reduction in value Revaluation of buildings 1.7 Revaluation of shares in housing companies 0.1 1.8 Depreciation and reduction in value 7.8 6.3 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 6 Audit fees 6 Audit fees EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Audit fees 0.1 0.1 Other consulting 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.2 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 7 Finance income and costs 7 Finance income and costs EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Dividend income From Group companies 12.4 12.4 Other interest and finance income From Group companies 16.5 15.7 From others 18.9 40.1 35.4 55.9 Interest expenses and other finance costs To Group companies 6.4 0.7 To others 47.5 77.8 53.9 78.4 Net finance income/costs -18.5 -10.1 Finance income and costs include: Exchange gains and losses (net) -2.2 -5.4 Change in fair value of currency derivatives (net) -4.0 4.8 Change in fair value of interest rate derivatives (net) 0.1 -1.2 Gains and losses from hedge accounting (net) -0.1 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 8 Extraordinary items 8 Extraordinary items EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Extraordinary incomes, Group contributions 26.5 22.2 Extraordinary expenses, damages relate to legal proceedings -6.4 26.5 15.8 136 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 9 Direct taxes 9 Direct taxes EUR million 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 1 Jan–31 Dec 2014 Income taxes in respect of previous years 0.0 0.0 Change in the deferred tax assets -0.4 5.2 -0.5 5.2 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 10 Non-current assets 10 Non-current assets Intangible assets Other Advance Intangible capitalised payments and EUR million rights expenditure work in progress Total Cost 1 Jan 2015 24.0 5.6 0.5 30.1 Increases 0.6 0.1 0.7 Decreases -0.2 -2.9 -3.2 Transfers between items 0.5 -0.5 Cost 31 Dec 2015 25.0 2.7 0.1 27.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 1 Jan 2015 -11.1 -4.8 -15.9 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and tranfers 0.1 2.9 3.0 Amortisation for the financial year -4.9 -0.3 -5.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 Dec 2015 -15.9 -2.1 -18.1 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2015 9.0 0.5 0.1 9.6 Other Advance Intangible capitalised payments and EUR million rights expenditure work in progress Total Cost 1 Jan 2014 18.0 7.7 7.4 33.1 Increases 4.7 0.0 0.4 5.1 Decreases -2.8 -2.7 -2.6 -8.1 Transfers between items 4.1 0.6 -4.7 Cost 31 Dec 2014 24.0 5.6 0.5 30.1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 1 Jan 2014 -6.6 -7.2 -13.8 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and tranfers 0.6 2.7 3.3 Amortisation for the financial year -5.1 -0.3 -5.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 Dec 2014 -11.1 -4.8 -15.9 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2014 12.9 0.8 0.5 14.2 Property, plant and equipment Advance Building and Machinery and Other tangible payments and EUR million Land structures equipment assets work in progress Total Cost 1 Jan 2015 2.9 19.0 0.5 1.3 23.7 Decreases 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cost 31 Dec 2015 2.9 19.0 0.5 1.3 23.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2015 -13.1 -0.4 -1.1 -14.7 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and tranfers 0.0 0.0 Depreciation for the financial year -0.7 0.0 0.0 -0.8 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2015 -13.9 -0.4 -1.1 -15.4 Revaluations 1 Jan 2015 2.3 2.3 Reduction in revaluation -1.7 -1.7 Revaluations 31 Dec 2015 3.1 0.6 3.7 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2015 6.0 5.7 0.0 0.2 12.0 137 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Advance Building and Machinery and Other tangible payments and EUR million Land structures equipment assets work in progress Total Cost 1 Jan 2014 2.9 18.6 0.9 1.3 0.4 24.1 Increases 0.1 0.1 Decreases -0.5 -0.5 Transfers between items 0.4 0.0 -0.4 Cost 31 Dec 2014 2.9 19.0 0.5 1.3 23.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2014 -12.4 -0.8 -1.1 -14.2 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and tranfers 0.4 0.4 Depreciation for the financial year -0.8 0.0 -0.1 -0.9 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2014 -13.1 -0.4 -1.1 -14.7 Revaluations 3.1 2.3 5.4 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2014 6.0 8.2 0.1 0.2 14.5 Investments Holdings in Group Shares in real Other shares Shares in housing EUR million companies estate and holdings companies Total Cost 1 Jan 2015 116.5 0.8 0.4 0.2 117.8 Disposals -0.2 -0.1 -0.3 Cost 31 Dec 2015 116.5 0.8 0.2 0.1 117.6 Accumulated impairment 1 Jan 2015 -2.4 -2.4 Accumulated impairment 31 Dec 2015 -2.4 -2.4 Revaluations 1 Jan 2015 0.1 0.1 Reduction in revaluation -0.1 -0.1 Revaluations 31.12.2015 Carrying amount 31.12.2015 114.2 0.8 0.2 0.1 115.2 Holdings in Group Shares in real Other shares Shares in housing EUR million companies estate and holdings companies Total Cost 1 Jan 2014 159.6 0.8 0.6 0.3 161.2 Increases 0.0 0.0 Disposals -43.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.1 -43.3 Cost 31 Dec 2014 116.5 0.8 0.4 0.2 117.8 Impairment -2.4 -2.4 Accumulated impairment 31 Dec 2014 -2.4 -2.4 Revaluations 0.1 0.1 Carrying amount 31 Dec 2014 114.2 0.8 0.4 0.2 115.5 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 11 Investments in Group companies 11 Investments in Group companies Consolidated shareholding % Parent company shareholding % Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 Lemcon Networks Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 UAB Lemcon Vilnius, Lithuania 100.0 100.0 UAB Lemminkainen Lietuva, Lithuania 99.9 99.9 138 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 12 Current assets 12 Current assets EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Non-current receivables Loan receivables from Group companies 116.9 Deferred tax assets From accruals and temporary differences 21.6 22.4 21.6 22.4 Deferred tax liabilities From revaluations 0.7 1.1 0.7 1.1 Deferred tax assets (+) and liabilities (-), total 20.9 21.3 Current receivables Receivables from parties outside the Group Trade receivables 0.1 0.3 Other receivables 3.5 10.1 Accrued receivables 3.2 5,4* 6.8 15.7 Receivables from Group companies Trade receivables 7.6 6.6 Other receivables 46.1 249.3 Accrued receivables 1.2 2.4 54.8 258.4 Current receivables, total 61.6 274.1 Items included in accrued receivables Accrued interests 0.0 Taxes 0.0 0.0 Deferred personnel expenses 0.4 0.9 Others 4.0 6,8* 4.3 7.8 * The company has adjusted the manner in which acquisition costs in liabilities are handled. Debt is recorded on the balance sheet at nominal value and the remaining, unrecognised portion of acquisition costs has been recorded under accrued receivables. The impact of the adjustment on the company's liabilities and accrued receivables on 31 December 2014 is EUR 2.0 million. The impact of the adjustment on the change in working capital and the proceeds from long-term borrowings in the 2014 cash flow statement is EUR 1.1 million. 139 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 13 Shareholders' equity 13 Shareholders' equity EUR million 2015 2014 Share capital 1 Jan 34.0 34.0 Share capital 31 Dec 34.0 34.0 Share premium account 1 Jan 5.7 5.7 Share premium account 31 Dec 5.7 5.7 Invested non-restricted equity fund 1 Jan 90.6 61.3 Increases 29.3 Invested non-restricted equity fund 31 Dec 90.6 90.6 Retained earnings 1 Jan 45.6 48.0 Retained earnings 31 Dec 45.6 48.0 Profit for the financial year 2.1 -2.4 Shareholders' equity, total 177.9 175.9 Distributable funds 31 Dec 138.2 136.2 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 14 Provisions 14 Provisions EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Litigation provision 13.0 12.3 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 15 Liabilities 15 Liabilities EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 * Non-current liabilities Bonds 100.0 100.0 Hybrid bonds 112.9 140.0 212.9 240.0 * The company has adjusted the manner in which acquisition costs in liabilities are handled. Debt is recorded on the balance sheet at nominal value and the remaining, unrecognised portion of acquisition costs has been recorded under accrued receivables. The impact of the adjustment on the company's liabilities and accrued receivables on 31 December 2014 is EUR 2.0 million. The impact of the adjustment on the change in working capital and the proceeds from long-term borrowings in the 2014 cash flow statement is EUR 1.1 milloin. 140 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Current liabilities Liabilities to parties outside the Group Pension loans 2.0 Commercial papers 13.1 63.4 Trade payables 0.7 0.6 Other liabilities 13.4 9.9 Accrued liabilities 9.8 15.3 37.0 91.2 Liabilities to Group companies Trade payables 0.0 0.0 Other liabilities 12.0 39.1 Accrued liabilities 1.5 0.0 13.6 39.1 Items included in accrued liabilities Accrued interests 6.4 7.5 Accrued personnel expenses 2.0 4.8 Others 2.9 3.1 11.3 15.3 Financials › Parent company financial statements › Notes to the parent company financial statements (FAS) › 16 Guarantees and commitments 16 Guarantees and commitments EUR million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Guarantees On behalf of Group companies 293.2 407.7 On behalf of associates and joint ventures 12.4 14.4 On behalf of consortiums and real estate companies 12.0 1.8 317.6 423.9 In addition, Lemminkäinen Corporation has set one guarantee without maximum amount on behalf of its subsidiary. Lease liabilities Payable next year 4.8 4.9 Payable in subsequent years 21.0 24.6 25.8 29.5 Derivative contracts Forward foreign exchange contracts Nominal value 71.4 77.2 Fair value 0.5 5.7 Interest rate swap contracts Nominal value 40.0 40.0 Fair value -1.0 -1.0 Commodity derivatives Quantity, MT 54,664 Nominal value 8.4 Fair value 141 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Financial indicators (IFRS) Financial indicators (IFRS) EUR million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net sales 1,879.0 2,044.5 2,020.1 2,267.6 2,183.9 Operations outside Finland 761.0 971.2 929.0 897.3 780.3 % of net sales 40.5 47.5 46.0 39.6 35.7 Operating profit 37.3 36.3 -89.3 50.4 44.0 % of net sales 2.0 1.8 -4.4 2.2 2.0 Profit before taxes 16.7 -1.7 -116.1 29.1 25.0 % of net sales 0.9 -0.1 -5.7 1.3 1.1 Profit for the financial year attributable to the equity holders of the parent company 7.2 18.2 -93.7 43.9 34.7 % of net sales 0.4 0.9 -4.6 1.9 1.6 Non-current assets 261.0 307.9 362.5 343.8 351.0 Inventories 402.0 524.0 504.4 494.4 448.5 Financial assets 372.5 425.9 475.8 465.3 443.3 Equity 377.6 412.5 324.0 441.8 348.7 Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.4 1.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 254.7 347.8 407.6 371.2 431.6 Interest-free liabilities 403.1 497.5 611.0 490.6 460.7 Balance sheet total 1,035.5 1,257.8 1,342.7 1,303.5 1,242.8 Return on equity, % 1.8 4.9 -24.4 11.1 10.5 Return on investment, %* 10.2 13.5 -9.4 10.8 10.8 Return on capital employed, % 5.3 4.5 -10.8 6.4 5.5 Equity ratio, % 40.6 37.1 27.3 37.2 30.8 Gearing, % 33.6 51.8 100.8 62.8 114.5 Interest-bearing net liabilities 126.8 213.6 326.5 277.3 401.2 Gross investments 10.3 30.0 71.2 64.5 84.0 % of net sales 0.5 1.5 3.5 2.8 3.8 Order book 31.12., continuing operations 1,180.3 1,456.1 1,733.2 1,336.1 1,289.3 Personnel at the end of period, continuing operations 4,059 4,748 5,526 5,833 5,751 The effects of changes in accounting principles to the financial indicators have been adjusted for the period when the new accounting principle became applicable as well as for the preceding accounting period. Correspondingly, discontinued operations have been adjusted from the income statement items for the accounting period in which they are classified as discontinued operations, as well as for the preceding accounting period. *Includes the effect of discontinued operations 142 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Basic earnings per share, EUR -0.15 0.40 -4,81 1.94 1.68 Diluted earnings per share, EUR -0.15 0.40 -4,81 1.93 1.68 Equity per share, EUR 16.28 19.33 15,70 21.45 16.87 Dividend per share, EUR 0,12* 0,00 0.00 0.60 0.50 Dividend per earnings, % 38,5 0.0 0.0 26.9 28.3 Effective dividend yield, % 0.9 0.0 0.0 4.2 2.7 Price per earnings (P/E) -93.3 23.6 -3.2 7.4 11.1 Share price, EUR lowest 9.55 9.50 13.74 13.95 17.08 highest 13.91 15.89 16.97 20.50 27.37 at end of financial year 13.79 9.52 15.20 14.28 18.72 Market capitalisation at year end, EUR million 320.0 220.9 298.2 280.6 367.8 Share trading (Nasdaq Helsinki), 1.000 shares 2,612 1,096 1,758 992 3,367 % of shares issued 11.2 4.7 8.9 5.0 17.1 Weighted average number of shares, 1.000 shares 23,193 21,329 20,600 20,582 20,665 Number of shares at end of period, 1.000 shares 23,220 23,220 19,650 19,650 19,645 Number of treasury shares 16,687 16,687 34,915 509 The effects of changes in accounting principles to the financial indicators have been adjusted for the period when the new accounting principle became applicable as well as for the preceding accounting period. Correspondingly, discontinued operations have been adjusted from the income statement items for the accounting period in which they are classified as discontinued operations, as well as for the preceding accounting period. *Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM 143 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Calculation of key ratios Calculation of key ratios RETURN ON EQUITY, % Profit for the period x 100 Total equity (average) RETURN ON INVESTMENT, % Profit before income taxes + finance costs x 100 Total equity (average) + interest-bearing liabilities (average) RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED, % Operating profit x 100 Total equity (quaterly average) + interest-bearing liabilities (quaterly average) EQUITY RATIO, % Total equity x 100 Balance sheet total – advance payments received GEARING, % Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and other liquid assets x 100 Total equity INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT Interest-bearing debt – cash and other liquid assets BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company – accrual basis interest of the hybrid bond adjusted with tax effect Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company – accrual basis interest of the hybrid bond adjusted with tax effect Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue + dilutive potential ordinary shares EQUITY PER SHARE Equity attributable to owners of the parent company Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue DIVIDEND PER SHARE Dividend for the financial year Total number of shares – treasury shares DIVIDEND PER EARNINGS, % Dividend for the financial year x 100 Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company EFFECTIVE DIVIDEND YIELD, % Dividend per share x 100 Share price at the end of period PRICE PER EARNINGS (P/E) Share price at the end of period Basic earnings per share MARKET CAPITALISATION Number of shares in issue x share price at the end of period 144 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit Board of Directors' proposal for the distribution of profit Distributable shareholders' equity shown on the parent company balance sheet at 31 December 2015 amounts to EUR 138,209,602.00 consisting of retained earnings EUR 45,578,889.18 and the result for the financial year EUR 2,050,059.14. The board of directors will propose to the AMG that, for the financial year ended 31 December 2015, the company will distribute a per-share dividend of EUR 0,12 to a total of EUR 2,786,388.00 after which retained earnings would stand at EUR 44,842,560.32. Helsinki, 3 February 2016 Berndt Brunow Juhani Mäkinen Noora Forstén Chairman of the Board Finn Johnsson Heppu Pentti Kristina Pentti-von Walzel Heikki Räty Casimir Lindholm President and CEO 145 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financials › Auditor's report Auditor’s Report (Translation from the Finnish Original) evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial To the Annual General Meeting of Lemminkäinen statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The Oyj procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, We have audited the accounting records, the financial including the assessment of the risks of material statements, the report of the Board of Directors and the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those administration of Lemminkäinen Oyj for the year ended 31 risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control December, 2015. The financial statements comprise the relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements consolidated statement of financial position, income and report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate of changes in equity and statement of cash flows, and notes in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash control. An audit also includes evaluating the flow statement and notes to the financial statements. appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation Managing Director of the financial statements and the report of the Board of The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are Directors. responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as opinion. adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a regulations governing the preparation of the financial true and fair view of the financial position, financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in performance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with Finland. The Board of Directors is responsible for the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as appropriate arrangement of the control of the company’s adopted by the EU. accounts and finances, and the Managing Director shall see to it that the accounts of the company are in compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have been arranged Opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements in a reliable manner. and the Report of the Board of Directors In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Auditor’s Responsibility Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial consolidated and the parent company’s financial statements, on the consolidated financial statements and on performance and financial position in accordance with the the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The laws and regulations governing the preparation of the Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirements financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing Directors is consistent with the information in the financial practice requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain statements. reasonable assurance about whether the financial Helsinki, 4 February 2016 statements and the report of the Board of Directors are free from material misstatement, and whether the members of PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy the Board of Directors of the parent company or the Authorised Public Accountants Managing Director are guilty of an act or negligence which may result in liability in damages towards the company or Markku Katajisto whether they have violated the Limited Liability Companies Authorised Public Accountant Act or the articles of association of the company. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 146 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Investor information › Shares and shareholders Shares and shareholders Lemminkäinen has one series of shares (LEM1S). Each share carries one vote at the general meeting of shareholders and Shareholders At the end of the financial year, the company had 4,391 confers an equal right to a dividend. shareholders (4,532). Holders of nominee-registered shares Share capital and amount of shares and non-Finnish shareholders held 12,5 per cent (13) of all Lemminkäinen Corporation shares and voting rights. Lemminkäinen’s share capital remained unchanged, and amounted to EUR 34,042,500 at the end of 2015. The number of Lemminkäinen's shares was 23,219,900 shares. Flagging notifications Lemminkäinen received two flagging notifications in 2015. Share price and trading volume As a result of an estate distribution, the number of shares and votes held by Olavi Pentti's estate in Lemminkäinen The price of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share on Nasdaq Corporation decreased from 1,496,635, i.e. around 6.45 per Helsinki Ltd. was EUR 9.52 (15.20) at the beginning of the cent, to zero. At the same time, the number of shares held by year and EUR 13.79 (9.52) on the last trading day in 2015. Lauri Pentti, as a result of an estate distribution increased to The highest share price quoted was EUR 13.91 in November 1,161,635 shares, which corresponds to over 5 per cent of all and the lowest EUR 9.87 in January. At the end of 2015, the shares and votes in Lemminkäinen Corporation. market capitalisation of Lemminkäinen’s shares stood at EUR 320.0 million (220.9). Treasury shares In addition to the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd., Lemminkäinen’s At the end of 2015, Lemminkäinen owned 16,687 of its own share is also traded on alternative markets. The total trading shares, which have been returned to the company as part of volume in 2015 totalled 2,759,034 (1,268,320). Of this its share-based incentive scheme. amount, 5 per cent (14) of trading took place in alternative markets (source: Fidessa Fragmentation Index, http://fragmentation.fidessa.com). Lemminkäinen's share (LEM1S) Listing: Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Listing date: 1 June 1995 Trading currency: EUR Segment: Mid cap Sector: Industrials Trading code: LEM1S ISIN code: FI0009900336 Reuters ID: LEM1S.HE Bloomberg ID: LEM1S FH 147 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Management and Board of Director’s shareholdings No. of share on 31 December 2015 No. of shares on 31 December 2014 Board of Directors 1) 7,421,428 2,984,478 President and CEO 5,779 500 Group management, excluding the President and 15,675 13,458 CEO Management and Board of Directors shareholdings, 7,442,882 2,998,436 total % of all shares 32% 13% 1) Includes personal holdings and holdings of interest parties. Major shareholders on 31 December 2015 Number of shares % of share capital 1. Pnt Group Oy 4,341,948 18.7 2. Forstén Noora Eva Johanna 2,297,441 9.9 3. Pentti Heikki Oskari Estate 2,253,698 9.7 4. Olavi Pentti Estate 1,161,635 5.0 5. Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,091,677 4.7 6. Vimpu Intressenter Ab 792,500 3.4 7. Pentti Timo Kaarle Kristian 766,580 3.3 8. Pentti-Von Walzel Anna Eva Kristina 760,580 3.3 9. Pentti-Kortman Eva Katarina 751,234 3.2 10. Mandatum Life Unit-Linked 520,581 2.2 11. Wipunen varainhallinta Oy 465,000 2.0 12. Mariatorp Oy 455,000 2.0 13. Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 452,112 2.0 14. Fennia Life Insurance Company Ltd 385,099 1.7 15. Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 319,527 1.4 Top 15 Total 16,814,612 72.4 Others 3,609,685 15.6 Nominee registered shares 2,795,603 12.0 Total 23,219,900 100.0 Ownership distribution by number of shares on 31 December 2015 Number of shares Number of shareholders % of shareholders Number of shares % of shares 1–100 1,617 36.8 75,343 0.3 101–500 1,883 42.9 466,426 2.0 501–1 000 412 9.4 298,093 1.3 1,001–5,000 380 8.7 752,146 3.2 5,001–10,000 34 0.8 242,555 1.0 10,001–50,000 35 0.8 636,019 2.7 50,001–100,000 10 0.2 712,379 3.1 100,001–500,000 9 0.2 2,840,254 12.2 500,001– 11 0.3 17,196,685 74.1 Total 4,391 100.0 23,219,900 100.0 Of which nominee registered 9 0.2 2,795,603 12.0 148 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Shareholders by sector on 31 December 2015 Number of shareholders % of owners Number of shares % of shares Finnish private investors 4,024 91.7 10,292,397 44.3 Public sector institutions 6 0.1 1,923,878 8.3 Financial and insurance institutions 17 0.4 1,669,526 7.2 Corporations 280 6.4 6,189,300 26.7 Non-profit institutions 40 0.9 245,128 1.1 Foreign and nominee registered owners 24 0.5 2,899,671 12.5 Total 4,391 100.0 23,219,900 100.0 Earnings per share, dividend Equity per share, EUR per share 25 EUR % 5 50 20 0 0 15 -5 -50 11 12 13 14 15* 10 Earnings per share, EUR 5 Dividend per share, EUR The profit for the financial year 0 distributed to shareholders as 11 12 13 14 15 dividends, % *Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM Market capitalisation, Number of shareholders EUR million no. % 6,000 15 400 4,000 10 300 2,000 5 0 0 200 11 12 13 14 15 100 Number of shareholders The share of foreign and nominee registered shares 0 11 12 13 14 15 149 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Investor information › Information for shareholders and investors Information for shareholders and investors 2016 Annual General Meeting online at www.lemminkainen.com Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2016 Annual General Meeting by phone +358 2071 53378 will be held on Tuesday, 22 March 2016 at 3 p.m. at the by mail to Lemminkäinen Corporation, Pirjo Favorin, P.O. premises of Pörssitalo, Fabianinkatu 14, Helsinki, Finland. Box 169, 00181 Helsinki, Finland Right to participate When registering, shareholders should provide their name, Each shareholder who is registered on 10 March 2016 in the personal identification number, address and telephone Company’s shareholder register held by Euroclear Finland number, as well as the name and personal identification Ltd. has the right to participate in the Annual General number of any assistant. Notices of intention to attend must Meeting. A shareholder whose shares are registered in his/her be received before the registration deadline. Any instruments personal Finnish book-entry account is registered in the of proxy must also be submitted with the registration. The Company’s shareholder register. Notification of Annual General Meeting can be read in full on the Company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com. A shareholder whose shares are nominee registered and who wishes to participate in the Annual General Meeting and Dividend policy and dividend for the year 2015 exercise his right to vote must be entered in the company’s In accordance with Lemminkäinen’s dividend policy, the shareholder register by 17 March 2016 at 10:00 a.m. in order company seeks to pay its shareholders a dividend of at least to participate in the meeting. 40 per cent of the profit for the financial year. Registration Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors proposes to the General Registration for the Annual General Meeting begins on 4 Meeting that a EUR 0.12 dividend per share, i.e. EUR February 2016 and ends on 17 March 2016 at 4:00 p.m. 2,786,388 in total, be paid for the financial year ended on 31 Registration is possible: December 2015. Financial reporting 2016 4 February 2016 2015 Financial Statements bulletin week 9 Annual Report 2015 (including Financial Statements) 28 April 2016 Interim Report, 1 January–31 March 2016 28 July 2016 Interim Report, 1 January–30 June 2016 27 October 2016 Interim Report, 1 January–30 September 2016 Lemminkäinen holds a Finnish-language briefing for analysts and English. All releases can be ordered directly to email at and the media in connection with the publication of the Lemminkäinen’s website, www.lemminkainen.com/investors. Interim Reports and the Financial Statements bulletin at its headquarters in Helsinki. Investor relations Lemminkäinen’s investor relations seek to support the Prior to the Financial Statements bulletin and each Interim correct valuation of the Company’s share by providing capital Report, Lemminkäinen follows a so-called silent period. markets with current information on the Company’s During this period, Lemminkäinen does not comment on the business, strategy and financial position. The information financial situation or future outlook of the Group and does must be objective and simultaneously disclosed to all market not meet with representatives of the capital markets or participants. The Company answers questions from analysts financial media. and investors by phone and email, as well as by holding meetings with investors. Ordering publications and releases The Company publishes its financial reports, stock exchange Investment research releases and press releases in Finnish According to the information available to the Company, 150 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 the following banks and brokerage firms have made investment analyses of Lemminkäinen in 2015: Carnegie Contact information Securities, Danske Bank, Evli Bank, Inderes and Pohjola Lemminkäinen Corporation Bank. Contact information for these analysts is provided on Investor Relations P.O. Box 169, 00180 Helsinki, Finland Lemminkäinen’s website at www.lemminkainen.com/investors. Investor@lemminkainen.com 151 This is an automatically generated PDF of Lemminkäinen's online annual report. The content may not be as comprehensive as the complete annual report, which is available at www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2015
