Accelerating our strategy in a tough operating environment Lonmin Sustainable development report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Table of contents 2 – Approach to reporting 2 – Overview 3 – Assurance 2 – Reporting guidelines 3 – Lonmin-specific terms and references 2 – Scope and boundary 3 – Suite of reports 2 – Units of measurement and comparative data 3 – Navigation 2 – Rectifications 4 – Corporate profile 4 – Our company 7 – Market overview 6 – Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) 9 – Value-added statement 7 – SEDA Platinum Incubator (SPI) 10 – Our business – Jewellery Collaboration 12 – Letter from the Chief Executive Officer “Our vision – We dig to improve lives – remains in place, although the timeline of some of the strategic actions has changed.” 16 – Our strategy 16 – Operational context 17 – Sustainability strategy 16 – Strategic pillars 18 – Farlam Commission of Inquiry Report 18 – Preamble 19 – Lonmin’s comprehensive response 18 – Addressing immediate needs 22 – Partnerships 19 – Farlam Commission’s findings on Lonmin 23 – Conclusion 24 – Reporting according to the material focus areas 24 – Context 26 – Stakeholder perspectives 24 – Materiality determination process 26 – Overview of material focus areas 25 – Risk analysis /1 Table of contents continued The five material focus area chapters: 32 – Material focus area: Employee relations 34 – Context 38 – Accountability and governance 35 – Key stakeholders 39 – Approach and performance 36 – Risks and opportunities 48 – Material focus area: Safety and health 50 – Context 54 – Accountability and governance 51 – Key stakeholders 55 – Approach and performance 52 – Risks and opportunities 64 – Material focus area: Social licence to operate 66 – Context 70 – Accountability and governance 67 – Key stakeholders 71 – Approach and performance 68 – Risks and opportunities 82 – Material focus area: Environment 84 – Context 89 – Accountability and governance 86 – Key stakeholders 90 – Approach and performance 87 – Risks and opportunities 106 – Material focus area: Relationships with government 108 – Context 110 – Government priorities 109 – Engaging with government 111 – Key government departments 109 – Driving compliance 114 – Governance and compliance 114 – Governance for sustainable development 120 – Assurance 117 – Ethics 121 – Independent assurance report to the Directors 119 – Compliance of Lonmin Plc 125 – Annexures Contacts Lonmin welcomes feedback from stakeholders on the Sustainable Development Report, our approach to reporting according to the various frameworks and how we address Lonmin’s material focus areas. For feedback or requests for more information on sustainable development please contact: Dr Mel Mentz Head of SHE and Sustainability +27 14 571 4561 or +27 83 653 1080 mel.mentz@lonmin.com / 2 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Approach to reporting Overview Lonmin Plc (Lonmin, the Group or the Company) has Shanduka, the Company’s BEE partner. Varda Shine has prepared this report to provide its key stakeholders and joined the Board in February 2015 and Ben Moolman, other interested parties with an overview of Lonmin’s COO, joined the Board in June 2015. sustainable development policies, practices and Apart from these changes, there were no other significant performance. The information presented is intended to changes to the size, structure or ownership of the Group give an understanding of the most material sustainability subsidiaries during 2015. matters the Company faces, and how the related opportunities are pursued and challenges addressed, Following a reassessment, the five material focus areas as we endeavour to generate value for stakeholders. in the 2014 report have remained for 2015 and form the basis of the reporting structure. The material focus Reporting guidelines chapters provide an overview of the applicable material This report has been compiled in accordance with the aspects and supporting data. To keep the report concise Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)1 G4 core compliance and and relevant, certain topics are covered in our online its Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. In the report, supplementary reports and comprehensive GRI index, we also considered the United Nations Global Compact available on the Company’s website. The boundary of (UNGC)2 principles and the International Council on data remains unchanged and, where possible, data is reported on a comparative basis with no major Mining and Metals (ICMM)3 principles and reporting restatements. requirements. Scope and boundary Units of measurement and This report covers the financial year from 1 October 2014 comparative data to 30 September 2015 (FY15), unless otherwise All monetary amounts reflected in the report are stipulated; our previous Sustainable Development Report expressed in South African Rand (R) or in US Dollar covered the financial year ended 30 September 2014. (US$). During the year, the average cost of US$1 was R12.01, compared to an average of R10.55 to US$1 in The scope of the information contained in the report the 2014 financial year. relates to Lonmin group subsidiaries: Western Platinum A total production of 1,447,364 (2014: 882,094) (Proprietary) Ltd (WPL), Eastern Platinum (Proprietary) Ltd platinum group metal ounces (PGMoz) is used to (EPL), Messina Platinum Mines Ltd (MPML), and Akanani calculate intensity or efficiency ratios in the report, Mining (Proprietary) Ltd (Akanani), including the joint unless indicated otherwise. ventures and exploration activities over which the Company exercised management control during the The protracted strike of 2014 resulted in five months of financial year. In 2015, Lonmin announced the limited to no production, impacting the comparability reorganisation of the business, which will have an impact of 2014 data with that of other years. In tables and on about 6,000 employees and contractors (details on graphs, where data was severely affected by the strike, page 40). Lonmin also announced that it will carry out the the icon has been used to indicate where it should be orderly closure to care and maintenance of Hossy and understood in the context of the five-month strike. Newman shafts, and put 1B shaft on care and maintenance. We have re-examined West 1 and East 1 Rectifications shafts and renegotiated the ore purchase agreements • Employee turnover by reason: Retirements incorrectly with contractors to continue mining for the 2016 financial reported as 35 male retirements and 0 female year. Details of the share register can be found in the retirements instead of 156 and 4 in 2014. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 on page 73. • Grid electricity consumption: Note that grid electricity consumption was incorrectly plotted on the graph in Gary Nagle and Paul Smith served as Directors until the 2014 Sustainable Development Report (page 89). their retirement on 8 May 2015 following the approval The graph’s left legend should have shown by Glencore’s shareholders of the distribution in specie hundred MWh and not thousand MWh. of their 24.5% shareholding in the Company. Phuti • Total area covered by waste rock (surface – Mahanyele served as a Director until her retirement on overburden): Incorrectly stated in 2014 as 17,011 ha 30 June 2015 when she ceased to be a director of instead of 1,701 ha. 1 The GRI is a global reporting guideline that provides a framework for sustainable development reporting (www.globalreporting.org). Lonmin’s GRI index is available online at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2015/download-manager/. 2 The UNGC sets universal principles on labour, environment, anti-corruption and human rights (www.unglobalcompact.org). 3 The ICMM is an organisation of mining, minerals and metals companies and associations committed to driving social, economic and environmental progress in the industry (www.icmm.com). Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas /3 Assurance Lonmin-specific terms and KPMG Services Pty (Ltd) provided assurance on selected references performance data in this report, in line with the Data in the report is provided in terms of both operations International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE and geographic areas, as outlined below: 3000) assurance standard and the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance Procedure as it • Marikana: Refers to the mining and processing relates to Subject Matters 1 – 4. ICMM Subject Matter 5 activities of Western Platinum Ltd (WPL) and Eastern no longer applies, as it refers to the GRI G3 guidelines. Platinum Ltd (EPL) in the North West Province The scope of the assurance engagement, the data • The Precious Metal Refinery (PMR): Owned by WPL, assured and the statement of assurance are provided refers to the precious metal refinery, located in on page 121 of this report. Brakpan, Gauteng Province • Limpopo operations: Refers to the operations of Assurance provided by KPMG: Reasonable (✓R), Messina Platinum Mines Ltd (wholly owned by WPL), Limited (✓L). located in Limpopo Province • GLC: Refers to the Greater Lonmin Community, which incorporates the communities within a 15 km radius of the Company’s operations Suite of reports This Annual Sustainable Development Report should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 and the online supplementary reports. Sustainable Development ­ nnual Report and A Report for the year ended Supplementary Contents Accounts 2015 30 September 2015 online reports ­ • Strategic report • Detailed disclosure on • Biodiversity and land • Governance Lonmin’s material management • Financial statements sustainable development • Employee volunteering • A deeper look policies, practices and and donations • Shareholder information performance • Life cycle assessment • Independent assurance • Lonmin’s Sustainable report Development Standards • Safety and Sustainable • Membership of external Development Policy organisations and initiatives • Lonmin Charter • Safety achievements per operation • Stakeholder engagement • Supply chain • Research and development • GRI index Available Online at www.lonmin.com/ Online at www.sd-report. Online at www.sd-report. investors/reports-andlonmin.com/2015/ lonmin.com/2015/downloadpresentations/ manager/ Navigation ! Strike-impacted data (2014) ✓ Assurance provided by KPMG: Reasonable (✓R), Limited (✓L) Further information available online Targets Lonmin’s four strategic pillars Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 4 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Corporate profile Our Company Lonmin is a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals (PGMs). We operate under new order mining rights granted by the South African government for our core operations, which remain valid until 2037 and will then be renewable to 2067. Our value chain includes the exploration, mining, refining and marketing of PGMs, with platinum positioned as our principal product, generating 60% to 70% of our revenue in a typical year. The primary end markets for these metals are the automotive and jewellery industries. Who we are Mining operations Our The Company flagship employs 35,669 Women constitute operations, people – 26,968 8.8% of permanent the source of more employees than 95% of our permanent employees production, are located and 8,701 contractors at Marikana in the North West Province The Group estimates At Marikana, the Net sales of that approximately Company has 126,0001 people live R15,527 million 10 active shafts, in the areas one on care and immediately maintenance and adjacent to its opencast operations operations2 Pandora An additional mine at the Exploration both in operations Limpopo operations South Africa and – a joint venture in under care and internationally which Lonmin has maintenance a 50% interest; and contributing 5% of our annual production 1 Based on the assumption that every employee and contractor supports 3.3 dependants based on the result of the South African Census 2011 – Statistical Release (revised) PO301.4 by Statistics South Africa. 2 Lonmin announced that it will carry out the orderly closure of Hossy and Newman shafts and 1B shaft on care and maintenance. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas /5 Process operations Where we do it Seven Smelter and a base Operations concentrators at metal refinery (BMR) are based in the Marikana and one at Marikana North West, Limpopo concentrator in and Gauteng provinces Limpopo of South Africa At the Akanani Small exploration project, we continue Precious metal refinery projects in Canada, (PMR) at Brakpan, with exploration to Northern Ireland develop a viable Gauteng and Kenya operation Head office Limpopo in Johannesburg, Akanani South Africa and Marikana a registered office Rustenburg of the parent company in London, United Kingdom Johannesburg Primary listing on the London Stock Exchange (LSE); South Africa Secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 6 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Corporate profile continued Post year-end events – Rights Issue The sustained low PGM pricing environment we experienced in 2015, which we anticipate to prevail in the short to medium term was a major challenge to the sector and to Lonmin in particular, given the Group’s maturing debt facilities in 2016. The Company examined all possible options to address the balance sheet pressures caused by low commodity prices and the maturing of Lonmin short-term debt facilities, seeking the best solution for the business. Alongside a renegotiation of our debt facilities, it was concluded that an underwritten rights issue was the most effective solution. This was approved by the shareholders on 19 November 2015. The entire Lonmin Rights Issue has been taken up. Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) PGMs are durable precious metals found in PGM-bearing Although the primary production of PGMs is energy rock and are valuable due to their robust catalytic and intensive, PGMs play an important role in reducing electrical properties, long life cycle and high recyclability. pollutants from the combustion of fuel through The PGMs mined by Lonmin include platinum, palladium, technologies like catalytic converters. There are also rhodium, ruthenium and iridium, of which platinum is the several socio-economic benefits from mining PGMs, principal product. through employment, socio-economic development investment and tax contributions, contributing to local The automotive industry is the major market for PGMs, and national economies. accounting for over half of the annual demand for the metals. End uses of PGMs globally1 61% 16% 8% 7% Auto Jewellery Electrical Chemicals catalysis 2% 1% 1% 2% 2% Dentistry Glass Petroleum Medical Other 1 SFA (Oxford) 2015 estimate. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas /7 Lonmin PGM refined production (ounces) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 PGMs refined produced 1,446,662 1,349,802 1,336,109 882,094 1,447,364 Market overview Rhodium’s performance also impacted the PGM basket, with excess selling resulting in a 38% decline in price During the year under review, the platinum price has during the financial year to end US$760 per ounce. fallen to the point that the metal is now oversold. Palladium outperformed on a relative basis, but was hit The deficit market of 2014 is now shifting back towards by news of slowing growth in China impacting car sales balance as the recovery of supply closes the gap to and therefore palladium demand. Prices were down demand. Autocatalyst demand is growing, particularly 6% compared to the previous year and fell 13% during in Western Europe, with the introduction of Euro 6 the course of 2015. emissions legislation for all vehicles in 2015. Platinum demand was supported by buying on price dips in late The announcement of stimulus measures by China and 2014 and early 2015. After significant growth, Chinese the possibility of increased gasoline vehicle sales owing jewellery demand is forecast to fall between 3% and 7% to the Volkswagen (VW) scandal saw prices recover from this year. Sales have been affected by the falling local below US$600 per ounce to US$664 per ounce at the stock market and lower platinum jewellery marketing end of the financial year. expenditure. Fabricators did not use the weaker price Market outlook 2016 environment as an opportunity to stock up throughout the year. However, the strongest buying was evident in Reporting of how the VW diesel crisis might affect PGMs September, giving leave for cautious optimism for has been varied. The story broke in the US and added a recovery as retailers destock. to the negative view of diesel vehicles that has prevailed in Europe for much of the past year. However, the crisis PGM prices highlights the need for tightened and harmonised During the financial year, platinum underperformed both legislation worldwide, which would require more platinum. palladium and gold. The recovery of platinum supply, The diesel market is vital for platinum, but less so for combined with downgrades to global growth and the palladium and rhodium. The platinum used in heavy-duty softening in jewellery sales, were the primary reasons for diesel vehicles is largely ‘captive demand’, as diesel platinum’s underperformance. At the start of the 2015 powertrains are expected to be the dominant choice for financial year, the platinum spot price traded at the foreseeable future. The risk applies only to light-duty US$1,274 per ounce but ended the financial year at vehicles, where gasoline vehicles with much lower US$916 per ounce, a drop of 28%. Compared to 2014, platinum content are a ready substitute. Nonetheless, average prices were down 20% at US$1,134 per ounce diesel remains essential to meet stringent carbon dioxide for the year. targets in Europe. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 8 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Corporate profile continued Furthermore, outside Europe the fundamentals remain in place for growing platinum autocatalyst demand, as half Platinum demand by region (ounces) of the world’s vehicles still do not comply with the latest emissions legislation, which would benefit demand for platinum. Depending on jewellery fabricator buying 10,000,000 strength in the second half, there is a risk in that China jewellery demand could fall further this year. 8,000,000 Nevertheless, demand is growing elsewhere, partially offsetting this. The Indian market is a brighter prospect, 6,000,000 with purchasing expected to be up by 28% in 2015, though off a small base. 4,000,000 The basket price has fallen below the 50th centile of the cost curve of production, an unsustainable level. In 2015, 2,000,000 around 4% of global primary supply has been closed or deferred, with substantial capital expenditure postponed. 0 '14 '15 So far, producers have cut capital expenditure and United States Western Europe announced delays to shafts and some closures. Japan China Forced closure of mines or shafts may be inevitable Rest of the World across the South African platinum industry in 2016, as minor adjustments to supply will not be enough to rebalance the market. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas /9 Value-added statement Through business operations, shareholdings, investments, procurement contracts and development projects, Lonmin distributes financial value to a variety of stakeholders. Value-added statement US$ million ! 2014 2015 Net cash generated Customers, consumers and investment income Cash received for products 972 1,290 Cash returns on investment 15 3 Suppliers 1 Cash payments for materials and services purchased (174) (521) Cost of borrowings (31) (27) Net cash flows 782 745 Cash distributed Human capital (salaries and benefits) 563 721 Social capital2 6.6 6.8 Donations 0.1 0.6 Other community projects 6.5 6.2 Government taxes 18 24 Shareholders’ distribution – – Cash retained for growth 194 (7) Net cash distributed 782 745 Distribution of cash to stakeholders Destination US$m % Payments to employees (including directors) 721 52 Payments to suppliers 3 521 43 Payments to government taxes 24 2 Payments to/for communities 7 1 Payments to bank lenders (interest etc.) 27 2 Cash retained for reinvestment (7) Reconciling to cash earned in the year 1,293 100 1 Lonmin has a 30-day payment policy on services and procurement. 2 This includes the expenses related to the Social and Labour Plan community projects, donations and other community investments. 3 A significant proportion will be wages paid to contractors. We estimate around 60% of our costs are labour-related. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 10 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Corporate profile continued Our business Our main productive operations are all in South Africa, and our principal resource base is our substantial investment in the major and established mines in South Africa, the world’s premier PGM deposit. Process Explore Mine Mill Concentrate Description Explore for potentially Underground and Crushing ore brought Separation of economic PGM surface mining of to surface to liberate metalliferous particles mineralisation two ‘reefs’, Merensky contained PGMs from host rock using and UG2, each basic physical approximately chemistry 1 metre thick Output Mineral resources Millions of tonnes Millions of tonnes Kilogrammes of measurement (PGMoz) PGMs in concentrate Effectiveness Increase or replace Tonnes hoisted Tonnes milled PGMs in measurement mineral resources concentrate (kg) Ore reserves Recovery rate (% of contained PGMs recovered) Quality measures In situ PGM grade Underground head Milled head grade Concentrate grade and tonnes grade, per ore type (grammes per tonne) (grammes per tonne) (grammes per tonne) Efficiency Resources converted Cost per ounce Cost per tonne milled Cost per ounce measures to reserves recovered Supply chain The Company has 3,132 discretionary suppliers registered in its data base. Of these suppliers, 68% are based in South Africa (5.1% are from the GLC) and 32% are internationally based. The discretionary spend on suppliers during 2015 was R8.6 billion (2014: R5.4 billion). Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 11 Smelt Refine base metals Refine precious metals Market Further separation of Chemical and electroChemical separation of Three principal customers metals (matte) from chemical separation of the individual PGMs with global corporations. silicate host rock (slag) base metals (for sale in contained in base metal Six customers for base using electrically finished or semi-finished refinery (BMR) matte and metals generated heat form) from PGMs within refining to purity of the matte 99.995% or better for sale in various finished forms Kilogrammes of PGMs Troy ounces of PGMs Troy ounces of finished Troy ounces of finished in smelter matte in BMR matte metals metals purchased Primary tonnes smelted Recovery rate (% of PGMs in saleable form Revenues per PGMoz recovery rate (% of contained PGMs recovery rate (%) of achieved relative to price contained PGMs recovered) contained PGMs in spot market recovered) recovered Convertor matte grade ­Base metal purity (%) Purity (%) Quality of product (grammes per tonne) confirmed by customer PGM (%) as complying with Recovery rate Recovery rate specification (% of contained (% of contained PGMs recovered) PGMs recovered) Cost per tonne smelted Cost per refined ounce ­Cost per refined ounce Days from delivery of PGMs to cash settlement First pass recoveries (% of each metal recovered) Throughput time View the supplementary report on the supply chain at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2015/pdf/Supplementary_report_Supply_chain.pdf. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 12 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Letter from the Chief Executive Officer Letter from the Chief Executive Officer Ben Magara, Chief Executive Officer, reflects on 2015 and outlines the Lonmin strategy going forward. Lonmin’s operations managed to deliver a commendable operational performance this year, with production exceeding market guidance. Despite this, Lonmin is taking action to mitigate the effects of the current pricing environment and the tough decision has been taken to reduce high-cost production by orderly closure of Hossy and Newman shafts. Combined with this, Lonmin experienced increased Section 541 safety stoppages and difficult financial conditions. The persistently low PGM prices made it necessary to focus on our financial liquidity in the context of the maturing of our debt facilities in May 2016. The Board and executive management have reviewed the Group’s business and capital structure and developed the Business Plan to be able to deal effectively with the effects of a continuation of the low PGM pricing environment. Successfully navigating the current operating, social, labour and financial environment will require all stakeholders to accept some short-term discomfort to preserve the long-term benefits when conditions improve. The Company’s current situation represents an opportunity for all stakeholders to work together – a winner-take-all approach that emphasises the interests of one stakeholder group over another is simply not sustainable. Ben Magara Lonmin’s strategy and vision Our vision, ‘We dig to improve lives’, remains in place, although the timeline of some of the strategic actions has changed in light of the macro factors that are beyond our 2015 has been tough but our strategy is control. The development of our generation two shafts delivering results operationally and we was fast-tracked and we started closing shafts that are have taken robust measures to ensure unprofitable at current prices sooner than originally our sustainability as a business. anticipated. The Business Plan aims to achieve positive cash flow after capital expenditure in the PGM pricing Ben Magara environment prevailing in 2015, while preserving the Chief Executive Officer ability of the Group to increase its production as and when PGM prices improve. 1 Refer to page 57 for further details on Section 54. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 13 In October 2015, Lonmin announced the Business Plan, Governance which has been crafted to reduce fixed cost expenses, Prioritising and managing risks becomes even more remove high-cost PGM production ounces and reduce crucial in challenging times such as these. The capital expenditure to the minimum required for the safe Company’s financial position took centre stage this year, and efficient running of the operations. The Business as this was most critical. Plan aims to achieve positive cash flow after capital expenditure while preserving our ability to increase Another area of concern included production interruptions production as and when PGM prices improve. One of the from Section 54 safety stoppages. We have overseen focus areas of the Business Plan is to reduce overheads, robust action in cutting costs and taking sensible which includes measures such as reduction of labour, decisions on pay freezes and waiving bonuses. Against waiving annual cash bonuses to management level this backdrop, we started a Section 1892 consultation employees for 2015 and withholding salary increases to process to engage on implementation of the agreed management for 2016. avoidance measures, which include redeployment and re-skilling and voluntary separations. As at 6 November, The Farlam Commission of Inquiry 3,136 colleagues of the 6,000 affected positions had left The findings of the Farlam Commission of Inquiry the Company. The consultation process is in place to released in June 2015, provided a vital step in the healing ensure that Lonmin protects the majority of its 35,000 process after the tragic events of August 2012. It also jobs. The Relationship Charter established between provided an opportunity to examine how South Africa Lonmin and the Association of Mineworkers and can ensure that such a tragedy never happens again. Construction Union (AMCU) allowed us to have a robust Lonmin is committed to playing both a singular and process around the consultation process. Unions work to look after their members, as they should, but the collective role to avoid such a situation reoccurring and progressive way in which this process has unfolded we embrace working with all stakeholders including would have been unthinkable two years ago. We hope employees, communities, other mining companies and that this will continue into the next round of wage the three tiers of government to ﬁnd sustainable solutions negotiations. to the challenges facing the country. In this way, the tragedy at Marikana can be a catalyst for positive change Investing in employee relationships in society. Refer to page 18 for further information on the Farlam Commission of Inquiry Report. and their development Our culture transformation initiative ‘The Way We Work at Stakeholder engagement Lonmin’ is something that is both close to my heart and We believe that by keeping stakeholders well informed crucial to building the passion and energy we need for of Lonmin’s current position, the wage negotiations in the a sustainable Lonmin. The initiative prioritises building coming year can be conducted in a positive way that will connections with every employee, making sure everyone support the ongoing sustainability of the Company for understands the need to pull together and what is the benefit of all stakeholders. expected of them. It aims to foster empathy, care and respect in interactions with employees, which is We also continue building bridges with stakeholders in particularly important when these include tough our local communities. Unemployment and poor discussions around areas such as individual performance government service delivery in these communities is and headcount reductions. It also aims to build an becoming an increasingly serious problem. A strong and appreciation that our actions are necessary to place this thriving Lonmin can contribute to solving some of these Company on the right footing for the future. problems by creating jobs, contract and procurement The Employee Share Ownership Programme (ESOP) we opportunities and by investing in communities. implemented in 2014 emphasises the role employees Through our membership with the International Council play in the profitability of the Company and aligns their on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the United Nations interests with Lonmin’s. As economic partners with Global Compact (UNGC), like-minded organisations aligned responsibilities and involvement, it is clear that seek collaborative approaches to improve sustainable the destiny of Lonmin is partly in their hands and that development performance. We remain committed to their role is critical to ensure the Company makes money the principles set out by the ICMM and the UNGC. by coming to work and delivering on their targets. Through the Chamber of Mines, Lonmin is a signatory to the Mining Leadership Declaration agreement to ameliorate job losses. The Company will continue to work together and collaborate with government and unions on alternatives to minimise the impact of job losses. 2 Section 189a of the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 14 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Letter from the Chief Executive Officer continued Promoting employee and contractor safety and health It is deeply saddening to report that we suffered three This transaction involved setting up the necessary fatalities at our operations in FY15. We extend our structures and providing training and upskilling to support heartfelt condolences to the families, friends and the sustainability of the businesses created, and to colleagues of Mr Silva Cossa, Mr Mark Potgieter and ensure that both the community and Lonmin benefit from Mr Bonisile Mapango. the procurement process. While this process has taken time to put in place, we are confident that what has been We strive to be the industry leader in safety and we established is in the best long-term interests of both believe that ‘Zero Harm’ is both achievable and realistic. the Company and the community, in their dual role as Working safely is even more critical in economically suppliers and shareholders. constrained times, not only to protect employees and contractors from harm, but also to avoid production Lonmin is committed to community development as interruptions from safety stoppages. In the months defined in its Social and Labour Plans (SLPs). In the before the fatalities, Lonmin attained some notable safety current economic climate, this investment involves a achievements and recognitions, becoming the first trade-off between minimising job losses and investing mining company in South Africa to go 18 months without against commitments made when economic conditions a fatality and winning the JT Ryan award for the safest were far more positive than they are now. Given the mine in South Africa for the third consecutive year. current economic climate Lonmin has commenced a review of the current SLPs to align it with the new reality. Our safety statistics, particularly the lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), deteriorated during 2015. Managing environmental impacts We have put a comprehensive safety improvement and opportunities programme in place. Each shaft has a safety improvement plan in place to address the specific safety Lonmin is dedicated to managing its impact on the challenges they face. Section 54 safety stoppages natural environment in a responsible manner. While increased during the year, and had the unfortunate and we experience many of the same challenges as other unintended effect of disrupting momentum. South African businesses in terms of resource availability, we are also aware of a number of exciting opportunities Maintaining our social licence to in this area. There is a lot of debate around the environmental impact of traditional forms of electricity operate and investing in our generation, but the reality is that we need energy. community Products using PGMs have an important role to play Maintaining our social licence to operate through in managing emissions and providing a promising securing the trust and acceptance of communities and alternative source of power through fuel cell technology. stakeholders is material, as they host our operations. An unintended benefit of the shortage of electricity is that The Bapo ba Mogale traditional community empowerment it has forced Lonmin to use electricity more efficiently, agreement signed in 2014, marked the next phase in which is ultimately beneficial for the environment. a long journey. It is the start of a new relationship with Conversely, uncertain electricity supply represents our host community that aims to improve the lives of constraints on the economic growth of the country and community members by giving them a share in the limits the ability of business to contribute to resolving business. Just as the transaction gives the community many of the country’s most significant socio-economic rights in the business as shareholders, it also confers challenges. obligations and responsibilities. Water is a scarce resource and securing an adequate As part of enhancing relations with communities, Lonmin supply for our operations and local communities remains entered into mediation proceedings with the Bapo a challenge. There are a number of innovative solutions community. The Bapo transaction and Lonmin’s other to these challenges, including sourcing grey water from BEE transactions announced in 2014, resulted in the local municipalities to reduce our use of potable water. establishment of two community development trusts and an undertaking by the Company to provide the Bapo with R200 million in procurement opportunities. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 15 Improving relationships with Outlook government In conclusion, this year has been tough, but our strategy We continuously engage with government around the is delivering results operationally and we have taken shared responsibilities implicit in SLPs, minimising job robust measures to ensure our sustainability through losses, safety stoppages and the financial status of the these challenging times. We have taken steps to refinance Company to ensure that the respective roles and the business and address balance sheet issues, which responsibilities of each party are clear. were thrown into sharp focus by the combination of maturing debt facilities and low prices. These measures Maintaining a good working relationship with the will stand us in good stead in the years ahead, I believe, South African government is important to Lonmin, and as the long-term PGM market remains attractive. many challenges facing Lonmin and the industry are closely linked to the broader systemic socio-economic Appreciation issues facing South Africa. The responsibility for broader I would like to thank the Company’s management and change and development is shared with government. all our employees for their hard work, enabling us To demonstrate our commitment to collaboration, we to achieve so many of our targets during such a have donated 50 hectares of land to the government challenging year. I would also like to thank all of our to build accommodation for employees and community other stakeholders for their role in contributing to the members. The handover of the first phase of such Company’s achievements during the year. housing is imminent. The government has recently announced Project Phakisa for mining companies. The primary objective is to accelerate the delivery of some of the development Ben Magara priorities for the mining industry and local communities. Chief Executive Officer We also encourage government to enhance vehicle 4 March 2016 emission legislation and fuel cell power generation to augment national power requirements. These projects would contribute to Platinum demand and job creation through local manufacturing and beneficiation. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 16 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Our strategy Operational context In 2013, we began a fundamental review of our business. We believe that integrating our operational and Throughout and after the subsequent five-month strike sustainability strategies will assist us to achieve our goal in 2014, we took the opportunity to adapt our thinking. of Zero Harm. This has developed into the strategy we have today. Our highest short-term priority is our excellent Marikana The sustained low Platinum Group Metal (PGM) pricing operations, which are some of the best in the industry, environment we experienced in 2015, which we in terms of quality, safety and performance. We are anticipate to prevail in the short to medium term, was also the industry leader in UG2 mining and processing a major challenge for the sector, and to Lonmin in technology, an increasingly important part of the ore mix particular, given the Group’s maturing debt facilities in mined in the industry. 2016. We took the opportunity to re-examine our Within our mining operations, our shafts are split into strategy set against this background. three categories, namely Generation 1, Generation 2 and In essence, we found that our wider strategic approach Generation 3 shafts. The Generation 1 shafts – Newman, remained appropriate, but we needed to take robust and E1, E2, E3 and W1 are smaller, older shafts in the latter decisive action to further protect the business in the stages of their operational life. The Generation 2 shafts, short and medium term and embed sustainability. K3, Rowland, 4B/1B, Saffy and Hossy are the larger, newer shafts. Saffy was the last to ramp up and did so Fundamentally, this resulted in us developing a successfully, reaching steady state ahead of schedule. comprehensive response, which has seen us accelerate the move to reshape and resize the business for the Our Generation 3 vertical shaft, K4, reached the early low-price environment, reducing fixed-cost expenses, stages of ramp-up prior to being placed on care and removing high-cost ounces, reducing headcount and maintenance in September 2012. We believe that K4 is capital expenditure to the minimum required for the safe one of the Group’s best projects in South Africa, as it and efficient running of the Group’s operations, while continues to offer the best brownfield replacement and preserving the ability of the Group to increase its growth optionality for the Group. We plan to reopen the production when PGM prices improve. We are able to shaft when market conditions improve. do this because our operations and capital expenditure Profitability and returns are crucial. The Group is highly are scalable. Our existing strategy was built to ensure geared to the PGM pricing environment and the flexibility in these areas, and that has proved vital in Rand/US Dollar exchange rate. We mine for value, not recent months. for volume. Where volume might help deliver this in A detailed overview of Lonmin’s operational context and future, we aim to have the flexibility to increase strategy can be found on pages 13 – 21 of the Annual production with minimal expenditure but, given the Report and Accounts 2015. present PGM market, we believe that the priority in the short term is efficiency and cash. Strategic pillars Within the constraints of market conditions, we strive to Lonmin’s strategy aims to achieve its vision as the PGM ensure that our newer assets reach the most efficient supplier, investment partner and employer of choice, and profitable points they can in terms of safety, costs, creating shared value for all stakeholders. A detailed production and productivity as the older shafts reach overview of Lonmin’s strategic priorities is provided on the end of their lives. page 13 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, and is summarised here according to the four Enhance balance sheet strength strategic pillars, which are: Our philosophy of preserving a conservative balance sheet with access to sufficient funds to finance both • Operational excellence ongoing operations and prudent and efficient capital • Enhancing balance sheet strength expenditure was severely tested in 2015 by the sustained • Our people and relationships deterioration of PGM prices, coupled with our need to • Our corporate citizenship agenda renegotiate bank debt facilities against this backdrop. Operational excellence We examined multiple options around refinancing, as We strive to be the industry leader in safety and we our success in delivering solid and steady operational believe that Zero Harm is both achievable and realistic. results in all quarters was undermined by PGM prices. This starts with the safety, health and wellbeing of our We concluded that amending our debt facilities and employees and extends to everything we do, including launching a rights issue in November 2015 was in the minimising the environmental impact of our operations. best interest of Lonmin’s shareholders. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 17 Our people and relationships Our people are critical to the implementation of our Alongside the Group’s legal and regulatory obligations, strategy throughout the day-to-day operations. It is Lonmin believes that it is necessary to earn its social essential that we create a workplace where people licence to operate from the people and communities are energised and that is characterised by strong that host its operations. The Group estimates that relationships with employees and unions. Leadership approximately 126,000 people live in the areas needs to be adequately resourced and accountable, immediately adjacent to its operations and refers to working with empowered teams in a collaborative them collectively as the GLC. The Group has therefore, manner. over the years, engaged with and invested in local communities. Lonmin considers spend in social initiatives In the months since the strike in 2014, we made a priority as an investment and a business imperative for of further solidifying and improving those relationships – sustainability. particularly with our unions. Given the significant changes to employee numbers, which became necessary in 2015, Sustainability strategy the fact that we have been able to manage the process The sustainability strategy aims to integrate sustainable without disruption and with tough but mutually respectful development thinking into the business, so that the and productive negotiations with unions, has shown generation of ﬁnancial and social value is mutually that the hard work of the last two years in this area is reinforcing, rather than seen as a trade-off between delivering dividends. the two. Lonmin is conscious of its role as a responsible We are continuing with our effort to communicate directly corporate citizen and the critical importance of having with employees and to reclaim our role as the primary a working and trusting relationship with employees. This source of communication. We believe this direct is prioritised under the overall business strategy in the engagement with employees through the existing line pillars of operational excellence, our people and management structures and the periodic communication relationships and our corporate citizenship agenda. forums forms part of ‘The Way We Work’ at Lonmin and Underpinning the overall business strategy, Lonmin the basis of creating empowered, high-performance commits to Zero Harm in safety, health and environment. teams. Building on this understanding, the Company has crafted a safety, health and environmental strategy that rests on We have implemented the changes of personnel and five pillars. The first is forward energy that needs to be structures in our top team, which we talked about last applied to prevent injuries, incidents and diseases. year, and seen immediate positive impact. Our The other pillars focus on culture and behaviour, management structure is now flatter, and our operational creating a learning organisation, formalising consequence structure reconfigured to increase cohesion, execution management and ensuring retention of the Company’s and accountability. The operating philosophy promotes licence to operate. operational excellence, knowledge sharing, collaboration The sustainability strategy is defined in the Lonmin and consistency. We believe that the Group experienced Sustainable Development Standards1, and the Safety major benefits from this philosophy, as can be seen both and Sustainable Development Policy2 sets out our in the effective, holistic oversight management has of the commitments towards sustainability development. business, and in the empowerment of key operational It aligns with the International Council on Metals staff to bring their experience and skills to bear quickly. and Mining’s 10 principles of sustainable development Our corporate citizenship agenda and the United Nations Global Compact principles. The importance of genuine and robust stakeholder The sustainability strategy is reviewed regularly against engagement and relationship building has become the Lonmin strategy and Life of Business Plan (LoBP) increasingly apparent over the past decade, given the to ensure relevance and alignment. The LoBP spans in need to understand stakeholder expectations and excess of 40 years, detailing operational plans to mine communicate on key issues transparently, consistently and process the Group’s long-life mineral resources. and in a timely manner. We have identified and prioritised our stakeholder groups and individuals and allocated relationship ‘owners’ to each grouping. Our aim is to develop and nurture Lonmin’s relationships with all stakeholders. 1 Please see www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2015/pdf/Supplementary_report_Lonmin_sustainable_development_standards.pdf for the 15 Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards. 2 Please see page 128 for the Safety and Sustainable Development Policy. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 18 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Farlam Commission of Inquiry Report Lonmin’s response to Judge Farlam’s Report Findings Introduction In the communities surrounding our operations, we have met with ward councillors, civic, religious, environmental, The release of the Farlam Commission of Inquiry: Report youth and women’s groups. We have engaged with them on matters of public, national and international concern arising out of the tragic events at Marikana in the North to find common solutions to common challenges for West Province (the Farlam Report) to the broader public example, how we adapt our Social and Labour Plans in June 2015 was a vital step towards achieving healing. (SLPs) or collaborate on new ventures to benefit all – The Farlam Report is of huge significance for all South in pursuit of our objective of contributing towards Africans. Lonmin is grateful for the enormous effort from sustainable, broad-based social and economic so many people in making the report possible. investment. Forty-four people, mostly Lonmin colleagues, died in We have also put in place a number of measures to August 2012, leading up to, during and after the week improve the quality of life of our employees, and took that changed our lives. The Farlam Report is about them, steps to determine what their most immediate significant their families and all of us at Lonmin whose lives were concerns are and establishing what we can do to touched by those events. alleviate some of them. The Farlam Commission was essential and at Lonmin we Several issues have been identified, with indebtedness gave it our full support. It was not an easy process, and being arguably the most debilitating burden suffered required intensive introspection. among our employee base and in the mining sector in general. Over many years, the comparatively high wages After the report was released, we undertook to consider its findings and to respond accordingly. of mineworkers have been regarded as easy pickings for loan-sharks. We have sought to help our employees Lonmin has moved a long way towards building a more manage this burden by utilising external experts to open, transparent and mutually trustworthy environment. challenge excessive rates of interest and to negotiate Many of our stakeholders have done the same and lower interest rates for our employees. We have also deserve great credit. We have worked hard over the past challenged and set aside improperly obtained garnishee three years to rebuild trust between Lonmin’s orders. To date this proactive approach at Lonmin has management and employees, between our unions and resulted in employees recovering more than R5.2 million management, between unions and our employees, and per year in improper charges against wages. We have between our employees themselves. We are committed also embarked on a voluntary comprehensive financial to operating the Company in a transparent and mutually education programme for our employees to assist them trustworthy environment, and it is in all stakeholders’ in managing their finacial affairs more effectively. interests to create an environment where such a tragedy never happens again. Lonmin donated 50 hectares of serviced land in Marikana – in the spirit of partnership with the North West Addressing immediate needs provincial government – to facilitate the Government in In the immediate aftermath of the tragedy, our primary building 2,658 accommodation units for employees and concern was to take care of the families of our community members. Lonmin has also completed the employees who died. Our offer of employment to a conversion of its hostels to single accommodation and member of every family who had suffered bereavement family units in line with our Mining Charter commitments, was taken up by every family. No one can replace their and we are currently implementing our plans to build infill loved ones but we could ensure that the families apartments around our converted hostels, which can continued to receive an income. All dependent children utilise the already available services and infrastructure. are now beneficiaries of the Sixteen Eight Memorial Trust, set up by Lonmin and Shanduka, providing them with This is just a glimpse of some of the employee and schooling all the way through from pre-school to tertiary community upliftment work we have carried out in level (http://www.lonmin-farlam.com/images/pdfs/ conjunction with our efforts to run a sustainable lonmin-community-report_2015.pdf). This is in addition business operation. to the statutory pay-outs received from pension and life funds as well as good-will payments to cover funeral costs. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 19 Farlam commission’s findings Finding #2: on Lonmin The Farlam Report states that “Lonmin failed to The Farlam Report contains the following findings employ sufficient safeguards and measures to relevant to Lonmin: ensure the safety of its employees and insisted that the employees who were not striking should Finding #1: come to work in spite of knowing that it was not The Commission found that “Lonmin did not use in a position to protect them from attacks by the its best endeavours to resolve the disputes that strikers” (page 557). arose between itself and the workers who participated in the unprotected strike and With regard to the employment of sufficient measures between the strikers and those workers who did and safeguards, the Farlam Report states that Lonmin not participate in the strike” and also “did not failed to provide its security staff with the armoured respond appropriately to the threat of and the vehicles they needed for protection despite being outbreak of violence” (page 556). requested to do so. The Farlam Report further states that Lonmin’s “failure to insist on and ensure heightened security arrangements in view of the intelligence The labour conflict, strike and tragic killings of information available to them is inexcusable” and August 2012 were unprecedented and exceeded Lonmin’s “reckless action in urging employees to work in anything Lonmin or any other South African company circumstances where they were aware of the potential had ever experienced, and what any private company dangers to them ... falls to be condemned in the could be expected to manage. strongest terms.” Lonmin is committed to improving labour relations, With regard to the non-closure of the mines, the Farlam and believes that it is doing so. We have implemented Report states further that Lonmin failed to inform its wide-ranging changes based on the shortcomings employees of the dangers of attending work. identified by the Farlam Commission, industry best practice and the lessons learnt from the Marikana Lonmin’s response: Tragedy. Employment of measures and safeguards Historically, the Company’s security operations had Since then, Lonmin has made significant progress in significant armed capability. The Company changed its re-establishing direct relationships and improving security operation in 2011 to reflect a more normal two-way communication with all employees. We have environment. As tensions on and around the mine made great efforts to improve relationships with the escalated in 2012, the violence and conflict ultimately Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union exceeded Lonmin’s capacity and jurisdiction – which is (AMCU), which is our majority union, including crafting why Lonmin appealed to the South African Police Service and agreeing a Relationship Charter. (SAPS) for help. The Relationship Charter outlines the expectations and The Constitutional mandate and role of the SAPS in a accountabilities of both parties in order to facilitate a democratic South Africa is to serve and protect healthy and constructive relationship. This document is a South African residents. Asking Lonmin to secure public statement of intention from the leadership on both sides order and prevent criminal acts in the circumstances of that goes beyond the legal stipulations contained in the August 2012 is, in our view, unreasonable. formal agreement. The spirit of this relationship Notwithstanding this, Lonmin continues to take steps to agreement has been replicated and adapted at all levels address those shortcomings in its security operations of the Company and AMCU to arrive at a robust culture identified both in its own investigation, Incident Cause of co-operation. A number of our peer producers have Analysis Methodology (ICAM) and the Farlam Report. since adopted a similar approach. We are addressing each finding in the Farlam Report to We have revised our employee engagement policies and drive improvements, including: procedures, and have continued to improve our training • improving training, education and vulnerability programmes for employees and managers – especially in assessment processes; the area of communication channels and techniques to • ensuring staff have appropriate equipment with aid union/employer relationships. applicable logistics necessary for asset protection; • updating appropriate policies to bring Lonmin in line with current best practice; and • engaging KPMG to audit the extent to which all Lonmin policies are properly authorised. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 20 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report To our employees, our neighbours and all our fellow citizens continued Lonmin has appointed new leadership in the Lonmin However, Lonmin could not simply close its operations Security function. As a Company, we recognise that mine without risking the viability of the entire mine due to and host-community security requires a partnership operational considerations, including the risk of flooding. approach to achieve public safety. We have, therefore, Lonmin’s position at the time was that: subscribed to and are implementing the: • It had obtained an Order of Court calling upon the • Framework for Peace and Stability in the Mining strikers to return to work and channel their dispute Industry (February 2013); and through the statutory conciliatory mechanisms • The Deputy President’s Framework Agreement for a contained in the Labour Relations Act. They were Sustainable Mining Industry (July 2013). ordered by the court not to interfere with any employee Other actions include: who wanted to go to work. • Co-operation with the National Joint Operational • To close the mine as a response to an unprotected Centre (NATJOC); strike risked creating a precedent whereby workers • High-level interaction on security, planning and would, in future, be encouraged to use heightened preparation: levels of violence until mines are closed. • advocating the use of minimum force in line with the We have reviewed our policies regarding potential Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights selective closure of our mines in exceptional • Conducting peace and tolerance campaigns; circumstances. During this process, we have considered • Participating in the Mine Policing Forum; and are cognisant of the potential unintended • Providing improved lighting for communities to consequences of such action, including the need to deter crime; ensure the provision of essential services that could be • Participating in the Community Safety and targeted, and that closure would effectively legitimise Sustainability Summit; unprotected strike action and infringe on the rights of • Formulating and approving a Human Rights Policy, as those employees who wish to work. well as performing a Human Rights Gap Analysis; and • Being a signatory to the Business for Peace (B4P) Finding #3: initiative of the United Nations Global Compact. The Commission’s report found that “Lonmin created an environment conducive to the creation Consideration is also being given to: of tension and labour unrest by failing to comply • Co-ordinating a ‘think-tank’ with government, labour with its housing obligations as required by its and fellow platinum companies on how to pursue Social and Labour Plans on the strength of which positive collaboration on the platinum belt; and it converted its rights” (page 557). • Visible and positive commitment to the Mining Phakisa. We are also reviewing: The Farlam Report finds that Lonmin committed to a • Whether there are any circumstances in which hostel conversion process and the building of 5,500 armoured vehicles should be made available to Lonmin houses, both to be completed by September 2011, Security and third-party service providers; and was legally obligated to carry out these undertakings, • Methods to improve the gathering of information and save in the event that it obtained the written consent of ‘early warning signs’; the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) not to do so. • Communication protocols for the effective Lonmin did not obtain consent in terms of Section 102 communication of intelligence; and built only three show houses of the 5,500 houses, • An assessment to determine training needs of Security and only completed the hostel conversion in 2014. personnel and that of third-party service providers; The Commission recommends that Lonmin’s failure to • Benchmarking exercises to measure Lonmin practices comply with its housing obligations should be brought against those within and outside the industry; and to the attention of the DMR, which should take steps to • The formulation of a Catastrophic Events Protocol to enforce performance of these obligations by Lonmin. govern practices in the event of a catastrophe. The Commission also recommends that an investigation Mine closure should be carried out into the DMR’s apparent failure to adequately monitor Lonmin’s implementation of its SLPs. As a matter of principle, Lonmin respects the right of employees to come to work and their right to stay away should they not feel safe coming to work. Under the violent circumstances of August 2012, Lonmin might have been more proactive and effective in terms of informing employees of the dangers of attending work. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 21 Lonmin’s response: Lonmin believes that the provision of accommodation and housing has a fundamental impact on our relationship with our employees. Success in the area of accommodation and housing, however, requires collaboration between all role players, including government, mining companies, local municipalities and employees as well as significant financial resources. We have made significant strides in improving collaborative efforts between the different role players but there is still much to be done. We also acknowledge that the living out allowance paid monthly to employees has not been used for the intended purpose. Lonmin did not meet its initial SLP housing targets due to a number of factors, including a sudden and dramatic decline in the platinum price at the time of the global economic downturn, which severely impacted revenues. Lonmin kept the DMR informed of developments and reported the status of its compliance with housing commitments to the DMR on a regular basis, including by way of a detailed written submission in August 2012. Subsequent to August 2012, Lonmin increased its Housing Department’s internal capacity, skills and resourcing and committed R100 million per annum towards housing and accommodation programmes. In the current economic circumstances, this commitment of R100 million per annum has been internally reviewed and an application will shortly be made for Ministerial approval for an amendment of this undertaking in order to minimise job losses. Lonmin completed the conversion of its single sex hostels as required by the Mining Charter. In addition, the Company donated 50 hectares of serviced land to the State and is working with various levels of government to create sustainable, mixed-use communities. This will include bulk water and sewage facilities, security upgrades, landscaping, crèches, learning centres and recreation facilities. Remedial actions currently being undertaken include: • Lonmin engaging pro-actively with the DMR on a constructive way forward regarding housing strategy; • Reviewing the current SLP housing commitment of R100 million per annum and revising this if necessary through a Section 102 application; • Ongoing investigation into further improvement of local living conditions with government, including the Department of Human Settlements, and the continuous improvement of collaborative projects such as the Special Presidential Package; and • Working more closely with the Madibeng and Rustenburg municipalities, and other stakeholders, to improve infrastructure and service provision. By standing together and committing to ‘The Way We Work at Lonmin’ we will be able to protect our Company and with it, our livelihoods and our future. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 22 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report To our employees, our neighbours and all our fellow citizens continued Partnerships We also acknowledge the findings of the Farlam Report in as far as they are ascribed to the NUM, AMCU, SAPS While we recognise that some challenges are structural and other stakeholders. It is only through collective and and a legacy of the mining industry in South Africa, we individual responsibility and commitment that we can remain committed to engaging with all our stakeholders, ensure that such a tragedy never happens again. In including all three tiers of government, to solve addition, Lonmin also hopes that the Labour Relations community challenges in partnership. Act will be changed to address such issues as the right Conclusion to strike not being stronger than the right to life; the individual’s right to strike or not to strike; the introduction The compilation and conclusions of the Farlam Report of a secret ballot; and a rethink of the “winner takes all”, have generated painful memories for many people, majoritarian philosophy. including the employees of Lonmin. Time has not made the events of ‘the week that changed our lives’ perfectly In conclusion, we recognise our collective and individual clear in hindsight, and many questions remain responsibility. We will not lose sight of our common unanswered. humanity and will not destroy the good work already done. We will conduct ourselves and treat others This has not stopped us from acknowledging that we respectfully and – most importantly – in collaboration could have done more. We must also acknowledge the with our stakeholders, ensure that nothing similar ever integrity, commitment and indeed bravery of many happens again. people within and associated with the Company during this time. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 23 In memoriam Hassan Fundi John Kutlwano Mafolisi Mabiya Thobisile Zibambele 11 Jun 1965 – 12 Aug 2012 Ledingoane 20 Nov 1983 – 16 Aug 2012 10 Sep 1973 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Blantyre, Malawi 22 April 1988 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Idutwa, Eastern Cape Home: Lusikisiki, Eastern Cape Occupation: Security & Home: Wonderkop, North West Occupation: Rock Occupation: General Risk Officer Occupation: Engineering Drill Operator Production Assistant Frans Mabelane Andries Motlapula Thabiso Mosebetsane 6 Nov 1964 – 12 Aug 2012 Bongani Ngqongophela Ntsenyeho 7 Feb 1963 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Brits, North West 27 Sep 1981 – 16 Aug 2012 15 Jun 1970 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Matatiele, Occupation: Security & Home: Elliotdale, Eastern Cape Home: Vereeniging, Gauteng East Griqualand Risk Officer Occupation: Rock Drill Occupation: Rock Occupation: Winch Operator Drill Operator Erector Labour Thapelo Eric Mabebe 9 Jun 1975 – 12 Aug 2012 Cebisile Yawa Janeveke Raphael Liau Akhona Patrick Jijase Home: Taung, North West 5 Jul 1988 – 16 Aug 2012 14 Sep 1967 – 16 Aug 2012 12 Mar 1986 – 16 Aug 2012 Occupation: Loco Operator Home: Cala, Eastern Cape Home: Maseru, Lesotho Home: Tabankulu, Eastern Cape Occupation: Rock Occupation: Rock Occupation: Rock Semi Jokanisi Drill Operator Drill Operator Drill Operator 25 Dec 1982 – 13 Aug 2012 Home: Lusikisiki, Eastern Cape Mongezeleli Ntenetya Fezile David Saphendu Julius Tokoti Mancotywa Occupation: Winch Operator 9 Jun 1978 – 16 Aug 2012 24 Dec 1988 – 16 Aug 2012 30 Mar 1951 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Edutywa, Eastern Cape Home: Mqanduli, Eastern Cape Home: Herschel, Eastern Cape Tembalakhe Mati Occupation: Rock Drill Occupation: Winch Operator Occupation: General 10 Oct 1963 – 13 Aug 2012 Operator Production Home: Tabankulu, Eastern Cape Michael Ngweyi Occupation: Winch Operator Henry Mvuyisi Pato Anele Mdizeni 3 Mar 1973 – 16 Aug 2012 13 Nov 1977 – 16 Aug 2012 6 Feb 1983 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Mthatha, Eastern Cape Phumzile Sokanyile Home: Bizana, Eastern Cape Home: Elliotdale, Occupation: Rock 21 May 1964 – 13 Aug 2012 Occupation: General Eastern Cape Drill Operator Home: Nqeleni, Eastern Cape Production Occupation: General Occupation: Rock Drill Production Jackson Lehupa Operator Ntandazo Nokamba 8 May 1964 – 16 Aug 2012 6 Jan 1976 – 16 Aug 2012 Mzukisi Sompeta Julius Langa Home: Mt Fletcher, Eastern Cape Home: Libode, Eastern Cape 3 Jan 1976 – 16 Aug 2012 Occupation: Rock 27 Jan 1953 – 13 Aug 2012 Occupation: Rock Home: Lusikisiki, Drill Operator Home: Malelane, Mpumalanga Drill Operator Eastern Cape Occupation: Production Team Khanare Elias Monesa Bongani Mdze Occupation: Rock Isaiah Twala Drill Operator 21 Jan 1976 – 16 Aug 2012 5 May 1984 – 16 Aug 2012 18 Jan 1961 – 14 Aug 2012 Home: Buthabuthe, Lesotho Home: Mount Frere, Eastern Thabiso Johannes Home: Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal Cape Occupation: Rock Occupation: Team Leader Thelejane Drill Operator Occupation: Winch Driver Engineering 30 Oct 1955 – 16 Aug 2012 Bonginkosi Yona Home: Matatiele, Mpumzeni Ngxande Molefi Osiel Ntsoele 6 Dec 1980 – 16 Aug 2012 Eastern Cape 22 Jun 1974 – 16 Aug 2012 1 Jan 1972 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Lady Frere, Occupation: Team Leader Home: Ngqeleni, Home: Maseru, Lesotho Eastern Cape for Contractor Eastern Cape Occupation: Rock Occupation: Rock Drill Occupation: Rock Drill Operator Mphangeli Tukuza Drill Operator Operator 16 Nov 1970 – 16 Aug 2012 Modisaotsile Van Wyk Makhosandile Mkhonjwa Home: Ngqeleni, Thembinkosi Gwelani Sagalala 20 Feb 1983 – 16 Aug 2012 Eastern Cape 6 Jul 1985 – 16 Aug 2012 2 Jul 1952 – 16 Aug 2012 Home: Bizana, Eastern Cape Occupation: Helper Fitter Home: Lusikisiki, Home: Mafikeng, North West Occupation: Rock Eastern Cape Occupation: Equipper Thobile Mpumza Drill Operator 6 Jul 1986 – 16 Aug 2012 Dumisani Mthinti Nkosiyabo Xalabile Stelega Gadlela Home: Mount Ayliff, 11 Nov 1962 – 11 Sep 2012 11 Mar 1982 – 16 Aug 2012 1 Jan 1962 – 16 Aug 2012 Eastern Cape Home: Bizana, Eastern Cape Home: Elliotdale, Eastern Cape Home: Manzini, Swaziland Occupation: Rock Drill Occupation: Rock Occupation: Winch Driver Occupation: Team Leader Operator Drill Operator Babalo Mtshazi Telang Vitalis Mohai Mncineni Noki Daluvuyo Bongo 25 Feb 1986 – 16 Aug 2012 6 Oct 1975 – 16 Aug 2012 2 Feb 1982 – 16 Aug 2012 28 Dec 1970 – 5 Oct 2012 Home: Libode, Eastern Cape Home: Maseru, Lesotho Home: Mqanduli, Eastern Cape Home: Libode, Eastern Cape Occupation: Rock Occupation: General Occupation: Rock Drill Occupation: Full Time NUM Drill Operator Production Operator Representative Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 24 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Reporting according to the material focus areas Context Materiality determination process The decline in commodity prices has put pressure on Lonmin defines material matters as those matters that margins in the global mining industry and increased the substantively affect the Company’s ability to create focus on financial sustainability. This is particularly true long-term value and those that considerably influence for South African mining companies, which face a key stakeholder decisions. combination of factors that have both increased the cost base and hampered efficient production. These include Six-step process rising wage demands, low labour productivity, aboveAn extensive materiality determination process was inflation electricity price increases and electricity supply undertaken in 2014, to establish the Company’s most disruptions. The mining environment is also characterised material matters. This included an analysis of internal by numerous regulatory requirements and a need for operational variables and external factors that followed socio-economic development in local communities, a structured six-step process, as depicted below, which which the private sector is increasingly expected identiﬁed the ﬁve material focus areas reported last year. to address. It included an assessment of Lonmin’s value drivers, Lonmin’s current strategic reorganisation aims to the Company’s impact on social, human and natural position the business for the current low PGM prices capital, the key societal risks identified through our risk by optimising efficiencies, reducing costs and improving management processes and the most pressing concerns profitability and cash flows. While ensuring the of our key stakeholders. The output from this process Company’s overall sustainability requires a short-term was aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) emphasis on financial sustainability, our commitment to G4 material aspects and with Lonmin’s strategy. our vision and values ensures that the social and In 2015, the material focus areas were reassessed environmental aspects of sustainability will be addressed. through an internal survey. The results from the survey, Lonmin’s Annual Report and Accounts 2015 covers the in combination with benchmarking against peer Company’s financial strategy in detail, including our reporting, feedback and a review of relevant reporting financial position, the immediate outlook and how we guidelines, were used in an externally facilitated position the Company for a sustainable future. This report materiality workshop. The five material focus areas were covers the Company’s most material sustainability reconfirmed and certain key topics identified as requiring matters. either increased or reduced emphasis in the 2015 report. Operational variables Contextual variables Value drivers Risk analysis What drives Lonmin’s ability What are the key risks that to create value? impact value? Strategic focus Alignment with Social impacts Lonmin’s strategy Stakeholder perspective What are our impacts on social, What do key stakeholders identify human and natural capital? as the most important issues? GRI G4 Alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) G4 Aspects Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 25 Material focus areas ­• Employee relations – Investing in employee Lonmin uses a matrix scoring system that rates risks relationships and development (page 32) based on probability of occurrence and potential severity, • Safety and health – Promoting safety and health for should they materialise. These are measured against the employees and contractors (page 48) overall risk tolerance of the Company – the amount of • Social licence to operate – Maintaining social licence to risk Lonmin is willing to accept to meet its strategic operate and investing in the community (page 64) objectives. Top-down and bottom-up risk reviews are • Environment – Managing environmental impacts and carried out in the business, which involve Executive opportunities (page 82) Committee (Exco) and operational management. All • Relationships with government – Improving senior managers are responsible for risk management relationships with government (page 106) and monitoring of risks. For each risk, management assesses the causes and consequences and develops Each of the first four chapters outline the context, risks, mitigation controls and, when required, the internal stakeholders, governance and performance of the focus audit department will perform internal reviews of area, and the fifth chapter consolidates Lonmin’s vision these controls. for addressing these challenges in partnership with government. At an operational level, risk registers are regularly reviewed and updated to take any operational-related Risk analysis risks that might occur during the daily activities into Approach consideration. These risk registers roll up to the corporate risk register that is regularly reviewed by Exco. Lonmin’s integrated approach to risk management During the Exco review, strategic risks are discussed informs the internal audit process and includes the that take the changing macro environment into implementation of mitigation measures, where necessary. account, as well as how the country and industry The risk management structure below shows how the circumstances evolve. risk management process integrates into, and cascades throughout, the various levels of the organisation. Further information on how we manage and mitigate The Company’s risk management process considers risk is available on page 26 – 31 of the Annual Report social and environmental risks, and sustainability risks and Accounts 2015. We have also included a description make up a substantial portion of Lonmin’s risk proﬁle. of key risks and the impact linking to the material focus Sustainability risks are reviewed jointly by the Safety, areas at the beginning of each of the material focus Health and Environment (SHE) and the Social, Ethics and area chapters. Transformation (SET) Board Committees. Risk management structure Functional assessments Governance and oversight • Bottom-up reviews • T op-down risk identification and • Translation of strategic objectives assessment to confirm the validity to operational plans of the corporate risk register Board and • Identification of functional risks • Strategy development process and mitigation plans includes assessment of key risks committees • Monitor performance and compliance against key objectives Strategic alignment • Establishing Lonmin strategy Executive • Identification of strategic risks and Business mitigation plans management • Assurance and monitoring unit • Top-down reviews functional heads Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 26 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Reporting according to the material focus areas continued Stakeholder perspectives The importance of genuine and robust stakeholder with a shared vision of a sustainable and proﬁtable engagement and relationship building has become Lonmin through all cycles and minimise business increasingly apparent over the past decade, given the interruptions. Projects such as the Employee Value need to understand stakeholder expectations and Proposition and the Community Value Proposition communicate on key issues. We have identified and support improved communication, strengthen prioritised our stakeholder groups and individuals and relationships, and rebuild trust. Formal engagement allocated relationship ‘owners’ to each grouping. structures have also been established in the form of Stakeholder groups were identified through desktop bilateral forums with the Bapo ba Mogale traditional reviews, analysis of media coverage, online sources, authority and surrounding communities. The engagement internal conversations and consultation sessions. Our meetings address employment, economic development, aim is to develop and protect Lonmin’s relationships with community infrastructure programmes and the SLP all stakeholders who have a significant ability to impact status. Lonmin also entered into mediation proceedings Lonmin’s operations and investment case. with the Bapo community to improve relations. The events of August 2012, the protracted strike of The Executive Vice-President of Communications 2014, and the media coverage surrounding these events and Public Affairs is responsible for corporate all had a negative impact on the Lonmin brand. This communications, media, public relations and further highlighted the importance of genuine and robust stakeholder management. stakeholder engagement, and the fact that trust and reputation are built by actions, not words. This starts with For further information, please refer to the supplementary a thorough understanding of stakeholder expectations, report on stakeholder engagement, including an and requires that we communicate key issues overview of the method and frequency of transparently, consistently and in a timely manner. engagement, concerns raised and Lonmin’s Functional partnerships between government, organised responses at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2015/pdf/ labour and community leaders are essential if we are to Supplementary_report_Stakeholder_engagement.pdf. create the necessary environment for a sustainable future and realise the true meaning of ‘shared value for all’. Overview of material focus areas Our goal is to rebuild and protect Lonmin’s relationships The sections that follow summarise the key elements with critical stakeholders. Through building trust, both of each of the material focus areas. The tables in each with external stakeholders and between management section discuss the stakeholders that are important to and employees, we aim to create an environment of that particular material focus area, the international, peace and tolerance in which all stakeholders engage national and business context of the focus area, how constructively so that the Company achieves its these areas link to the GRI’s material aspects, the key ‘We Dig to Improve Lives’ vision by creating long-term performance indicators (KPIs) we use to measure our value for all its stakeholders. performance and progress and the risks represented by Our stakeholder initiatives centre on improving the focus area. The table also shows which pillar of the communication and transparency, and driving genuine Lonmin strategy the material focus area aligns with and engagement to align the Company and our stakeholders gives a page reference for further information. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 27 Employee relations Investing in employee relationships and development We can only achieve our strategic goals by attracting, developing and retaining the necessary skills required to sustain operational excellence. Rebuilding trust and strengthening the Company’s relationship with employees and their representative unions was a key focus for the year. Transformation in the Company and our workforce, and improving employee accommodation and living conditions, remain imperative to strengthening our social licence to operate. Stakeholders GRI aspects KPIs Risks Lonmin’s human capital, • Employment and • Number of employees­ • Employee and comprising our employees transformation­ • Number of contractors union relations and contractors working at • Historically disadvantaged • Loss of critical our operations, represent a South Africans (HDSAs), skills critical relationship for the including white women, Company. employed in management on a permanent basis (%) This year, we held our first • Women employed in Future Forum meetings and mining (%) strengthened operational • Women employed at engagement structures. We the mine (%) have established task teams with the majority union to address process issues emanating from the 2014 wage agreement and implemented a relationship building programme to strengthen our relationship with organised labour. ­ lobal, local and Lonmin G Strategic reference pillar United Nations Global • Training and education • Number of people • Our people and Compact Business and the registered for adult basic relationships Sustainable Development education and training • Operational Goals: Goal 5, 8, 10. (ABET) excellence • Number of people on the Protracted strike in 2014. bursary programme Restructuring process in • Number of graduates 2015 and upcoming wage • Number of people on the negotiations in 2016. learnership programme • Number of employees with mentorship agreements in place • Human Resources Development expenditure as percentage of annual payroll ­ • Labour practices and • Employee turnover rate (%) Page decent work • Freedom of association 32 and collective bargaining • Labour/management relations ­ • Market presence International (global) context National (South African) context Lonmin’s operational context Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 28 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Reporting according to the material focus areas continued Safety and health Promoting employee and contractor safety and health Lonmin has a duty to ensure that appropriate procedures and controls are in place to create a safe working environment and support the health and wellness of our employees. Our initiatives aim to improve health, wellness and productivity, and strengthen our relationships with our people. Certain primary healthcare projects are extended into local communities through our community health initiatives to improve wellbeing and support the country’s health agenda. Stakeholders GRI aspects KPIs Risks Ensuring the safety and health ­• Occupational health • Fatalities ­• Safety of employees and and safety • LTIFR contractors is a moral and • LTIs legal duty. Lonmin works • Level 3 safety incidents closely with government and • New noise-induced hearing industry partners to ensure loss (NIHL) cases compliance with relevant diagnosed – employees legislation and to promote and contractors national healthcare goals in • NIHL cases compensated our workforce and local – employees communities. • Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases • Voluntary counselling and testing conducted • Patients on antiretroviral treatment (ART) and on the wellness programme ­ lobal, local and Lonmin G ­ Strategic reference pillar International Council on • Operational Mining and Metals – excellence principle 5. • Our people and relationships OHSAS legislative requirements. Chamber of Mines – Chief Executive Officer-led committee on elimination of fatalities. Strategic focus to have a safe and healthy workforce underpinned by the belief that we can operate without accidents. Page 48 Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 29 Social licence to operate Maintaining social licence to operate and investing in the community Lonmin’s strategic commitment to our corporate citizenship agenda defines our duty to contribute to the wellbeing and development of the communities that host, and are affected by, our operations. Our investments in the community address some of the most pressing socio-economic challenges the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC) faces, including education, skills development, environmental management, health and infrastructure programmes. Economic transformation in local communities is supported through our SLPs, our enterprise development and local procurement programmes. Stakeholders GRI aspects KPIs Risks Lonmin partners with • ­Indirect economic • Number of community • Community non-governmental impact members receiving relations organisations and the • Local communities bursaries • Changes to the relevant local and national • Number of community political, legal, government departments members on the general social and to contribute to the sociopreparedness programme economic economic development of (inclusive of university and environment, local and labour-sending technical preparedness) including resource communities. • Number of community nationalism members receiving ABET training • Number of community members receiving mining skills and portable skills training Global, local and Lonmin Strategic reference pillar United Nations Global • Economic performance ­• Rand value spent on • Our corporate Compact: Business and the SLP projects citizenship agenda Sustainable Development Goals 4, 6, 11. Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) requirements with an obligation to implement the SLPs. National Development Plan and the Special Presidential Package. Our corporate citizenship agenda – a strategic pillar of the Company. Implementation of various • Procurement practices • Number of local suppliers community-based receiving training and/or programmes to support contracts from Lonmin local government by • Procurement spend on aligning our community BEE entities projects with the Integrated Development Plans. • Security practices • ­Revision of the Human Page Rights Policy ­ 64 Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 30 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Reporting according to the material focus areas continued Environment Managing environmental impacts and opportunities Lonmin’s commitment to Zero Harm includes a commitment to minimising the environmental impact of our operations. The Company’s core businesses of mining and refining PGMs have an environmental impact that must be prevented, mitigated or remediated. Our regulatory environmental obligations are tied to our legal licence to operate, and our social licence to operate also depends on the way we conduct ourselves as good corporate citizens. Stakeholders GRI aspects KPIs Risks Lonmin is committed to • ­Energy • Total direct and indirect • Mining Charter responsibly managing its • Electricity (MWh) energy terajoules (TJ) obligations, other impact on the environment • Electricity efficiency • Electricity usage and regulatory and local communities, (MWh/PGMoz) efficiency requirements and working closely with • Energy efficiency social licence to government and regulators (GJ/PGMoz) operate to ensure legal compliance as • Access to secure a minimum requirement. The energy and water Company’s membership with and involvement in industry bodies and associations help to ensure that it stays abreast of the latest developments and that its viewpoint on emerging issues is heard. ­ lobal, local and Lonmin G Strategic reference pillar ­ COP21 meetings focusing • Water • Total freshwater • Operational on business and climate consumption (m3) excellence change. • Total freshwater intake • Our corporate efficiency (m3/PGMoz) citizenship agenda ICMM on environmental matters. United Nations Global Compact: goals 6, 7, 13, 14, 15 Increased service delivery unrest relating to water and energy. Impact of drought on food supplies. ­Strategic importance and principal risks identified on securing water and energy. • Emissions • Total scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) • Greenhouse gas efficiency (tCO2e/PGMoz) • Average sulphur dioxide emissions (t/d) • Effluents and waste • Tailings disposed to tailings facilities (kt) • Waste rock disposed to rock dumps (kt) • Hazardous waste disposed of to landﬁll and incineration (tonnes) • General waste to landﬁll (tonnes) ­ • Economic performance Page ­ 82 Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 31 Relationships with government Improving relationships with government Many of the challenges Lonmin and the platinum industry face are closely linked to the broader systemic socioeconomic issues in South Africa. These issues can only be addressed through a close collaboration between communities, business and government. Lonmin’s operations are highly regulated and strengthening relationships with regulators helps us to sustain operational excellence, optimise production and create shared value for all stakeholders. Stakeholders GRI aspects KPIs Risks We engage frequently with ­• Diversity and equal • Performance against KPIs • ­Community various government opportunity across all operational relations departments on all three aspects of the business • Changes to the tiers during the normal course is measured according political, legal, of business. to various government social and policies and compliance economic requirements. environment, including resource nationalism Global, local and Lonmin Strategic reference pillar  Special Presidential • Our corporate Package. citizenship agenda • Our people and Project Phakisa. relationships  Partnering with government to meet the demand for housing, water and electricity infrastructure. Page 106 Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 32 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report / 33 Material focus area: Employee relations 34 – Context 35 – Key stakeholders 36 – Risks and opportunities 38 – Accountability and governance 39 – Approach and performance / 34 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Employee relations Investing in employee relationships and development Context Our people are important, and they are the means by which our strategy is effected through the day-to-day operations. Lonmin’s mining model is labour-intensive Lonmin’s focus remains on rebuilding trust and we appreciate that our human capital is the most in our relationship with employees. important relationship in order to realise value from our infrastructure and mineral reserves. The South African labour environment is complex. This is particularly true of the extractive industries due to the legacy of migrant labour, which is tied to many social challenges. These include informal settlements around operations that place pressure on local infrastructure and service delivery. During 2015, Lonmin announced a reorganisation of the business to drive ownership and accountability, and to empower operational management with the objective of optimising efficiencies, reducing costs and gearing the Company to be profitable at current PGM price levels. This process could result in the reduction of around 6,000 employees and contractors. (Refer to page 40 for further detail.) We are aware and concerned about the socio-economic effects of job losses; yet believe that the current course of action is necessary to safeguard the future of the Company and the majority of jobs that remain. We are committed to implementing the process in a responsible manner and are encouraged by the positive interactions and engagements we have had with all relevant stakeholders. As 2016 brings both the opening of a new wage negotiation period and local municipal elections, developing strong relationships with employees, unions and local communities will be particularly important. This chapter discusses the Company’s approach to employee engagement and development, and our performance against our objectives for the past year. The content covers all operations; however, data relating to accommodation mainly applies to the North West Province operations. To eliminate injuries arising from material handling – personal protective equipment is compulsory. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 35 Key stakeholders Employees Lonmin’s focus remains on rebuilding trust in our relationship with employees. We see the daily interactions between management, leaders and teams as an important means of strengthening employee relations. This includes our progress during the year around the key areas of dissatisfaction among our employees, including addressing employee accommodation, financial indebtedness and profit-sharing through the Employee Share Ownership Programme (ESOP). The reorganisation process includes a flattening of the company structure and increases interaction between management and employees. Engagement channels include shaft lekgotlas (large meetings between shaft senior management and employees) and meetings about the safety and productivity performance improvement programmes. Our aim is to inform, engage and ultimately mobilise employees by continuously reinforcing the Company’s values and culture and demonstrating examples of these in action. We also work to empower supervisors and managers to be able to engage their employees around important issues, supplying them with regular Talking Points, responses to frequently asked questions and other communication materials on a wide range of topics. Apart from helping to keep employees informed, it supports the business strategy of building our relationship with our employees by establishing confidence in management. Unions Rebuilding and deepening our relationships with unions is a critical focus area for the Company, especially in the current context of reorganisation. Unions play an important role through their position as employee representatives. Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) is the majority union and the Company provides limited organisational rights to minority unions. For information regarding the changes in union relationships, refer to pages 41 – 42. Lonmin supports our workers’ rights to choose their organised labour representatives. There is ongoing engagement through the various union structures and management. Interactions with union representatives during the voluntary separation process and the Section 189 consultations have been positive thus far. Contractors Contractors make up approximately a quarter of our workforce and remain vital to creating and sustaining employment in and around our operations. Following renegotiation of ore purchase agreements between the Group and contractor management on more favourable terms, and subject to a favourable outcome of the Section 189 consultation process, mining at E1 and W1 shafts will continue for the year ending 30 September 2016, and these shafts will not be placed on care and maintenance as previously announced in July 2015. The safety and health of contractors working on Lonmin property is the shared responsibility of the contractors’ employers and Lonmin. Contractors include transient and small-scale partnerships and long-term, large-scale professional relationships. Only around 1% of our workforce is contracted through labour brokers, which we use when there is no immediate replacement for a vacant permanent position through our succession plans. We engage with contractors through day-to-day interactions and as stipulated in the formal service agreements. Lonmin has also introduced a software solution to improve engagement with our contractors and enforce compliance with statutory and other regulatory aspects. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 36 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Employee relations continued Risks and opportunities The sustainability risks that apply to employee relations are discussed below, with references to where further information can be found regarding how these risks are managed and mitigated. The risk management approach is discussed on page 25 of this report and on page 26 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. Employee and union relations The industrial relations environment has stabilised over the last 12 months, evidenced by the Voluntary Separation Programme (VSP) currently underway. The Company has also undertaken two parallel consultation processes under the Section 189 framework in connection with its planned workforce reductions. While the environment has remained stable, the potential for volatility, which could result in disruptions to operations and have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial position, business and results of operations, remains. Further detail on how the risk and mitigation is managed can be found on page 28 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. Opportunities and mitigation Through consistent, clear communication we are building a deeper understanding of the key concerns and interests of our key stakeholders, while communicating the realities of the Company’s current situation given the low PGM price environment. A relationship building programme and charter to govern relations between unions and the Company were established. In order to increase employee ownership in the Company an ESOP has been launched and, to improve transparent dialogue, appropriate structures were established to enable effective union engagement. These structures include consultation on the voluntary separation and Section 189 processes. Further reading • Reorganisation (page 40) • Working for Lonmin (page 43) • Employee and union engagement ­• Employee skills development (pages 44 – 46) (pages 41 – 42) • Employee accommodation and living • Transformation and empowerment (page 42) conditions (pages 46 – 47) Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 37 Loss of critical skills Increased global investment in mining over the past few years, particularly in other African states, has driven demand for skilled workers around the world. The current shortage of skilled and experienced personnel in the mining industry in South Africa is likely to continue in the future. The competition for skilled and experienced employees is exacerbated by the fact that mining companies operating in South Africa are competing to recruit and retain historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) and women with the relevant skills and experience. The loss of critical skills could negatively impact safety, production, the ability to deliver against targets and Lonmin’s ability to do so at a commercially viable cost. Failure to meet our HDSA targets could also negatively impact Lonmin’s mining rights. Opportunities and mitigation As part of ensuring the development and retention of critical skills, Individual Development Plans (IDPs), succession planning and retention strategies for scarce skills have been established. Benchmarked remuneration practices are monitored on an ongoing basis. Graduate development, mentorship programmes and internship programmes have also been established to ensure development of existing and future human resource capacity. In order to retain our skilled labour, we continuously review market-related remuneration packages as compared to the incentive and retention schemes offered by Lonmin. Further reading • Transformation and empowerment (page 42) • Employee skills development (pages 44 – 46) Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 38 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Employee relations continued Accountability and governance Lonmin employee relations are guided by the human Grievance procedures resources function in accordance with the Human The Company has formal mechanisms in place for Resources Strategy. Human resources is well integrated employees to lodge grievances, including an anonymous into the Company’s other business streams to enhance ethics hotline. Employees can also approach a human service delivery to our employees and to support more resources practitioner or line manager to set up effective decision-making. mediation, which is a formal process set out in the This strategy integrates the Lonmin strategy with corrective action procedure. Further information on strategic human resource drivers, including: human rights and ethics is available on pages 80 and 117. • Employee relations – rebuilding our relationship with employees and unions External policies, frameworks and • W inning the hearts and minds of our people – ensuring visible leadership and management accessibility regulations • A compelling proposition for employees – culture Lonmin’s Human Resources Strategy, policies and transformation through The Way We Work at Lonmin procedures align with South African labour laws and • Financial debt counselling other relevant frameworks, guidelines and codes of • BEE transactions – through the Employee Trust and practice. These include the social development the Employee Share Ownership Programme (ESOP) requirements of the Minerals and Petroleum Resource Development Act, which are defined in the Company’s Progress against our human resource targets is SLPs, the human rights provision in the International measured through monthly reporting on key internal Council on Mining and Metals principles of sustainable indicators and integrating certain targets into Lonmin’s development and the United Nations Global Compact. corporate objectives. The Company also reports to the Department of Minerals and Resources against the human capital requirements Contractors of the Mining Charter, which include accommodation The Company’s procurement assessment process and living conditions, employment equity and human requires contracted companies to operate sound resource development. business models that protect the basic rights of their employees and facilitate an environment of productivity Changes to South African labour laws during the and development. The terms and conditions that year affected the use of labour brokers, amended contracting companies sign require them to adhere retrenchment practices and specified that unequal pay to Lonmin’s Sustainable Development Standards, for work of equal value without justification is unfair Code of Business Ethics and to the Basic Conditions of discrimination. Such new labour legislation and any Employment Act, 75 of 1997. Contracting companies additional changes in labour regulation in South Africa are also required to provide evidence of internal could result in increased labour costs and increased processes that provide and uphold fair treatment of administrative, regulatory and other obligations, any of their employees’ rights. which could have a material adverse effect on Lonmin’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Lonmin also formally reports to the Department of Labour annually on our transformation progress and mandatory compliance requirements. Lonmin has seven concentrators at Marikana. This is the EPC concentrator. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 39 Approach and performance Employee overview As at 30 September 2015, we employed 26,968 799 (2014: 897) contractors are women. Of (2014: 28,276) people on a permanent full-time basis, our full-time employees, 8.8% are women. Our of whom 21,305 (79%) are HDSAs. We also employed management headcount, as at 30 September 2015, 8,701 (2014: 10,016) contractors; of these, was 475 compared to 516 at 30 September 2014. Own employees as at Own employees as at 30 September 30 September 2015 Employment category Paterson band 20141 Male Female Total Temporary employees 1 Temporary 233 165 61 226 Unskilled and defined decision-making A-band 14,305 12,400 1,264 13,664 Semi-skilled and discretionary decisionmaking B-band 9,773 8,955 316 9,271 Skilled technical and academically qualified: junior management; supervisors; foremen and superintendents C-band 3,461 2,706 626 3,332 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management D-band 348 239 96 335 Senior management E-band 145 114 15 129 Top management F-band 11 10 1 11 Grand total 28,276 24,589 2,379 26,968 Lonmin’s employee profile comprises 84% South Africans production cadet, the mining technical service and and 16% foreign employees; the majority of our foreign community (18.2) engineering learnership programmes. employees originate from Mozambique and Lesotho. Further information on community education and skills Our South African workforce comes mainly from the development can be found in the chapter on social North West and Eastern Cape provinces. We recognise licence to operate, on pages 72 – 76 of this report. the need for South Africans to participate in the local The Company has a number of interventions in place resource economy and, therefore, our aim is to promote to address the symptoms of migrant labour-related employment of those living locally. challenges, such as absenteeism, growth in informal Lonmin promotes local employment to the extent that settlements and high levels of employee indebtedness. this is permissible by law. To hire from local communities These interventions include trialling nutritional brings a number of benefits, including decreased supplements to enhance wellness and reduce migrancy, enabling employees to commute to their absenteeism, and the Company’s various projects that homes daily. There are a number of skills development aim to provide accommodation for employees. Find initiatives for developing capacity in local communities to further detail on our human settlements on page 46. increase the pool of local employees. These include the 1 Temporary employee data has been separated, which impacts the comparability with data reported in the 2014 report. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 40 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Employee relations continued Employee demographics by geographic origin at 30 September 2015 Percentage of total employees Number of employees 2014 2015 Province % % Male Female Total Eastern Cape 33 32 8,349 313 8,662 North West 31 33 7,294 1,597 8,891 Limpopo 5 1 254 20 274 Free State 4 3 843 35 878 Gauteng 5 6 1,241 247 1,488 KwaZulu-Natal 3 3 718 29 747 Mpumalanga 2 6 1,589 110 1,699 Northern Cape 1 0 0 0 0 Western Cape 0 0 11 1 12 Total foreigners 16 16 4,290 27 4,317 Grand total 100 100 24,589 2,379 26,968 Reorganisation Headcount reductions arose in response to the The Relationship Charter established between the Group current metal prices that remain at depressed levels. and AMCU during 2014, has been a useful reference These started with a review of the operating model, point in the Section 189 consultation process. In the redeployment of employees and contractors, a freeze interests of ensuring timely consultations, the Group has on general recruitment and utilising natural attrition. The undertaken two Section 189 consultation processes in restructuring costs associated with the implementation of parallel – one with AMCU, the Group’s majority union, the Business Plan, which largely consist of retrenchment and another with the other unions and non-unionised costs, have been separately disclosed as special costs employees. Both processes are being facilitated by the in the 2015 financial year and can be viewed in the South African Commission for Conciliation, Mediation Annual Report and Accounts 2015. and Arbitration. The consultation period was extended The Company subsequently entered into a Section 189 by mutual agreement of all relevant stakeholders to process as the next phase of the headcount reduction enable full exploration of all alternatives to forced that was announced in July 2015. retrenchments. The formal consultation process with the unions ended on 22 October 2015, and the Group is In May 2015, the Company opened up voluntary now in the process of finalising the voluntary separations separation and early retirement packages and, as at and redeployment. 6 November 2015, 3,136 employees had left the Company – 2,120 employees through a voluntary We have agreed to avail reskilling and redeployment process and 1,016 contractors, all within six months. opportunities to employees in affected positions. Support for employees considering the voluntary separation process included a dedicated help desk, Employee turnover SMS helpline, easy access to payroll services and Employee turnover increased to 9.1% in 2015 (2014: 5%); financial advice from the external financial advisor, as of this, 57% was as a result of the headcount reduction well as pension and provident fund service providers. initiatives. Adjusting for the headcount reductions, Employees could also make use of the counselling Lonmin’s turnover rate has remained low. service, should they require emotional support. Portable skills training was provided for those taking up the packages. Additionally, any study assistance or debts to the Company accrued during 2014 strike would be written off. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 41 Employee turnover by reason as at 30 September 2015 2014 2015 Male Female Total Male Female Total New recruits 1,158 156 1,314 1,026 243 1,269 Resignations (231) (68) (299) (198) (31) (229) Deaths (not work-related) (226) (9) (235) (226) (7) (233) Deaths employees (work-related) (1) 0 (1) (2)1 (0) (2) Dismissals (606) (49) (655) (392) (65) (457) Retirements2 (156) (4) (160) (90) (6) (96) ­– Retrenchments – VSP (1,418) (64) (1,482) – Retrenchments­ (31) (1) (32) Medical repatriation (35) 0 (35) (75) (3) (78) Total exits (1,286) (131) (1,417) (2,401) (176) (2,577) Net gain/(loss) (128) 25 (103) (1,375) 67 (1,308) Absenteeism Improving productivity is a critical part of our strategic trade unions to negotiate terms and conditions of goal of operational excellence and is particularly employment on behalf of their members. important, given the headcount reductions during the Lonmin supports our workers’ rights to choose their year. Absenteeism deteriorated to 11.2% this year organised labour representatives. There is ongoing compared to 6.3% in 2014 (adjusted for the strike), meaning that the Company lost 1,156,607 shifts. engagement through the various union structures and Absenteeism has an impact beyond the individual as management interactions with union representatives. the safety and efficiency of working teams that are short We are committed to a multi-union environment, which a member are affected. We have measures in place to aspires to peaceful co-existence of all unions registered discourage absenteeism, including the linking of with the Company, and we provide limited organisational attendance to bonus payments. In light of the high rights to minority unions. While engagement with unions absenteeism rate, the Company is piloting a project occurs at many levels within the Company, the Executive to assess the impact of nutritional supplements on Vice-President of Human Resources is responsible for employee wellbeing and to determine whether it has union negotiations. a positive impact on absenteeism. At the end of September 2015, 24,648 employees As reported in 2014, we trialled a new shift pattern at (91.4%) were members of organised trade unions. E1 shaft to improve productivity; this has been put on hold due to operational constraints. Refer to page 47 of Recognition structures the Annual Report and Accounts for further information AMCU is the majority union and represents 78.2% of on business improvement initiatives. full-time employees, as at 30 September 2015. AMCU has bargaining rights, unrestricted access to the Employee and union engagement workplace and rights to deductions, full-time shop Initiatives are in place to encourage management to build stewards and office facilities on the Company’s premises. more direct relationships with employees, improve Our focus in the first half of the financial year was on two-way communication and ensure consistent a rigorous process of rebuilding relations with AMCU messaging. One of our goals is to build trust to such a after last year’s five-month strike. This included the level that issues can be quickly resolved at the time and creation of a Relationship Charter that maps out the legal place at which they arise, whenever this is possible. aspects of the Company’s relationship with the majority Lonmin respects and supports its employees’ rights to union, including aspirations, expectations, accountability collective bargaining and freedom of association, and for and commitments from both parties, to enable the 1 One of the fatalities this year was a contracted employee and therefore will not reflect in the statistics above. 2 Retirements incorrectly reported as 35 male retirements and 0 female retirements instead of 156 and 4 in 2014. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 42 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Employee relations continued relationship. The Charter presents a real opportunity to strengthen relations with trade unions, inter alia, through Union representation 2015 (2014) constructive and regular engagements. A series of (%) workshops were conducted across all leadership, union 8.6 | (11.4) and management levels to deepen understanding and 3.2 | (3.6) strengthen relationships. Union engagement structures 3.4 | (3.7) 6.0 | (8.1) have been institutionalised and regular meetings are held 0.6 | (0.6) Total with management to update unions on the status of the unionised business. Training is provided to shop stewards on 91.4 | (88.6) 78.2 | (72.6) legislative matters, business skills and the requirements of their roles and responsibilities. Joint task teams between management and the union were set up in 2015 to ensure progress is made on the matters that were raised during negotiations in 2014, AMCU CEPPWAWU1 but that had not been finalised at the time of the wage agreements. These include broader stakeholder NUM Solidarity engagement in line with the generic processes of UASA No trade union consultation and social dialogue, and cover, among others, productivity improvements, accommodation and living conditions, employee indebtedness, skills Transformation and empowerment development, and shareholding and profit sharing. Lonmin embraces transformation as a business Management and unions also engage at quarterly imperative. meetings of the Future Forum that was established in Transformation is monitored and overseen at Board December 2015 as required by the Mineral and level by the SET Committee. Targets relating to Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA), which transformation are included in the balanced scorecard aims to establish a joint working relationship between the that is used to determine performance for the mine, workforce representatives, government and management incentive scheme. Recruitment, community representatives. succession, skills development and talent management We have been encouraged by the robust but functions include transformation elements to create constructive engagements with unions. We believe that, a pipeline of strong internal HDSAs, including women. if we continue deepening our relationships with our HDSAs in management (including white women) employees and their union representatives, the wage increased to 50.3% in 2015. We once again surpassed negotiations in 2016 will take place on a much stronger the required target of 40% at management level. Our platform of respect and trust than in the past. This year, focus is to create a pipeline of strong internal candidates, the Company did not experience any strike action that particularly HDSAs and women, to take Lonmin into the lasted longer than 24 hours and lost only 57 shifts as future. This is, inter alia, done through our bursary and a result of breakdowns in employee relationships. graduate development programmes and prioritised Tonnes of production missed due to recruitment. industrial action: considered to be a measure of employee relations. HDSAs in management Year Tonnes (including white women) (%) 2011 162 60 2012 1,680 2013 252 55 2014 6,382 49.4 50.3 50 2015 27 48.4 46.5 47.2 45 40 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 HDSAs in management 1 Chemical Energy Paper Printing Wood and Allied Workers Union. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 43 Women in mining Working for Lonmin Lonmin is committed to cultivating a working Lonmin has focused projects such as the Employee environment that welcomes the contribution of women Value Proposition that aim to improve relationships and in a traditionally male-dominated industry. In 2015, rebuild trust for those working for Lonmin. The Employee women comprised 8.8% of the total number of full-time Value Proposition includes a broad set of programmes employees and 6% of core mining positions were and initiatives that outline the total package a full-time occupied by women. We actively seek to attract and employee can expect to receive from the Company in retain more women into the workforce, but this remains terms of pay, benefits, development and advancement challenging. opportunities. Remuneration and benefits Women employed on a full-time Employees receive a range of benefits, including on-site basis at Lonmin (%) healthcare, life and disability insurance, which include 10 an education protection plan and retirement provisions, and a deﬁned-contribution pension scheme. Free 8.8 8 8.2 8.2 transport to and from shafts, plants, hostels and bus 8.0 7.5 stops is provided to all employees residing in the GLC. 6 Other beneﬁts include study assistance, study leave, 6.0 5.4 training, four months’ paid maternity leave and family 5.1 5.1 4 4.3 responsibility leave. Employees are incentivised through various performance2 linked bonus schemes. The majority of employees in operations participate in production-related bonus 0 schemes based on speciﬁc targets. Management '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 employees are incentivised against a corporate Women at Lonmin balanced scorecard that includes weightings for Women in core positions Company financial performance, operational performance, safety, transformation, employee relations and personal achievement. All management Our goal for 2016 is to continue working towards cash incentives were sacrificed in 2015, as was the transforming the organisation’s demographics related annual salary increase for 2016, in line with the costto HDSAs in management and women in mining. containment strategy and to curtail retrenchments. Detail of the balanced scorecard is available on page 100 of the The Way We Work at Lonmin Annual Report and Accounts 2015. This initiative aims to develop and institutionalise a Lonmin culture that ensures sustained success in the Within the category 4 – 9 workforce and at junior official context of the changing world of work. It is a leader-led level, wages are generally negotiated through collective change process focused on establishing productive bargaining arrangements. The Group monitors the wages behaviour and mindsets that are built around work-team paid by comparable employers for equivalent levels of relationships. work in the South African mining industry and aims to pay competitive wages. The Group has also reviewed ‘The Way We Work at Lonmin’ is constructed on five the absolute level of earnings for its employees. concepts: The third year of the wage increases agreed in 2014, • Passion, pride and purpose which runs to June 2016, took effect on 1 July 2015. • Shaping our future The current monthly package for entry-level employees • People make it happen working underground is R13,388, including beneﬁts • Accountable for excellence (which excludes bonus and overtime). The package • Working safely together consists of the following items: At the core of the initiative are improved communication, appropriate accountability and ensuring that teams are adequately resourced and empowered to do what is required of them. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 44 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Employee relations continued Breakdown of total pay package for an entry-level employee at Lonmin working underground 2014 2015 Basic wage R7,713 R8,713 Living-out/accommodation allowance R2,000 R2,000 Holiday leave allowance R593 R617 Attendance allowance R274 R285 Cash package R10,580 R11,615 Value of medical benefits R626 R676 Employer contribution to pension fund R1,055 R1,097 Total package per month before taxes and bonuses R12,261 R13,3881 The living-out allowance is paid to category 4 – 9 ­• Financial wellbeing support through an on-site office employees to support employees in paying for their own that assists employees on how to manage their debt accommodation and living expenses. In 2015, 96.8% and also reviews garnishee orders. of the employees received a living-out allowance The programme was started in 2012 and accelerated (2014: 95%). in 2013. During the first year, 2,089 employees utilised Other benefits available to employees include access the on-site facility. It steadily increased and this year to an employee wellness service that provides free, 5,720 employees made used of this service confidential professional counsellors and therapists on (2014: 1,465). matters of emotional, physical and financial distress. The service provider also audits all emolument Lonmin’s accommodation programme for employees attachment orders (garnishee orders) that are issued is discussed on page 46. against Lonmin employees before Lonmin activates Employee Share Ownership Progamme the payments to the respective parties. Following this (ESOP) approach in 2015, we managed to save our employees approximately R1.8 million. This process helped to stop During the year, the ESOP was introduced for all or cancel a significant number of garnishee orders this employees who did not participate in the Company’s year that had irregularities, such as administration fees existing share option scheme. The new scheme receives charged above the allowed 12.5%. an annual distribution of the greater of 3.8% of Lonplats’ (Eastern and Western Platinum combined) net profit after Furthermore, our service provider helped to reduce the tax or dividend declared, which is then distributed to outstanding balances on our employees’ loans and participants. This scheme aims to align employee emolument attachment orders by R750,000. Interest performance with the overall performance of the charged on employee debt was halved from 19% to 8% business, and create a sense of shared ownership and the total debt instalments charged to employees among employees. were reduced by over R200,000 a month. Through the help of the service provider, three houses and thirteen Financial debt counselling cars were saved from being repossessed. Employee indebtedness remains a serious concern In addition, the service provider also assists employees for Lonmin, and has a significant impact on employee with tax consulting services, which has resulted in tax wellbeing. In response to the concern, we introduced savings and refunds to the tune of R462,000 over the a financial wellbeing programme to educate and last year. advise employees on financial matters, the impact of microlenders, savings and affordability. Employee skills development Lonmin has engaged an external service provider to Lonmin’s employee development programmes are critical assist with employee financial wellness training and in developing a skilled, empowered and productive support. The financial wellness programme includes two workforce. Shortage of critical skills is a risk to the components: Company and there are a range of employee development initiatives to facilitate talent management • A financial fitness module on basic ﬁnancial matters, through the upskilling of existing employees. such as credit, debt and budgeting, that is included in the induction programme2. Every employee goes Lonmin invested R183 million (2.6% of annual payroll) through induction on joining the Company and compared to R172 million in 2014 (2014: 3.3% of annual returning from leave. payroll) on employee development in 2015. 1 The total package per month for entry-level employees at Lonmin working on the surface is R12,360. 2 Induction training is a pre-requirement to employment and those working in core operations have to attend refresher training every 12 to 18 months. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 45 The current focus on cost containment and cash was an employee development framework enacted in preservation meant that spending on developmental various leadership development programmes throughout training was reduced. This included deferring the further the business. development of the leadership staircase initiative1, which Breakdown of average training hours per employee 2014 2015 Employee category Male Female Male Female Contractors 28.5 15.4 23.6 15.4 Unskilled and defined decision-making 31.0 26.9 28.8 20.2 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision-making 29.4 23.6 23.4 23.5 Skilled technical and academically qualified, junior management, supervisors, foremen and superintendents 19.5 13.2 17.7 13.6 Professionally qualified, experienced specialists, and mid-management 14.6 12.1 10.6 15.9 Senior management 11.6 8.1 9.9 5 Top management 13.1 11.5 0 0 Lonmin trained 25,221 employees and 10,217 contractors during the year, investing 2,009,375 hours of training. Learnerships Core skills Learnerships in our Mining and Process Operations, and A core skills programme was introduced during the year Engineering Function help to develop scarce technical that focuses on developing critical skills required within skills in the relevant areas. New intakes into the the Mining and Process Operations. These are typically programme were postponed during the year due to offered to employees to develop basic core skills to cost containment that affected the current pool of meet key operational standards. During the year, learnerships, which only slightly increased from 144 in 5,286 employees participated in core skills training 2014 to 148. interventions. Bursaries and graduates Lonmin’s bursary and graduate programmes aim to meet the future skills needs of the Company by developing Learnership type a pipeline of promising candidates. Comprehensive (number of participants) bursaries are offered to students wishing to pursue a career in mining or mining-related disciplines, such as mining, electrical, mechanical or chemical engineering, 39 metallurgy and mining technical services disciplines 52 (for example geology). Preference is given to HDSA candidates and those from the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC). Bursars that successfully complete their studies enter Lonmin’s graduate-in-training programme. 57 Lonmin had 98 bursaries in place during 2015 (2014: Mining Process Engineering 89). Of these, 52% are students from the community, 81% are HDSA and 37% are women. 1 Lonmin has a leadership staircase for employees, which maps the route for performing at a senior management level. The programme emphasises the development of capabilities such as safety management, leading others, emotional intelligence and change management. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 46 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Employee relations continued There were 39 graduates on the graduate-in-training Employee accommodation and programme during the year, including 82% HDSAs; living conditions 36% are from the GLC and 46% are women. Human settlements Experiential Learners Addressing the critical shortage of affordable housing in During 2015, a total of 15 learners participated in the our regions of operation, particularly around Marikana, Lonmin Experiential Learner Programme. All of our is a multi-faceted and complex challenge that requires Experiential Learners are HDSAs, with 20% from the careful consideration and the support and co-operation GLC. Women constitute 27% of Experiential Learners. of both regional and national government. The challenge extends well beyond Lonmin and there is no simple Mentorship programme and Individual solution. Development Plans (IDPs) The Company’s talent management strategy is executed Integrated human settlement strategy mainly through formal mentorships and IDPs. The intention of our integrated human settlement strategy Mentorships support skills transfer and knowledge is to improve our understanding of our employees’ way sharing, while formal IDPs encourage employees to set of living and their needs, accelerate the provision of personal goals for their current and future development. accommodation opportunities to assist employees in There were 115 active mentorships in 2015 (2014: 75), this primary need, the rights and responsibilities of our employees as owners and tenants, and to ensure optimal of which 38% are women mentorships. For C-level and and sustainable use of Company resources. Improving above, 1,317 employees (19% women) have formal IDPs living conditions for our employees and their families in place (2014: 1,735). supports productivity, reduces absenteeism and Adult basic education and training increases the stability and security of our operations. (ABET) As construction and housing development fall outside ABET is provided by the Lonmin Academy and courses the Company’s core business, Lonmin has developed include pre-ABET and ABET levels 1 – 4. Level 4 is the an integrated human settlement strategy that operates equivalent of a Grade 9 qualiﬁcation in the South African on a partnership model. In this model, Lonmin provides schooling system. There were 781 people registered on services, prefeasibility studies (if available), payroll ABET courses in 2015 (2014: 473). This total includes administration, non-financial technical support and, 4811 (62%) employees, and 300 (38%) community where appropriate, land. members. The emphasis on productivity and cost The ultimate objective is to create a community that will created a challenge in releasing full-time employees for be sustainable even when mining activities stop. This training during working hours. requires that the local economy be developed by keeping Portable skills training wealth in the region through a stable population that is housed comfortably with access to the relevant social Portable skills training is offered to employees who leave and economic resources to sustain it over the long term. the Company through retirement, medical repatriation or retrenchment, and is also offered to community members One of the challenges we face in executing the strategy as part of community upliftment programmes. Training is the deficient or non-existent bulk services and aims to transfer practical skills that can be applied infrastructure in the settlements, such as water, power outside of the mining industry. and sewerage. We continue working closely with government to ensure that infrastructure challenges During the year, 303 people received portable skills that fall outside our mandate are addressed to support training (2014: 378), of whom 138 were members of community development. Other challenges include the community (2014: 158). sourcing funding for developments and meeting union and community expectations, which include the use of local labour and the provision of suitable accommodation. 1 156 employees registered for full time ABET and 325 registered for part time ABET. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 47 The integrated human settlement strategy comprises Pillar 3: Future accommodation plans three pillars: We are conducting feasibility studies on 134 hectares Pillar 1: Hostel conversions and infill of unserviced land at Marikana Extension 5 and apartments 25 hectares in Mooinooi. These include securing external The 128 single-sex hostel blocks were successfully funding, bulk services, serviceable land and mortgage converted into modern apartment blocks at a total funding for home ownership. We are in dialogue with cumulative cost of R387 million. various government departments, capital funders and developers to partner with us to develop these projects, The second phase of the development involves building including the provision of much needed bulk services. further apartments in the free space around the existing converted structures through the Infill Apartment Project. Lonmin’s long-term strategy to facilitate access to decent This was designed in such a way that the new accommodation for employees relies on collaboration development can access the existing installed bulk with external partners for funding, construction, infrastructure surrounding the hostels. The opportunity administration, rental collection and maintenance of the exists for construction of 4,000 units over the next properties. We continue engaging with potential partners five years. Extensive efforts are required to access that can develop and administer property to ﬁnd a possible funding from institutions such as the Social solution that balances supply, affordability and quality. Housing Regulatory Authority to unlock and secure social Special Presidential Package initiative housing grants and subsidies that are available. To succeed with our employee accommodation strategy, The 2015 phase of this project has commenced with structured and consistent engagement is required with the construction of 325 units at Karee, which is planned key stakeholders. These include government, potential to be completed in December 2015. funders, developers, employees, unions and communities. Following the announcement of the Pillar 2: Affordable accommodation Special Presidential Package initiative, Lonmin Through the Marikana Housing Development Company, contributed 50 hectares of serviced land, known as a Section 21 non-profit company, Lonmin has made Marikana Extension 2, to help address the critical issue available 1,149 two-bedroom homes for outright of accommodation in the area. This donation was made purchase or on a rent-to-buy scheme from circa directly to the Department of Human Settlements, the August 2005. The selling price of these 45 m2 homes North West Public Safety and Liaison Department and is R62,426, including land. To date, 325 people Rustenburg Local Municipality. The premier of the (2014: 305) have taken ownership of these houses. North West Province announced that R462 million was Notwithstanding the challenges relating to affordability set aside to fund this project in phases. An estimated and access to mortgage funding, we are intensifying the 2,658 dwellings of various typologies will be constructed marketing and education programmes to encourage on the land for the benefit of the GLC community, employees to purchase the houses. including Lonmin employees. In addition to these houses and the converted hostel Phase one of this project is under way and comprises accommodation, there are 369 houses at Karee and 292 breaking-new-ground units (formerly known as 280 houses at Wonderkop that are available on a rental RDP housing) and 252 community residential units. basis at favourable rentals. The latter are rental units. In October 2013, Lonmin contributed 50 ha of serviced land for the development of 2,658 (rental and ownership) housing units at Marikana Extension 2. Phase 1, comprising 252 community residential units, is now complete. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 48 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report / 49 Material focus area: Safety and health 50 – Context 51 – Key stakeholders 52 – Risks and opportunities 54 – Accountability and governance 55 – Approach and performance / 50 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Safety and health Promoting safety and health for employees and contractors Context Our core business of mining and reﬁning PGMs is labour-intensive and involves a range of potential safety and health hazards. Safety comes first in everything we The sustainability of Lonmin is inextricably do and we strive to be the industry leader in safety. Our linked to the safety, health and wellness of belief is that we can operate without accident – that Zero our employees. Harm is achievable. It is not only a moral and ethical duty to ensure safe working conditions and support the health and wellness of our workforce, but also a key outcome of our commitment to Zero Harm and a critical part of our Employee Value Proposition. We subscribe to the aspirations and goals of industry bodies, including the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), the Mining Industry Occupational Safety and Health (MOSH) programmes driven by the Chamber of Mines and the Tripartite Health and Safety Targets and Milestones. Learnings and best practices are shared through these forums and within the Company to continue improving our performance. In 2015, we spent R92 million on personal protective equipment (PPE) and safety equipment. Interruptions to production through labour unrest and internal or external safety stoppages affect our ability to achieve our production and financial targets, and also disrupt the rhythm of safety routines. The safety performance of the platinum industry as a whole was negatively impacted by last year’s extended strike, with key safety metrics deteriorating after ramp-up. Restoring to positive trends is proving to be a challenge. We understand that the safety and health of each employee does not begin and end in the workplace. Many of our safety awareness and healthcare programmes extend into the communities surrounding the operations. The informal accommodation conditions of many of the settlements are not conducive to wellness and can have a negative impact on safe and healthy behaviour. Safety is a never-ending journey. While the Company achieved several noteworthy safety milestones during the year, these achievements are negated by three tragic fatalities. This chapter provides an overview of the Company’s approach to safety and health management across all Lonmin’s operations. It also outlines the healthcare facilities, programmes and services available to employees. Loading of PGMs into drying oven. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 51 Key stakeholders Employees Lonmin’s safety, health and wellness initiatives include awareness campaigns and training interventions that aim to create a safe operational culture and one that is conducive to employee and contractor wellness and productivity. Standard safety procedures require that unsafe work is stopped or not undertaken and we empower the workforce to ensure that this expectation is understood and complied with. Our healthcare facilities, wellness programme, and community health initiatives support the health and wellbeing of our employees. Government Government regulates the safety and health practices of the mining industry through the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), which conducts assessments and site inspections and enforces work stoppages. Lonmin’s legal licence to operate requires the Company to demonstrate that its operations are compliant, particularly with safety and health practices. Lonmin regularly engages with government representatives on safety and health matters and participates in industry forums that focus on workplace safety and health. The Department of Health regulates the Company’s hospital and on-site clinics, and monitors our tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/Aids programmes. Contractors Lonmin participates in several industry-wide forums that share learnings and best practice, and benchmark performance. These include the MOSH programme, the ICMM, the Health Policy Committee, the Mine Health and Safety Council (MHSC) and the Chief Executive Officer-led Elimination of Fatalities Committee through the Chamber of Mines. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 52 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Safety and health continued Risks and opportunities The information below focuses on why the following risks to sustainability were identiﬁed, with particular reference to employee health and safety, and where to find more detail on how Lonmin manages and mitigates these risks. Further detail on the risk management approach is available on page 25 of this report and on page 26 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. Safety Our belief is that Zero Harm is possible and our aim is to provide a safe working environment for our employees, our contractors and the communities we operate in. By the nature of our mining activities we have inherent risks that can cause fatalities or injuries. Poor safety performance has a direct impact on the lives of employees, contractors and their families. Hazards such as fall-of-ground, tramming, working at heights, scraping and rigging, trackless mobile equipment, exposure to gases, fire, molten metal, electrocution and many others have to be controlled to reduce and eliminate fatalities and injuries. A failure in safety processes could result in injury or loss of life, which would have tragic implications for employees, their families and the local communities. Stoppages may be mandated by regulatory authorities, imposed on the Company through the actions of organised labour or voluntarily entered into by management or any combination of those factors. Safety-related suspensions of operations, whether voluntary or mandated by regulators, contribute to disruption of production, reduced revenues and increased unit costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Opportunities and mitigation Safety improvement plans are being implemented, with an enhanced focus on accident analysis and proactive preventative measures. As part of improving relations with the regulator and ensuring appropriate accountability, the Operational General Managers interact directly with the Chief Inspector of the DMR. In order to improve and enhance employee productivity, a wellness and health improvement plan has also been established. Lonmin focuses on continuously improving its operational safety processes and, as part of enabling this, a revision of all risk assessments, standards and operating procedures headed by the Operational General Managers was undertaken. Sharing learnings on safety and health and benchmarking practices and performance through industry partners such as the ICMM and the MOSH programme, can help to save lives and improve our safety and, therefore, operational performance. Further reading •­ Safety at Lonmin (page 55) ­­• Safety stoppages (page 57) ­• Safety performance (pages 55 – 57) Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 53 Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) NIHL remains a signiﬁcant occupational disease and is a particular focus for the DMR. Exposure to high noise levels is addressed through various programmes and Lonmin does not procure any new equipment or machinery with a noise intensity level greater than 110 dB(A). Personal Protective equipment (PPE) specifically hearing protection devices, are reviewed to ensure that Lonmin uses only the most effective products to reduce exposure to sounds of above 85 dB(A). Opportunities and mitigation A Hearing Conservation Committee is in place to seek opportunities to reduce noise levels in work areas and to drive increased awareness on the importance of wearing hearing protection equipment. Further reading • Health strategy (pages 57 – 58) • Employee health services (pages 58 – 62) Disease profile with high incidence of TB and HIV/Aids1 Tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/Aids are debilitating diseases. HIV/Aids-related diseases remain the biggest cause of in-service deaths. TB and HIV/Aids are key focus areas for the DMR and Department of Health. Employees failing on treatment and the high incidence of TB are a concern. Opportunities and mitigation Information campaigns can raise awareness about the importance of employee health and behaviour associated with a healthy lifestyle. Further reading • Health strategy (pages 57 – 58) • Employee health services (pages 58 – 62) 1 These risks are not part of Lonmin’s strategic risks, but in the context of health, they are important to note. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 54 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Safety and health continued Accountability and governance Lonmin’s approach to managing safety and health is A formal agreement that covers safety and health is in defined in the Safety and Sustainable Development place with the majority union, AMCU, which defines how Policy, which aligns with ICMM principles, International full-time and part-time safety representatives are elected, Standards Organization (ISO) and Occupational Health trained and appointed. and Safety Management Standard (OHSAS 18001) Employees and contractors receive training on safety management system requirements, and is endorsed by and health practices through the induction process when the Chief Executive Officer. The Lonmin Sustainable joining the Company and when returning from annual Development Standards are based on international leave. This includes training on risk awareness and safety, health and environment (SHE) standards and controls, the standardised approach to critical tasks and standardise safety, health and environmental procedures, information on TB, HIV/Aids and nutrition, management across the Company. and Section 23 of the Mine Health and Safety Act, The responsibility for building a safer and healthier 29 of 1996. Lonmin lies with every person employed by the Company. Accountability for performance is embedded The safety and health programme at all processing plants at an operational management level and operational was externally certified under OHSAS 18001. Mining is SHE Committees are in place. Line managers are driving their health and safety management system using responsible for the safety of their teams and daily the Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards. incident reports are consolidated, analysed and ultimately reported to the Exco. A separate SHE Committee that External policies, frameworks reports to the Exco reviews SHE performance monthly and regulations to ensure that executive management is kept informed The South African Mine Health and Safety Act is the about operational performance. The Exco’s overarching governance framework that applies to our responsibilities include developing and monitoring the mines. Through the Act, the Mine Health and Safety Company’s policies and practices in respect of safety, Council (MHSC) was also established to promote a health and environmental matters. The Chief Executive culture of health and safety in the South African mining Officer is ultimately accountable for the health, safety and industry. Lonmin submits annual medical reports and wellbeing of all employees and contractors when they are hygiene monitoring, including reporting on HIV/Aids on site. The SHE Committee of the Board assists the and TB policies and data to the Department of Health. Board by setting aspirational standards for SHE matters The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act and implementing a culture in which these goals are requires mines to implement SLPs. promoted and enforced. Safety and health at the Process Operations is governed The health and hygiene department is responsible for by the Mine Health and Safety Act in Marikana and the healthcare delivery, occupational health and hygiene Occupational Health and Safety Act, 85 of 1993, policies, standards, monitoring and for auditing these in Brakpan. services. Lonmin’s safety department is responsible for monitoring and auditing safety protocols and standards. Lonmin’s Safety and Sustainable Development Policy and standards align with the ICMM principles of sustainable Safety performance is monitored against internal targets development, Principle 5: Seek continual improvement and reviewed for trends that motivate proactive of health and safety performance. management of future performance. Safety is an important component of the Balanced Scorecard that During December 2014, a guideline for a mandatory is used to determine performance for the management code of practice for risk-based fatigue management at incentive scheme and also forms part of incentive mines was gazetted. Lonmin developed and submitted schemes at operational level. its mandatory code of practice for fatigue management within the allotted time. Safety and health representatives attend quarterly Health and Safety Committee meetings on behalf of Lonmin also participates in industry bodies at which employees. There were 16 full-time safety and health safety and health is a key discussion point. These representatives employed throughout the operations include the Bushveld Safety Forum and the North West in 2015, and 1,740 part-time safety representatives. Tripartite Forum. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 55 Approach and performance Employee and contractor safety Day-to-day safety is complemented by 90-day safety turnaround action plans that were introduced this year Safety at Lonmin to address the increase in injuries at our operations. Our safety strategy takes a risk-based approach and is Progress on these is reported to the Chief Executive built around the belief that we can operate without Officer on a monthly basis and these plans are accidents. Achieving our safety goals is a critical part of continuously adapted to new hazards or emerging achieving operational excellence. Our approach to safety trends. Audits include internal, cross-site and external is defined in the Lonmin Safety and Sustainable audits, the results of which are used for tracking the Development Policy, Sustainable Development Standards safety maturity of each operational business unit. and the Fatal Risk Control Protocols. Safety performance The safety strategy has three key objectives: It is with deep regret that after 18 fatality-free months, ­• Fatality prevention Lonmin lost three employees to fatal accidents during • Injury prevention the second half of the year. On 19 May 2015, • A safe operational culture Mr Silva Cossa, a Team Leader, suffered fatal injuries when an underground service vehicle overturned at In 2015, our focus expanded to proactive safety Hossy shaft. On 22 July 2015, a Sandvik Mining management, with an emphasis on building a safety contractor, Mr Mark Potgieter, died as a result of injuries culture to influence safety behaviour and mindset. sustained in an accident at Hossy shaft that occurred Proactive management includes leading measures like during maintenance of a load haul dumper. A third fatality safety campaigns, and management-initiated safety occurred on 31 July 2015, when Mr Bonisile Mapango, stoppages. The Lonmin Life Rules, another proactive a winch driver, succumbed to injuries sustained in tool, focus specifically on those risk areas that cause the majority of fatal or serious accidents. These Life Rules are a set of five non-negotiable rules that employees must follow when working underground or in the plants. The application of these rules is regularly audited and measured per mining area. The Mining Life Rules will be expanded to include out-of-stope hazards such as trackless mobile machinery. We also believe that management-initiated stoppages are effective in stopping substandard or dangerous work and are a helpful tool as a proactive measure to prevent injuries. The Company also focuses on ‘white flag’ days. These are days that mark no injuries and celebrate our belief in operating without injuries. Daily communication alerts are distributed that summarise the safety performance for the prior day to continuously inform the workforce of our safety performance. In 2015, Lonmin had 70 white flag days. The Lonmin Process Operation developed a forward energy system to manage the focus on safety on a continuous basis to prevent harm. The system includes safety, health and environment measurements and pre-empts the possibility of increased operational activity and increased risk. It also triggers management intervention. Safety training forms part of induction for employees and contractors. Lonmin’s objective is for every person in the business to have a personal understanding of, and respect for, the importance of safety in the workplace. This is achieved by entrenching safety principles in the organisation and increasing visibility on safety matters. Inspecting a level indicator at one of the holding tanks at the PMR. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 56 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Safety and health continued a scraping and rigging accident in May at E3 shaft. We are disappointed in the deterioration of our safety Subsequent to the year end, Zilindile Ndumela, a performance. Contributing factors to the increased injuries locomotive driver at Rowland shaft was fatally injured include similar or repeat injuries occurring, employee on 26 October. We extend our heartfelt condolences to behavioural challenges, and frequent safety stoppages. the families, friends and colleagues of the deceased. In order to enhance safety and production performance, a programme is being developed to empower front Each fatality was investigated to identify lessons learnt line supervisors. and action plans to prevent a similar accident. These lessons were shared throughout the Company and, We have developed an updated and focused safety for example, include key control for mobile machinery, improvement plan to curb the increase in LTIs and highlicensing of machine operators, working under potential incidents. Each shaft has a 90-day safety suspended loads, working in no-go zones during turnaround action plan in place to address site-specific scraping and rigging operations and reducing the safety challenges, and these action plans are number of personnel during cleaning operations implemented by the General Manager of each area. with winches. We also introduced incident review meetings and recall In the period leading up to the first fatality, Lonmin meetings, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, to had operated 18 months without a fatality and achieved discuss and learn from potentially severe incidents and 11.6 million fatality-free shifts, a new record for the to discuss the lessons learnt from incidents that have Company. The smelter had also undergone reconstruction occurred; the implementation of these learnings is without an injury, a significant achievement considering tracked and reported monthly. the high-risk nature of this activity. There were 21 level three safety incidents during the year, 90-day safety turnaround action plans – compared to 12 in 2014. Level three injuries are those proactively addressing increased injuries that cause an irreversible disability. The LTIFR1 increased The success of the turnaround action plans at each 62% from 2014 to 5.41 per million man hours worked. mine and shaft, since their introduction earlier this In 2015, we targeted a further 5% improvement from the year, has already been noticeable. The Lonmin 2013 base rate, which was not achieved. We are setting three-month rolling average LTIFR has dropped from a new target for 2016 to have a 15% improvement from 6.45 (April 2015) to 4.41 (October 2015), resulting in the 2015 base rate. the 12-month rolling LTIFR plateauing at 5.41 over There were 4732 LTIs in 2015 that resulted in 29,694 the last three months. days lost, with most of these attributable to fall-ofWe will maintain our focus on these initiatives to effect ground, and scraping and rigging incidents. The severity a turnaround on safety performance. rate, which is the total days lost to LTIs per million hours worked, increased 75% to 339.38 (2014: 194.16). First-aid cases increased to 146 (2014: 141) and medical All safety achievements and initiatives are covered treatment cases to 689 (2014: 314). comprehensively in the Weekly Bulletin, an employee newsletter that promotes and upholds the values of the LTIs and LTIFR Company. We also participate in a number of forums to ! learn from others and benchmark safety performance, including the Mine Health and Safety Council (MHSC), 600 6 the ICMM, the Chief Executive Officer-led Fatal 5.41 Elimination Committee, the mine industry occupational 4.71 safety and health (MOSH) initiative, leading practice days 4.16 473 400 4 and the sharing of learnings from Section 54 among 419 3.50 3.341 industry peers. 372 LTIs 317 LTIFR Lonmin’s involvement with the MOSH programme has 200 2 led to the implementation of bolting and netting protocols 217 to address fall-of-grounds, proximity detection systems to minimise the risk of vehicle-related accidents and winch signalling devices to reduce winch accidents. 0 0 ’11 '11 ’12 '12 '13 ’13 ’14 '14 ’15 '15 LTIs LTIFR 1 LTIFR: [LTIs (473) x 1,000,000 hours] / 87,494,668 man hours. The LTIFR for women only is 2.69. 2 Of the LTIs, 21 injured were women. Women contribute 0.24 to the total LTIFR. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 57 Fatalities and FIFR ! Safety stoppages Safety stoppages occur internally whenever Lonmin’s Life Rules have been violated. To support this, the Company 8 0.08 0.07 has implemented Section 232 booklets and procedures in 7 0.07 the operations that equip team members to exercise their 6 6 0.06 right to withdraw from dangerous workplaces. 5 0.05 Section 54 stoppages are imposed by the DMR under Fatalities 0.04 4 0.04 FIFR the Mine Health and Safety Act. These stoppages are 0.03 imposed when a DMR inspector has reason to believe 3 0.03 0.02 3 0.02 3 that any practice or condition at a mine endangers the 2 0.02 health or safety of any person at the mine. 2 1 0.01 1 During 2015, 36 Section 54 stoppages were imposed at 0 0.00 operations (2014: 20), resulting in 173 production days ’11 '11 '12 ’12 '13 ’13 '14 ’14 '15 ’15 lost (2014: 55.5) and 770,000 tonnes lost. Not only did Fatalities we have more frequent Section 54 stoppages, but these Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) were also enforced broadly and took longer to lift after the initial safety issue was addressed. We continue engaging with the DMR proactively to build sound Total recordable1 injury frequency ! relationships and we also participate in various forums rate (TRIFR) between industry, labour and government that discuss 1,600 16 expectations and shared objectives on safety stoppages. 1,400 13.28 14 Employee health and wellbeing Total recordable injuries 1,200 12 Health strategy 1,000 8.48 1,162 10 8.20 Lonmin’s health and hygiene department manages both 800 8 TRIFR occupational health and hygiene, and primary healthcare 600 769 6 programmes under the slogan “Your Health, Our Priority”. 400 532 4 The safety, health and environmental strategy is designed to support the four objectives of fatality prevention, injury 200 2 prevention, safe operational culture and operational 0 0 excellence. ’13 '13 '14 ’14 ’15 '15 Total injuries Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) Comparison of South African platinum peers – FIFR 0.10 0.09 0.08 0.07 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.00 -0.01 Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep ’12 ’12 ’12 ’13 ’13 ’13 ’13 ’14 ’14 ’14 ’14 ’15 ’15 ’15 Peer 1 Peer 2 Lonmin Platinum industry 1 These statistics reflect all fatalities, lost-time injuries and medical treatment cases in alignment with the ICMM safety definitions. 2 Section 23 of the Mine Health and Safety Act gives employees the right to withdraw from any situation or area that they deem is unsafe. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 58 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Safety and health continued Health services are offered through four clinics and an TB and HIV/Aids on-site hospital. Community health programmes that The Lonmin HIV/Aids and TB Policies define the deliver on the SLP projects are managed by the Company’s approach to addressing these diseases, Community Development Department. Further detail on including providing medical and emotional support to Lonmin’s community health programmes can be found infected patients, and an emphasis on education on pages 76 – 77 of this report. and awareness in an effort to combat the stigma South Africa has a high incidence of HIV/Aids, TB and around HIV/Aids. lifestyle diseases such as hypertension and diabetes. HIV/Aids-related diseases like TB are the primary cause of Our medical surveillance and wellness campaigns aim mortality among in-service employees. Lonmin supplies to identify health challenges early and control them. ART to employees and monitors patients at an estimated One of the health and hygiene department’s primary annual treatment cost to the company of R8,935 per goals is to embed a health and wellness culture at person. Lonmin provides ART for life, so all former Lonmin. This is achieved through monthly health talk employees (including those that have taken voluntary topics, workplace peer educators, health education separation packages or left the Company for any reason) conducted during safety breaks and awareness can return every three months for consultation, monitoring campaigns, including wellness days. During 2015, these and treatment collection. If logistics preclude these former included activities around World Aids Day, Condom employees from returning to our Medical Services Week, World TB Day and Youth Day. Activities included centres, Lonmin will provide them with a referral letter to screening and awareness initiatives. During the World enable the collection of ART from provincial clinics or Aids Day campaign, 5,457 employees were tested for hospitals, and they will be given a three-month supply HIV/Aids and 697 tests were reactive (12.8%). Over of ARTs when they leave Lonmin. 1,000 employees were screened for TB during World Lonmin also offers a wellness programme that is TB Day, and on Youth Day, 21 workplace peer educators designed to cater for the physical and emotional effects received training on drug and alcohol rehabilitation. of HIV/Aids, and includes counselling sessions and Monthly health customer satisfaction surveys are training on treatment and healthy eating. The number conducted to measure the quality of the service provided of patients on this programme decreased by 25% from at the medical facilities. 2014 due to many of them starting on ART. Voluntary counselling and testing are offered at all primary Employee health services healthcare and occupational health centres and during The Company provides a range of occupational and awareness campaigns, of which two were held during primary healthcare services that fulfil its regulatory the year. In total, 16,301 employees and contractors obligations and also form part of the Employee Value were tested for HIV/Aids during the year, of which 10% Proposition. Every employee undergoes regular health were positive. However, the prevalence of HIV/Aids assessments. Lonmin spent R180 million on employee infection among our workers is estimated to be higher, health programmes (2014: R150 million). The total at 19.1%, based on actuarial modelling and previous investment increased due to the higher number of large-scale campaigns. Workplace peer educators are on patients, specifically antiretroviral-treated (ART) patients, site to raise awareness and we targeted a ratio of one and additional cost on critical equipment. Despite the trained peer educator for every 75 employees for 2015. cost pressures, patient physical care has not been compromised and the customer satisfaction rating In 2015, there were 391 peer educators active, a ratio of increased to an average of 84% in 2015, from 83% one per 69 employees. We have met our target for the ratio of one peer educator per 75 employees. in 2014. Adherence rates to the ART regime were good, with Primary healthcare more than 72% ART success rate. Default rates on Lonmin’s primary healthcare services focus on treatment increased during the strike last year, but have addressing non-work related health issues, primarily been brought under control. While the number of patients TB and HIV/Aids, but including trauma, which affect that participate in the ART programme increased by 14% many of our employees. Chronic diseases prevalent in to 4,167 in 2015, HIV/Aids-related deaths increased to 119 (2014: 97). our workforce include HIV/Aids, hypertension, diabetes, asthma and epilepsy. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 59 Our target for 2015 was to reduce the rate of ART Tuberculosis (TB) defaulters to below 3% and we achieved the target South Africa is a high-burden TB country and the reducing ART defaulters to 2%. We will again target to prevalence in the mining sector is even higher. TB is an reduce the rate of ART defaulters to below 3%. Despite opportunistic infection and people infected with HIV/Aids low defaulter rates, more than 20% of patients on ART are more prone to TB, increasing the importance of are not controlled on treatment. A survey established that monitoring and tracking the disease. The Company’s reasons for this include inconsistent taking of medicines, late initiation of treatment and non-disclosure of the diagnosis, classification and treatment regimens for TB condition to their spouse or partner while not practising align with the South African Department of Health and safe sex. The importance of starting treatment early, DMR programme management guidelines. The TB policy taking medicine consistently and disclosing status outlines the responsibilities of employer and employees, is being emphasised in counselling sessions. treatment and fitness to work and training of employees and relevant structures. INH1 prophylaxis is given to We raised the threshold at which employees are eligible HIV-positive patients to prevent TB. for ART from a CD4 count of below 350 to a CD4 count of below 500 in January 2015 to initiate treatment earlier. In 2015, 462 new cases of TB were diagnosed and This approach proved to maintain a productive life for treated, including 12 cases of multi-drug resistant TB longer, to reduce disease complications and produce and one case of extreme drug resistant TB. Our cure fewer side-effects. We have seen a significant increase and treatment completion rate was 89% (2014: 85.1%), in the success rate as a result of this shift. superseding our 2015 target of 85%. Continuous A further initiative to assist in the prevention of HIV/Aids communication between patients and the medical infection is male medical circumcisions, in conjunction facilities to remind them of treatment collection, as well with other measures. During 2015, 142 male medical as early diagnosis, has helped to achieve this target. We circumcisions were performed at Lonmin. will again aim to have a TB cure rate and treatment The ART trends at three platinum producers for 2013 completion rate of 85% in 2016. Patients who do not and 2014 are shown in the graph below. collect treatment are prevented from clocking in at work until they do so. Community volunteers visit employees to do contact tracing at their homes and at the same Employees on ART and workforce tested time confirm that they are taking treatment. These teams also provide on-the-ground support and counselling to 5,000 50 patients and their families. Where employees receiving treatment for TB left through 4,000 40 the voluntary separation programme and retrenchment process, they received a referral letter and three months Percentage 3,000 30 of medication to cover their transition period. Employees Number are referred to TEBA2 to ensure that they complete their 2,000 20 treatment course and that Lonmin is kept advised of the outcome of the treatment. Employees that are medically 1,000 10 repatriated are also referred to TEBA for home-based care where indicated, and currently TEBA supports and 0 0 visits about 80 ex-employees on a regular basis. % employees on ART % workforce tested Peer 1 Peer 2 Lonmin 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 1 Isonicotinylhydrazide (INH) is an anti-TB drug and INH prophylaxis is recommended in the Department of Health’s Antiretroviral Treatment Guidelines. 2 TEBA Ltd is a labour recruitment and management service provider and offers additional services to the mining industry on human resources, social and financial services both during and after employment. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 60 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Safety and health continued Five-year performance: TB and HIV/Aids 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Diagnosed and treated new TB cases 545 527 446 436 462 HIV/Aids-related deaths 139 104 99 97 119 Voluntary counselling and testing conducted 31,666 46,945 17,682 17,964 16,301 Patients on ART 2,022 2,510 3,288 3,666 4,167 Patients on the wellness programme 526 657 690 637 477 Other healthcare programmes Employee wellbeing service Chronic disease treatment The Company provides a counselling and follow-up Lonmin provides care for chronic and acute illness and service to employees and their households. Contractors outcomes are monitored through controlled treatment are covered by Lonmin for work-related trauma programmes. Chronic illnesses in our workforce include debriefing. The services provided through this asthma, diabetes, epilepsy and hypertension. Where programme include face-to-face counselling with a necessary, patients are referred to appropriate specialist therapist as required, 24-hour telephonic counselling with care. There were 3,980 patients listed on chronic disease a qualified psychologist, life management on legal and registers other than ART (2014: 4,224). The decrease family matters, and access to an electronic service that is due to employees that took voluntary separation provides a host of health and wellness information. packages and were referred to external facilities. Dietician Of these, 89% (2014: 77%) is controlled on treatment. Nutrition, health and wellbeing are closely connected. Defaulter rates have normalised since the strike in 2014 Employees have access to nutrition consultations twice and this has enabled control of chronic conditions. a month to promote a healthy diet and lifestyle. A pilot Trauma and emergency care programme is ongoing to assess the impact of nutritional Lonmin’s primary healthcare programme includes supplements on employee wellbeing, including its casualty capacity for emergency cases. Relationships potential impact on reducing absenteeism. have been built with industry peers and other hospitals Medical scheme to support each other in emergency situations. Regular emergency drills are conducted to test emergency All employees have access to a medical scheme. preparedness. The Lonmin Medical Scheme, which is administered by a third-party provider, fully covers the cost of all medical We have an on-site emergency and disaster treatment of the member, with subsidised treatment for management department that responds to emergencies dependants. Employees who opt to use their own at the mine and surrounding communities. A 24-hour medical schemes receive subsidies towards the cost. emergency line is available and the team can dispatch ambulances, helicopters and rescue teams (including Occupational health underground rescue specialists) to address emergency The primary occupational health and hygiene risk at situations. This team also provides first aid and our operations is noise-induced hearing loss. We also firefighting training to Lonmin employees and community monitor all occupational diseases listed in terms of the members. Scenario planning and emergency drills are Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases tested regularly to ensure successful response times to Act, 130 of 1993, and the Occupational Diseases real-life emergencies. in Mines and Works Act, 137 of 1991, as amended, including occupational asthma, dermatitis, platinum salt The emergency and disaster management team has sensitivity and silicosis. Risk-based medical surveillance a proactive focus that includes compliance audits, programmes are in place to ensure medical fitness to equipment inspection and road safety. work and diagnosis, and reporting of occupational Women’s health diseases. Comprehensive occupational health and As part of Lonmin’s commitment to support the increase hygiene programmes reduce the risk of hazardous of women in mining, a short-stay female ward is provided exposures, ensure regulatory compliance, and improve and antenatal care is available on site. workplace conditions. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 61 Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) Lonmin’s hearing conservation initiatives align with the MHSC Milestones for the elimination of NIHL. The goals, as per the MHSC, are for there to be no new cases of NIHL and a reduction of noise emitted by all our equipment to below 107 dB(A) by December 2024. Lonmin has a hearing conservation programme that includes engineering controls, administrative controls, provision of personal protective equipment and related training, and medical surveillance. A Hearing Conservation Committee reviews and investigates opportunities to reduce noise exposure and prevent NIHL. All rock drills and noise sources are silenced to below 110 dB(A). Employees at high risk of NIHL are monitored through six-monthly audiograms to identify changes early and to prevent further deterioration. Our target for 2015 was to reduce NIHL cases diagnosed by 10% from a 2012 baseline year. This was not achieved in 2015, with 199 new cases of NIHL diagnosed. During the year, 108 cases of NIHL received compensation. Following the significant increase of NIHL cases, an incident cause analysis method (ICAM) investigation was performed to identify possible causes for the increase in NIHL cases and remedial actions. Contributing factors include employees’ age, number of years exposed to noise, concurrent medical conditions and noncompliance with wearing hearing protection devices. A number of cases of incorrect recording of baseline hearing tests around the time of the change in legislation in 2003 were also picked up, which resulted in registering hearing shifts from the incorrect baseline. This constitutes 41% of NIHL cases reported in 2015. We will implement the recommendations identified in the ICAM, including continuing to emphasise the importance of wearing hearing protection equipment, silencing of equipment and detailed investigations of all incidents. NIHL diagnosis and compensation 200 199 150 100 108 66 50 48 49 42 36 35 33 17 0 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 New NIHL cases diagnosed Converter with extraction hood. NIHL cases compensated Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 62 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Safety and health continued Other occupational healthcare Contractor safety and health programmes Suppliers sign terms and conditions committing to Physical and functional work capacity adhere to Lonmin’s policies and standards, which cover fitness testing safety, health and environmental aspects, and are Functional capacity testing includes work simulation required to register their full compliance accreditation on assessments as part of our comprehensive medical a formal industry-wide database as evidence of good surveillance programme. The fitness testing ensures that practice. The procurement department assesses new employees are placed in appropriate positions and contractor companies on a yearly or half-yearly basis, that recovering employees are fully rehabilitated prior placing a particular emphasis on safety, health and to returning to the workplace. Employees who do not environmental practices. achieve the required scores are referred for cardioContractors report to the on-site contractor hub that conditioning and vocational rehabilitation through assesses their medical ﬁtness and provides induction, physiotherapy and occupational therapy respectively, including familiarisation with Lonmin’s SHE procedures. or considered for alternative job placement. In 2015, All on-site contractors have access to the Company’s 71% of employees passed their fitness assessments healthcare facilities and all incidents requiring use of (2014: 62%). these facilities are investigated and treated on site. These Physiotherapy, occupational therapy facilities provide a range of services including health and and rehabilitation safety induction, medical surveillance, voluntary HIV/Aids Employees suffering reversible trauma conditions can counselling and testing, treatment of injuries on duty, TB access therapy and rehabilitation programmes. Patients screening and treatment, and NIHL mitigation measures. with chronic conditions undergo cardio conditioning at Where necessary, contractors are referred to appropriate physiotherapy once stable, and prior to the functional health services for further medical care. capacity test. Lonmin and other industry partners were involved The Company is formalising its disability management in establishing the South African Mining Contractors framework, which makes provision for accommodation, Association (SAMCA). SAMCA is a non-profit retraining or alternative job placement of people with organisation intended to create an environment for disabilities. Currently, 1.4% (383) of employees are sharing best practices and standardisation of registered as disabled (2014: 1.4%). safety practices. Management of other occupational diseases Exposure to platinum salts during processing can result in occupational diseases such as platinum salt sensitivity, dermatitis and occupational asthma. Lonmin works with the International Platinum Group Metals Association speciﬁcally to understand and manage platinum salt sensitivity better. There were no new cases of occupational asthma, dermatitis or platinum salt sensitivity diagnosed in 2015. Platinum mining is not associated with high levels of silica. Silica levels in our mines are monitored and remain below 10% of the occupational exposure limit. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 63 Melting pot at our smelter. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 64 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report / 65 Material focus area: Social licence to operate 66 – Context 67 – Key stakeholders 68 – Risks and opportunities 70 – Accountability and governance 71 – Approach and performance / 66 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate Maintaining our social licence to operate and investing in the community Context Our commitment to our corporate citizenship agenda defines our duty to contribute to the wellbeing and development of the communities that host, and are Community programmes are developed to affected by, our operations. This duty is formalised in our address the most pressing community SLPs, which set out our local economic development issues in the short, medium and long term. commitments. Our broader social licence to operate depends on strong relationships with our host communities. The Company’s ability to build financial capital in the long term is critically dependent on a predictable and stable operating environment, which is only possible if we have constructive relationships with our immediate communities and labour-sending areas. We aim to strengthen our social licence to operate through: • Stakeholder engagement to ensure expectations are understood • Community upliftment initiatives to address social issues • Ethical business practices that include the commitment to uphold human rights • Corporate and community partnerships Lonmin’s investments in the community aim to address some of the most pressing socio-economic challenges facing the GLC. These initiatives focus on education, health, local supplier development and infrastructure programmes, and also aim to sustain a pipeline of skilled local employees and increase procurement from the local community. Working in partnership with local government is a key enabler for these initiatives and for building our social licence to operate. This chapter provides an overview of the initiatives implemented in local communities, with a predominant focus on the GLC as the majority of the Company’s operations are in the North West Province. We have established a waste swop shop in Wonderkop at the primary school. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 67 Key stakeholders Communities Lonmin’s operations are surrounded by communities located in formal and expanding informal settlements. These settlements bring with them a range of challenges, including a lack of formal governance structures and the need to provide jobs equitably to local community members without infringing on migrant workers’ right to work. The traditional local community on the eastern side of our operation is the Bapo ba Mogale, while other community members include localised and transient migrant workers from across southern Africa. In Limpopo, we have various traditional authorities – Mphahlele, Ledwaba, and Kekana. Community engagement is managed through a range of initiatives and meetings that facilitate engagement and support communication with local ward councillors and traditional authorities. These interactions give the Company insight into the needs and expectations of the communities and enhance collaboration in contributing to the GLC. Government For socio-economic development initiatives to be viable and sustainable, they need to align with the National Development Plan (NDP) and regional Integrated Development Plans. We engage regularly with the departments of Basic Education, Health, Trade and Industry, Human Settlements and Mineral Resources, as appropriate, and with provincial and local government to build partnerships. These engagements also provide oversight on projects implemented by the Company to create alignment with standards and goals. In addition, issues of concern to stakeholders are being addressed in the governmentdriven Project Phakisa. Non-governmental organisations (NGOs), non-profit organisations (NPOs) and faith-based organisations NGOs, NPOs and faith-based organisations play a critical role in local communities through their support of people in need and through various awareness initiatives on a range of social matters. Lonmin’s collaboration with these stakeholders allows us to address many social challenges better. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 68 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate continued Risks and opportunities The information below involves risks to the sustainability of the business that apply to our social licence to operate, and indicates where to find more detail on how Lonmin manages and mitigates these risks. Find further detail on the risk management approach on page 25 of this report and page 26 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. Community relations In line with a number of mining companies operating in South Africa, the Company has also experienced high levels of community unrest in the areas adjacent to its operations. These could persist or worsen in scale, intensity and duration. Mining is conducted in areas where communities are present and the communities have various expectations of the mines, such as employment opportunities, socio-infrastructure support and business opportunities. When these expectations are not met, it may result in conflict and unrest. Deteriorating relationships with local communities as a result of poor service delivery by local government and high unemployment rates can result in civil unrest, which sometimes disrupts our operations. Failure to deliver social upliftment projects can trigger protests or violence and result in corporate reputational damage if the relationships with these stakeholders are not managed effectively. The environmental, health and social impacts of mining can be felt by those communities who live and work in close proximity to the operations. Opportunities and mitigation As part of enhancing relations with communities, the Company has reviewed its engagement process and implemented a revised stakeholder management process. In order to improve governance and project execution of community-related investments, a procurement framework with appropriate project management office capabilities has been established. Other aspects of community investment included the establishment of a Cadet Training programme as part of the Company enhancing its potential future employment capacity. Formal engagement structures have also been established in the form of bilateral forums with the Bapo and Madibeng Rustenburg communities. The engagement meetings address employment, economic development, community infrastructure programmes and the SLP status. The Bapo Transaction and Lonmin’s other BEE transactions announced in November 2014, resulted in the establishment of two community development trusts, each receiving a minimum of R5 million per annum, and an undertaking by the Company to provide the Bapo traditional community with R200 million of procurement opportunities. Further reading • Transformation through enterprise development • Investing in community development and procurement (pages 78 – 80) (pages 71 – 72) • Human rights (pages 80 – 81) Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 69 Changes to the political, legal, social and economic environment, including resource nationalism The Company is subject to the risks associated with conducting business in South Africa, including, but not limited to, changes to the country’s laws and policies in connection with taxation, royalties, divestment, repatriation of capital and resource nationalism. Resource nationalism is a broad term that describes the situation where a government attempts to assert increased authority, control and ownership over the natural resources located in its jurisdiction (with or without compensation). It is a global phenomenon, not limited to a single country. In South Africa, the threat of nationalisation has been rejected by the government. Lonmin is regulated by a vast array of regulatory requirements including the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA). This legislation is critical as it impacts Lonmin’s operating licence and prospecting and mining rights. Alongside these legal and regulatory obligations and equally critical, are the Company’s social responsibility obligations, by which we earn our social licence to operate in the communities that host our operations. Opportunities and mitigation Lonmin and other mining companies are engaging with the South African government on issues of concern to stakeholders through the government-driven Project Phakisa. Project Phakisa for the mining industry is scheduled to commence during November 2015 and is aimed at creating win-win solutions for all industry stakeholders. Lonmin is also endeavouring to engage with representatives of local communities in an effort to minimise unrest. Further reading • ­Transformation through enterprise development and • Human rights (pages 80 – 81) procurement (pages 78 – 80) Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 70 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate continued Accountability and governance At Board level, Lonmin’s Social, Ethics and External policies, frameworks Transformation Committee is responsible for overseeing and regulations that the Company meets its commitments in the areas of transformation and community development. Lonmin’s regulatory community development obligations Delivery on the Company’s community development arise from its SLPs, which are compiled in terms of the commitments is the responsibility of the Executive MPRDA. Performance against these commitments is Vice-President of Communications and Public Affairs reported regularly to the DMR. As a member of the who reports to the Chief Executive Officer. ICMM, Lonmin subscribes to the principles of sustainable development, including Principles 9 (community The Company’s commitment to partnering with development) and 10 (stakeholder engagement). communities is entrenched in our Charter and We also support the ICMM’s Position Paper on Mining commitments are outlined in Lonmin’s Safety and and Indigenous People, which includes a number of Sustainable Development Policy. Specific community commitments to respect and have meaningful development projects form part of our community engagement with indigenous people. investment programme and are defined in our SLPs, further complemented by a range of additional Transformation, including procurement, is regulated by community upliftment projects that are conducted over the Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Act, and above those in our SLPs. 53 of 2003, and our approach is also framed by the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act, Our engagement with local communities was driven 5 of 2000. through the Community Value Proposition process, which aimed to identify community needs through consultation In 2010, a revised mining charter (the ‘Revised Charter’) and to prioritise the SLP projects through a collaborative was introduced and companies were required to comply process. The community development department works with the provisions of this Revised Charter as opposed to closely with the enterprise development arm of the the 2004 Mining Charter. The Revised Charter targeted procurement department to identify opportunities arising 31 December 2014 as the date by which companies from local economic development projects. were required to comply. The DMR is currently carrying out an audit to determine the extent of compliance. Progress made on community development projects is measured against defined project objectives, investment targets and/or progress against baseline assessments, and is reported internally on a monthly and quarterly basis. Most of the community projects set out a purpose statement supported by objectives and deliverables to be achieved prior to implementation. During project roll-out performance against deliverables is reported and tracked to manage progress. Transformation targets are set according to the Company’s long-term transformation goals and progress against these is reported internally each month. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 71 Approach and performance Social and labour plans (SLPs) Our commitment to corporate citizenship defines our development programmes, including local economic duty to contribute to the wellbeing and development development programmes and employment equity plans. of the communities that host and are affected by Given the current economic climate, subdued market our operations. This duty is formalised in the SLPs’ conditions and consequential downscaling of the obligations, an integral part of mining or prospecting organisation, Lonmin has commenced with the review rights granted under the MPRDA. Despite numerous of the current SLPs. Of particular focus is a remaining challenges during 2015, Lonmin remains committed to three-year period 2016 – 2018. The intended outcome deliver on the commitments of our SLPs. The SLPs set of the review is to align the SLPs with our new reality out the Company’s commitment to develop and by way of revising commitments via a Section 102 implement comprehensive human resources application to the regulator as per the MPRDA. Breakdown of Rand value spent on community SLP projects Communities 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Rand value spent on SLP community projects of WPL and EPL Rand 37,980,955 39,743,935 38,661,225 47,672,897 62,551,677 Community relations and Investing in community development engagement In response to the needs identified in the Community The community development department manages Value Proposition process, Lonmin’s community the various projects and initiatives active in local development projects primarily focus on enterprise communities. New projects are proposed according to and skills development, education, community health needs identified by internal stakeholders, community and social infrastructure (including accommodation). representatives and local government priorities. These The community development strategy aims to create projects are then agreed and incorporated with Lonmin’s long-term social and economic value through: SLPs, which link to local municipality Integrated Development Plans (IDPs) and the projects identified • alleviating poverty and unemployment; through our Community Value Proposition process. IDPs • enabling communities to participate in decision-making are prepared by local municipalities to map out short, to achieve greater long-term control over their lives medium and long-term plans, including spatial planning, and development; economic development and infrastructure development. • ensuring communities are resourceful, skilled and able to take full advantage of economic opportunities; Community programmes are developed to address the • enabling community businesses to become a business most pressing community issues, with a focus on those partner of choice and contribute to the growth interventions most likely to enable a step-change. of Lonmin. Progress is monitored against baselines and SLP targets determined at the start of the projects and reported to In 2015, Lonmin invested R62.5 million in community the SET Committee. projects that form part of WPL and EPL SLPs (2014: R47.7 million). The increase in 2015 relates to Community liaison officers and stakeholder engagement infrastructure upgrades at schools, the mining skills officers interact with representatives from local programme that gained momentum and increased communities through formalised structures, including expenditure on sport, art and culture. community project meetings and ward councillor meetings. These meetings are used to gather community input, including complaints, and to report back to communities on progress in the various initiatives under way. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 72 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate continued Summary of expenditure of key community focus areas ! 2014 2015 Financial investment in communities1 Rm Rm Community education programme (in schools) 6.4 11.7 Skills development (mining skills, portable skills training, technical skills, and learnerships for communities) 11.0 14.0 Sports, arts and culture 0.6 1.9 Community health programmes (including nutrition programme spend) 5.1 6.5 Local economic development 28.0 20.0 Supplier development 5.1 3.2 Other infrastructure projects (such as waste management) 9.9 10.0 1 Excludes overheads and donations. Community Value Proposition Community education and Lonmin’s overarching community development objective skills development is to make a social investment that has a lasting impact Lonmin’s community education programme provides beyond the life of the mines. The Community Value support in six key areas of education: school Proposition process aimed to develop a deep infrastructure development, learner support, educator understanding of the community’s development needs support, parent support, school nutrition, and sport, to deliver focused social investment that is sustainable arts and culture. Improving education and reducing and has an impact beyond the life of the mine. unemployment are two of the most serious challenges South Africa faces. By investing in the skills, education The Community Value Proposition process started with and employability of the individual, these projects research to ensure that projects are aligned with the contribute to the sustainable upliftment of the NDP, municipal IDPs and other contextual frameworks. community and address some of the most pressing This was followed by a series of engagements with immediate needs of the community and the country. prominent community stakeholders and other interested At the same time, these initiatives develop a pipeline and affected parties. These engagements highlighted the of skilled community members for the Company and key community needs as improved living conditions, local industries. employment opportunities, increased access to health services and basic social services, all of which have Lonmin’s education and skills development projects are provided input into the SLP. The final phase of the reviewed and adjusted on a quarterly basis according to process is ongoing and involves feedback to the the changing needs of the community and the future communities and local government on progress, skills that need to be developed, as identified by internal and adapting projects for the changing needs of departments. These are also benchmarked against the the community. education component of the National Development Plan and through engagements with the Mining Qualifications Authority (MQA). Prior to commencing, projects’ baseline assessments are completed, specifically for school infrastructure projects and early childhood development centres. 1 This includes programmes over and above SLP projects for Western Platinum Ltd and Eastern Platinum Ltd. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 73 Community education programme School infrastructure development The Company funded additional classrooms and ablution Students from the GLC who have university acceptance facilities for Segwaelane and Thlapi Moruwe primary can apply for a Lonmin bursary, and in 2015 GLC schools and the construction of Bapong Sports Fields candidates held 52% of the Lonmin bursaries during 2015. These projects were awarded to GLC (2014: 63%). More information on our bursaries and construction companies to support the local economy. graduates can be found on page 45. These projects will benefit approximately 2,000 learners Educator support and 45 educators in the GLC. Early childhood development (ECD) builds a vital Our baseline assessments were first conducted in 2007 foundation for education and is a critical part of socioand updated in 2010 and 2014. Since 2007, Lonmin economic development in the region and the country. has provided infrastructure support to all 28 schools A number of children in the GLC do not have access in the GLC through additional classrooms, mobile to formal education during early childhood, and are classrooms, electricity upgrades, sporting facilities, cared for in informal day-care facilities. Lonmin supports or ablution facilities. 49 ECD centres with 143 ECD educators who serve 2,497 children. The programme provides carers with Learner support basic skills to teach children the foundations required Lonmin provides a number of programmes for improving to begin their formal schooling. A new group of education and pass rates for GLC learners. The Ithuteng 16 educators attended ECD Level 4 accredited programme supports 100 learners in Grades 9 to 12 and training in 2015. the Examination Preparedness and Support programme has 350 students enrolled. The Community Study Mathematics, technology and physical science Assistance Programme supported 64 students enrolled workshops were also provided to 80 educators for the for mining and non-core mining-related studies, and year through in-class and off-site training. more than 3,000 students attended career guidance Parent support workshops during the year. Parents are invited to attend career guidance workshops Students applying for tertiary institutions or learnerships to illustrate career opportunities for learners and to create are supported through the University and Technical awareness among parents about the programmes Preparedness Programmes, which assisted 51 (2014: Lonmin offers. The goal is to motivate parents to support 13) students in 2015 to successfully make the transition their children’s performance so that they can enter to tertiary education through either a university or an Lonmin programmes. engineering learnership. The Technical Preparedness School nutrition programme Programme enables school leavers to achieve N3 School nutrition forms part of the Company’s community accreditation for their technical skills within one year health programme and is described on pages 76 – 77. of training. In 2015, the curriculum was amended to incorporate Instrumentation Mechanical and Sport, art and culture development Rigger/Ropeman at N3 level. Lonmin supports various netball and soccer tournaments and also offers ad hoc assistance to individuals and The Mining-related Skills Programme provides skills teams who qualify for district, provincial and national development opportunities to local youth who have competitions. reached ABET level 4 (equivalent to Grade 9) and are seeking employment. The first 59 cadets who completed the training were given permanent employment within the Company and a further 91 students completed their studies by year end. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 74 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate continued Soccer Lonmin supported 128 teams with transport to participate in tournaments and trials such as the Platinum Star Junior soccer trials. First aid kits and sporting equipment were provided. Boxing Ms Tsolofelo Ngwane from Wonderkop community was selected to represent South Africa in Boxing at the Summer Olympic Games in Brazil in 2016. Lonmin assisted Ms Ngwane with transport to ensure her participation in national events, and she has recently participated in the African Championships, obtaining a gold medal for her performance. Lonmin is a proud supporter of the Marikana Boxing Club, through the provision of boxing equipment and transport to enable members to participate in events. At the national championships held in Pretoria, boxers from the Marikana Boxing Club were awarded six gold, five silver and four bronze medals, and Rorisang Zwakala received the title of best boxer in the age 12-14 category. Arts and culture Three local learners from Tebogo Primary were selected to represent South Africa in a chess tournament to be held in neighbouring Botswana. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 75 Skills development Lonmin’s skills development programmes include market with a quality skills set that makes them attractive one-year speciﬁc skills interventions and programmes to the Company as potential employees. to bridge the gap created by local schools not offering The Mine Technical Skills Programme supported technical programmes, and school leavers who do not 20 students during 2015. have the requisite skills to be employed at the mines. Graduates of these programmes can enter the job Social return on investment With the national unemployment rate at about 24%, the North West Province at a rate of 25% and the GLC at about 30%, unemployment is unacceptably high in the country and in the region in which we operate. Empowering local community members with the skills to be more employable or with the ability to seek own employment is undeniably important. In 2010, Lonmin commenced with a programme to equip community members with the skills to more easily find employment in the mining industry or to generate an income through self-employment. This programme combines competent B mining training with interview coaching, first aid training and African Wisdom, which provides life skills necessary for everyday life. When the programme commenced, the financial conditions in which the Company operated were more favourable. Unfortunately Lonmin had to reduce its cost base in the current metal price environment to sustain a viable operation and announced the orderly close down of the Hossy and Newman shafts, which affected employment. Despite the downturn, the programme contributes to a longer-term view and prepares for the industry recovery and upswing, building a pipeline of local skills and equipping participants to find alternative employment. Earlier this year, we completed an exercise to measure and account for our community mining skills-related training programme and to express the value created in monetary terms. The result of the study indicated that for every R1 invested, R1 is returned. Since 2010, 79% of those trained by the programme received employment either at Lonmin or at other companies. Of these, 96% are still employed. The programme also has a high success rate where 98% of those who started the training completed it. Of the 207 women who received training, 86% found employment. Lonmin has also reached an understanding with the Bapo ba Mogale traditional authority to train some of the Bapo community members. Those who pass the minimum qualifications will receive mining-related skills training and those not able to complete the minimum requirements will receive training on infrastructure-related portable skills for three months. Many of the benefits of this programme cannot be quantified in monetary terms, such as the joy of a mother whose child was returned from foster care as a result of her employment after completing the training programme. Another woman was inspired by the African Wisdom training to refocus her life on children and has commenced her studies to become an early childhood development teacher. Portable skills training Lonmin offers portable skills training for employees and businesses. In especially promising cases, these small community members seeking employment opportunities businesses are connected with opportunities provided by outside of the mining industry, but who lack formal the Shanduka Black Umbrellas business incubator for education. The training focuses on artisanal trades, further funding and development. enabling entrepreneurial individuals to develop small Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 76 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate continued Overview of skills development programmes and beneficiaries Skills development programme 2015 progress and beneficiaries Portable skills 138 community members received training on various portable skill programmes. Mining-related skills programme 150 cadets (of which 95 cadets are women) completed their training and 59 were employed permanently. Bapo ba Mogale community member In 2016, 500 Bapo community members will either be trained as training production generals or will be offered three-month skills development programmes, mainly linked to construction. Community ABET 300 community members received ABET training during 2015. Exposure Process operation exposure programme Programme placed on hold due to cost-containment focus. Community learnerships Programme placed on hold due to cost-containment focus. Community health As the majority of our employees live in our surrounding disseminate information, distribute condoms and go on communities, the health of these communities has a door-to-door campaigns to perform mobile assessments direct impact on the health of our employees. Lonmin’s of community members. Volunteers receive in-service community health programme aims to support health training and medical kits provided by the Company, and through awareness, promotion and prevention and, are assisted in registering as formal carers with the where possible, infrastructure development. Department of Health. At the end of September, there were 125 active HIV/Aids volunteers in local communities Community health programmes are managed with taking care of 1,968 patients and 1,160 orphans and various partners and implemented in all the operational vulnerable children. Volunteers reached 2,694 patients areas – Marikana, Lebowakgomo (Limpopo), at the and distributed 15,026 condoms. Precious Metals Refinery and in the Eastern Cape. The Company’s partnership with the Department of Lonmin encourages and supports volunteer peer Health is particularly important to provide quality educator and home-based carer networks to form healthcare services to the communities around the GLC. Non-profit Organisations (NPOs) with the relevant structures and systems to be self-sustaining entities. Of the R6.5 million spent on community health initiatives There are currently nine successful HIV/Aids NPOs (2014: R5.1 million), R2.4 million (2014: R1.3 million) was operating in the GLC managed by 125 community spent on health infrastructure and vehicles. volunteers, and two new Marikana NPOs were trained Awareness, promotion and prevention in home-based care. HIV/Aids Health promotion Our preferred approach is to work closely with NGOs Lonmin’s health promotion project addresses learners in the field of HIV/Aids and conduct joint campaigns and out-of-school youth with a focus on sexual health, whenever possible. The Company held six formal health HIV/Aids, TB and substance abuse. Initiatives include promotion days focused on HIV/Aids, TB and sexually support for school peer educators to encourage young transmitted infections (STIs) in 2015. The Company has people to access facilities when they need to. two programmes in place: peer education to educate members of the community about HIV/Aids, and Lonmin also conducts TB awareness and contact home-based care to assist in caring for those affected tracing into the communities by visiting households and infected. During the year, 1,231 community of employees who have been diagnosed with TB for members were tested for HIV/Aids at a 17.7% positive case-ﬁnding and health education. Health awareness rate. Lonmin also supports 89 home-based carers by campaigns at the Limpopo and Marikana communities supplying home-based care kits, immune booster meals reached 604 households during 2015. and stipends. The carers tend to those who are too ill to Nutrition leave their homes and take care of orphans and Nutrition has a direct impact on health and wellbeing, vulnerable children within their villages. and poor nutrition is linked to illness and fatigue. In Furthermore, Lonmin offers training to volunteers from children, good nutrition is essential for physical and within the community to spread awareness. These peer mental development. Food is provided to GLC learners educators work closely with seven community clinics to by the Department of Education and Lonmin has Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 77 established six food centres that provide meals to Infrastructure development 672 orphaned and vulnerable children in Marikana and Lonmin’s local economic development investments were Limpopo. These food centres operate throughout the identified as part of the Community Value Proposition year to provide a daily meal to children who would process and aim to improve living conditions in the GLC otherwise go hungry over weekends and holidays. by investing in social infrastructure that provides a The second focus area is establishing food gardens at platform for economic development initiatives to thrive. schools and at home. Permaculture food gardens at four Lonmin works closely with local and national government of the centres offer training on how to cultivate food and to assist in its agenda to improve basic service in the encourage community members to start their own GLC, and to ensure that both sides contribute gardens. An annual competition encourages schools to co-operatively in line with their skills and resources, and deliver according to agreed timelines. establish the best and most productive gardens. Students learn how to grow their own food and can Local economic development expenditure amounted share this knowledge with their families. to R30 million1 in 2015, a decrease of 21% from 2014 (R37.9 million), and focused on various programmes, Health infrastructure projects including bulk water and road infrastructure, waste Lonmin partners with various stakeholders, including the removal, lighting for public safety and the construction Department of Health and local government, to improve of a resource centre, as discussed hereafter. access to basic healthcare in the GLC. Bulk water infrastructure Several of last year’s planned health infrastructure Lonmin’s bulk water infrastructure project focused on projects were affected by the strike and rolled over into improving access to potable water in Wonderkop during 2015. Two ambulances were acquired in 2014 and 2014 and 2015. Leaks and broken water pipes were converted into obstetric ambulances during 2015. fixed and refurbished to improve water availability. The These, along with a health promotion vehicle and eight Company provides five megalitres per day of bulk water computers, were handed over to the Department of supply to various local communities, benefiting an Health. Two maternity waiting homes were constructed estimated 6,500 households in the formal settlements at the request of the Department of Health to mitigate and 5,500 households in informal areas of Wonderkop. maternal and infant mortality. Security upgrades were Water from the Lonmin-owned reservoir also provides implemented at Wonderkop and Segwaelane clinics. water to the various communities. Refurbishment of Peer educators providing AIDS education and 1 Spend on local economic development and other infrastructure projects such as awareness on prevention. waste removal. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 78 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate continued existing water storage facilities increased storage Update on previously reported local capacity by 25,000 litres per day in Wonderkop. We economic development projects continue improving bulk water supply in other villages The brick-making facility in Bapong is in the ﬁnal year of the GLC, with plans to address Segwaelane in 2016, of receiving assistance from Lonmin. The project is on and Bapong in 2017. track to reach self-sustainability and employs an Lonmin engages with the National Department of Water average of 32 local people. Due to the gravel road and Sanitation (DWS) to explore ways to provide upgrade project, the scope of this project has been sustainable water solutions to host communities. These reviewed to accommodate the manufacturing of road include exploring alternative methods to source and store pavers and curbing. bulk water. Transformation through enterprise Road infrastructure development and procurement The Company’s road infrastructure project develops the Transformation is promoted throughout the business and GLC’s socio-economic corridors through the construction is an obligation in terms of the Mining Charter, specifically of new and upgrading of existing access roads. This through the ownership and procurement clauses that improves access for employees living in surrounding seek to accelerate the participation of HDSAs in the communities and settlements, and includes a bus and mainstream economy. taxi drop-off zone. Construction provides contract opportunities for local civil construction companies BEE equity ownership and short-term job opportunities for local labour. This In November 2014, Lonmin successfully completed three project has now reached practical completion; all road BEE transactions, which cumulatively give the Company signs are installed, marking is complete and the road is an additional 8% equity empowerment. Lonmin open. Paving blocks for the road are manufactured from accordingly achieved the target of 26% BEE ownership Lonmin’s waste ash at the youth brick-making project by 31 December 2014, as required by the Mining established in Bapong. Roads in Segwaelane and Charter. These transactions support the improvement Bapong will be upgraded in the next phase of the project. and development of local communities and align the Waste removal interests of communities, employees and shareholders. As a service to communities and to improve and promote The South African Department of Trade and Industry (dti) a cleaner environment, create local jobs and enterprise is responsible for leading government action on the development in waste and refuse management, Lonmin implementation of BEE initiatives under the auspices of explored community household refuse management the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, models. This led to the development of a communityNo. 53 of 2003 (the ‘B-BBEE Act’) and the B-BBEE based service delivery model, which developed four local Codes, while certain industries have their own businesses in refuse and waste management, creating at transformation charters administered by the relevant least 40 permanent jobs. Refer to page 96. government department (in the Group’s case, the Mining Lighting for public safety Charter administered by the DMR). On 30 October 2015, Lonmin funded and installed 11 high-mast lights and the South African Minister of Trade and Industry refurbished eight existing lights in the Wonderkop formal exempted the DMR from applying the BEE Trumping and informal areas to address a rise in crime in Nkaneng Provisions for a period of twelve months, on the basis and Wonderkop. The installation included the upgrade of that the alignment of the Mining Charter with the B-BBEE power supply from rural to semi-urban supply. While Act and the B-BBEE Codes is still ongoing. Generally 19 new installations of these lights were initially planned, speaking, the amended B-BBEE Codes, which have illegal power connection to the new lights impede been effective since 1 May 2015, make BEE compliance progress. New ways of isolating and protecting the more onerous to achieve. A new Mining Charter is power source for the lights are being investigated and currently being discussed by industry stakeholders and it we are engaging with community leaders to support the is likely that this Mining Charter, if applicable, will contain sustainability of this project. more onerous provisions than the current Mining Charter. Resource centre Bapo transaction Construction of a resource centre to host youth The Bapo ba Mogale Traditional Community is a key development and recruitment began in 2015, with shareholder in Lonmin. The intention of the BEE deal completion aimed for 2016, should resources allow for it. with the community is to share the value created by the The centre will also serve as an information hub for the Company and to assist in building our host community. GLC and as an outlet for the sale of prepaid electricity, The value that accrues to the Bapo community over the water, data and airtime. long term should make a significant difference to their Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 79 Preferential procurement performance (%) 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 Target '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 Services Consumable goods Capital goods Target Target Target lives and help improve living conditions while communities. To the extent that no dividend is payable in providing Lonmin with a stable and peaceful operating a particular year, each community trust will be entitled to environment, which is important to successfully operate a minimum annual payment of R5 million, escalating in the business. line with the consumer price index each year. The Bapo transaction involved a royalty for equity swap While these transactions have been successfully and the sale of the Bapo 7.5% stake in the Pandora joint concluded, there has been a challenge to the transaction venture to a Lonmin subsidiary. This transaction provided by a faction within the Bapo community. Lonmin the Bapo community with equity participation of circa continues engaging with all stakeholders to resolve 2.24% at Plc level and a deferred royalty payment of the issues of concern. R20 million per annum payable by Lonplats (Eastern and Western Platinum combined) in each of the ﬁve years Preferential procurement following completion of the transaction. The BEE The preferential procurement strategy provides accreditation arising from this royalty for equity swap opportunities to empowered companies in terms of transaction amounted to 2.4%. broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE), female representation and, where possible, focuses on The transaction includes a commitment from Lonmin to candidates within the GLC. provide procurement opportunities to members of the Bapo community of at least R200 million over an initial The Mining Charter has set targets of procuring 70% of 18-month period. The first such contract was finalised in services, 50% of consumable goods and 40% of capital March 2015, involving the supply of equipment to move goods from HDSA-owned suppliers. ore between shafts, and plans are in place to award The procurement department works closely with the further contracts in 2016, resulting in the target of enterprise development department to develop local R200 million likely being far exceeded. These contracts suppliers that show potential. The biggest challenge will bring additional benefits to the community through we face is increasing the number of black women-owned job creation and other multiplier effects. suppliers in our vendor base, an area that we are making Other long-term opportunities are currently being an effort to address through various enterprise identified that will not only achieve the committed development initiatives and projects, such as the amount during the stipulated period, but will also bring manufacturing of personal protective equipment. additional benefits to the community through job creation and other multiplier effects. Community trusts During 2014, two separate community trusts were established. Each trust holds 0.9% of the ordinary shares in Lonplats, and is entitled to dividend payments, which were mandated for upliftment projects in the respective Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 80 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Social licence to operate continued Other enterprise development projects in which Lonmin Procurement with locally-based suppliers is involved include: Locally-based suppliers 2014 2015 Retswelapele Construction The company was established in 2007 and received Total value spent on local ad hoc work around Lonmin, such as plumbing and procurement R1.8 billion R2.8 billion installation of pole lights. During 2015, they were Percentage of awarded a contract to construct a maternity ward and discretionary expenditure 81% 81% to build additional blocks at a school in Wonderkop. Amount spent with Phakwe Mining suppliers based within Phakwe Mining was founded in 2010 and is a blackGLC R427 million R634 million owned company from the Bapo ba Mogale community that employs 290 people and generates R34 million in Number of new suppliers annual turnover. Phakwe Mining Services provides registered as vendors underground cleaning, hauling, maintenance and from GLC 423 161 vamping to Lonmin. Total spend with new vendors created in 2015 Technical mentorship Four GLC entrepreneurs within SBU are currently in 2014 2015 mentorship relationships that provide the opportunity Vendors Rm Rm for skills transfer from expert individuals and suppliers to GLC entrepreneurs. Black-owned 14.6 7.7 SEDA Platinum Incubator (SPI) – Non-BEE 16.8 61.3 Jewellery Collaboration Other 0.8 7.3 During 2015, Lonmin advanced its collaboration with SEDA Platinum Incubator (SPI) to assist in the launch Enterprise development of a range of corporate gifts to be made in platinum. The incubatees and trainees participated in a design Increasing the pool of sustainable BEE suppliers is competition and the top five designs are earmarked for essential for Lonmin to achieve further improvements production during 2016. in its preferential procurement performance. To achieve this goal and to offer a solution for members of the GLC Located in Rustenburg, North West Province, the SPI that want to do business with the Company, Lonmin is South Africa’s first platinum beneficiation incubator for established a small business incubation centre in the design and manufacture of jewellery. It is the only partnership with Shanduka Black Umbrellas (SBU). SBU dedicated incubator for PGMs beneficiation in South focuses on promoting entrepreneurship as a desirable Africa. Its primary aim is to facilitate skills transfer and economic path and nurturing 100% black-owned ensure upliftment of historically disadvantaged South businesses in the critical first three years of existence. Africans. This is done through their involvement in The programme includes training, mentorship, business platinum beneficiation activities, mainly jewellery plan development and access to practical resources, manufacturing. including office space at the Lonmin community office and IT resources. SBU works closely with Lonmin’s Employee volunteering and donations procurement department to understand the procurement Employees volunteer their time each year to support needs of the Company and to develop a database of various community programmes. robust, accredited vendors. More information on employee volunteering and This year, the Mooinooi incubator received several donations is available at www.sd-report.lonmin. awards in a competition with its counterparts. GLC com/2015/Supplementary_report_Employee_ companies Phakwe Mining (Best in Job Creation) and volunteering_and_donations.pdf. Modi Mining (Most Profitable Business) received awards and the Mooinooi incubator was recognised as the best Shanduka incubator in South Africa. The critical statistics from the inception of the Mooinooi incubator include: • Businesses in full incubation: 43 ­• Permanent jobs created: 279 • Temporary jobs created: 25 Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 81 An ore transport contract was finalised between Lonmin and the Bapo ba Mogale traditional community. Human rights Incidents of human rights violations are recorded and investigated where possible. Lonmin is committed to respecting the human rights of those who have interests in and are affected by the Human rights performance Company’s operations. This national and international Incidents of human rights violations are recorded and commitment is contained in our Human Rights Policy, followed up wherever possible. There has been a marked which was updated this year following a periodical improvement in reported incidents on Human Rights review. Along with human rights contained in the violations. There were four cases of intimidation reported Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the policy in 2015 (2014: 16) and no cases of discrimination has regard to the International Bill of Human Rights, (2014: 1). There were no incidents of forced or child which includes the United Nations Universal Declaration labour at the operations. of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Protecting human rights through Rights at Work. The policy is also informed by the United supply chain Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Human rights conditions are included in the Lonmin Rights, which are a global expectation of all business general terms and conditions of contract, which are enterprises for managing human rights risks linked to attached to all tenders, requests for quotation, vendor their business activities. The commitments contained in applications, contracts and orders. New suppliers are the Policy have been incorporated into the Lonmin screened when registering on the vendor database. Sustainable Development Standards. Compliance audits are conducted on request from With the support of the Executive Committee, the the operations. This year, 11 vendor contracts were terminated due to unethical behaviour. Chief Executive Officer is ultimately accountable for human rights matters across all operations. Human rights and security Human rights training forms part of the induction In the past three years, the Company has overcome programme for all employees and contractors, including various challenges, particularly in the area of security mandatory annual refresher training. Training informs on the property. We revised our security procedures in attendees of their rights, expectations, standards and early 2014, to align with international best practice with mechanisms to report grievances or incidents, the implementation of a Security Risk Management which include a toll-free ethics hotline service. Policy and Security Code of Conduct. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 82 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report / 83 Material focus area: Environment 84 – Context 86 – Key stakeholders 87 – Risks and opportunities 89 – Accountability and governance 90 – Approach and performance / 84 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment Managing environmental impacts and opportunities Context Our strategic pillar of operational excellence incorporates primary production, PGMs play an important role in a commitment to minimising the environmental impact reducing pollutants from the combustion of fuel through of our operations. We share global concern for catalytic converter technology, among others. environmental degradation and resource scarcity as we Our regulatory environmental obligations are tied to our are dependent on these resources to operate. Due to licence to operate and defined by the range of legislation the nature of our business, our operations have an that applies to our industry. Our environmental strategy environmental impact that needs to be reduced, goes further to entrench a proactive approach to mitigated or remediated. This includes our responsibility managing our long-term impact on our host communities to minimise our environmental footprint by adopting and the natural environment around our operations. cleaner technologies, and to improve the efficiency with To this end, we participate in various research and which we use input resources such as energy and water. development initiatives to improve our scientific understanding through continuous improvement for There is an increased global focus on reducing carbon sustainable mining. emissions with the 21st Conference of Parties (COP21) that was held in Paris and focused on the issues of Our environmental strategy has four pillars: global warming. Intensive users of energy are likely to be • Maintaining our licence to operate pushed to find creative ways to improve energy efficiency • Resource management and use and to manage their carbon footprint cost effectively. For • Minimising environmental footprint and impact the platinum industry, this is both a challenge and an for sustainable closure opportunity. Despite the energy-intensive nature of its • Stakeholder relations Water Community protests over service delivery and the severe impact of local water infrastructure failures during 2015 emphasise the seriousness of the potential water crisis South Africa faces. We are reliant on water to operate our business, and it is an increasingly scarce resource. Dry conditions and municipal potable water supply challenges underscore the material importance of managing this resource efficiently. Water is needed to lubricate drill bits and for cooling purposes in underground mining, and is used extensively in the Group’s processing plants. Electricity South Africa’s power utility, Eskom, continued its load-shedding programme during 2015, requiring consumers to reduce their electricity consumption at short notice. Lonmin is an Eskom premium user and has agreements in place with the energy provider that include predetermined warnings requesting load curtailing to determine how we can reduce electricity use while ensuring the safety of our employees. A remaining concern is the planned future tariff hikes that will have an impact on the affordability of electricity and Company sustainability. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 85 Waste There were changes to environmental regulations published and to regulations regarding the planning and management of residue stockpiles and residue deposits from a prospecting, mining, exploration or production operation. These developments have significantly changed how residue deposits and stockpiles are planned for and managed, due to the reclassification of residue deposits and stockpiles as hazardous waste. This will add a signiﬁcant administrative and cost burden to the Company, as mine residue deposits and stockpiles will need a composite landﬁll liner, which will double the cost of the design and construction of these facilities, particularly for tailings facilities. Furthermore, size, weight, reuse options, and vehicle accessibility on site have not been accounted for within these regulations. Air quality Air quality is managed in terms of the atmospheric emissions licences at our smelter, base metals refinery, precious metals refinery and laboratory. Significant capital investment will be required to ensure the Process Operation meets the 2020 minimum emissions limits set by the National Environmental Management: Air Quality Act, 39 of 2004. Extensive ambient and source monitoring networks are in place to monitor performance and to identify areas of concern to mitigate adverse impacts. Climate Lonmin recognises the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and is committed to managing its carbon footprint responsibly. The Company’s Climate Change change Response Strategy and Risk Management Policy incorporate the risks climate change poses to our operations and industry. Mechanisms aimed at reducing carbon emissions – such as carbon taxes – must be weighed carefully against cost and competitiveness considerations to arrive at a balanced and sustainable solution. Biodiversity Understanding ecological goods and services formed the basis in establishing environmental management requirements, risk planning and liability management to strive for our vision of Zero Harm. Biodiversity in and around our operations is protected and managed through our biodiversity action plans and compliance-related projects. Biodiversity is a key concern for Lonmin and many stakeholders, and we report on it accordingly. This chapter provides an overview of the main areas The strike in 2014 affected the comparability of data of material environmental matters, how these are with the prior year. While there was limited to no managed, monitored and, where possible, mitigated. production during the five months of the strike, core The programmes discussed are predominantly situated equipment for ventilation and water pumps remained in the North West Province near Marikana, where the operational and maintenance took place. Environmental majority of Lonmin’s operations are located. management continued unabated to ensure compliance with legal requirements. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 86 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Key stakeholders Government and regulators Government sets environmental regulatory standards and monitors compliance with these to achieve equitable access to natural resources and the responsible management of the mining industry’s direct and indirect environmental impacts. The DMR is responsible for overseeing the mining industry of South Africa and the extraction of the country’s mineral resources, working closely with the Water and Sanitation, and Environmental Affairs and Energy departments. Engagements are undertaken at national, provincial and local levels. Community Lonmin shares environmental resources with the communities in which it operates and engages to understand the concerns of community members. The Company has an official environmental complaints number where concerns can be logged, and the precious metal refinery has a facility for physically logging concerns. Industry bodies and associations The Company works closely with industry bodies and associations, including Business Unity South Africa (BUSA), the National Business Institute (NBI) and the South African Chamber of Mines to ensure that the Company’s stance on environmental matters is represented and registered. Through our memberships with the ICMM and the Chamber of Mines, the Company is indirectly involved in advocacy on environmental issues such as the feasibility of renewable energy programmes to supplement the national grid, carbon tax and climate change. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 87 Risks and opportunities The information below discusses the risks to sustainability that were identiﬁed, with particular reference to the environment, and indicates where to find detail on how Lonmin manages and mitigates these risks. Further detail on the risk management approach can be found on page 25 of this report and on page 26 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. Various opportunities identified in the environmental sphere are also highlighted in this chapter. Access to secure energy and water Recent increases in electricity tariffs, the Company’s inability to reduce this cost any further, its reliance on sole state-owned suppliers along with unreliable electricity supply have severely compromised Lonmin’s operations and margins. Rolling power outages, voltage imbalances or reductions in availability may restrict production or could require Lonmin to shut down production. A more stable electricity environment, in terms of both pricing and supply, is therefore critical. Water utilisation has also been challenging; both from an infrastructure point of view as well as availability. Lonmin’s smelting, mining and refining activities require significant amounts of water, and shifting rainfall patterns and increasing demands on the local water supply have, and will in the future, caused water shortages. Supply constraints in respect of energy or water could impact our ability to operate effectively and meet our production targets. Furthermore, cost increases in respect of these utilities impact our margins. Water availability is becoming a critical consideration for the survival of any business and remains a basic human need. Government must find the balance between authorising water use, supplying water and delivering services as required by communities; however, this is challenging, especially due to informal settlements and pressures from development. Opportunities and mitigation The Company recognises that the national power utility is experiencing challenges in terms of supplying energy to meet national demand. As part of ensuring optimal electricity usage, Lonmin conducts monthly and daily electricity monitoring and reporting. Lonmin is a member of the Eskom energy-intensive user groups. Additional initiatives to ensure optimal usage is the Electricity Conservation Programme and load-shedding contractual agreements to manage supply-side constraints. As part of ensuring appropriate continuity during an outage, the Company has implemented risk-based scenario planning based on available Eskom capacity. From a water optimisation perspective, the Company has implemented and monitors water conservation and demand management initiatives. Lonmin engages with communities and other stakeholders and seeks opportunities for environmental management that will be sustainable. The Company supports the sustainability of local communities through investing in critical water and sewage infrastructure. Improvements in water management have increased the recycling of water, added inflows from dewatering and reduced the dependence on municipal supply. We work closely with Eskom to manage our power use responsibly and avoid outages. Further reading • Water management (pages 90 – 92) • Energy security and efficiency (pages 92 – 94) Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 88 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Increasing environmental regulatory requirements, legislation and amendments1 Increasing environmental legislation for mining and processing requires careful understanding and management to ensure compliance and avoid unnecessary costs. Various regulatory requirements must be complied with and it is therefore critical that these are understood and that appropriate measures are implemented to ensure compliance. Lonmin and other mining companies continue to engage with the South African government and the broader community in order to raise awareness of the risks associated with resource nationalism. In addition, issues of concern to stakeholders are being addressed in the government-driven Project Phakisa. Opportunities and mitigation By taking a proactive approach to our environmental obligations, we can demonstrate good stewardship and build our relationships with communities and regulators. There are opportunities to work more closely with industry partners and government so that environmental matters are sustainably managed on both a regional and national basis. Further reading • ­Accountability and governance (page 89) • Climate change (pages 100 – 103) • Waste management (page 94 – 97) 1 This risk is not part of Lonmin’s principal risks, but is important in the context of our environmental management. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 89 Accountability and governance Ultimate accountability for the Company’s environmental track performance on environmental matters. Detailed performance resides with the Board, through the Safety, reports are provided every month to the operations, Health and Environment Committee, and the Exco, SHE and Exco Committee and the Board, and every supported by senior management at corporate and quarter to the Board SHE Committee, which meets operational levels. A separate Safety, Health and quarterly to review the Company’s performance on Environment Committee – a subcommittee of the Exco SHE matters. – reviews SHE performance monthly to identify critical concerns and opportunities, and to monitor operational External policies, frameworks safety, health and environmental performance. and regulations Environmental management and compliance are The primary Acts that apply to Lonmin’s environmental managed by the Lonmin environmental department, impacts are the MPRDA, the National Environmental which also monitors environmental performance. Management Act, 107 of 1998 (the National Operational compliance and accountability are driven by Environmental Management Act), and the National Water line management at the operational areas, supported Act, 36 of 1998 (the National Water Act), with numerous by the operational environmental departments. The other relevant legislation and associated regulations. Company takes a precautionary approach to The requirements of our various mining rights include environmental management, aiming for best practice and an EMP approved by the DMR. continual improvement. To support this approach, service Lonmin’s approach to environmental responsibility is also level agreements with operational areas were established, shaped by: that encapsulate risk management, accountability and the protection of the environment through the application and • the ICMM principles of sustainable development monitoring of standards, policies and procedures. (Principle 6: Seek continual improvement of environmental performance and Principle 7: Contribute Lonmin’s approach to environmental stewardship is to biodiversity and integrated approaches to land use outlined in the Safety and Sustainable Development planning); and Policy and in the Lonmin Sustainable Development • the UNGC (Principle 7: Businesses should support a Standards. Lonmin’s Environmental Management Plan precautionary approach to environmental challenges, (EMP) defines the processes by which the Company will meet its environmental obligations. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9: Encourage The Company’s ISO 14001 environmental management the development and diffusion of environmentally system (EMS) is well managed and we have maintained friendly technologies). our certification through annual third-party verification. The integrity of the EMS and the Company’s overall During 2015, Lonmin submitted its ninth consecutive CDP environmental performance are monitored and verified report and its second CDP Water Disclosure report – through a range of internal and external audits. These the first Water Disclosure report for public disclosure. include quarterly internal KPI audits, external EMP In the spirit of transparency and our commitment to performance assessments, water use licence audits, following best practice reporting principles, we are various permit and licence audits, Mining Charter audits, committed to disclosing incidents that may have an internal and external ISO 14001, and environmental legal environmental impact. Level three environmental compliance audits. Environmental incidents and incidents are those incidents that have a moderate complaints are logged on the ISO 14001 environmental impact on the environment, but are reversible within the management system registers for action and close-out. lifetime of the operations. Lonmin had no environmental The ISO 14001 environmental management system is a incidents above a level three in 2015. There were six level self-regulatory tool that promotes the minimisation and three environmental incidents this year. Three were management of potential environmental impacts. related to water and three to emissions (five incidents There is a range of internal environmental indicators and occurred at Marikana and one at the PMR. All of these targets that are reported against on a monthly basis to incidents were reported to the regulating authorities. To gain a better understanding of our environmental programmes or incidents, please contact us. Contact details of the Head of SHE and Sustainability are provided on page 1. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 90 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Approach and performance The following section discusses the specific approach and the 2015 performance for each material Anthropogenic aquifer systems or aquifer storage environmental area at Lonmin. and recharge (ASR) has a wide range of applications, most commonly the storage of water in the Water management subsurface for later use. Water filters into the subsurface aquifers through infiltration basins or by Water availability in South Africa represents a injection boreholes, enabling the user to store surplus serious challenge for the country and its development. water that would otherwise be lost through South Africa is rapidly approaching full use of all easily evaporation from dams and rivers and/or spillages accessible water. The few remaining large-scale water during high-flow events, and use this water in times resource development opportunities will be challenged of limited availability. to meet forecast demand, making delivery and supply of water costly. Water is not only a key input in Lonmin’s operations, it is an essential resource for the communities The South African government has recognised ASR as that surround us. The growth of nearby towns and a method to enhance aquifer conditions and developed settlements will see demand and pressure on bulk water the Artificial Recharge Strategy to introduce ASR as a infrastructure continue to grow. water management option and to provide guidance on Climate change also has an impact on water and thus how it can be applied in South African conditions proactive water management is required to counter (Department of Water Affairs, 2007). As a result, Lonmin its effects. will have guidance from government and many welldocumented international case studies available as The Marikana water infrastructure network spans a references. distance of about 30 km, delivering water to and from the various mining and processing areas. Not only does The Integrated Water Balance (IWB) uses specialised Lonmin distribute water for operational activities, the software that simulates scenarios and risk assessments Company also acts as a water services intermediary to enable Lonmin to make informed decisions about its by distributing water to surrounding communities. water use and manage the effectiveness of the strategy. Using the latest long-term figures, the IWB assists in Through the Lonmin Integrated Water and Waste determining the best ways to transfer water from Management Plan (IWWMP) and the Water Conservation water-positive areas to water-deﬁcit areas within the and Water Demand Management Strategy, Lonmin operations, increases understanding of water ﬂows, focuses on securing, optimising and avoiding improves efficiency, investigates opportunities, reduces contamination of ground and surface water resources. costs, and decreases potable water consumption. It is Lonmin also assesses water-related risks through its an important tool to standardise best water practices structured, multi-disciplinary risk assessment process, throughout the business. which covers all operations and some key suppliers, including the Rand Water utility as Lonmin’s primary Water use is governed by the National Water Act, water supplier. the Water Services Act and the National Environmental Management Act, and regulated through approved Through the risk assessment processes, the Company Water Use Licences. The burden to comply in all realises that it has to seek ways to lower the intake of respects with the applicable legislation is significant, due freshwater and increase the reuse of water. to the vast area covered by the Lonmin operation and complexity of the water systems. Due to the nature of Consequently, one of the biggest opportunities in the the ore and the manner in which it is processed, no acid Bushveld Igneous Complex lies in using backfilled mine drainage is generated from PGM mining and opencast pits that can store large volumes of processing activities. water, as a source of water to the operations, Lonmin manages and monitors water use through the using anthropogenic aquifers to support the intake environmental management system, and includes of freshwater. groundwater modelling, surface and groundwater monitoring, toxicity testing and bio-monitoring. Compliance is monitored through various auditing mechanisms. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 91 water distribution across the operation to minimise the 2015 highlights risk of discharge – in line with the conditions of our • Participating in the CDP Water Disclosure Project. Water Use Licences. Preventative and management • Developing infrastructure in support of the Water procedures are in place for discharges and monitoring Conservation and Demand Management Strategy. equipment is placed at risk areas to measure the volume of discharges, should they occur. We established a Water Conservation and Demand Any discharge that occurs is reported to the Department Management Strategy with the view to: of Water and Sanitation. Water samples are taken at • secure access to sufficient water to supply our source and if a discharge enters a stream, upstream and operations and sustain our Life of Business Plan; downstream samples are also taken to determine the • optimise our freshwater consumption and use process impacts on water quality. Internally, a flash report is water more efficiently; and generated and, based on our risk ranking tables, a level • minimise the contamination of ground and surface three incident is reported based on a combination of water resources around our operations, ultimately to volume, quality, impact on the environment and legal reduce our closure liabilities. requirements. A full investigation is undertaken and action plans put in place to reduce discharges. The Lonmin purchases freshwater for its Marikana and PMR Water Conservation and Water Demand Management operations from the Rand Water utility and Buffelspoort Strategy and Integrated Waste Management Plan (IWMP) allocation, and our Limpopo operations draw water from allow maximum water reuse, which reduces the amount regional well fields. of water purchased from Rand Water and reduces discharges into the environment. Performance Three level three water discharge incidents occurred • Total water consumption for 2015 was 8,326,566 m 3 during 2015 (2014: eight): (2014: 6,206,167 m3), a 34% increase on the • A discharge on 28 November 2014 of final treated ! strike-impacted prior year. effluent from the K3 Waste Water Treatment Works into • Water efficiency was 5.8 m3/PGMoz (2014: the Crocodile West Catchment Area. 7.04 m3/PGMoz). • A discharge on 4 January 2015 of process water from the Rowland Corner Dam into the Crocodile West Our five-year target (to 30 September 2017) is to reduce Catchment Area. our aggregate freshwater intake per unit of production by • A sewage spill on 6 September 2015 as a result of 15% from the 2012 baseline year. In 2015, against the vandalism and blockage of a manhole in the 2012 baseline year, water efficiency improved by 9.7%, Khalamtwana settlement. less water was used and production ounces delivered The volume of all three discharges is estimated to be were higher, positively impacting our water efficiency. 57.5 m3. The final effluent from the K3 Waste Water Water recycling and reuse Treatment Works and the discharge from the Rowland Corner Dam had limited impact on the receiving The Lonmin Integrated Water Balance optimises water environment due to the low volume of the discharge. reuse and recycling through a closed loop reticulation Sadly, the vandalism of the manhole resulted in sewage system in the processing plants to reduce and minimise discharge reaching the Modderspruit and Kareespruit; water withdrawals. The Company’s Marikana operations the results of the analysis performed indicated that the have seven waste water sewage treatment plants from water quality is poor. Action plans were implemented to which final effluent is used for operational processes. ensure early warning when manholes are vandalised Through the closed reticulation system, 13.4 million m3 to prevent similar incidents. None of our discharges (2014: 9.51 million m3) of water was recycled and reused. reached or had an impact on any biodiversity-sensitive Water emissions or protected water bodies. Groundwater and surface water monitoring at The reduction in water discharges compared to last year 11 borehole and 109 surface monitoring sites measures is due to differences in rainfall and production levels, water quality at the operations. Water quality is where 2015 had less rainfall and the reduced production compared to SANS 241 Standards for drinking water and in 2014 resulted in less water being recycled, causing Water Use Licence parameters. Lonmin is committed to dams to overflow. We have also commenced with protecting water quality through our water conservation phased implementation of an integrated water and demand management strategy aligned to ensure balance project. 1 Comparing year on year, considering the restated figure of 2014, there is an improvement as a result of additional grey water lines being activated increasing the volume of water to be recycled. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 92 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Water and the community Freshwater consumption (’000 m3) ! Responsible stewardship of scarce water resources has and water efficiency (m3 /PGMoz) a direct impact on the GLC. The Company partners with local municipalities to find solutions for community water 10,000 10 sources, including enabling and aligning local economic development in support of water infrastructure creation. 8,000 8 Bulk water infrastructure for the Wonderkop/Nkaneng m3/PGMoz 6,000 6 ’000 m3 area was built during 2015. The municipalities use Lonmin’s bulk infrastructure to supply water to the 4,000 4 communities of Segwaelane, Oustad, Wonderkop, Marikana and Mooinooi, with Lonmin playing only an 2,000 2 intermediary role. To support the local municipalities and communities further, Lonmin treats 20 megalitres (Ml) of 0 0 waste water from communities per day, through two ’11 '11 ’12 '12 ’13 '13 '14 ’14 '15 ’15 waste water treatment plants and tanker discharge points. The Company also provides maintenance support Water consumption to the municipality services and will remove blockages, Water efficiency when notified. Water recycling and discharge incidents 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water recycling and reuse Volume of water recycled and reused (million m3) 27 31 9.51 13.4 Water discharge incidents Discharge incidents reported and investigated (number) 8 7 8 3 Energy security and efficiency Energy, primarily in the form of electricity, is a critical of our mines does not require air refrigeration for mining input for our operations. Electricity is used to power operations and we can manage notified interruptions to surface and underground ventilation fans, dewatering minimise the impact on production. We achieve this pumps, material handling equipment, smelters and by shutting down concentrator streams so that mining winder plants. Therefore, supply interruptions can production and smelter power can be kept stable. have a negative effect on our ability to achieve process Lonmin’s energy management strategy is based on the efficiencies in our operations, and on the safety of our SANS 50001 standard. Our operations work closely with employees underground. Eskom to manage company electricity demand in Electricity constitutes approximately 7% of operating cost accordance with agreed levels. and the price of electricity is expected to increase well Energy efficiency projects are centrally managed, tracked ahead of inflation for the foreseeable future. Energy and reported and there is an annual capital budget in efficiency initiatives therefore not only contribute to place to pursue strategic new technologies and various improving our carbon footprint, but also have a direct research and development initiatives. Electricity impact on cost efficiencies. consumption targets are set per area and reported on Lonmin is a member of the energy-intensive user group, monthly, with specific energy-efficiency projects launched which regularly communicates with Eskom regarding to reduce electricity consumption. power interruptions and supply constraints. The depth 1 In order to evaluate the reuse and recycling figures, the utilisation of a simulation model is undertaken. The dynamic model is frequently updated and refined to align to production, and actual water consumption once it becomes available. The model was refined as part of continuous improvement in 2015 and to improve comparability between the 2014 year and 2015 year; we are restating the 2014 figure to be 9.5 million m3. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 93 Performance Energy consumption and efficiency Our 30 September 2017 target is to improve our The fuel cell project at the precious metals refinery is aggregate energy consumption per unit of production on hold for now as we continue seeking funding to make by 8% from the 2012 baseline. We report energy the project viable. However, we continue supporting efficiency performance in terms of MWh per PGMoz fuel cell development as it is an important product produced and in kWh per tonne mined. Energy stewardship initiative. To demonstrate our support, we consumed increased to 6,783 TJ, and from the 2012 have co-sponsored the launch event of the Chamber of baseline we have seen an increase of 3.8%. However, Mines’ 100 kW fuel cell that runs on platinum and natural our energy efficiency compared to the 2012 baseline has gas, which will provide baseload power to their building improved by 1.8%. Year-on-year, our energy efficiency in Johannesburg. improved by 12%, but the impact of the 2014 strike needs to be taken into account. Our operations have a high baseload, meaning that even when there is no Grid electricity consumption (MWh) ! production, running of essential equipment and services and efficiency (kWh/t hoisted) still consumes a significant amount of energy. Achieving 20,000 200 our energy efficiency targets requires that we achieve our production targets. 15,000 150 kWh/t hoisted Performance MWh 10,000 100 • Total energy consumption for the year was 6,783 TJ (2014: 4,696.7 TJ), an increase of 45% year-on-year. 5,000 50 • Our energy efficiency improved year-on-year by 12% ! from 5.32 GJ/PGMoz to 4.68 GJ/PGMoz. 0 0 • Indirect energy (electricity) consumption '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 1,620,862 MWh, or 5,835.1 TJ (2014: 3,994 TJ). Electricity consumption • Electricity efficiency per kWh/tonnes hoisted Electricity efficiency was 143.72. • Direct energy 950 TJ (2014: 702.1 TJ). Energy consumption (TJ) ! Existing energy efficiency targets will be reviewed to and energy efficiency (GJ/PGMoz) ensure these are achievable in the light of the new 8,000 8 production profiles linked to the recently announced shaft closures. 7,000 7 6,000 6 Energy efficiency projects During 2015, Lonmin energy efficiency projects included: 5,000 5 GJ/PGMoz TJ • Completing the roll-out of 290 new 45 kW energy4,000 4 efficient ventilation fans at all shafts. 3,000 3 • Investigating optimisation of the compressed air 2,000 2 network in our mines, which is progressing well, with 1,000 1 support from Eskom. • Rolling out energy-efficient lights underground. 0 0 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 • Retrofitting various surface areas with energy-efficient lights and day/night switches where possible. Energy consumption • Optimising the control of the main surface ventilation Energy efficiency fans, which resulted in a 3,352 kWh saving. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 94 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued The improvement in energy efficiency was driven by General waste includes domestic waste, packaging, the decrease in opencast mining combined with the garden waste, building and demolition waste, rubber, increased PGM production and the success of many scrap metal, wood, food waste, tyres and business initiatives in the area. waste, which includes industrial plastic. Hazardous waste consists mainly of calcium sulphite and PMR liquid waste, and smaller amounts of other hazardous waste streams, generated by the laboratories and operational Energy profile 2015 (2014) (%) sites. Regulatory changes reclassified waste rock and 5.07 | (4.75) tailings as hazardous waste, increasing the Company’s 0.59 | (0.53) required capital outlay in lining tailings facilities and 8.21 | (9.67) management of residue deposits and stockpiles. Lonmin’s Integrated Waste Management Plan (IWMP) aligns with the requirements of the National Environmental Management: Waste Act (the Waste Act), 86.13 | (85.05) the relevant waste by-laws and other regulations, norms and standards. The IWMP informs the process whereby waste is generated, handled and transported within the activities of collection, reuse, recycling, treatment and, ﬁnally, disposal. The IWMP is managed through the Electricity (indirect) Fuels (non-renewables) environmental management system and supports cost reduction by preventing double handling of waste and Gas Coal by segregating waste streams to maximise separation and improve cost recovery through reuse, recycling and refurbishment. Savings per energy-efficient technology We set targets for both general and hazardous waste (2015) disposal to landfill and monitor progress against the Technology R million MWh saved targets. Compliance to waste management procedures and legislation is measured through internal and external Compressed air 17.28 28,122 ISO 14001 audits, and the internal and external audits of Ventilation 25.49 36,123 on-site permitted and licensed waste facilities. Lonmin performs third-party audits on external hazardous waste Lighting 1.37 1,966 facilities to ensure compliance and our adherence to the requirement of duty of care of our hazardous waste from cradle to cradle/grave. We undertake research and Solar plant update development work related to our waste streams to determine clean technology alternatives and reuse, The environmental authorisation for a solar plant recycling and treatment opportunities. This is aligned capable of delivering 1 MW of power was issued, with the prohibition of various waste streams to landfill. and on-site generation at the main offices at the operations in Marikana will be trialled. During 2015, additional waste separation projects were rolled out at various operations across Marikana, and an e-waste collection system was established at the information management department and process Waste management operations. A Lonmin Waste Management Standard Mining, processing and refining of metals generate was developed to define the way waste management is extensive amounts of general and hazardous waste that approached in the business to ensure compliance and can impact the natural environment and surrounding reduce the Company’s impact on the environment. communities if not managed properly. Lonmin is committed to minimising the waste it generates through preventing and reducing waste production, and through recycling and reuse wherever possible. Where waste is treated and/or disposed of, we do so responsibly and in accordance with the relevant legislation. We prioritise the identification of alternatives to disposal to landfill, whenever possible, to reduce our environmental footprint, minimise costs and adhere to legal requirements. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 95 generated. Extensive research was undertaken regarding 2015 highlights cleaner production technologies for the generation of • Waste separation projects were rolled out at CaSO3, where it is hoped that a product can be various business units. generated from this process rather than a waste stream. It is the most significant component of Lonmin’s • Waste recycling projects rolled out at processing hazardous waste stream and is disposed of at a licensed plants to recycle paper, glass, plastic, cardboard waste disposal site. and tin cans. • An e-waste collection system was established at In 2013, Lonmin temporarily closed and capped the the information management department and CaSO3 dams on site and installed a seepage drainage process operations. collection system, to capture residual seepage to prevent ­• The Lonmin Waste Management Standard was environmental impacts. Our preferred long-term option developed, defining the Company’s approach, is to rework and convert the estimated 100,000 tonnes ensuring compliance and reducing environmental of stored CaSO3 in these dams into gypsum for the production of cement and other building products. impact. However, the technical and economic viability of this • A community waste swop shop was initiated option still has to be confirmed. If this is not possible, at Wonderkop. responsible rehabilitation and closure of the CaSO3 dam will be incorporated into the permanent closure design at a later stage. Performance The PMR produces acid and alkaline liquid waste General waste streams. Our aim is to have a closed-loop system, with General waste is separated on-site at plants, shafts and much of our research going into reusing the sizeable offices into domestic waste, mixed recyclables, wood, water component within this waste stream by recycling steel and rubber. Waste that can be reused, refurbished this back into the process plants, replacing municipal and recycled is taken to internal transfer areas such as water input. Currently, offsite treatment and disposal to the salvage yards (Marikana and Limpopo operations) or landfill are the waste management options for this waste the waste storage area at the PMR, where independent stream. Another closed-loop system project, which will parties collect the waste for reuse and recycling. The promote our aim of zero waste disposal to landfill, is the Company’s general waste goes to the licensed Mooinooi PMR waste incinerator. This project was initiated to allow GSB landfill site at the Marikana operation, while the for the application of the waste hierarchy principle other operations use the nearest permitted municipal promoting reduced disposal to landfill, to manage the landfill sites. Specialist external waste concentrators loss of PGMs through waste streams going off site, and are used for the collection, the internal and external to reduce the theft risk of PGMs. transportation of waste and the operation of the Mooinooi landfill site. Monthly meetings are held Our aim is to reduce hazardous waste production with these contractors to ensure compliance with through continuing research and development into contract and legal requirements. cleaner technology use, generating non-hazardous products and waste, reducing toxicity through treatment technologies or reusing and recycling hazardous waste Performance materials. These include ash waste as an input into • 16,595 tonnes of general waste generated, brickmaking and e-waste refurbishment. increased 57% compared to 2014 due to the All of Lonmin’s hazardous waste streams were analysed limited waste generated during the five-month strike and classified according to the new Waste Management period in 2014. and Classification Regulations and associated Norms • 8,585 tonnes of general waste to landfill in 2015. and Standards. We are in the process of developing • 48% of general waste recycled or reused during safety data sheets for various waste streams to provide the year: the transporter and end user with information in terms – 6,498 tonnes recycled of responsible handling and management of these waste – 1,392 tonnes reused streams. Waste procedures are being updated to include – 120 tonnes composted. classification status and possible additional landfill sites should these be required. O ­ ur 30 September 2017 target is to reduce general The Environmental Regulations and Amendment Act waste to landfill by 5%, from the 2012 baseline year. for waste management published in 2014 transferred General waste to landfill decreased by 13.6% in 2015 governance of mine residue deposits and stockpiles from compared to the 2012 baseline year. the MPRDA, where they were not classiﬁed as a waste, to the Waste Act, where they are classiﬁed as hazardous Hazardous waste waste and are subject to waste licensing requirements, Calcium sulphite (CaSO3) is a residue generated from the regulations and standards. Lonmin is engaging with the capture and treatment of sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions Chamber of Mines regarding the legalities and challenges from the smelter. The capture and generation are directly in managing waste streams within the existing legal linked – the more SO2 captured, the more CaSO3 is framework. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 96 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued practices, which are also submitted to DMR and to the Performance Department of Water and Sanitations’ Dam Safety Office. In 2015, 90,297 tonnes of hazardous waste were Current TSFs are lined with a layer of clay and managed generated, of which: by specialist tailings contractors, who are on site continuously to monitor TSF integrity, stability and ­• 86,881 tonnes sent to landfill which includes: functionality. Quarterly inspections are undertaken by – 58,166 tonnes of CaSO3 were sent to landfill, specialist engineers to ensure compliance. All sites are an increase of 57% on 2014 grassed on perimeter walls and the dormant tailings – 26,593 tonnes of PMR waste effluent were sent dams are grassed on top to reduce dust generation and to landfill erosion. In addition, the tailings dams have irrigation – 2,122 tonnes of other hazardous waste. systems to suppress dust, and chemical dust • 3,404 tonnes were recycled and reused. suppressant systems are in place at TSF 6. The revised ­• 12 tonnes of hazardous waste were incinerated. waste legislation in terms of the National Environmental CaSO3 and PMR effluent production is linked to Management: Waste Act preclassifies tailings as production, which increased in 2015 due to the strike hazardous waste and imposes stringent liner in 2014. ! requirements for new facilities, at significant cost. In 2015, 11,636 kt of tailings were generated Our five-year target (for 30 September 2017) is to reduce (2014: 6,006 kt). hazardous waste to landfill by 5% off the 2012 baseline Land contamination year. In 2015, hazardous waste to landfill showed a 5.8% Lonmin has compiled an internal inventory of all areas increase from the 2012 baseline year. The operation of that could be contaminated, regardless of whether our SO2 control equipment reduces our atmospheric assessments have been conducted to confirm SO2 emissions, but the process generates calcium contamination. A phased approach to the assessments sulphite, a hazardous waste, thus increasing our is being implemented to confirm whether these areas hazardous waste footprint. (Refer to page 99 – Air would require registration on the Department of quality). Achieving the targeted reduction will require Environmental Affairs’ contaminated land inventory or significant capital expenditure, which is challenging in not. Lonmin submitted a basic assessment application to the Company’s current constrained capital position. the Department of Environmental Affairs in 2012 on the Waste rock remediation of contaminated land at the PMR. Lonmin Waste rock is generated primarily from underground is conducting further studies to implement the required workings, where non-ore-bearing rock is discarded as remediation measures. waste and disposed of onto waste rock stockpiles also known as mine residue stockpiles. There are also Due to changes to the Waste Act, the basic assessment overburden waste stockpiles from our opencast pits, submission was no longer valid and Lonmin had to revert which are temporary facilities as the waste rock will be to the remediation order process. Lonmin received returned to the opencast pit during reinstatement and a remediation order for this application in 2014 and is rehabilitation. Lonmin’s Marikana and Limpopo working closely with the authorities on progress and operations have 10 on-site waste rock dumps and actions related to this order. continue seeking viable uses for this waste stream. Some Community waste management of the finer waste rock material is supplied to a privately Lonmin’s waste management initiatives extend into local owned crusher plant on site, and the surrounding communities to address the challenge of lack of service municipalities, private entities, the community and the delivery, illegal dumping and littering. The Tedcor waste South African National Roads Agency, SANRAL, also collection project was established in 2012 and has been purchases waste rock for road construction. The waste rock at Limpopo is being reused by various entities and successfully operating within the GLC for the past three taken to a crusher plant offsite. In this way, 67,400 m3 years, collecting waste from 12 different areas and of waste rock was reused during 2015, reducing our resulting in 4,328 tonnes of waste being removed from environmental liability and rehabilitation costs. In total, local communities in the past year. ! Lonmin generated 870.3 kt of waste rock during 2015 The Company participates in clean-up campaigns in (2014: 85 kt), with the increase mainly attributable to the community and is collaborating with the Rustenburg strike-related production interruptions last year. Municipality to construct a waste transfer station. The Tailings Marikana community will benefit from this facility through There are six operational and five dormant above-ground improved municipal service delivery, job creation and the tailings storage facilities (TSFs), which store tailings from introduction of a waste buy-back centre, where the ore being milled at the concentrators. TSFs are managed community will exchange valuable waste for cash for in terms of a specific internal mandatory code of specific items. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 97 Case study Lonmin established a waste swop shop at the Thlapi Moruwe Primary School in Wonderkop to address a number of burning community issues, including children and families in need, littering and over-used landfill sites. The project encourages local learners from all areas in and around Wonderkop to swop glass, paper, plastic and tins for stationery, clothing, toiletries and toys. The project teaches learners that waste has a value and an impact on the environment and their health if not managed properly. Since the start of the project in April 2015, the swop shop has collected more than 10 tonnes of recyclable waste, and the community of Wonderkop and its surrounding areas are visibly cleaner. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 98 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Summary of waste streams Material (tonnes) ! 2014 2015 General waste to landfill 5,460 8,585 Hazardous waste to landfill 40,097 86,881 General and hazardous waste incinerated 7.53 277 Hazardous waste recycled, reused and treated 3,915 3,404 Tailings (kt) 6,006 11,363 Waste rock (kt) 85 870 General waste materials recycled and reused Recycled (tonnes) ! 2014 2015 Ferrous and non-ferrous scrap1 3,581 4,360 Paper (and mixed domestic recyclables) 31 30 Rubber 8 1,801 Plastics 94 89 Tyres 25 219 Garden waste 289 120 Reused (tonnes) Recovered steel 77 138 Food 23 33 Wood 990 1,219 Plastic 94 1 Hazardous waste materials disposed to landfill, recycled and treated Hazardous waste (tonnes) ! 2014 2015 Calcium sulphite (CaSO3) sent to landfill (tonnes) 25,252 58,166 PMR effluent (tonnes) 13,431 26,593 Other 12 Recycled (tonnes) Oil 29.7 70 E-waste 1 8 PMR effluent (acidic waste) 2,522 1,334 Batteries 0 38 Cartridges 1 Reused (tonnes) Ash 1,361 1,952 1 In previous reports metal liners with steel balls and concentrator scats and scrap were presented as separate line items. These amounts are not included in the total ferrous and non-ferrous scrap amount. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 99 Air quality Emissions from our operations can affect the ambient The PMR uses various chemicals in its processes to air quality, and we acknowledge our responsibility to extract and refine PGMs and as a result the following continuously manage and minimise this impact. The gases are emitted from various refining activities: CL2, Air Quality Act regulates air quality in South Africa and HCl, NH3, particulate matter, NOx and SO2. A series of focuses on both source and impact on the ambient air pollution control equipment is in place to scrub and environment. Listed activities are required to operate control emissions of these gases prior to release to the with an Atmospheric Emission Licence (AEL), which main stack. The waste effluent generated from the governs emissions. scrubbers is stored in the effluent tanks and removed by a service provider to a landfill site. The PMR is currently Air quality management is an integral component of the investing in research and development projects to reduce Environmental Management Strategy, with emissions to effluent, beneficiate waste, and recover and recycle water the atmosphere minimised through the use of appropriate back to the process by 2020. technology. Lonmin’s smelter, base metals refinery, precious metals refinery and laboratory hold approved five-year AELs, as renewed through the relevant legislative requirements. Sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions ! Air quality objectives and requirements are managed through the Environmental Management Programmes 12 incorporated into the ISO 14001 environmental management system. Emissions and ambient air quality 11.88 10 11.20 monitoring is an integral part of the monitoring and 10.60 management component of the system. Internal and 8 Average t/day 8.50 external audits, emissions verification audits, emissions 6 7.16 reduction management plans and the independent ISO 14001 certification audits are components of our 4 management tools. South African regulations, published in 2010, require that 2 minimum emission standards are reached by 2015 and 0 then subsequently reduced by 2020. Achievement to ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 the year 2020 standards requires significant capital investment to ensure the emissions are reduced to the relevant minimum emission standards for the activity and the pollutant. Feasibility studies are in place to identify Performance and research the appropriate technology that would provide the most sustainable solution to meet these • SO2 emissions averaged 11.2 tonnes/day, which is requirements. The Air Quality Act makes provision to below the permit limit of 16.5 tonnes/day for the apply for the postponement of the 2020 standards. smelter operations. The increase compared to 2014 is attributed to the increase in matte produced Performance from the smelter in 2015, given that 2014 saw Emissions management a decrease in production as a result of the Our principal atmospheric emission is sulphur dioxide protracted strike. (SO2), generated through smelting and converting • Yearly average SO2 concentration for the concrete activities at the smelter. Air pollution control equipment stack was 1,820 mg/Nm3 (2014: 724 mg/Nm3) ! is maintained to minimise SO2 emissions released into and for the Sulphur Fixation Plant stack was the atmosphere. The fugitive capture system is fully 1,372 mg/Nm3 for the smelter operations. operational and a positive trend was noted on the impact • Renewal applications of the BMR, Lab and the of ambient ground level concentration through various Smelter AELs were approved by relevant licensing modelling scenarios. The chemical process used to authorities. remove the SO2 generates calcium sulphite (CaSO3) as a product, which is disposed of as a hazardous waste stream. The Company continually researches alternative technology that generates a by-product rather than a waste stream. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 100 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Total suspended particles (TSPs) Climate change TSPs, including dust, are generated from wind erosion of tailings dams, stacks, general mining activities such as drilling and blasting, materials handling, crushing and screening and from vehicle movement on paved and unpaved roads. At Lonmin climate change is a topic close Lonmin manages TSPs through various dust suppression to our hearts. Not just because we are measures that include vegetation on the sidewalls of committed to mitigating the impact of our all tailings dams and surfaces of dormant tailings dams; own carbon footprint and adapting to climate chemical and water suppression on the surfaces of change through the use of new technologies operational tailings dams and unpaved roads (grey water but because what we produce is part of is recycled and reused in the process); sweeping of the solution. tarred/surfaced roads; and suppression systems at materials handling and crushing facilities. Air pollution Ben Magara control equipment is in place for the various processing Chief Executive Officer, NBI Position Paper activities to minimise particulate matter emissions from on Climate Change these sources. During 2015, particulate matter management projects included: • a new baghouse at Rowland Concentrator; Climate change poses risks and opportunities to our • a chute over the conveyor belt at Merensky operations and the industry from both a physical and Concentrator; regulatory perspective. Physical risks include extreme • commissioning of a pod irrigation system for K4 weather events that could lead to operational disruptions, tailings dam; and water discharges, increased operating costs and • feasibility studies conducted to implement a chemical negative effects on local communities and the dust suppressant dosing system at Tailings Dam 6 to Company’s upstream and downstream supply chain. replace the use of water trucks. Changes in climatic patterns could increase heat and Ambient dust monitoring is undertaken in and around vector-borne diseases, increase water scarcity and result our operations, with fallout monitored on a monthly basis in a loss in biodiversity and increased operating costs. against both residential and non-residential dust fallout Regulatory risk arises primarily from the impending regulations. Sites located to monitor the impact from our implementation of the national carbon tax scheme in tailing facilities continue, indicating the positive South Africa, but also from the increased direct and performance of our suppression measures. indirect costs of carbon regulatory mechanisms, emissions standards and border tax adjustments. Other emissions, including those classified as ozoneClimate change also raises the potential for increased depleting substances (ODS), persistent organic reputational and litigation risk if carbon emissions are not pollutants, volatile organic compounds and hazardous managed responsibly. emissions are present at our operations, although to a significantly lesser extent. In terms of our ODS The most signiﬁcant source of greenhouse gas (GHG) programme, we have ensured no new purchase on emissions is the indirect emissions (scope 2) generated these substances through our systems management from use of electricity from a predominately coal-based in procurement. power generation system. Lonmin’s main initiatives to reduce GHG emissions relate to energy efficiency projects through the Energy Management Strategy, which is certified in terms of SANS 5001. The Company voluntarily discloses its GHG emissions and climate change matters through the CDP and has set targets for both energy and GHG emissions. The Chairman of the Board attended the Business and Climate Change Summit in Paris this year to facilitate the involvement of business, with the intention of encouraging meaningful progress and binding commitments from governments at the COP21 session. The platinum industry plays an important role in managing GHG emissions through the role of PGMs in technology, such as fuel cells. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 101 Performance • Total carbon footprint for 2015 was GHG by location (%) 1,757,670 tCO2e. • Electricity consumption comprises 95% of the Limpopo | 3.3 1.1 | PMR total carbon footprint. 19,443 tCO2e 57,218 tCO2e • GHG intensity for 2015 is 1.2 tCO2e/PGMoz. 0.1 | Group 1,709 tCO2e The 46% increase in the Company’s carbon footprint ! in 2015, compared to 2014, is distorted by the strike in 2014, which resulted in limited to no production for five months. For the same reason, the improvement in GHG intensity, which is directly linked to production, is also not comparable (a decrease of 14% year-on-year). 95.5 | Marikana 1,679,300 tCO2e Carbon tax Carbon tax is proposed as an economic instrument to move South Africa to a cleaner and greener economy. Lonmin fully understands our carbon footprint and the potential carbon tax to be attributed to our business. The carbon tax regime as currently proposed will affect Lonmin in two ways: Carbon footprint • As a direct cost of carbon tax on scope 1 emissions. scope 1, 2 and 3 contribution (%) • As a pass-through cost from Eskom, which could Scope 3 | 0.2 4.8 | Scope 1 3,879 tCO2e 84,302 tCO2e amount to an increase of more than 7% in the year of inception, over and above any other electricity price increases that have been planned. Lonmin recognises that a transition to a low-carbon economy is under way, that GHG emission reduction is necessary, that the risks have to be managed, and that opportunities should be implemented within a sustainable framework. We remain concerned above the implications 95 | Scope 2 carbon tax will have on costs and global competitiveness 1,669,489 tCO2e and add our voice to the debate, urging that the final mechanism strikes a reasonable balance between the ambitious and the achievable to ensure a sustainable transition. The National Treasury has published the Carbon Tax Bill for public comment. The bill was published on the National Treasury’s website on 2 November 2015 and the comment period ended 15 December 2015. Meeting reduction targets Our target is to reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 4% by 2017 from a 2012 baseline year. In 2015, GHG tonnes of CO2 increased by 11.8% against the 2012 baseline for scope 1 and 2 emissions. GHG efficiency has improved by 14% from 1.4 tCO2e/PGMoz in 2014 to 1.2 tCO2e/PGMoz in 2015. The year-on-year comparison is distorted by the strike in 2014, which resulted in limited to no production for five months. In total, Lonmin emitted 1,758 ktCO2e in 2015. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 102 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Emissions 2015 GHG emission category (tonnes CO2e) Calculation Scope 1: Direct emissions from operations 84,302 GHG protocol: Corporate Accounting and that are owned or controlled by Lonmin: Reporting Standard − Mobile combustion (27,933.8 tCO2e) − Stationary combustion (49,669 tCO2e) − Explosives (6,314.6 tCO2e) − Non-combustion product use (384.7 tCO2e) Scope 2: Energy indirect emissions from 1,669,489 GHG protocol: Corporate Accounting electricity: and Reporting Standard − Electricity (1,669,489 tCO2e) Scope 3: All indirect emissions that occur 3,879 GHG protocol: Corporate Value Chain outside of Lonmin, upstream and Accounting and Reporting Standard for downstream: the reporting of scope 3 emissions − Category 1: Purchased goods and services (64.7 tCO2e) − Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution: (817.3 tCO2e) − Category 6: Business travel (1,707.9 tCO2e) – Category 7: Employee commuting (1,288.6 tCO2e) Total carbon footprint (tCO2e) 1,757,670 Detail on GHG and climate change assessment can be found in the CDP submission online at www.sd-report.lonmin. com/2015/download-manager/. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 103 Scope 1 GHG emissions (’000 tCO2e) ! Scope 2 GHG emissions (’000 tCO2e) ! 120 2,000 100 101.2 101.9 1,669.4 97.5 1,500 1,541.7 1,540.1 80 1,470.8 84.3 1,142.9 60 1,000 59.6 40 500 20 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 Scope 3 GHG emissions (’000 tCO2e) ! Total GHG emissions (’000 tCO2e) ! 6 2,000 5 5.3 1,757.7 1,648.3 1,646.6 1,500 1,571.9 4 4.5 ’000 tCO2e 3.7 3.9 1,205.3 3 1,000 2.8 2 500 1 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 104 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Environment continued Biodiversity and land management 2015 highlights Mining is classified as a threatening process for biodiversity, and the Marikana Thornveld, in which our ­• Updated the BAP for the Marikana operations, Marikana operations lie, is listed as a ‘vulnerable’ which includes a GIS management platform. ecosystem under the National Environmental • Detailed screening of fauna and flora at all Management: Biodiversity Act, 10 of 2004. However, processing areas. none of Lonmin’s operations are located in high • Relocation of protected plant species. biodiversity-sensitive areas, although it is likely for a ­• Updated the identification of red data species number of protected/threatened species to be found at and protected species. Lonmin’s operations. Relocation strategies are in place to • Communication and awareness initiatives were transplant protected/threatened flora and relocate faunal held across the mines. species such as bees and snakes, should these be ­• A mass clearing of alien invasive species was encountered at operations. initiated in collaboration with the government’s Working for Water project, the Kusuala Green and Biodiversity is deemed to be a material aspect, Biodiversity project and the GLC, creating 85 jobs regardless of the ecosystem vulnerability of the for local community members. operational area, as rehabilitation is a key regulatory and financial requirement for the Company that is linked to annual closure liabilities and is an area of interest for stakeholder groups. Performance All (100%) of the mining operations have biodiversity Biodiversity composition A register of protected species (Schedule 11 of the action plans (BAPs) that were updated to align with Nature Conservation Ordinance of Transvaal – No. 1 relevant legislation, regional and national conservation of 1983), and a list of plants and animals on the plans and the Mining and Biodiversity Guidelines. International Union for Conservation of Nature Lonmin’s updated BAP for the Marikana Operations (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species sighted at in particular, aligns our approach to biodiversity our operations over the past 10 years, and the management with the ICMM Principles and their position conservation status of these species, is available online statement on mining and protected areas, the DMR at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2015/pdf/Supplementary_ Biodiversity Guidelines and the relevant legal statutes report_Biodiversity.pdf. and regulations. The Marikana BAP is now supported by software that models key parameters like the potential Heritage management buffering quality of existing wetlands and associated Lonmin consults with stakeholders in local communities vegetation, faunal habitats (richness and abundance), to provide insight on heritage sites that were identified and ecological degradation, and indicates where red data within Lonmin’s mining right area. Over 165 sites and protected species were observed on site. The new (including Iron Age sites, archaeological artefacts, graves BAP GIS tool allows for rapid evaluation and identification and old building structures) have been identified around of risks to biodiversity of proposed infrastructure the Lonmin Marikana operations to date. A number of development management and monitoring decisions new graves were found in and around the Marikana and compliance risks. mining right area during 2015. These were added to the heritage inventory and one of these sites was fenced Biodiversity risks are incorporated into operational risk off and demarcated to protect it, due to its proximity to registers and action plans are in place to address these our operations. A phased approach to the mitigation potential risks. management plan for sites with significance rating one is being developed, which includes prioritising those sites which could potentially be impacted by miningrelated activities. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 105 Stakeholders Communities are contacted before significant projects consolidated into a Closure and Rehabilitation Strategy. are started, as per legal requirements, such as with the In addition to this, the Department of Water and relocation of graves. All Environmental Impact Sanitation (DWS) requirement for a Rehabilitation Assessment (EIA) regulatory processes provide for Strategy and Implementation Plan, as required by our community and public participation in projects at Lonmin. Water Use Licence at Marikana, is being updated in A comprehensive database of Interested and Affected alignment with the various rehabilitation plans. Parties in and around Lonmin operations was developed. Land management governance Lonmin also has formal environmental complaints On-site environmental officers monitor compliance with, registers at all operations, where any community and implementation of, rehabilitation programmes to members can raise their concerns regarding heritage manage land responsibly. This is supported by external sites or environmental issues. audits to verify compliance with Legislation, Closure Environmental Management Plan (EMP) Performance Lonmin’s mine closure strategies and risk-based Assessment and ISO 14001 requirements, which closure and rehabilitation assessment for the Marikana consider land-related matters. operations have identified risks for closure and address Lonmin’s Land Use and Biodiversity Standard was the potential impacts and risks on the available completed in 2015 and takes all legal and policy-related ecosystems during the operational phase of mining. guidance on biodiversity from government into account. Progressive rehabilitation and closure is systematically This standard reinforces the importance of planning for applied at the operations so as to meet the objectives of closure and rehabilitation during the operational phase. the closure strategies. The unscheduled forecast closure The Environmental Drilling Standards and Protocol costs and scheduled closure costs are reviewed and provides specific actions for prospecting and exploration assessed annually, and any shortfall in financial provision with regard to on-site operational environmental is made primarily through the issuing of bank guarantees, requirements and rehabilitation. Regular inspections by or transfers to the Lonmin Platinum Pollution and on-site environmental officers are conducted to manage Rehabilitation Trust Fund. adherence and compliance and to ensure adequate The Marikana Closure Strategy and Risk Based Closure remediation and rehabilitation has taken place at and Rehabilitation Assessment is being updated and these sites. Land under Lonmin management Hectares Total land managed 25,112 Total area in use for Company activities in North West, Limpopo and Gauteng 22,375 Merensky Reef – 244 Total area disturbed by opencast activities in North West UG2 Reef – 482 Area rehabilitated to date 310 Area disturbed not yet rehabilitated 416 Total area covered by waste rock (surface – overburden) 150 Total area covered by waste rock (from underground) 60 Total area covered by tailings 1,075 Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 106 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report / 107 Material focus area: Relationships with government 108 – Context 109 – Engaging with government 109 – Driving compliance 110 – Government priorities 111 – Key government departments / 108 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus area: Relationships with government Improving relationships with government Context Mining and beneficiation are highly regulated industries Settlements Department. Government has built housing and require close interaction with a broad range of in Marikana Extension 2 and some employees from regulators. Many of the challenges facing Lonmin and Lonmin will be beneficiaries in the leased the platinum industry are closely linked to the broader accommodation. systemic socio-economic issues facing South Africa and cannot be solved by the Company in isolation. The needs Safety, health and government of the local community and the priorities that Lonmin relations seeks to address through its SLPs are aligned with The safety and health of our employees is one of national priorities and can only be effectively achieved Lonmin’s most important concerns. In recent years, in collaboration with government. Maintaining a good Section 54 safety stoppages were imposed more working relationship with the South African government frequently across the industry, more broadly applied is important to Lonmin, not only because its operating across operations and took longer to uplift. Lonmin assets are located entirely in South Africa, but also due participates in industry-wide initiatives and is part of the to Lonmin’s vision of shared value. mining leadership declaration agreement which aims to This chapter overlaps and corresponds with the minimise production disruptions. preceding four material focus chapters and highlights Our clinics and hospitals support government priorities the need to partner with the three tiers1 of government to in community health through various awareness and ﬁnd sustainable solutions to the challenges facing the outreach initiatives, particularly in the areas of country. The three tiers of the South African government tuberculosis and HIV/Aids. Detail on these initiatives is include national, provincial and local governments. While available in the safety and health chapter on page 58. Lonmin is committed to driving sustainable change in the areas it can directly affect, the responsibility for broader Social licence to operate and change and development is shared with government, government relations at all levels. As a regulator and socio-political leader, The MPRDA requires a five-year SLP that is approved government creates the environment for business growth by the DMR. The SLPs include initiatives that Lonmin and development to thrive or die. has to deliver against as part of its legal and social licence to operate, and focus on transformation and Employee and government relations socio-economic development initiatives aimed at Our ability to build strong relationships with employees improving socio-economic conditions of employees and unions is adversely impacted by shortcomings in and communities. The detail of Lonmin’s SLP projects community infrastructure and service delivery failures that is provided from page 71. negatively affect employees’ home environments. While Lonmin acknowledges its responsibility to support Environmental matters and development in local communities and drive the solution government relations to reasonable accommodation, improving our Lonmin’s daily activities are regulated by more than employees’ home environment requires a thriving 50 environment-related licences, authorisations and profitable business and collaborative partnership permits. Building sound relationships with government with government. supports the practical implementation of environmental The Mining Charter compels companies to assist their policies in a spirit of collaboration and acknowledgement employees in improving living conditions. Rightfully so, of the Company’s speciﬁc context and challenges. this ensured that single-sex hostels were converted into Further information on Lonmin’s legal obligations under family units by the end of 2014. Lonmin complied with the various environmental regulations that apply to the the Mining Charter requirement and also contributed Company’s operations is available in the environmental 50 hectares of serviced land to the Provincial Human chapter from page 89. 1 Local/(municipal) provincial and national. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 109 Engaging with government Lonmin engages with the three tiers of government at all stakeholders. It is anticipated that the new Charter will be levels of the Company, as appropriate to the nature of finalised in 2016. In the interim, the targets contained in the engagement. For example, engagements with the the current Mining Charter continue to apply. DMR’s safety inspectors will involve operational safety representatives, but engagements regarding Mining Social and labour plans (SLPs) Charter compliance are the responsibility of the The MPRDA also requires the submission of SLPs to Executive Vice-President for Human Resources and the DMR. The SLPs cover a five-year forecast period Executive Vice-President for Communications and and include initiatives Lonmin has to deliver on as part Public Affairs. of its legal and social licence to operate. It is drawn up Lonmin also engages with government through various in close collaboration with community and government business and industry organisations to ensure that the representatives to address key challenges facing these Company’s positions on matters of importance are stakeholders. Many of these projects also align with represented at the correct level of responsibility. government’s social development agenda and National Development Plan (NDP) and the Integrated Driving compliance Development Plans from municipalities. Our SLPs focus on accelerating transformation and implementing The mining industry operates within a regulatory context measures to significantly improve the living conditions that includes a vast array of laws, government policies, of our employees, host communities and major guidelines and frameworks. Representatives from a range communities from where our employees originate. of government departments engage with Lonmin on a regular basis to monitor implementation and compliance Given the current economic climate, subdued market with these requirements. conditions and consequential downscaling of the organisation, Lonmin has commenced with the review of Review of Mining Charter the current SLPs. The intended outcome of the review is obligations to align the SLPs to the Company’s new reality by way of revising our commitments via a Section 102 application All holders of mining rights in terms of the Mineral and to the regulator as per the MPRDA. Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) are measured against the targets set in the Revised BroadFurther detail on Lonmin’s SLP projects is provided from Based Socio-economic Empowerment Charter for the page 71. South African Mining Industry, 2010 (the Revised Mining Charter). The targets support transformation and Mining and prospecting rights socio-economic development in the mining industry, Lonmin’s primary legal licence to operate is its mining covering nine areas. These include promoting meaningful rights issued in terms of the MPRDA. The Company was economic partnership by HDSAs in the mining industry granted new order mining rights for its core operations through ownership, employment equity, skills that continue to 2037 and are then renewable to 2067. development, preferential procurement and enterprise The ongoing benefit of these mining rights depends on development provisions. Socio-economic development is the Company complying with the requirements of the driven through provisions to improve housing and living MPRDA, including continuing to substantially meet conditions for mineworkers and promote community the targets set by the Revised Mining Charter. development. Sustainable development commitments include environmental management compliance, health Numerous other licences apply to various areas within and safety, and capacity and skills aspects. The Mining our operations, such as our water use licences, and Charter also aims to promote local beneficiation in line atmospheric emissions licences. with government’s mineral beneficiation strategy. Lonmin has processes and controls in place to ensure it Lonmin continues to improve its performance against complies with the requirements of its operating and legal the targets set by the Mining Charter and submitted its licences, and undergoes regular internal and external annual scorecard report to the DMR for the 12 months audits to verify this. As importantly, the Company is ended 31 December 2014, as required. committed to ensuring that it retains its social licence to The Mining Charter is scheduled to be replaced by operate, as discussed in the initiatives described in the a new Charter still to be negotiated between industry chapter starting on page 64. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 110 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus areas: Relationships with government Government priorities Beneficiation Lonmin recognises that its stakeholder group Local beneficiation is an element of the Mining Charter encompasses more than those individuals and groups it scorecard and a key issue in the debate around resource has direct interaction with and includes broader society. nationalism. Beneficiation has been incorporated into the The Company is committed to investing in initiatives that MPRDA Amendment Bill, which is currently the subject of align with South Africa’s developmental goals to Parliamentary debate. The Bill proposes that the Minister contribute to a better future for all. We engage closely of Mineral Resources be granted a discretion to declare with government to ensure that, as far as possible, our certain minerals as strategic, determine what percentage socio-economic development commitments align with of strategic minerals are to be made available locally, set the country’s broader overarching goals. the developmental price at which strategic minerals are to be sold and decide the conditions applicable to export To fast-track the issues that have been highlighted by permits. While Lonmin supports the underlying intention the National Development Plan, the government has of local beneficiation, it is important that the legislation as announced Project Phakisa for mining. This is finally enacted effectively achieves these intentions while a government initiative that will accelerate the delivery not undermining the competitiveness of the local mining of some of the development priorities for the mining industry. Lonmin is looking at ways to maximise the industry and local communities. beneficiation of platinum, including the use of fuel cell technology. The Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry Lonmin is a signatory to the July 2013 Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry, also known as the Peace Accord. This agreement, signed by government, labour and business, defines the roles of each party and outlines their commitments. The Peace Accord highlights the need to improve the working and living conditions of mine workers, and accelerate transformation to redress the historical imbalances, legacies and inequalities in the mining industry. The improvement areas outlined in the agreement are addressed through the Company’s commitment to transformation and its investment in improving accommodation and contributing to the socio-economic development of local and labour-sending communities. The National Development Plan (NDP) Lonmin supports the South African government’s NDP and is committed to playing its part in achieving its goals. The NDP aims to eliminate poverty and reduce inequality by 2030, prioritising employment through faster economic growth and improving the quality of education, skills development and innovation. Our socio-economic development initiatives are established after engagement with communities and government representatives to address community needs while aligning with the NDP and regional IDPs. Local infrastructure development Many of our community development initiatives focus on local infrastructure development. The Mining Charter requires that infrastructure development in terms of the SLP align with regional and municipal IDPs. Analysing the PGM content. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 111 Key government departments Lonmin works with all three tiers of government – national, provincial and local – to address community challenges. Social infrastructure projects require co-ordination and alignment between local, provincial and national priorities to ensure effective delivery. Where these priorities do not align, projects are delayed and social delivery suffers. Lonmin interacts with a range of representatives from government departments, including those listed in the table below. Department The DMR regulates South Africa’s mineral and mining resources, with the objective of ensuring their optimal use and benefits to the country’s economy. The DMR is responsible of Mineral for monitoring and regulating mine safety, health and environment as well as the social Resources performance and transformation. Lonmin and the Department of Mineral Resources • Lonmin’s legal licence to operate is regulated by the DMR. • SLPs are submitted to the DMR for approval on a five-yearly basis. • EMPs are a mandatory requirement to operate. • Performance against EMPs is regularly submitted to the DMR. • Occupational health and safety performance is regulated and monitored by the Mine Health and Safety Inspectorate. • Transformation and empowerment performance is measured against the requirements of the Mining Charter. Department The Department of Labour regulates labour relations in South Africa, with the objective of reducing unemployment, poverty and inequality and protecting human rights. of Labour Lonmin and the Department of Labour ­• All employee contracts comply with labour relations legislation for fair and equitable terms and conditions of employment. • All employees have the right to collective bargaining, and negotiations can be facilitated through the CCMA (Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration). • The Mining Qualifications Authority (MQA) facilitates and promotes employee development. Lonmin works closely with the MQA to improve and promote training. Department The Department of Trade and Industry is responsible for enabling structural economic transformation through the facilitation of investment in trade and enterprise development. of Trade and The department administers B-BBEE. Industry Lonmin and the Department of Trade and Industry ­• Promotion and support of small, medium and micro-sized enterprises (SMMEs) in the GLC. • Promotion of beneficiation strategy. • Promotion of transformation in the workforce. ­• Procurement contracts based on B-BBEE status verification as part of the broader preferential procurement framework. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 112 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Material focus areas: Relationships with government Department The Department of Health is tasked with ensuring all South Africans can enjoy their basic right of access to effective healthcare. of Health Lonmin and the Department of Health • Regular monitoring and reporting against compliance requirements in the provision of occupational and primary healthcare at our clinics and hospital. • Ongoing awareness and voluntary counselling and testing campaigns for HIV/Aids and TB. Department The Department of Basic Education is responsible for the administration, maintenance and regulation of a sustainable education system in which all South Africans have access of Basic to lifelong learning and training. Education Lonmin and the Department of Basic Education • Monitoring of school administration in the GLC. ­• Support of school infrastructure projects. • Provision of a daily meal to all schools in the GLC through the National School Nutrition Project (NSNP). Department The Department of Environmental Affairs is responsible for the protection of the environment and conservation of natural resources, including sustainable development of Environand the equitable distribution of the benefits derived from natural resources. mental Affairs Lonmin and the Department of Environmental Affairs • Environmental Impact Assessments and Environmental Management Plans are submitted for the operation of listed activities and relevant activities. • Legal licence to operate is framed by compliance to and implementation of various environmental acts pertaining to water, waste, air, biodiversity and land. Department The Department of Water and Sanitation is responsible for formulating and implementing policy governing water in South Africa. It has an overriding mandate for the provision of of Water water services by local government. and Sanitation Lonmin and the Department of Water and Sanitation • Legal licence to use water operationally through the granting of a Water Use Licence. • Integrated Water and Waste Management Plan requirements to adhere to. • Bulk infrastructure projects as part of human settlements plan to address accommodation in the GLC. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 113 Department The Department of Energy is responsible for the transformation and sustainability of the energy sector through various regulations. of Energy Lonmin and the Department of Energy • Lonmin’s energy management strategy is regulated and monitored against the Department of Energy’s Policy requirements. Department This department is responsible for the social and economic development of rural South Africa and land reform. of Rural Development Lonmin and the Department of Rural Development and Land and Land Reform Reform • The BEE transaction with local communities discussed on page 78 was authorised by the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform because all mineral rights are owned by government. • Lonmin’s community development strategy seeks alignment with the National Development Plan. • All development plans at local and provincial government level must ﬁnd expression in the Integrated Development Plans, which we aim to achieve through our SLPs. Department The Department of Social Development aims to reduce poverty and promote social integration through providing social protection and social welfare services. of Social Development Lonmin and the Department of Social Development • Several of Lonmin’s socio-economic development initiatives are delivered in co-operation with the Department of Social Development, specifically those that support orphans and vulnerable children and community health initiatives. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 114 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Governance and compliance Governance for sustainable development The Company manages the environmental and social Executive Directors. Lonmin currently has one female impact of its operations through corporate governance member on the Board and one1 of the Directors is a based on strong leadership and accountability from a historically disadvantaged South African. Board Board level, supported by Lonmin’s corporate values and appointments are made on merit, against objective the Lonmin Code of Business Ethics. criteria that include skills, experience and personal attributes, including independence of mind. Detailed Lonmin Plc is a company incorporated in England and information regarding the Board is available on pages Wales. It conducts very limited business activities on its 60 – 75 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. own account and trades principally through its subsidiary Details on how Board members are selected and their undertakings in various jurisdictions, with material performance assessed are discussed on pages 68 – 69 operations being based in South Africa. The Company of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. In our Annual has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange Report and Accounts 2015, we discuss and provide the and a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange. details of how we communicate to our shareholders; Therefore, the Company is subject to the UK Corporate formally report; and the details of our Annual General Governance Code and its supporting guidance Meeting (AGM). (Refer to page 74 of the Annual Report (www.frc.org.uk). and Accounts 2015). The Lonmin Board of Directors (the Board) is the To fulfil its role in the time available, the Board must foundation of the corporate governance system and the delegate some of its duties and powers to committees. custodian of the Company’s strategic aims, vision and As well as the committees recommended in the values. It provides entrepreneurial leadership to UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has management within a framework of prudent controls that established two other committees to specifically oversee enables risk to be assessed and managed appropriately. safety and social responsibility matters, the SHE It assesses whether the necessary financial and human Committee and the SET Committee. (Refer to the resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable Annual Report and Accounts 2015.) As with any the Company to meet its objectives and ensure that it business, power is also delegated from the Board to takes full account of safety, environmental and social the Chief Executive Officer, and through him to the factors. In support of this, a short-term incentive management team via a documented Delegation of arrangement is in place through a balanced scorecard Authority, setting out the responsibilities, decision-making format to provide an incentive for delivery within the and approval powers of managers at different levels of financial year across a range of strategically important the enterprise. areas. This includes incentives linking to the Company’s performance on safety and social responsibility matters. More detailed information on these committees, including a full discussion of the Company’s Remuneration Policy, At 30 September 2015, the Board consists of eight can be found in the committee reports in the Annual members, including the Chairman, four Non-executive Report and Accounts 2015. Directors (of whom all are independent) and three 1 Lonmin had two Directors that are HDSA up until 30 June 2015 when Phuti Mayanyele retired from the Board. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 115 The interaction between the Board, its committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows: Audit and Risk Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Board SHE Committee Remuneration Committee SET Committee Chief Executive Officer South Africa SHE Exco Price and Risk Committee The Social, Ethics and Transformation Committee This Committee oversees the Company’s strategy and actions in meeting its commitments and obligations in the areas of transformation, empowerment, and in those social and ethics matters prescribed in South African law, and ensures that the interests of all stakeholders are properly recognised. The Committee met three times during the year and the following work was undertaken by the Committee: Social • Reviewed reports on commitments made in the Social and Labour Plans and requirements of the Mining Charter and provided feedback to management. • Reviewed strategic plans for transformation programme and remedial actions. • Reviewed the rental cost of Company-sponsored accommodation, and how this compared to market. In-depth reviews of the housing and living conditions of our employees and our community infrastructure investment projects were undertaken, supplemented by site visits undertaken by Committee members. • Reviewed reports on Social and Labour Plans and Mining Charter and provided feedback to management. Ethics • Reviewed a proposed development plan for reviewing and updating the Human Rights Policy. • Reviewed and amended the Human Rights Policy and implementation plan. Transformation • Considered objections to transaction with Bapo and management proposals in respect thereto. • Reviewed the funding and terms of the 1608 Education Trust. • Reviewed reports on Social and Labour Plans and the Mining Charter and provided feedback to management. Governance, • Reviewed changes to the Mining Charter Scorecard. regulatory • Reviewed changes to local and international regulations and new legislation, and reporting including Modern Slavery Act and Reports on Payments to Government Regulations. • Reviewed the Committee’s report within the 2014 Annual Report and recommended approval to the Board. • Considered feedback from external auditors following their assurance review of selected data in the 2014 Annual Report and 2014 Sustainable Development Report. • Set the Committee’s strategic goals for 2015. • Considered and approved the appointment of KPMG as the assurance provider for the 2015 Annual Sustainable Development Report. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 116 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Governance and compliance continued The Safety, Health and Environment Committee This Committee oversees the areas of safety, health and environment, and assists the Board in meeting the commitments of the Sustainable Development Policy. This includes setting aspirational standards, implementing an appropriate culture, ensuring robust and independent assurance and providing advice to the Board on SHE compliance with legal requirements. The Committee met three times during the year and the following work was undertaken: Safety • Received reports from accountable managers on three fatalities during 2015 and all serious safety incidents, including a detailed analysis of factors contributing to the safety incident and the corrective and preventative measures taken to prevent recurrence. • Reviewed reports on key safety indicators and trends. • Reviewed company security procedures. • Reviewed progress and implementation of a strategic plan to improve safety and long-term safety initiatives. Health • Reviewed reports on health and community indicators and trends. • Participated in a Health deep dive, including a report on the health impact following a five-month strike. Environment • Received reports from accountable managers on all serious environmental incidents, including a detailed analysis of factors contributing to the incident and the corrective and preventative measures taken to prevent recurrence. • Reviewed reports on key environmental indicators and trends. • Reviewed progress reports on various environmental initiatives, including the Group’s integrated water management strategy and waste services project operating in the local community surrounding the operations. Governance, • Reviewed changes to local and international safety, health and environmental regulatory regulations. and reporting • Reviewed the Committee’s report within the 2014 Annual Report and recommended approval to the Board. • Considered feedback from external auditors following their assurance review of selected data in the 2014 Annual Report and 2014 Sustainable Development Report. • Considered and approved the appointment of KPMG as the assurance provider for the 2015 Sustainable Development Report. • Set the Committee’s goals for 2015. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 117 Ethics A 24-hour ethics hotline is available to all employees Lonmin is committed to the highest standards of social and community members to anonymously report ethical and business practices and requires that employees grievances through formal Company channels. The and contractors share this commitment. The Company’s hotline is operated by an independent third party and Code of Business Ethics formalises how Lonmin the call logging process is designed to protect individual conducts, manages and regulates all of its business rights, ensure anonymity and encourage the true spirit dealings. The Lonmin Code of Business Ethics aligns of whistle-blowing. Each call received is logged and with the principles of the International Council on Mining addressed to the relevant investigations unit, which takes and Metals (ICMM) and the United Nations Global appropriate steps to determine culpability and issue Compact (UNGC), and can be accessed online at disciplinary action where required. (Refer to Annual www.unglobalcompact.org. Report and Accounts 2015 for further detail.) Employees and contractors receive training on the Code of Ethics during induction. Employees and contractors Performance go through the induction as a pre-requirement to In 2015, 176 cases of unethical behaviour were employment, and those working in core operations have investigated, consisting of 71 cases carried forward to attend refresher training on an annual basis. Lonmin from 2014 and 105 cases reported in the current year. believes that good ethical practices reinforce Lonmin’s All reported cases are investigated according to a formal licence to operate, assist the Company to attract and Code of Conduct for Security and Investigations. maintain the best talent, create an environment of trust Of these cases, 32 are still under review, 108 were and should facilitate the sustained success of the unfounded, and 36 were concluded having confirmed Company. Lonmin aspires to embed an ethical culture in inappropriate behaviour. The following disciplinary action the Company through its corporate values. has resulted from the 36 cases investigated and concluded in the year: The Code of Business Ethics outlines the Company’s stance on conﬂicts of interest, anti-competitive behaviour, • 10 cases resulted in dismissals and/or final warnings lobbying and relationships with government, bribery and • 11 vendor contracts were terminated corruption, insider trading, the receipt of gifts and • Five employees were counselled donations, whistle-blowing and reporting of corruption • Two cases were settled with vendors with regard or unethical behaviour. to reimbursements ­• One employee passed away before disciplinary All business units are analysed for corruption risks action could be taken through internal audits. The Company investigates any • One case was referred to a third party incident of corruption that is exposed through internal • Five employees resigned prior to conclusion of auditing or reported with sufficient detail by other disciplinary action stakeholders. Consequences for those found guilty of • One employee was discharged in absentia contravening the Code of Business Ethics include dismissal, contract termination and/or legal action. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 118 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Governance and compliance continued Unethical behaviour cases investigated Unethical behaviour cases investigated and and concluded 2015 (2014) concluded 4 | (1) 6 | (1) 2014 2015 1 | (0) Number of incidents of sexual harassment investigated 0 1 Total 36 | (44) Number of whistle-blowing 9 | (8) incidents logged through hotline 45 33 Number of cases of unethical behaviour reported 72 71 16 | (19) Percentage of business units analysed for corruption risks 100% 100% Corruption Company procedure violations Fraud Human rights – sexual harassment Human rights – intimidation Twilight view of a concentrator. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 119 Compliance Our commitment to sound ethical business conduct includes our membership of, and alignment with, the recommendations and requirements of various international bodies that uphold corporate ethical responsibility and sustainable business practices. This includes voluntary membership to various external organisations, initiatives and social charters, including active participation in national and international mining organisations. Those of strategic or legal importance are listed below. CDP The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is an international, non-profit organisation that provides a global system for the measurement, disclosure, management and sharing of vital environmental information. Lonmin submitted a CDP report for our carbon emissions for the ninth consecutive year in 2015, disclosing our carbon emissions for financial year 2014. In 2015, the Company also submitted a CDP Water Disclosure Report for the second time; the first time for public disclosure. Chamber Lonmin is a member of the Chamber of Mines and is represented at various of Mines committees including the Chief Executive Officer Forum, which shares experiences good and bad, successful strategies and leading practices in an effort to drive improvements in safety. ICMM The International Council on Mining and Metals, or ICMM, was founded in 2001 to improve sustainable development performance in the mining and metals industry. As a member and active contributor of the ICMM, Lonmin shares information with industry peers about our programmes to encourage mutual learning and is indirectly involved in environmental advocacy on issues. Our 15 Sustainable Development Standards are fully aligned with the ICMM’s 10 Principles and the requirements set out in the Position Statements. External assurance of our Sustainable Development Report is in line with the ICMM’s Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance Procedure relating to Subject Matters 1 – 4. EITI Lonmin supports the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) through our membership with the ICMM. The EITI is a global standard that promotes openness and accountable management of revenues from natural resources. The Company pays tax fully and properly in all jurisdictions in which it operates, as a matter of policy. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an international organisation that promotes the use of sustainability reporting as a way for organisations to become more sustainable and contribute to sustainable development. This year, our Sustainable Development Report was prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines, as per the Core requirements. UNGC The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative to help business align with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Lonmin recognises the importance of these principles and endorses them across the various areas of our business. World Platinum The World Platinum Investment Council was formed by six leading platinum producers Investment to develop the market for platinum investment, through providing actionable insights, Council targeted development, data to support informed decisions regarding platinum and supporting the development of products and channels. More detail on our memberships can be found online at www.sd-report.lonmin.com/2015/pdf/Supplementary_ report_Membership_of_external_organisations_and_initiatives.pdf. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 120 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Governance and compliance continued Assurance External assurance The Audit and Risk Committee oversees internal audit Assurance over aspects of our sustainable development and external assurance procedures to support the reporting provides the reader with an objective and integrity of our measurement and data management impartial opinion over the balance and legitimacy of the systems. These procedures set out the internal performance data presented with either a (✓R) or a (✓L). management and controls of key risks, and enhance The Company obtains external assurance over certain the reliability of information used by investors and other aspects and indicators in line with the ICMM principles stakeholders. Further detail can be found in the Audit of sustainable development and best practice. External and Risk Committee Report in the Annual Report and assurance of our safety, health and environmental and Accounts 2015. social indicators is sought annually. The proposal for external assurance on these indicators is presented Internal audit to the SHE Committee of the Board, and to the The internal audit department reports directly to the SET Committee of the Board for their consideration Chief Financial Officer and to the Chairman of the Audit and approval. and Risk Committee of the Board, and is responsible for providing objective assurance on risks and key internal controls in alignment with the risk management framework. The findings and recommendations from internal audit are used by management to devise and implement corrective action plans that are monitored and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. 95% of our production is located at Marikana. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 121 Independent Assurance Report to the Directors of Lonmin Plc Report on Selected Sustainability Information We have undertaken an assurance engagement on selected sustainability information, as described below and presented in the 2015 Sustainable Development Report for Lonmin plc (Lonmin) for the year ended 30 September 2015 (the Report). This engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, social, environmental and assurance specialists with relevant experience in sustainability reporting. Subject matter and related assurance The subject matter of our engagement and related assurance is set out in the tables below: Subject Matter (a) and (b): Selected performance data presented in compliance with Subject Matter 4 of the International Council on Mining and Metals’ (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance Procedure (ICMM Assurance Procedure), and prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines: (Annexure: Key Performance Statistics on pages 125 to 127 of the Report) Unit (a) Reasonable Assurance (RA) Number of contractor and employee fatalities No. of people Employee and contractor Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Ratio Total fresh water consumption m3 Direct and indirect energy TJ Total scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions as per defined boundary tCO2e (b) Limited Assurance (LA) Number of new cases of noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) diagnosed No. of cases Number of cases of noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) compensated No. of cases Number of new cases of TB diagnosed and treated No. of cases SO2 Emissions (against Atmospheric Emissions Licence) T/day Subject Matter (c): Selected Mining Charter elements prepared in compliance with the BroadBased Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining and Minerals Industry (BBSEEC) (2002) and related Scorecard (2004): (Annexure: Key Performance Statistics on pages 125 to 127 of the Report) Unit Boundary (c) Limited Assurance (LA) Total number of own employees registered full time for ABET programmes No. of employees WPL & EPL Total number of own employees registered part time for ABET programmes No. of employees WPL & EPL No. of community Total number of community members registered for ABET programmes members Total Lonmin Total number of employees registered for learnership programme 18.1 No. of employees Total Lonmin Total number of employees registered learnership programme 18.2 No. of employees Total Lonmin No. of community Total number of community members trained in portable skills programme members Total Lonmin Total number of graduates in graduate training programme No. of graduates Total Lonmin Total number of own employees who had an active mentoring relationship No. of employees WPL & EPL Project spend in South African Rands against approved project budget (Health, Education, Social Infrastructure) Rand value WPL & EPL Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 122 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Governance and compliance continued Subject Matter (d): Selected Mining Charter elements prepared in compliance with the Amendment to the BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010): (Annexure: Key Performance Statistics on pages 125 to 127 of the Report) Unit Boundary (d) Limited Assurance (LA) Total percentage HDSA in top management – RSA Board (Incl. White Females) % HDSA WPL & EPL Total HRD spend in financial year expressed in South African Rands. Rand value WPL & EPL WPL & EPL/ HRD expenditure as percentage of total annual payroll (excl. SDL) % HRD spend Total Lonmin Directors’ Responsibilities Our Responsibility The Directors are responsible for the selection, Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance preparation and presentation of the selected opinion and limited assurance conclusions on the sustainability information in accordance with the selected sustainability information based on the reporting criteria set out in the following paragraph. procedures we have performed and the evidence we This responsibility includes the identification of have obtained. We have conducted our engagement in stakeholders and stakeholder requirements, material accordance with the International Standard on Assurance issues, commitments with respect to sustainability Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance performance and design, implementation and Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical maintenance of internal control relevant to the Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing preparation of the Report that is free from material and Assurance Standards Board. That Standard requires misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain reasonable or limited assurance about whether the The following reporting criteria were used in the selected sustainability information is free from material preparation and presentation of the respective misstatement. subject matter: An assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE • (a) and (b), Lonmin’s reported performance during 3000 (Revised) involves assessing the suitability in the the given reporting period for the identified material circumstances of Lonmin’s use of its reporting criteria, Sustainable Development (SD) risks and opportunities as set out above, as a basis of preparation for the (ICMM Subject Matter 4): the Global Reporting Initiative selected sustainability information and performing (GRI) G4 Guidelines. procedures to obtain evidence about the quantification • (c), selected Mining Charter elements: the BBSEEC of the selected sustainability information and related (2002) and related Scorecard (2004). disclosures. In a reasonable assurance engagement, the procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s • (d), selected Mining Charter elements: the Amendment judgement, having regard to our understanding of the to the BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010). nature of the company, the purpose for which the Our Independence and Quality Control selected sustainability information has been prepared, We have complied with the independence and all and other relevant engagement circumstances, including other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, Professional Accountants issued by the International whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is assessments we considered internal controls relevant to founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, Lonmin’s preparation of the selected performance data. professional competence and due care, confidentiality A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in and professional behaviour. scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in KPMG Services Proprietary Limited applies the relation to both risk assessment procedures, including International Standard on Quality Control 1 and an understanding of internal control, and the procedures accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality performed in response to the assessed risks. The control including documented policies and procedures procedures we performed were based on our regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional judgement and included inquiries, professional standards and applicable legal and observation of processes performed, inspection of regulatory requirements. documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 123 appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting Opinion and conclusions policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying In relation to the Report for the year ended records. 30 September 2015: Given the circumstances of the engagement, in (a) On the selected performance data on which we are performing the procedures listed above we: required to express reasonable assurance in • Interviewed management and senior executives to accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines obtain an understanding of the internal control In our opinion, the selected performance data identified environment, risk assessment process and information in a) above is prepared, in all material respects, in systems relevant to the sustainability reporting accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. process; (b) On the selected performance data on which we are • Inspected documentation to corroborate the required to express limited assurance in accordance statements of management and senior executives in with the GRI G4 Guidelines our interviews; • Tested the processes and systems to generate, Based on our work performed and the evidence we have collate, aggregate, monitor and report the selected obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes sustainability information; us to believe that the selected performance data • Performed a controls walkthrough; identified in b) above is not prepared, in all material • Inspected supporting documentation and performing respects, in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. analytical procedures on a sample basis to evaluate (c) On the selected mining charter elements in the data generation and reporting processes against compliance with the BBSEEC (2002) and related the reporting criteria; Scorecard (2004) on which we are required to • Undertook site visits to Lonmin’s Marikana operations express limited assurance (which represents the most material contribution to the selected sustainability performance information Based on our work performed and the evidence we have for ICMM Subject Matter 4 and for selected elements obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes from the Broad Based Socio-Economic Empowerment us to believe that the selected mining charter elements Charters [2002 and 2010] and related Scorecards); identified in c) above are not prepared, in all material and respects, in compliance with the BBSEEC (2002) and • Evaluated whether the selected sustainability related Scorecard (2004). information presented in the Report is consistent with (d) On the selected mining charter elements in our overall knowledge and experience of sustainability compliance with the Amendment to the BBSEEC management and performance at Lonmin. (2010) and related Scorecard (2010) on which we We believe that the evidence we have obtained is are required to express limited assurance sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Based on our work performed and the evidence we have reasonable assurance opinion on the selected obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes sustainability information on (a). us to believe that the selected mining charter elements The procedures performed in a limited assurance identified in d) above are not prepared, in all material engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent respects, in compliance with the Amendment to the than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. As BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010). a result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether the selected sustainability information set out in b), c) and d) has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant criteria. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 124 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Governance and compliance continued Report on the ICMM Assurance Procedure We are required to report our findings on the International 3. Lonmin has not implemented systems and Council on Mining and Metals’ (ICMM) Sustainable approaches to manage its material safety risks Development (SD) Framework: Assurance Procedure and opportunities. (ICMM Assurance Procedure) in respect of: Other matters 1 The alignment of Lonmin’s sustainability policies to The maintenance and integrity of the Lonmin the ICMM 10 SD Principles and any mandatory website is the responsibility of Lonmin management. requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements Our procedures did not involve consideration of these (ICMM Subject Matter 1). matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for 2 The reporting of Lonmin’s material sustainable any changes to either the information in the Report or development risks and opportunities based on a our independent assurance report that may have review of its business and the views and expectations occurred since the initial date of presentation on the of its stakeholders (ICMM Subject Matter 2). Lonmin website. 3 The implementation of systems and approaches that Restriction of liability Lonmin is using to manage its material safety risks Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express and opportunities (ICMM Subject Matter 3). the opinions on the subject matters in (a), (b), (c) and (d) Directors’ Responsibilities in our ‘Report on Selected Sustainability Information’ The Directors are responsible for: together with findings on 1, 2 and 3 in our ‘Report on the • The alignment of Lonmin’s sustainability policies to ICMM Assurance Procedure’ to the Directors of Lonmin the ICMM 10 SD Principles and any mandatory in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements. no other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any party other than Lonmin, for our work, for this • The reporting of Lonmin’s material sustainable report, or for the conclusions we have reached. development risks and opportunities based on a review of its business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders. • The implementation of systems and approaches that KPMG Services Proprietary Limited Lonmin is using to manage its material safety risks Per PD Naidoo and opportunities. Director Our Responsibility Johannesburg Our engagement included reporting on the ICMM 4 March 2016 Assurance Procedure in respect of 1, 2 and 3 above KPMG Crescent based on the knowledge obtained in our evidence 85 Empire Road gathering procedures in our assurance engagement on Parktown the subject matters in (a) and (b) set out in our ‘Report Johannesburg on Selected Sustainability Information’ above. 2193 Findings Based on our evidence gathering procedures in our assurance engagement for the year ended 30 September 2015 on the subject matter in (a) and (b) set out in our ‘Report on Selected Sustainability Information’ above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: 1. Lonmin’s sustainability policies are not aligned with the ICMM 10 SD Principles and any mandatory requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements. 2. Lonmin has not reported material sustainable development risks and opportunities based on a review of its business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 125 Annexures Key performance statistics Measurement 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Corporate profile: Production PGMs produced oz 1,446,662 1,349,802 1,336,109 882,094 1,447,364 Material focus area 1: Employee relations Employees Number 27,796 28,230 28,379 28,276 26,968 Contractors Number 9,564 8,293 10,042 10,016 8,701 HDSAs, including white women, employed in management Percentage 46.5 49.4 47.2 48.4 50.3✓L Women employed in mining1 Percentage 4.33 5.11 5.09 5.35 6 Women employed at mining2 Percentage 7.45 8.15 8 8.18 8.8 Employee turnover rate Percentage 10.57 6.17 6.1 5.0 9.1 Employees belonging to organised trade unions Percentage 55.5 80.8 87.7 88.6 91.4 People registered for ABET Number 6033 942 954 473 7814✓L People on graduate programme Number 29 27 35 34 39✓L People on learnership programme5 Number 184 248 181 144 148✓L People on bursary programme Number 44 98 86 89 98 Total number of own employees who had an active mentoring relationship Number 201 160 63 75 115✓L HRD expenditure as % of annual payroll % 3.8 3.6 3.2 3.3 2.6✓L Total HRD spend in financial year Rand 195 million 200 million 202 million 172 million 183 million✓L 1 Women employed in mining represent those employed in core mining operations. 2 Women employed at the mine represent all women employed at our operations. 3 After audits conducted on ABET for our SLP reporting, we identified that we had underreported the ABET figure in the 2011 Sustainable Development Report as 601. The correct figure is 603. 4 This number is made up of the following data points: − Total number of own employees registered for full-time ABET programme (156 = 10 employees working at the Pandora Joint Venture + 112 employees working for WPL + 34 employees working for EPL.) − Total number of own employees registered for part-time ABET programme (325 = 11 employees working at the Pandora Joint Venture + 248 employees working for WPL + 64 employees working for EPL.) − Total number of community members registered for ABET programmes (300 community members made up of 192 community members as per the WPL social and labour plan and 108 community members as per the EPL social and labour plan.) 5 This number is inclusive of the employees registered for the 18.1 and 18.2 learnership programme. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 126 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Annexures continued Measurement 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Material focus area 2: Safety & Health Fatalities Number 6 2 3 1 3✓R Lost-time injury frequency rate Rate6 4.71 4.16 3.50 3.34 5.41✓R Level 3 Safety incidents Number 36 16 21 12 21 Lost-time injuries Number 419 372 317 217 473 Section 54 Stoppages Number 27 37 18 20 36 New NIHL cases diagnosed Number 35 42 48 66 199✓L NIHL cases compensated Number 17 33 36 49 108✓L Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis new cases Number 545 527 446 436 462✓L HIV/Aids-related deaths Number 139 104 99 97 119 Voluntary counselling and testing conducted (VCT) Number 31,6667 46,9457 17,682 17,964 16,301 Patients on ART Number 2,022 2,510 3,288 3,666 4,167 Patients on the wellness programme Number 526 657 690 637 477 Material focus area 3: Social licence to operate Community members receiving portable skills training Number 97 176 154 158 138✓L Rand value spent on community SLP projects for WPL and EPL Rand 37,980,955 39,743,935 38,661,225 47,672,897 62,551,667✓L 6 Injuries per million hours worked. 7 These figures include VCT offered to employees daily (average of 2,000 tests a month), wellness campaigns and does not exclude those employees tested twice. Approach to reporting and Letter from the Our strategy and Farlam Reporting according to the Employee relations corporate profile Chief Executive Officer Commission of Inquiry Report material focus areas / 127 Measurement 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Material focus area 4: Environment Total freshwater intake m3 7,912,595 8,667,896 8,284,039 6,206,167 8,326,566✓R Total freshwater intake efficiency m3/PGMoz 5.47 6.42 6.20 7.04 5.8 Electricity MWh 1,496,841 1,485,630 1,555,651 1,135,000 1,620,862 Electricity efficiency MWh/PGMoz 1.03 1.10 1.16 1.28 1.12 Energy TJ 6,533 6,433 6,740 4,696.7 6,783.1✓R Energy efficiency GJ/PGMoz 4.52 4.77 5.04 5.32 4.68 Greenhouse gas emissions ktCO2e 1,648 1,572 1,646 1,205 1,758✓R Greenhouse gas efficiency8 tCO2e/PGMoz 1.14 1.16 1.23 1.4 1.2 Tailings disposed to tailings facilities9 Kt 11,820 10,666 11,661 6,006 11,636 Waste rock disposed to rock dumps9 Kt 1,772 1,482 996 85 870 Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill Tonnes 72,052 77,826 71,336 40,097 86,881 General waste to landfill Tonnes 9,744 10,271 9,577 5,460 8,585 Average sulphur dioxide emissions Tonnes/day 10.58 8.5 11.9 7.16 11.2✓R ✓ Assurance provided by KPMG: Reasonable (✓R), Limited (✓L). 8 In the 2013 Sustainable Development Report incorrectly referred to kilotonnes CO2e/PGMoz; the measurement unit which aligns with the units reflected is tonnes of CO2e/PGMoz. 9 In the 2013 Sustainable Development Report incorrectly referred to tonnes; the measurement unit which aligns with the units reflected is kilotonnes. Safety and health Social licence to operate Environment Relationships with Governance government and compliance / 128 Lonmin Plc Sustainable development report Annexures continued SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way. To honour our Charter, and to create sustainable value for our stakeholders, Lonmin is committed to improving the quality of life of current and future generations through the integration of economic prosperity, social development and environmental protection by: Honouring our health and safety Implementing the principle of equal values and sustaining an opportunity and equity while Promoting integrated land use environment that promotes the maintaining an appropriate skilled management and biodiversity safety, health and wellbeing of our and diverse workforce. conservation by applying a employees and their families, precautionary approach during all contractors and the communities Empowering our host communities phases of our operations, where we operate. and improving their quality of life including mine closure. by contributing to their long term Providing adequate and social, economic and institutional Maintaining transparent and appropriate resources to development and promoting the ongoing consultative relationships implement effective management beneficiation of our minerals. with all stakeholders and systems and risk management incorporating this engagement based on valid data and sound Implementing effective material into the decision making process. science, during all phases of our stewardship to manage the operations to ensure the reduction lifecycle of our products on a Fostering the commitment of all of risks and the adoption of best socially and environmentally employees and contractors to this practices. responsible manner. policy through training and awareness programmes. Respecting and valuing the Promoting the sustainable use of fundamental human rights, cultural natural resources and the Seeking continual improvement to heritage and indigenous traditions reduction, re-use and recycling of achieve a high level of of our employees, communities waste. performance through a framework and other stakeholders where we of setting and reviewing our Preventing pollution and policy, objectives and targets. operate. environmental degradation in order Integrating safety and sustainability to reduce our impact on the Reporting publicly our sustainable development into the decision environment and the communities development performance in making process during all phases where we operate. accordance with ICMM of our operations. Sustainable Development Responding to climate change Framework and utilising the Upholding ethical business and driving the reduction of guidance of the Global Reporting practices, sound corporate greenhouse gases by adopting Initiative Sustainable Reporting governance and transparency, best practice technology, Guidelines. while meeting or exceeding alternative energy sources, applicable legislation, standards improved control systems and and other requirements. management practices. Ben Magara Chief Executive Officer August 2014 Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way. Mission We are successful when Our values ­• To grow and build our ­­• Our employees live and work ­• Zero harm – We are portfolio of high-quality assets safely and experience the committed to zero harm to ­• To deliver the requirements of personal satisfaction that people and the environment the South African broadcomes with high performance ­• Integrity, honesty and trust based socio-economic Mining and recognition – We are committed ethical Charter and we welcome the ­• Our shareholders are realising people who do what we say opportunity to transform our a superior total return on their we will do business investment and support our ­• Transparency – Open, honest ­• To build a value-based corporate sustainability values communication and free culture, which is founded on ­• The communities in which we sharing of information safe work, continuous operate value our relationships ­• Respect for each other improvement, common ­• We are meeting our – Embracing our diversity standards and procedures, commitments to all business enriched by openness, community involvement and partners and our suppliers, sharing, trust, teamwork one that rewards employees contractors, partners and and involvement for high performance customers support our Charter ­• High performance – Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes ­• Employee self-worth – To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families Brian Beamish Ben Magara Chairman Chief Executive Officer
