Sustainability report 2015 Bosch Turkey With technology “Invented for life” we are securing our company’s lasting success. At the same time, we are contributing to protecting the natural environment for current Connected for and future generations. This report shows how we put our sustainability more sustainability policy into practice in the four following areas: environment, products, associates, and society. It also serves as a report on our progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact. Smart products make our everyday lives more comfortable. Used appropriately, they also help save energy or make life safer. Bosch innovations in the area of connected mobility are just one example among many. Sensors shape the foundation of predictive driving systems that reduce fuel consumption and protect the driver from potential road hazards. More information on connected solutions can be found in the Products section, page 10 In addition to this, we apply our extensive expertise in the area of networked, energy efficient production to reduce our own carbon footprint. Measures include the deliberate use of renewable sources of energy, as well as initiatives that aim to make our locations as energy efficient as possible. So far, the results have been very satisfying: we have reached the CO2 reduction target we set for 2020 several years ahead of schedule. Find out more about this in the Environment section, page 7 Connectivity plays a very important role in our daily work as well. We want our associates to cooperate with one another across sectoral and national boundaries. In our view, collaboration is the only way that we can take full advantage of our diverse workforce’s potential and creativity. To find out why we have focused more on promoting communication between younger and older colleagues, please consult the Associates section, page 13 At Bosch locations around the world, our associates volunteer outside working hours. In recent months, many Bosch volunteers have helped people who have fled war and persecution and sought asylum in Europe. They collected donations at many locations and cooperated with aid organizations to set up support initiatives. To find out more, please consult the Society section, page 16 SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM Steven Young President, Bosch Turkey and Middle East Dear readers, On the other hand, we are taking advantage of environment friendly At Bosch, we have a corporate culture valuing and supporting good Bosch technologies in our facilities. Within the scope of the projects ideas, and using them for innovation. We embrace this culture and we we have developed for reducing the energy and water use in our nourish from it. factories and disposing our wastes without harming the environment, we saved approximately € 530 million from the energy costs only We are taking brave initiatives for adding innovation to the lives of during the period from 2007 to 2014. I believe Bosch sets a good people, and for facilitating the life. We are much braver in one topic: example to the business world in this aspect. Supporting the sustainable future of our world. Sustainability is the essence of our business manner at Bosch. It is also the key to our We show utmost sensitivity on health and occupational safety topics success. in order to meet the expectations of our key stakeholders the employees in the human aspect of sustainability. We are also We develop strategies on economical, environmental and social launching comprehensive training programs for supporting their topics, and implement relevant policies for making our business development. sustainable. For us, sustainability is not only an international agreement, but also a liability. We are pleased to share with you the second sustainability report of Bosch Turkey compiling performance of the company in 2015 related We have made progress in 2015 bearing the traces of this to the sustainability topics. I believe you will contribute to our future understanding. For example; we have committed to reduce the efforts with your valuable opinions and assessments. emissions by 20 percent by the year 2020. Compared to our levels in 2007, we see that we already reduced our emission by approximately As Bosch, we will continue contributing to nature, human, society, and 30 percent. We are progressing faster than expected, thus we have economy within the scope of our sustainability policies in Turkey, as redefined our targets. Now, we are aiming 30 percent reduction by the we do in the global. year 2020. Sincerely, Through our technical solutions, we are helping in establishing the conditions required for switching to a more sustainable, low carbon economy. We are investing approximately € 400 million annually to pave the way for e-mobility. We are also considering the synthetic fuel, produced from renewable energy resources and called e-fuel, as an interesting carbon-free alternative for the electric cars. 4 Bosch Turkey 1 Bosch Group had started its operations in Turkey with a representation Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi office founded in 1910, and established its first factory in Bursa in 1972. Ticaret A.Ş., Bosch Rexroth Otomasyon Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., and With 16.600 employees, € 3,4 billion turnover, and € 2,1 billion export as Bosch Tejarat Pars are joint stock companies and 100% subsidiaries of of the end of 2015, Bosch Turkey operates as one of the leading Bosch Group. BSH Ev Aletleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. has also become technology and service suppliers of Turkey. The Middle East Region 100% subsidiaries of Bosch Group as of 2015. Robert Bosch Middle East based in Dubai is added to the responsibility area of Bosch Turkey on FZE, a free-zone company, is also 100% subsidiaries of Bosch Group. January 1, 2015. Bosch has 5 sales offices in this region including the 84,5% shares of Bosch Fren Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. are owned United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Lebanon, and Pakistan. In by the Bosch Group, and 15,5% shares are public and traded in Borsa 2016, Bosch Iran Organization was founded in Iran’s capital city Tehran Istanbul (BIST). under the responsibility area of Bosch Turkey. Thus, Bosch Turkey has become the center for 17 countries. Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Bosch Turkey Group consists of seven companies. It is the largest company of the Bosch Group in Turkey. Company manufactures diesel systems and gasoline injection systems in its three • Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. factories in Bursa for the leading automotive manufacturers of the industry. The company also develops new technologies, including Diesel • Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş. and Gasoline Injectors, through its two R&D Centers. Designing and manufacturing of assembly systems and special machinery has started • Bosch Rexroth Otomasyon Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. in Bursa under the brand Atmo since 2009. • Bosch Fren Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. company’s Automotive Original Equipment sales office operates in Bursa, as well as Bosch Turkey and Middle East • BSH Ev Aletleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Headquarters building located in Küçükyalı, Istanbul, while Automotive After Market, Power Tools, and Security Systems sales offices serve at • Robert Bosch Middle East FZE the Bosch Turkey and Middle East Headquarters building. • Bosch Tejarat Pars SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM 5 Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş. BSH Ev Aletleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Wall-hung boilers and components are being manufactured in the With an investment of € 1 billion since 2005, BSH Turkey is the largest Manisa Factory, the biggest combi boiler factory of Bosch worldwide. foreign investment white goods company of Turkey, develops and Factory has been operating for 25 years on an area of 109 thousand manufactures products in Turkey with its brands Bosch, Siemens, square meters, and is positioned as a center both designing and Gaggenau and Profilo, and exports them to the entire world including developing the products. Bosch Manisa Factory manufactures more the European countries. Assuming the responsibility of 87 countries and than 500 types of products for 23 device families, and exports products 8 manufacturing facilities of the BSH Group including Africa, Middle as copper pipe, steel, copper and plate heat exchangers, which it uses East, Central Asia, Ukraine, Russia, and Belarus as of 2014, BSH Turkey in the manufacturing to other Thermotechnik factories. More than 500 has the biggest manufacturing facility of the BSH Group in Çerkezköy. thousand boilers have been manufactured annually in the Manisa BSH Turkey is the first to receive R&D Center certificate in Turkey, and Factory since 2011, and the factory breaks manufacturing records has increased the number of its R&D engineers by 488% during the last consecutively. Bosch Termoteknik’s sales office is located in Istanbul. 10 years. Offering estimation, installation, servicing/repairing, additional warranty and accessory sales services before and after the sales of Bosch Rexroth Otomasyon Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Home Appliances, BSH Service operates with 2.500 employees in 4 Regional Offices, 8 Factory Central Services, and 360 Authorized Company develops innovative products in the segments of mobile Services throughout Turkey. applications, machinery applications and engineering, factory automation and renewable energies as well as tailored system solutions. Robert Bosch Middle East FZE As the leader in drive and control technologies, it offers its customers hydraulics, electric drives and controls, gear technology, and linear Headquartered in Dubai, Robert Bosch Middle East FZE offers various motion and assembly technology all from one source, and provides products and services of Bosch to the Middle East for 90 years. Company training and after-sales services related to these technologies as well. serves to 14 countries in the Middle East with 160 employees in the fields The sales office of the company is in Gebze, Taysad Organized Industrial of Automotive Parts and Equipment, Power Tools, Drive and Control Zone, and the factory in Bursa, Nilüfer Organized Industrial Zone. Technologies, Security Systems, and Thermotechnology. Company also has representation offices in 4 countries including Lebanon, Saudi Bosch Fren Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Arabia, Qatar and Pakistan. Founded in 1975, the Company is active in the field of manufacturing of Bosch Tejarat Pars hydraulic brake systems for automotive and light commercial vehicles required by the major automotive and the aftermarket. Having an Founded in January 2016 in Iran’s capital city Tehran, the company effective production and sales network, Bosch Brake Systems becomes operates in all fields of Bosch including Mobility Solutions, Energy and more powerful in the Turkish market each passing day. Its factory is in Building Technologies, Industrial Technologies, and Consumer Goods. Bursa. 1 Please visit the websites for detailed information on the products and services of the companies under the Bosch Turkey Group: Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.: www.bosch.com.tr Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima San. Tic. A.Ş.: http://www.bosch-thermotechnik.de/en/tt_com/international/bosch_termoteknik_tuerkiye/homepage_information_1.html Bosch Fren Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.: http://www.boschfren.com.tr Bosch Rexroth Otomasyon Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.: http://www.boschrexroth.com/tr BSH Ev Aletleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.: http://www.bsh-group.com.tr/anasayfa Robert Bosch Middle East FZE: http://www.bosch.ae/united-arab-emirates/en/homepage/ Bosch Tejarat Pars: http://www.bosch-home.com/ir/ 6 Bosch Turkey and Middle East General Center Turkey Syria Lebanon Iraq Afghanistan Iran Israel / Palestine Jordan Kuwait Pakistan Bahrain Qatar U.A.E. Saudi Arabia Oman Yemen SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM 7 Goals that are changing the world In September 2015, more than 150 heads of state conferred at United Nations headquarters in New York to come up with a new agenda for the fight against poverty and hunger. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), a collection of 17 global targets, were the result. Bosch’s commitment to sustainable development will pay off on the road toward reaching many of these goals. The Millennium Development Goals (MDG), the environmental, social, and economic issues into previous United Nations targets, expired in 2015. account, and thus reflects all aspects of sustainNot all of them were achieved, and many challenges ability. The result: ecological concerns feature remain. Hunger is still a major problem, and many more prominently in the SDGs than they did in the people around the world are threatened by war and MDGs. The countries that ratified the goals have disease. Moreover, climate change poses a longcommitted to implementing measures against term risk for the balance of global ecosystems. For climate change and to promoting sustainable this reason, the SDGs were drafted as a follow-up consumption and production patterns. Moreover, to the MDGs. The aim is to protect the environment in contrast to the MDGs, the SDGs apply to all and ensure that all of the world’s people can live a countries, not only to the nations of the global life of dignity, peace, and freedom. south. The SDGs will be in force until 2030 and are more The Bosch sustainability strategy comprises four comprehensive than their predecessors. The areas of action: environment, products, associates, global community has agreed on 17 goals, nine and society. This means that the company has more than in 2000. Additionally, the agenda takes taken at least nine of the UN’s goals into account. They are highlighted in the graphic below: Global sustainable development goals This report describes what Bosch is doing to help reach the United Nations sustainability goals. The SDG symbols will help guide the readers through the following pages. 8 Environment Protecting the environment and adding value In 2015, Bosch achieved a major environmental target: thanks to the efforts of our locations, we successfully reduced our CO2 emissions relative to value added by more than 20 percent over 2007 levels – a target that we initially intended to reach by 2020. Moreover, as a result of internal measures alone, we were able to save some 530 million euros in energy costs between 2007 and 2014. This motivates us to set the bar even higher. We now aim for a relative reduction in CO2 emissions of 35 percent by 2020. To this end, we continue to work on making our production processes even more efficient, and on increasing environmental awareness among our associates. Moreover, we are stepping up our use of renewable sources of energy around the world. At the sub-station near Charcas, power generated at the wind park close by is distributed to Bosch locations in Mexico 9 MAKING PROCESSES MORE RESOURCE EFFICIENT As a manufacturing company, Bosch needs to use raw materials around the world. To reduce negative environmental impact, we continuously focus our efforts on improving our production processes. One example of this is the treatment method that Bosch which in turns means that waste no longer has to be treated Australia has developed. At our plant in Clayton, this method as hazardous. The process separates the oil from cooling has made it possible to recover copper lost in the production fluids and solid waste. About three liters of oil can be recovered process from the site’s wastewater. This valuable raw material per hour. Each year, the method allows Bosch to recover some is then recycled, and the wastewater is reused. With the help 2,100 liters of oil. In turn, this reduces the cost of hazardous of this method, 40 tons of liquid manufacturing waste can be waste disposal. saved in Clayton each year, and 1.2 tons of copper can be recovered from the site’s wastewater. Last year, Bosch Our sustainability strategy includes Australia was awarded the Australian government’s “Premier’s systematically collecting and analyzing Sustainability Award 2015” for this method. data on the environmental impact of our production activities around the A Bosch India project clearly illustrates how hazardous waste world. Above all, we aim to can be reduced and costs saved by optimizing processes. In ­continuously minimize this impact wherever possible. 2015, the Jaipur manufacturing site developed a system that made it possible to recover used oil from waste material, Increasing Energy Efficiency in Industry With “Chiller Condenser Waste Heat Recovery System” it has developed for energy efficiency, Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş. Manisa Factory recovered the waste heat of the new cooling system by increasing the HVAC air handling unit’s suction air temperature during winter season. Annual CO2 recovery of 175 metric tons has been achieved with the project launched in May 2015 and completed in December 2015. In addition to this, Manisa Factory has been nominated with this project for “Project for Increasing Energy Efficiency in Industry” (SEVAP) category in the Project for Increasing Energy Efficiency in Industry Competition organized within the scope of the Energy Efficiency Week events by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources on January 14-16, 2016, and has received third place award. We are taking comprehensive measures for combating with climate change. These measures include energy efficiency, increasing the use of renewable energy resources, and reducing CO2 emission. ISO 50001 Energy Management System Certification Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş. Manisa Through an intensive effort within the scope of the project, Factory attaches a great importance to energy saving, and energy consumption in the factory was monitored, and ensures continuous improvement in this field with the improvements were made for reducing the electricity and natural contribution of its employees by making energy management a gas consumption. In order to ensure continuity of employees’ focal point for all divisions. participation to the project, they were given targets within the scope of the project, and these targets were monitored on a Our factory has received ISO 50001 Energy Management System monthly basis. Consumptions per unit device manufactured by Certificate on March 24, 2016 as a result of the energy efficiency each division were calculated for all divisions of the factory, and efforts developed in 2015 with this approach. Energy Efficiency it was targeted to reduce this energy by 5%. Policy was published in the beginning of the project, and participants experienced the importance of energy in life in a With ISO 50001 Energy Management System, a more systematic dark room through an application held with the motto “How approach has been set in providing sustainable Energy would it be working in a place with no energy? Just think about Management System in the Manisa Factory. it...” involving the employees. 10 Environment Reducing CO2 Emission Bosch’s global target for the year 2020 was to reduce CO2 replacement of process oil pumps of approximately 150 emission by 20% compared to the year 2007. This target had machines with new generation pumps with smaller capacity, been achieved earlier than planned, and even exceeded with optimization of 70 bar nitrogen system, switching from a reduction of 30%. This result is the success of all classical air conditioning units into central cold water systems manufacturing facilities worldwide, and Bosch Turkey’s for electric cabinets and oil cooling, switching the lighting contributions in this cannot be underestimated. completely into LED, and increasing the awareness of the employees with the trainings provided at the energy efficiency At Bosch San. Tic. A.Ş.’s Bursa Diesel and Gasoline System school. factories, an energy saving of more than 60.000 MWh has been achieved and more than 25.000 metric tons of CO2 Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş.’s emission has been prevented through actions such as need Manisa Factory also reduced its CO2 emission by 72% as of based software optimization in washing machines, the end of the year 2015, compared to year 2007, to 39,41 establishing compressor waste heat recovery system, tCO2/Mil€ levels. Manisa & Aegean Forests Bosch Thermotechnik Grove Established in 2013 by Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş., tree planting efforts still continue at the Bosch Thermotechnik Grove with the contributions of volunteered blue and white collar employees. Another grove was added in 2015 to the grove located on an area of 7.000 m2 on İzmir highway close to the Thermotechnik Manisa Factory. Saplings were planted on behalf of the employees both in Istanbul and Manisa to the Aegean Forests in Foça, and a Bosch Thermotechnik Grove was established on this area. E-transformation Projects Bosch Fren Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. both contributes the courier cost as the need for sending original copies of the to the environment and saves from mailing and archive costs bank instructions to the banks is eliminated, and from the by reducing paper consumption through e-transformation archiving costs as the legal obligation to keep the documents applications. Efforts related to this transformation were in the archive for 10 years is eliminated. launched in June 2013; and with the implementation of all projects in April 2016, an annual saving of approximately Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. has also switched into e-invoice 160.000 A4 papers is provided. In addition to this, a saving is and e-archive, and saved approximately 640.000 A4 papers provided from the printer, electricity and cartridge costs as annually. It is planned to double this figure after switching into the invoices are not issued from the printers anymore, from e-dispatch note. the mailing costs as the invoices are sent electronically, from 11 Products „Simply.Connected.“ – sustainable networks The internet of things connects people, objects, and machines with one another. When it comes to sustainability as well, connectivity opens up potential for new applications. Products are becoming safer, environmental impact can be measured more precisely, and processes are ever more efficient. Bosch is actively shaping this development, and all the company’s business sectors now offer solutions for the internet of things. 12 Products CONNECTED MEASURING TECHNOLOGY: almost in real time. Not only does the sensor measure EFFECTIVE AIR POLLUTION ALERT room temperature and humidity, it also measures levels Beijing in early December 2015: while delegations from of particulate pollution in the air. Every six seconds, the around the world were at the Paris climate conference, the sensor transmits the data it has collected online to the Chinese government issued the highest possible smog alert control monitor, whose software provides an exact for the Chinese capital for the first time. Thousands of assessment of current air quality. This systematic factories were forced to close temporarily in an attempt to monitoring of particulate matter makes sense especially curb particulate pollution in the city. In other Asian cities, too for modern, energy-optimized buildings, as such – including Shanghai, Mumbai, and Kuala Lumpur – air buildings often have limited ventilation. pollution is one of the most pressing environmental challenges. Bosch sensors monitor air quality in cities and identify With the aim of offering products that improve quality of life, critical zones. In so doing, they Bosch China invested a portion of its R&D budget in the can help to lastingly reduce development of technologies that can measure, analyze, and environmental pollutants in improve air quality. At the beginning of November, the urban centers. company presented the “Air Monitor” control system in China. The smart innovation uses a Bosch environmental sensor to make a precise assessment of indoor air quality, R&D in Bosch Turkey CONNECTED DRIVING: We are both carrying out research and development FOR SAFER TRAVELS activities and contributing to the innovation efforts of Turkey In different markets, Bosch is pushing connected with 573 employees in our 4 R&D Centers located in Bursa, and automated driving forward. In-vehicle internet Manisa and Çerkezköy in Turkey. During the last three years, connections not only make driving more relaxed, they also we reserved a budget of approximately € 100 million Euro to contribute to greater efficiency and traffic safety. For these centers. Today, Bosch exports R&D from Turkey to 97 instance, real-time data already help drivers avoid traffic countries. jams or respond to sudden hazards effectively. Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş.’s Launched in January 2016, the active gas pedal is one Manisa R&D Center exports its conventional and condensing example of connected technology. With tapping and other combi boiler devices, which it designs and develops, to 34 noticeable vibrations, it not only enables a more energy countries in three continents. Receiving “Best R&D Center” efficient driving style, it also warns drivers of potentially award in the industry for three consecutive years as a result dangerous situations. To do this, the pedal is connected with of the performance index study performed by the Ministry other functions in the vehicle, for instance with sensors that of Industry, the R&D expenditures of the center since 2010 measure the distance to the vehicles ahead. If a car drives has exceeded € 23 million. Manisa R&D Center makes new up too close to another, the pedal taps and warns the driver attempts on innovation with more than 80 experts and to stop accelerating. The pedal can also be connected to engineers, and has increased its targets on intellectual and online data, for instance data that the navigation system industrial rights with the “Innovation Break” Committee. provides. In this way, the smart driving assistant can detect Center continues transferring technology to the world while sharp bends or traffic jams before the driver can see them, continuing being a competence center on conventional and suggest that the driver slows down. combi boiler, condensed combi boiler and plate heat exchanger manufacturing, development, and development Connected safety systems are also an increasingly common tests. feature for two-wheelers. With its connectivity control unit (CCU), Bosch connects motorcycles to the Internet. This More than 200 researchers work in Diesel and Gasoline enables features such as the e-call, which the EU is making Injectors R&D Centers located in the Bursa Factory of Bosch mandatory for newly registered passenger cars and light Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. consisted of Platform, Customer commercial vehicles from April 2018. If the motorcycle is Projects, and Process Development divisions. Centers involved in an accident, the e-call makes an automatic produce new technologies for developing new products emergency phone call to a call center, and thus enables help complying with Bosch’s “Eco-Friendly Technology” strategy. to reach the scene faster. What is more, the CCU also Working on more than 180 projects, the R&D centers focus provides motorcyclists with information on potential road on development and recovery of gasoline and common rail hazards. diesel injectors, as well as the development of the products manufactured for off-highway vehicles (tractors, off-road vehicle, heavy duty vehicles etc.). Primary products are the common rail injectors developed and manufactured for the European and Asian markets, and the short injectors manufactured for the off-highway vehicles. 13 Bosch Turkey Industry 4.0 Projects Bosch Turkey continues Industry 4.0 and the organizational efforts it has initiated in 2014 related to this with international projects today. First, projects were selected for preparing the factories to Industry 4.0. While making these selections, compliance to Bosch Digital Transformation Strategy, QCD (Quality Cost Delivery), and technological leadership were prioritized. Possibilities including cycle time tracking for early intervention in the manufacturing area, predictive maintenance with smart tablet support in the maintenance area, robot usage in logistics area, product line part monitoring with RFID in the finance area, and data collection in all areas of the factory with smart sensor were taken into account. of the parts. In addition to this, they prevent and identify transfer damages by identifying the ambient (environmental) conditions. It Industry 4.0 applications can be applied for not only the will even be possible to collect data from the machinery that are not manufacturing machinery, but also for all divisions of the factory. „I4.0 Ready“ with this technology in near future. Projects in manufacturing machinery directly provide efficiency increase, thus the delivery quantities are maximized. The project at Using the standard software solutions developed by Bosch for all the maintenance area aims eliminating unexpected stops and manufacturing factories, Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Diesel and reducing the specific maintenance costs. Gasoline Systems Bursa Factory is also informed about the other factories using such software. We are capable of accessing and In addition to this, the robot, which a pilot operation was held, processing from a single location to all data produced in Bosch‘s timely delivers the required material to the required place. In the Bursa Factory. On the other hand, it transmits correct data to the coming period, these robots will know which material is needed correct person at the right time, and creates an opportunity for early where, when, and how much, and they will deliver the materials to intervention. As the decrease in the fields such as cost of error, as the required place. The waiting period arising from parts is aimed well as the efficiency and delivery increase will directly increase the to be eliminated to none in this way. factory performance, manufacturing in the factory by using Big Data and data mining stand out as the points that would ensure an It will be possible to collect data in all areas of the factory. For increase in the investment to Bursa and Turkey. example, if a machine at the manufacturing area does not have an Ethernet output, then it will be possible to collect data through the Bosch is taking quick steps in becoming a company both using and help of a sensor, which can be easily installed and which is producing technology with its bilateral strategy in Industry 4.0. developed by Bosch, even from very old machinery. These sensors, Industry 4.0 applications are developed and used in our Bursa called Industrial Sensor Solutions, provide a significant support in Factory simultaneously with the headquarters by putting human into predictive maintenance and identifying the remaining service lives the center of it. Awareness for Traffic Safety Bosch carries out some efforts for increasing awareness on the impact of “Stop the its on-vehicle active security systems and driver assistance systems, as Crash” well as on the importance of using safety belt in line with its „Zero supports Accident“ vision. Activities were held in Bosch Turkey and Middle East the United Headquarters building and at three production facilities in Bursa for Nations’ increasing the awareness of the employees through video displays, aim of halving the number posters, journals, and statements. of deaths resulting from traffic accidents by 2020. In addition to these events, Bosch Turkey has attended to the 6th The figure currently Highway Traffic Safety Symposium and Exhibition held in Ankara in stands at 1.25 million November 2015. Participants were briefed on how it is possible to people per year. reduce or eliminate the potential traffic accidents with driver assistance systems and active security systems through a presentation on these systems required for safe driving in the traffic. As a company operating in the automotive industry, Bosch will continue with its awareness raising efforts on safe driving. SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM 14 Associates Networked across generations At Bosch, different generations – from young apprentices to retired senior experts – are cooperating with one another. This type of diversity is a source of potential. While up-and-coming executives advise more experienced associates on the use of new software, for instance, they benefit from the management and specialist expertise of their older colleagues. With our diversity initiative, we have thus focused on intergenerational learning models and promoted an active exchange between young and old. 15 PEOPLE@INDUSTRY 4.0 Under this heading, last year the Bosch plant in Blaichach actively addressed the changing working conditions that are emerging as a result of connected production. Associates there and at China’s Suzhou production location already use tablets and analysis software to control high-tech facilities. Initial fears have now given way to a sense of pride among a majority of associates, as they feel they are contributing to shaping the future of work. Since the very beginning, cooperation and mutual learning have played an important role in the interdisciplinary, multigenerational team. As a leading provider and a leading user of Industry 4.0 solutions, Bosch is actively driving the transformation of the working world, and thus also promoting sustainable industrialization. AN ACCIDENT-FREE FUTURE In 2015, we also set ourselves the goal of supporting the further training of associates who have been on board for many Reverse Mentoring years, with the aim of maintaining their level of performance. With this in mind, the “Erfahrung hat Zukunft” (“Experience is Discovering the talents of young workers and the future”) initiative was launched in Germany. It aims to understanding their point of view related to sensitize executives to demographic change, and to raise the world is very valuable for Bosch. Within awareness about how important older associates’ knowledge this scope, Bosch Turkey has launched and motivation are for Bosch’s success. Demographic change Reverse Mentoring positioned as a part of the means that Europe’s workforce is aging. What is more, a leadership and competence program. growing share of our customers is over the age of 50. This Generally senior and mid level executives means that companies like Bosch need associates who share their experiences, expertise, and understand the needs of this group of customers, whose opinions with the young employees. In purchasing power is high. Reverse Mentoring, regardless of the hierarchy, the young employees provide One of the new initiative’s main focal points is to expand mentoring to more experienced employees on educational programs for mixed-aged groups. With the support a given topic. of our 50plus@Bosch associate network, the Generation Tandem initiative was recently launched. By way of random This program can be applied in several fields, selection, two associates with an age difference of at least ten and a Reverse Mentoring program was years are paired up. This type of networking gives colleagues launched in Turkey in 2013 based on the the opportunity to share knowledge and experience, and to current trends where young employees support each other in their daily work. After the initial sixexperienced and active particularly in social month pilot project was launched at the Bosch site in media and internet use mentored the Schwieberdingen, Germany, Bosch asked all of the tandem executives. Content of the program is participants to share their views on their experience. 84 established together with the mentor percent of respondents said they believed that Bosch would according to the field of interest and need of benefit from greater knowledge sharing between age groups. the executive. Number of sessions in the They listed positive effects such as knowledge transfer, a program, which continues for approximately greater sensitivity to differences, and an increase in crossone year, is also determined according to the generational cooperation. On the heels of this success story, need of the executive. While 25 senior and Generation Tandem will now be rolled out at different locations mid level executives benefited from the around the world to promote more networking between young Reverse Mentoring in 2015, number of senior and old. and mid level executives involved in this practice has reached to 43. In line with the wishes of our company founder, Bosch promotes equal access to education and lifelong learning – within and beyond the walls of the company. 16 Associates Equal Opportunities at the Workplace Guaranteeing equal opportunities for female employees remains as one of the priorities of Bosch in its global agenda. In global, Bosch carries out efforts for providing equal opportunities in employment to the female employees, and aims increasing the rate of female executives to 20 percent by the year 2020. In addition to this, care is taken for providing equal opportunities in the recruitment of female employees, particularly in the technical fields. As Bosch Turkey, we are carrying out several practices on equal opportunities for female employees in all of our companies. Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.‘s Bursa Factories are among the locations working hard on this matter. Mentoring programs, trainings, and experience sharing meetings with female leaders are organized in Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.‘s Bursa Factories for improving the talents of the female employees. Female leaders meet with the senior management at the round-table meetings, and discuss the Healthy Life Events obstacles encountered by the female employees, who are less in number, as well as the solutions. Pregnant and Several events took place throughout 2015 at the Bosch Turkey breastfeeding female employees benefit from the rest rooms and Middle East Headquarters building for increasing the within the factory, as well as the opportunities such as part awareness of the employees on healthy life. time or home working after giving a birth. Flexible working models offer solutions balancing the work and personal life Prof. Dr. Osman Müftüoğlu met with the employees and gave both for female and male employees. them tips on healthy life. A diet clinic visited the headquarters building once a week for two months and provided dietician Pilot practices towards increasing the number of female service, and also provided trainings on nutrition and weight employees, particularly in the technical field where they are management. „Art of staying fit on your seat“ brochures were less in number, is particularly important in the Bosch Diesel placed on the desks in order our employees to do some and Gasoline Systems Bursa Factory. In addition to stretching movements on their seats. supporting gender equality in student programs and recruitment, „Being A Woman In Technical Field“ program All of our employees had medical screening on three different developed by Bosch paves the way for the women to work in days. Within the scope of medical screening, our employees technical field. For all these practices, the factory is awarded received eye examination, lung film, and hemogram with „Equal Opportunity Model Certificate“ in 2015 within examination. Traffic Awareness Raising seminar was held with the scope of the project launched by KAGİDER with the the attendance of traffic polices. A Smoking Cessation Seminar support of the World Bank, and has been the first company was held, and trees were planted with the revenue of the entitled to this certificate in Bursa, as well as the first seminar. Chinese exercise sessions on Yi Jin Jing, which gives a company in the Turkish metal industry. high level of energy to the body, were organized under the leadership of our executive Mustafa Ayhan. Factory also received „Social Gender Equality in Work Life Award“ from the Ministry of Social Security in the same year. Bosch was deemed worthy to this award as a result of the assessment made over the criteria including commitment, training opportunities, anti-discrimination mechanisms, recruitment, career planning, promotion process, and equal pay for equal work. Bosch has devoted itself to supporting women for working in technical field, and to create equal opportunities for women to take SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM place in executive position. 17 Society Promoting social responsibility The company founder Robert Bosch’s efforts to help others went beyond the boundaries of the company. By promoting social responsibility, we are continuing his legacy. We support charitable projects and encourage our associates to volunteer. In challenging situations, one person’s help can make a huge difference. 18 Society INTEGRATION IN PRACTICE Millions of people are fleeing their homelands to escape war, In November, four young refugees from Togo, Somalia, Iran, and Pakistan persecution, and poverty. On arrival in their host countries, began their “Bosch training year”. The training program, which is run at the refugees face a range of new challenges, including a lack of basic Feuerbach location in Stuttgart, aims to help school leavers that have yet necessities and the difficulty of coming to terms with an to finish their education land a job in the metalworking and electrical unfamiliar language and culture. fields. They also receive professional education and are accompanied by social workers throughout. In this way, they gain practical experience at a Associates at Bosch in Vienna launched an initiative in autumn 2015 to company and both get to know people and Germany’s work culture. At the help refugees. Under the initiative entitled “Support vor Ort – Boschend of the program, they have the possibility of joining Bosch as skilled Mitarbeiter helfen” (“Local support – Bosch associates lend a hand”), 32 workers. associates have agreed to sponsor 25 refugees from Syria and Afghanistan for a period of 18 months. Helping them with administrative procedures is The commitment of Bosch associates to the refugee cause is also strong. one example of the quasi-daily support they provide, which aims to help Two appeals for donations in December 2015 and January 2016 garnered the newcomers eventually live an independent life in Austria. The initiative over 400,000 euros, which Bosch increased to 820,000 euros. The money is part of the “Connecting People” project, an association of various will be used for selected projects that lead to lasting improvements in non-profit organizations. refugees’ living conditions. In Germany, too, Bosch is committed to supporting the integration of One of Bosch’s stated objectives is to refugees and facilitating their access to the labor market. To this end, we promote peaceful, integrated societies will create around 400 internships around Germany for refugees, ranging where the rule of law is upheld, as a from short internships to several months of introductory job training. The basis for sustainable development. internships are generally held in workshops and are designed to prepare the refugees for the German job market. Women Build the Future Formula Student Within the scope of the Women Build the Future event, female Operating under Bosch San. Tic. A.Ş., Mobility Solutions Initial engineering students from the universities have gathered together at Installation Sales Unit supports the universities representing our Bosch locations in Istanbul and Bursa. Total 40 students attended to country in various platforms. The Yıldız Technical University is one of the event organized for supporting female recruitment. In addition to these universities, and the YTU Racing team established in the the case studies, interviews and career talks, students also had the university attends to Formula Student races since 2011 with the cars opportunity to build a network with female executives of Bosch. With they have designed. YTU Racing, which Bosch is the main sponsor of, the Women Build the Future event planned to be held regularly in the used the donated Bosch components in the car they designed for the future, it is aimed to provide job opportunities to the students close to races, and ranked 34th in general classification by finishing all the their graduation, and to place students to the candidate pool for part stages in the Formula Student UK 2016 where 111 Class-1 teams time and full time positions. have attended worldwide. And for the first time a car produced in Turkey raced in a Formula 1 track and represented our country. It’s being planned to organize Women Build the Future event, where female executives from the Human Resources and other departments While preparing for the race, students had the opportunity to carry have attended and held for the first time, in Manisa in the future, and out calibration works on the car with Eberhard Haberkern from Bosch to meet with female engineering students studying at the cities where Motorsport, who works on engine calibration at races such as Bosch facilities are available. Formula 1, WRC, and Le Mans. Bosch will continue supporting the Yıldız Technical University in Formula Student races to take place in the coming years, including the Formula Student race in Germany in 2016. 19 Volunteer Teams Bosch Turkey Generation Z Meetings As a strong and successful employer brand, Bosch attaches importance to establishing effective communication with young talents, and understanding their expectations and demands. Bosch endeavors for introducing the company culture and work life, and for being a source of inspiration to both young talents and professionals in their career choices. In this era where different generations work together, three different generations are able to work in the same office. Understanding these generations and gathering all of them under common values is one of the characteristics that make Bosch successful. As a dynamic employer open to innovations, Bosch is aware that generation Z will join the work life during the next decade, and is preparing Bosch Turkey employees attach importance to volunteer efforts, and carries itself for a change by trying to know them in advance. out activities on various fields at all locations. Bosch Turkey thinks that it is important to have an existence at the high Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş. has established its own schools in order to touch the generation Z who are still in high school age, to volunteer teams for making the social responsibility projects, held within the expand their perspectives, and to raise their awareness while they still did not scope of both Manisa factory and Istanbul Küçükyalı headquarters sales office, choose a profession. In line with this idea, the company has started to organize sustainable. Workshops were organized in 2015 for determining the projects pilot high school events in 2015 in order to make the students know on education, environment, products, and employees, and events such as themselves, and to increase their awareness. Prepared by targeting the planting trees to the Manisa Bosch Grove and booth work for LÖSEV were introduction of profession and industry, contents of the presentations were held. Volunteer teams at the headquarters sales office have coordinated an supported with self-consciousness, self-discovery methods, and company article box campaign, “Donate If You Do Not Wear”, with Maltepe Municipality. introduction. 350 high school students had the opportunity to familiarize with Bosch through various sessions and talks at three high schools in Istanbul. In Employees of Bosch Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş. Bursa Factory are organizing various 2016, engineering competitions prioritizing teamwork and practical events within the scope of Bosch Volunteer Clubs since 1996. They supported experience are being organized by expanding the scope of high school events. the people in need with seminars, events, and supplies and clothing aids in During these events held in eight high schools, company had the opportunity 2015. Holiday clothes were donated to 150 children within this scope. to personally meet with 840 students for a month and to support them in Employees sent the clothes, which they packed themselves, together with a getting an idea about their future career alternatives through company letter they wrote with their children. presentations and awareness studies. A moral event was held for 120 children receiving cancer treatment. During Manisa Factory İŞKUR Program this event, cookies were cooked with the children, and it was ensured that the children had an entertaining day with gifts, magicians, and Bosch folklore Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş.’s Manisa Factory group’s shows. Several other volunteer projects like these were launched cooperates with İŞKUR since 2011. Primary aim of this cooperation is to offer together with the employees. a support for the employment of the people, who do not have any professional experience or work experience, by providing these to them. Another aim of the YASED Cooperation program is to allow the employers, who have hard time in finding qualified labor, having detailed information about the people they will recruit by In order to contribute to the development of our country, Bosch continues observing and training them for a while, and giving an effective decision in cooperating with YASED, which endeavors for increasing the efficiency of their recruitment. international companies in Turkey and for increasing the investment attractiveness of the country, as in the previous years. Through this nonThere are trainees in manufacturing and logistics fields within the scope of the governmental organization, where Steven Young, President of Bosch Turkey program at the Bosch Thermotechnik Manisa Factory. Approximately 250 and Middle East, acts as the Board Vice Chairman, we cooperated with trainees were employed since 2011, and the total number of people employed projects such as Koza and “Practices and Recommendations for Increasing through the program has reached to 130. the Representation of Women in Senior Management” and we have attended to the working groups. Social Solidarity Committee (SBE) Koza Project was launched as a “Social Responsibility Project” in the field of education by YASED’s Employment and Education Working Group, and offers Scholarship internship opportunity to the university students at YASED member international companies. Within this context, students from universities in Employees of Bosch Termoteknik Isıtma ve Klima Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş.‘s Manisa different cities of Turkey had the opportunity to do their internship in Bosch. Factory create a fund for elementary school, secondary school, and high school students with the given amount of deduction from their salaries. Bosch has contributed to the preparation of the report on “Practices and Success of the students supported with this fund, called Social Solidarity Recommendations for Increasing the Representation of Women in Senior Committee (SBE) scholarship, is closely monitored and they are encouraged Management”, which provides recommendations of the senior executives for for increasing their grade point averages. bringing best practice examples of YASED member international companies to Turkey. Total 44 students were supported during the academic year of 2015-2016 within the scope of the scholarship supporting the students for nine months Bosch also attends to 10 working commissions including Strategy for 2023 when the schools are open. Working Group, HeERO Working Group, and Employment and Education Working Group. 20 A Short Glance at 2015 February October March Combating unemployment Developing sustainable products Supporting female employment Bosch Turkey has signed the core principles of Bosch Thermotechnik R&D Center located in the Global Apprenticeship Network (GAN), the Manisa was elected the most successful R&D first concrete output of B20 Employment Task Center of the industry, third time consecutively, Force, established for encouraging the business at the 4th Private Sector R&D Centers Summit world to improve the skills and employment of organized by the Ministry of Science, Industry youth through on-the-job training. and Technology. Bosch Thermotechnik Manisa Factory R&D Center Director Saim Kırgız Supporting the increase in female employment received the award from the Science, Industry and adopting a strategy for increasing the and Technology Minister Fikri Işık during the number of female executives, Bosch came on June ceremony held. board with the companies signing the Women’s Empowerment Principles of the United Nations. Supporting technical education November April Supporting a business climate that provides growth and employment opportunities Supporting the Turkish economy Within the scope of Turkey’s G20/B20 Bosch Thermotechnik has received “Highest Presidency, Steven Young, President of Bosch Exporting Company” award during the Turkey and Middle East, acted as the Co-Chair “Successful Exporters Award Ceremony 20 students were graduated in 2015 as the of Employment Task Force. Steven Young has organized by the Turkish HVAC-R Exporters’ attended to the meetings where how the second graduates of the Bosch Car Service Union (İSİB). During the ceremony held at employment will change in the future and how Training Center, which has started education in Ankara İSİB Center and attended by the the private sector should adapt to these 2012 at Şişli Technical and Industrial Vocational Economy Minister Mustafa Elitaş, Tax, Credit changes are discussed. Policy High School with an investment of € 90.000 by recommendations, prepared by the task force and Risk, Import and Export Director Raşit Bosch. Materials required for the renewal of the as a result of these meetings held at different Özkan received the award on behalf of Bosch Training Center, as well as for the teachers and locations of the world, are submitted to the Thermotechnik. students are provided by Bosch. This Center G20 leaders and the presidents of international aims educating the students in the best manner organizations in November 2015. and providing them experience related to work life, as well as meeting the qualified labor need June of the automotive industry. Supporting the Turkish economy Bosch Thermotechnik Turkey, one of the important export bases of the Bosch Group, has received “2015 Biggest HVAC-R Exporter” award from the Turkish Exporters Assembly (TİM). With an export figure of € 256 million to 34 countries from Europe to Middle East, Gulf Region to Latin America in 2015, award of Thermotechnik was presented by the Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekçi, Development Minister Lütfi Elvan, and TİM President Mehmet Büyükekşi. SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM 21 Activities – an overview Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, and is committed to this initiative’s ten global principles in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The following table provides an overview of the progress made in the 2015 reporting period in relation to these ten principles of responsible corporate governance. PRINCIPLE BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Human rights Corporate objective: Supply chains: • 471 audits conducted since 2010. 1,000 supplier audits by the Conducting environmental and • Principle 1: Support and end of 2020 • Bi-annual award; in 2015, 58 suppliers from 11 countries occupational safety audits and were honored. Some of the ­companies have received the respect human rights Code of Business Conduct auditing supplier portfolios award before. • Principle 2: No complicity in • Suppliers have made improvements where needed. Until human rights abuses Basic principles of Bosch Global Supplier Award: now, sustainability-related sanctions have not been social responsibility at Bosch Acknowledging the best suppliers necessary. Bosch purchasing guidelines Purchasing guidelines: Bosch Turkey Performance “We are Bosch” corporate Sanctioning suppliers • Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. has signed the UNGC principguidelines les on November 5, 2014. Working standards Corporate objective: “Chefsache” initiative: • Bosch is committed to social change and has experience in Women to fill 20 percent Cooperation with other major German increasing the number of women in management positions. • Principle 3: Uphold freedom of management positions companies and organizations, Bosch of association by 2020 is a founding member of the • Dialog events with senior executives are offered, “Chefsache” initiative, which as are mentoring programs and seminars. • Principle 4: Elimination of all Bosch Human promotes equal opportunities for men forms of forced and Resources System (BHS) • In 2015, the share of female executives stood at 13.6 and women. percent*. compulsory labor Guidelines for a flexible and Diversity management: • Principle 5: Abolition of child family-friendly work culture • In Germany, about one in four apprentices is female. Group-wide programs to promote labor diversity and attract the best staff • Second international “Bosch Diversity Day” in 2015 at more “We are Bosch” corporate • Principle 6: Elimination of guidelines have been continued and expanded. than 200 participating locations. discrimination women@bosch: • About 7,400 associates on short or long-term foreign For 20 years, the associate network assignment. has been committed to strengthening • The network has about 3,000 members in 30 countries the position of women at Bosch. around the world. Senior experts program: • Senior experts work around 50,000 days per year. Former Bosch associates support the company as expert advisors after they • Number of retirees who work as senior experts: 1,700. retire, and thus continue to feel valued • Countries that provide senior experts: Brazil, Germany, the on a professional level. UK, India, Japan, and the United States. Cultural consultants: • There are currently 200 active cultural consultants at Bosch. Bosch associates advise colleagues who are going abroad for Bosch and • Primavera celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2015. act as experts for intercultural cooperation. • In 2015: 900 members, a donation volume of more than 600,000 euros, and 30 projects in 12 developing and Committed associates: emerging countries. Bosch associates founded Primavera e.V. in 1990. The aid organization aims • More than nine million euros in donations since the initiative to promote education for was established. disadvantaged children in developing • Bosch associates donated more than 400,000 euros to help countries around the world. refugees, and Bosch doubled this sum to 820,000 euros, Refugee integration: and invited associates to make suggestions on how the With a number of initiatives, Bosch is money should be used. committed to supporting refugees. • Around 400 internship spots for refugees at about 30 Among other things, the company is locations in Germany in cooperation with public part of the “Wir zusammen” (“We are institutions. together”) economic initiative that was launched in 2015 and aims to • Over the course of the “local support” initiative, 32 Bosch promote the integration of refugees. associates in Austria now sponsor refugees. 22 Communication on Progress PRINCIPLE BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Working standards Corporate objective Foundations around the world: • In 2015, the Bosch Group donated a total of 16.9 million euros. Women to fill 20 percent The national companies are • Principle 3: Uphold freedom of management positions committed to social well-being in the • Bosch has some 7,350 apprentices around the world of which of association by 2020 regions, and there are four about 2,450 are outside of Germany. international Bosch Group • Over 100 work-time models across hierarchical levels, • Principle 4: Elimination of all Bosch Human foundations in Brazil, China, India, forms of forced and Resources System (BHS) including part-time work, telecommuting, and job-sharing. and the U.S. compulsory labor • Global guidelines for a flexible and family-oriented working Guidelines for a flexible and Dual training: • Principle 5: Abolition of family-friendly work culture culture. The Bosch training model has been child labor established in more than 20 countries • Standardized rules with regard to telecommuting, as well as to “We are Bosch” corporate • Principle 6: Elimination of guidelines around the world. personal use of e-mail, telephones, and Internet at work. discrimination Flexible working culture: • Bosch won the German XING social network’s A greater focus is being placed on New Work Award 2016 for forward-looking work concepts. results rather than on physical • Bosch is especially committed to maintaining and promoting presence with benefits for families the mental health of its associates. with young children. • The new corporate agreement entered into force at all German Corporate health management: locations on August 1, 2015. In cooperation with employee representatives, a corporate • An occupational safety management system based on agreement was implemented to OSHSAS 18001 was implemented at all manufacturing promote associates’ mental health. locations, 122 are already externally certified. Occupational safety: • In 2015, the number of reportable work accidents per million An occupational safety management hours worked decreased to 3.2 (a 53 percent decrease over system was introduced that is based 2007). on the global OHSAS 18001. • Girls’ Days are organized each year. They provide around 1,000 Supporting schoolchildren: schoolgirls insights into the global supplier of technology and Initiatives to spark children’s interest services. in technology. • The “Building Mercury” competition in the Czech Republic New training positions: helps make pupils familiar with technical topics. Bosch helps to combat youth • As part of the Wissensfabrik initiative, Bosch participates in unemployment in southern Europe. some 280 educational partnerships. Specialist training program: • Bosch Italy is engaged in the “Allenarsi per il Futuro” (“Train for Bosch provides training for associates the future”) program, which aims to improve job opportunities without university degrees to qualify for young people. them for commercial tasks within the company that would normally be • Bosch Spain is part of the “Alianza para la FP Dual”, a joint reserved for graduates. initiative of politics and business that promotes the introduction of cooperative education in Spain. Promoting innovative strength: Bosch provides platforms for good • Since 1999, 750 associates have completed the training ideas with its internal suggestion program. scheme and the “Jugend forscht” annual competition in Baden• The program lasts two years and comprises 50 training days. Württemberg, Germany, which the • In 2016, Bosch has pledged to spend an additional 247 million company organizes. euros on programs for further training. • In total, about 22,000 associates submitted suggestions for improvement in Germany, which were rewarded with a total of 7.7 million euros. • Some 120 girls and boys took part in the “Jugend forscht” state competition in Stuttgart. 60 of 666 projects made it into the final. Bosch Turkey Performance • Bosch Turkey’s employees are entitled for organizing and collective labor agreement within the scope of the relevant law and regulations. • At Bosch Turkey, overtime works are only carried out voluntarily, and compliance with legal working hours is regularly audited. • Relevant risks are being managed through the required audit mechanisms in all domains related to child labor. • Bosch Turkey is against any kind of discrimination. Diversity is recognized as a richness, and is encouraged at all levels. Bosch Turkey organizes “Diversity Day” event since 2014 within the scope of this strategy. • Bosch Diesel and Gasoline Systems Bursa Factory has received “Equal Opportunity Model Certificate” within the scope of the project of KAGİDER in cooperation with the World Bank for its sensitivity to female-male equality in work life and the opportunities it provides to its female employees. • Bosch Turkey offers part time work and home working etc. work models in order to support flexible work culture. • Bosch Turkey carries out events for female university students to support female recruitment. 23 PRINCIPLE BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Environmental protection Corporate objective: Co2 reduction: • Relative CO2 emissions have been reduced by 29,7 percent Cut relative CO2 emissions by Targeted reduction of relative CO2 over 2007. Principle 7: Precautionary 35 percent by 2020 over 2007 emissions at production locations environmental protection levels around the world. • Some 5,422 patents filed around the world. Principle 8: Initiatives to Guidelines for occupational Sustainable products: • In 2015, 53 percent of Group-wide R&D expenditure went promote greater safety and environmental Continuous investment in the further toward sustainable products*. environmental responsibility protection development of products that • Environmental/Safety portfolio accounts for about 40 percent conserve resources and protect the of Group sales*. Principle 9: Development and Bosch Product Engineering environment. distribution of System (BES) • Until now, all Bosch production locations have introduced the environmentally-friendly ISO 14001: management system; 235, or 80 percent of locations, have technologies Bosch Production System Bosch locations certified with this (BPS) received external certification. international environmental Design for Environment (DfE) management system standard. • Schwieberdingen: energy required for heating was reduced by 40 percent, and CO2 emissions by 21 percent – and this “We are Bosch” corporate Climate-friendly locations: despite a 15 percent increase in surface area. guidelines Many locations have made progress with regard to climate protection • By recovering copper from industrial waste, Bosch Australia thanks to energy-efficient technology. was able to reduce the amount of waste generated monthly by 31 percent. In October 2015, the company won the Premier’s eXchange: Sustainability Award. Used starters and generators are refurbished and made as good as • Raw materials consumption reduced by almost 90 percent, and new. CO2 savings of more than 50 percent compared with new products. BIK initiative: Development aid for greater energy • As a result of eXchange, more than two million diesel injection efficiency; a joint project of Bosch pumps have been refurbished at Bosch’s Jihlava plant in the Corporate Logistics, the International Czech Republic since 1996. Trade Centre, and the Karlsruhe • The BIK initiative teaches lean management methods to small Institute of Technology. and mid-sized companies in Africa. Two environmental awards: • Participating companies increased their productivity by as Associates developed an innovative much as 100 percent. gasoline pump and wrote a specialist article about the impact of dual fuel • With the pump’s help, fuel consumption can be reduced by up technology on global warming. to 7.0 percent. Expanding the • Two Bosch teams in Brazil received the AEA Environment environmental portfolio: award for the pump’s development and the specialist article. A new Bosch Thermotechnology R&D • In 2015, the foundation stone was laid for the research center, center is being built in Aveiro, which will focus on connectivity, low emissions, and energy Portugal. efficiency. Bosch Turkey Performance • Energy Efficiency School established at Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.’s Diesel and Gasoline Systems Factory provides education for raising awareness on energy efficiency, and collecting the recommendations on energy improvement that would be applied by raising the awareness level of the employees. • Diesel Injectors R&D Center located at Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.’s Bursa Factory produces new technologies for developing new products complying with Bosch’s “Eco-Friendly Technology” strategy. • Bosch Thermotechnik Manisa Factory has received ISO 50001 Energy Management System certificate with its projects launched in July 2015 and completed in February 2016. Fighting corruption Member of Transparency Whistleblower portal: • Associates (including interns and PhD students), external International e.V. (since 1995) A portal in which all parties can report service providers, business parties, business partners (e.g. Principle 10: Work against breaches of compliance (observance suppliers, customers, or cooperation partners) and third corruption Member of the Forum for of legal and internal regulations in parties can report breaches of compliance. Compliance & Integrity (since business activities). 2007) • Mandatory compliance training includes lessons on business Compliance training: ethics, product liability, anti-trust laws, and export controls. Code of Business Conduct Active promotion of knowledge. “We are Bosch” corporate Bosch Turkey Performance guidelines • Bosch has put the rules, which it had set as fundamental values, into writing as Ethical Code of Conduct in 2008. Ethical Code of Conduct covers 9 fundamental issues including bribery and corruption. * excluding BSH Hausgeräte and AS Further key principles for sustainable activities in the Bosch Group: In 2010, an office, expert committee, and steering committee were founded. These bodies have since been responsible for the efficient implementation of all of the Group’s sustainability-related activities. Scope of reporting: The scope of the information is indicated in the texts, key figures, and targets. This report presents a summary of the Bosch Group’s current sustainability-related activities across sectors and divisions. Following their acquisition, these now also include BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (now BSH Hausgeräte GmbH) and ZF Lenksysteme GmbH (now Robert Bosch Automotive Steering GmbH), both of which were previously joint ventures. It therefore serves as a progress report as part of the group’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Reporting period: The reporting period covers January 2015 to spring 2016. The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2015. The editorial deadline was April 1, 2016. Memberships (examples): B.A.U.M. (1990), Transparency International (1995), econsense (2000, founding member), United Nations Global Compact (2004), Global Reporting Initiative (2006, organizational stakeholder), Forum Compliance & Integrity (2007) Other sustainability reports: WIN-Charta Baden-Württemberg (2014), German Sustainability Code (2015) 24 Key figures 2015 Following the acquisition of the remaining shares in BSH Hausgeräte and Robert Bosch Automotive Steering (AS), the companies were fully consolidated. In 2014, both companies were still joint ventures, and shares were consolidated at equity. Sales Sales Shareholder structure by business sector 70.6 92% 59% Robert Bosch Mobility Solutions Stiftung GmbH BILLION EUROS 25% + 21.6 billion euros 7% Consumer Goods year on year Bosch family 9% 1% Industrial ­Technology Robert Bosch GmbH 7% Energy and ­ Building Technology Corporate targets 13.6% –29.7% 0% –35% 10.7% 20% 35% reduction of CO2 emissions (relative) 20% women executives by 2020 over 2007 levels by 2020 over 2011 levels Status 2015: –29.7% Status 2015: 13.6% (excluding BSH and AS) 471 3.2 0 1,000 6.8 1.7 1,000 environmental and social audits 1.7 accidents per million hours of suppliers worked by 2020 over 2010 levels by 2020 over 2007 levels Status 2015: 471 Status 2015: 3.2 R&D Earnings Capital Personnel cost after tax expenditure expenses 6.4 3.5 4.1 20.4 BILLION EUROS BILLION EUROS BILLION EUROS BILLION EUROS +1.4 billion euros +0.9 billion euros +1.5 billion euros +5.1 billion euros year on year year on year year on year year on year Key figures 2015 Following the acquisition of the remaining shares in BSH Hausgeräte and Robert Bosch Automotive Steering (AS), the companies were fully consolidated. In 2014, both companies were still joint ventures, and shares were consolidated at equity. Environment Note: as a result of the above-mentioned change in the consolidated group, Bosch emissions, energy, and waste figures increased. However, these values should be considered in relation to sales volumes, which increased 70 percent in the same time period, based on comparable data. 2007* 2015 CO2 emissions absolute 2.6 million metric tons +15.4% 3.0 million metric tons Energy consumption 6,707 gigawatt hours +11.1% 7,451 gigawatt hours Waste volume 520,000 metric tons +29.8% 675,000 metric tons Water consumption 17.3 million cubic meters +11.6% 19.3 million cubic meters Ongoing environmental protection costs 105.8 million euros +24.1% 131.3 million euros Environmental protection investments 21.1 million euros +135.1% 49.6 million euros Products Environmental/Safety portfolio* Society 41% 53% BOSCH GROUP DONATIONS TO CHARITABLE CAUSES Share of Group sales Share of R&D cost 16.9 MILLION EUROS Associates NUMBER OF ASSOCIATES VOLUNTARY RESIGNATION* REGIONAL COMMITMENT 375,000 5.7% Bosch Community Fund +38.2% versus 2007 +21.3% versus 2007 (Farmington Hills, USA) 3.1 million euros Bosch China Charity Center (Shanghai, China) 2.0 million euros NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS DAYS LOST 2,126 34,437 Instituto Robert Bosch (Campinas, Brazil) 1.0 million euros –28.2% versus 2007 –10.4% versus 2007 Bosch India Foundation (Bangalore, India) 0.6 million euros 2007 2015 Training days +32.8% 773,000 days SPONSORSHIP VOLUME OF ROBERT BOSCH STIFTUNG GMBH Training participants +24.9% 516,000 participants Training expenditure +12.3% 247 million euros 76.7 642 MILLION EUROS for PROJECTS * excluding BSH Hausgeräte and AS 26 Published by Bosch Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Aydınevler Mahallesi, İnönü Caddesi No: 20 Küçükyalı Ofispark A Blok 34854 Maltepe-İstanbul Türkiye Tel +90(216)4320000 Bosch Turkey and Middle East Corporate Communication Director Esra Koç Contact Corporate Communications Responsible Gül Altuntaç gul.altuntac@tr.bosch.com Telefon +90(216)4320134 Project team Esra Koç Gül Altuntaç Realization Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf Additional information on the company and sustainability at Bosch is available here: bosch.com bosch.com.tr csr.bosch.com sustainabilityblog.bosch.com
