CSR report 2015 MADE BY ORIENTAL TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Managing director statement……………………… 2 About Oriental Group………………………………. 3 Mission & Values…………………………………… 4 Top news // Key performances…………………… 5 CSR approach and Organizational structure……. 6 CSR activities……………………...…………….…. 6 OUR COMMITMENTS How we work with sustainability………………….. 7 Oriental staff………………………………………... 8 Health & safety…………………………………….. 8 Environmental impact……………………………... 10 Environment………………………………………... 11 Anti corruption……………………………………... 12 OUR RESULTS Result 2015…………………………………........... 13 OUR GOALS CSR goals 2016……….…………………………... 14 CONTACT Get in touch……………………………………....... 15 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION MANAGING DIRECTOR STATEMENT In our CSR report for 2015 we will give you an update on our continuous strive to improve all matters related to CSR in Oriental and within the suppliers we cooperate with. Responsible behaviour is one of the key values of Oriental. On the global level, we support the UN Global Compact 10 principles, working for improvement of human rights, workers fair treatment, beneficial actions towards the environment and measures of anticorruption. On the European level, we have been a member of the BSCI since 2008. We focus on improving our supply chain awareness and compliance to guidelines of the BSCI and are constantly improving the joint effort of all partners in our garment production. On the national Chinese level, we participate as a full member of our local society and we cooperate with our Chinese employees and suppliers to make a difference, now and in the future. Managing Director Oriental China Henrik Poulsen 2 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION ABOUT ORIENTAL GROUP Oriental is a Danish founded garment company that has assisted retail customers in Europe in their design and production process since 1994. We operate from our offices in Aarhus, Denmark and Suzhou near Shanghai in China, and since 2011 we have also operated from our fullyowned manufacturing factory in China. Besides our own factory, Great Garment, we also work with sub-factories in China and India. At Oriental we strive to offer the best services for our clients. This is done through our in-house design team, that creates designs reflecting the latest European fashion trends, through our in-house technical team that work to ensure that each design is transformed into a perfectly fitted product, through our in-house sample room that assures correct samples on time, through our merchandisers, who closely oversee all orders, ensuring clear and effective communication and through our Quality Control team, that carefully monitor the entire production process from fabric inspection to the loading and signing off of our finished garments. We tailor our services according to each individual customer’s needs and offer the best value for them. The longer we work together with a customer, the better we can meet their design preferences and production requirements. We strongly believe in the value of ethical business practices and use them as guiding principles in all our relations with both customers and suppliers. MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 3 INTRODUCTION MISSION VALUES Our mission is to make our customers more competitive in Our core values impact all activities at Oriental and define the their respective markets. We do this through providing cost way we do business. These values are the foundation for our effective production options at the agreed quality level strategic development, our daily decision making process as combined with value added know-how and customer well as our interaction with employees, business partners and specific services. the wider society. 4 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION TOP NEWS // KEY PERFORMANCES 82,9% of our 2 of our sub-suppliers gained BSCI approval for the first time in colleges are women. 2015 and 3 of out sub-suppliers had a re-audit in 2015. 73% of our production is made in BSCI approved facilities We had our Oekotex 100 certificate renewed in 2015 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 5 INTRODUCTION CSR APPROACH & CSR ACTIVITIES ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact tackles human rights, labour Corporate Social Responsibility is a global issue that we feel conditions, the impact on the environment and ethical business needs a joint global effort. Oriental is committed to being a practices. Their ten principles are universally recognized. We at responsible corporate citizen and Corporate Social Responsibility Oriental aim to embrace support and follow this framework of core is firmly rooted in our business approach and values. Our CSR values within our sphere of influence. activities are examples of how we impact the world around us in a positive way. BSCI – BUSINESS SOCIAL COMPLIANCE INITIATIVE As a member of the European organization BSCI since 2008, we • All of our CSR activities related to our supply chains in China are dedicated to improving social compliance across our supply and India are managed from our office in Suzhou, China. chain in line with the BSCI Code of Conduct to ensure our suppliers take social responsibility seriously. We do this through a • All CSR activities fall under the responsibilities of our Chief of comprehensive monitoring and QC system. HR, Finance and CSR. The BSCI Code of Conduct is built on the most important international labour standards protecting workers’ rights taken from the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions, the OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises and the UN Global Human Rights Environment Compact and other important declarations. In 2015 we had our factory Huaibei Great Garment audited according to the new audit requirements from BSCI. These new requirements are set out to secure and help members to understand the audit report and how to work with the results of the audit. Labour Anti-Corruption The new audit requirements are not obligatory to audit from until 2016, but in Oriental we like to get ahead of things and therefore had 1 audit made from the new requirements. 6 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 OUR COMMITMENTS HOW WE WORK WITH SUSTAINABILITY To strengthen and streamline the management of our supply chain and ensure all of our suppliers are doing business with the highest levels of honesty, integrity, consideration and respect, we have developed our own Oriental Supplier Manual. In the manual, amongst others, it states that the supplier must follow the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the BSCI Code of Conduct and the European REACH legislation related to garments. We ask all suppliers and employees to read, acknowledge and sign this manual and consider the principles as they carry out their daily responsibilities. • Our QC team regularly visit our supplier factories to inspect them and our audit personnel conduct regular evaluations and appraisals to determine their strengths and weaknesses. • For suppliers that do not meet CSR requirements, Oriental offers advice and guidelines to improve their business practices in accordance with international principles. • We also carry out third party audits performed by internationally recognized institutions as Intertek, SGS and Bureau Veritas. MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 7 OUR COMMITMENTS ORIENTAL STAFF In Oriental we acknowledge, that one of our main strengths is a dedicated and highly resourceful staff, whom we strive to support and advance. We provide an employee handbook to make company policies transparent to all. Furthermore we provide a daily lunch meal based on healthy and nutritious food and we provide air-condition both in summer and winter to assure a comfortable work climate. Oriental seeks to take action to provide equal employment opportunities to all qualified employees and we are open to all ethnic groups. HEALTH & SAFETY The OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises lists health and safety as one of their focus areas under which it is stated that the multinational enterprise should promote the workers’ awareness of and compliance with health and safety policies through dissemination and training programmes; In line with this we in Oriental had all employees in our China office in Suzhou go trough a first aid course to ensure that all employees are capable of giving help if any form of accident should accrue or if any member of staff should suffer from sudden illness. 8 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 OUR COMMITMENTS Our concern for our employees health is a high priority in our company, which also involves the daily lunch meal and indoor working climate in our China office. Health and safety is also a high priority in our Danish office with focus on a good indoor climate, ergonomic work positions and free fruit. Furthermore we have planned a first aid course for all our employees in our Danish office in Aarhus to be conducted in 2016. “We rejoice differences and diversity – both outside and within our company.” MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 9 OUR COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CHEMICAL TESTING The production of fabrics and accessories in the garment industry requires the use of chemicals, some of which can be harmful to our health and the environment. Thus it is absolutely necessary to take a responsible approach to handling chemicals. • At Oriental we work in accordance with European REACH specifications and legislation and conduct random chemical testing validated by internationally recognized third party testing organizations such as Intertek, SGS and Bureau Veritas. • We pay special attention to the selection of dyes and chemical auxiliaries and ensure that products are free of hazardous substances such as azo dyes, formaldehydes, pesticides and toxic heavy metals. • We have updated our Supplier Manual to include the newest REACH specifications and our suppliers are instructed to meet these standards, we follow a detailed random testing of fabrics and accessories schedule. • We renewed OEKO-TEX100 certification in 2015. We are proud to be able to provide our customers with this option to purchase OEKO-TEX100 products from us and thus avoiding the use of harmful substances in the garment production. 10 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 OUR COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENT In Oriental we acknowledge the importance of environmental issues. We put constant focus on integrating environmental friendly procedures and progress in within our own production and in our supply chain. We promote: • Responsible purchasing: We only work with suppliers that use environmentally friendly chemicals and observe environmentally friendly processes, including how they dispose of wastewater. • Reuse and recycle: We reuse and recycle wherever possible to minimize our waste. We purchased a cutter to minimize fabric waste and use both sides of paper when we print. We collect cartons, papers, PET bottles, aluminum cans and fabric and send them to be recycled. • We strive to use the minimum of electricity, so therefore we have changed all our office light to LED lights, so we use 50 % less electricity now. • We strive to run a punctual production so we can send garments by sea freight and there by keep the CO2 emission at the lowest possible level. • Clean work environment: Oriental ensures a clean, hygienic working environment for all employees. MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 11 OUR COMMITMENTS ANTI CORRUPTION In Oriental we do not engage in business relations with customers or suppliers, where corruption, bribe or personal relations and gifts are necessary to drive business. No employee is allowed to take bribe, we have zero tolerance to fraud, bribe and theft and if such is detected it will lead to immediate termination of the employment. The anti-corruption guidelines have been incorporated in our management guidelines. 12 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 OUR RESULTS RESULTS 2015 Through a rigorous and constant focus on our CSR work, we have managed to achieve most of our goals for our CSR work in 2015: 73 % of our production was produced in 2 of our sub-suppliers gained BSCI BSCI approved facilities in 2015. This approval for the first time in 2015, and means we didn’t achieve our goal for 3 of our sub-suppliers had a re-audit in 2015, which was to have minimum 75% 2015. of our production produced in BSCI approved facilities. We executed a thoroughly random We had our Oekotex 100 certificate testing program of fabrics and renewed. accessories that verified that our production live up to customer requirements and EU legislation. MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 13 OUR GOALS CSR GOALS 2016 We will continue to lead by example We project to reach our goal of having at Oriental and incorporate socially 80 % of our production produced in and environmentally responsible BSCI approved facilities. business practices both in-house and across our supply chain. We project to upgrade our IT-system, which will facilitate the daily workflow in the office We had our Oekotex 100 certificate renewed. We will continue and further strengthen our random testing program of fabrics and accessories in order to live up to customer requirements and EU legislation. By this systematic testing, We project that 2 of our sub-suppliers we will further strengthen our supply will gain BSCI approval for the first chain. time by the end of 2016. We project that 5 of our sub-suppliers We project to move to new and larger will be re-audited for BSCI in 2016 office locations in Suzhou to ensure working quality of our employees. 14 MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 CONTACT GET IN TOUCH Thank you for taking the time to learn about Oriental and our CSR approach. We appreciate feedback and are always attentive if you have any suggestions, questions or comments to the way we work. Please find contact info below: Henrik Riis Jensen Oriental Denmark Mosevej 20A 8240 Riiskov Denmark Mail: henrik@ori.dk Henrik Poulsen Oriental China No. 687 Bihne Road 215011, SND, Suzhou, Jiangsu P. R. China Mail: henrik@oriental-sz.com.cn MADE BY ORIENTAL CSR REPORT 2015 15
