2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING (reporting period 2015) Index 1. Strategy and analysis 2. Organisationʼs Profile 3. Identified material aspects and boundaries 4. Stakeholders engagement 5. Reportʼs Parameters 6. Governance 7. Ethics and Integrity 8. Management approach and performance indicators 8.1 Economic performance indicator(EC) 8.2 Environmental performance indicators (EN) 8.3 Social performance indicators (LA)) 8.4 Human rights performance indicators (HR) 8.5 Society performance indicators (SO) 8.6 Productʼs responsibility performance indicators (PR) 9. Sustainability Report Attestation 10. Annexes and indexes Annex 1Determination Table of the material aspects and boundaries Annex 2Table of the coefficients used for environmental calculations over the three years Annex 3Correlation Table of the Report (GRI 4) and link with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Report contentents Index Sustainability Report 2016 Page 1 Page 2 Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy and AnalysisSection 1 Strategy and Analysis Sustainability Report 2016 Page 3 Strategy and Analysis Section 1 Page 4 Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy and AnalysisSection 1 Strategy and Analysis Palladio Group decided to join the UN Global Compact based on the fact that many of its principles favour its business, while others are G4 ‒ 1 directly related to the groupʼs main activities and its competitiveness on the market. Dueville, March 2016 To treat employees fairly and respectfully is natural for a wellmanaged society, this also contributes to the Palladio Group ability Since May 2012 Palladio group has been a to attract highly talented people and encourage them to flourish member of the United Nation Global Compact, a within the company. joint initiative of Corporations from around the Maintaining protective measures against corruption and violation of world, United Nations Agencies and Groups the human rights is the right behaviour to adopt, and also protects representing the interests of labour and society. the Company from legal liabilities. Optimising the environmental The aim of the initiative is to involve the world of performances of our company is a key responsibility for our business, enterprises in a new form of cooperation through the adherence to and this contributes in reducing material and energy costs. ten universal principles relating to human rights, labour protection, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. The With regards to these general rules of good management, we are United Nation Global Compact aims to make its principles part of committed in maintaining the Global Compact (and its principles) as the companies ʻstrategy and to promote cooperation in line with the part of our business strategy and culture in each business activity. United Nations targets in order to reach a global growth that takes These activities are focused on the protection and compatible use of into consideration the interests and concerns of the stakeholder. natural and human resources. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 5 Strategy and Analysis Section 1 As we are very scrupulous in providing our customers, employees, suppliers and other part involved with information about our sustainability and performance targets, we based the sustainability report on the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines in order to communicate, to our Stakeholder, the results in total transparency. The usual Communication On Progress (COP) has been incorporated to this reporting in order to describe what has been implemented by Palladio Group to comply with the principles as promoted by the Global Compact. As CEO, I am grateful and honoured in continuing this journey with the United Nation Global Compact. Mauro Marchi Chief Executive Officer Page 6 Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy and AnalysisSection 1 G4 ‒ 2 planned and carried out for: “Design and production of packaging for the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industry”. Palladio Group, in line with its vocation as a Socially Sustainable Company, confirms its commitment in promoting new development In compliance with the legal prescription in force in the countries in possibilities, assuring the protection of natural and human resources which we operate and in accordance with the principles as per Ethic and their compatible and ethical usage. Code, Palladio Group is committed to respect and promote measures for the management of the forestall resources consistent In line with the commitments on quality, environment, health and with the observance of the ethical and environmental values and ethic, undertaken and pursued during the years, Palladio Group aims with the approach to continuous improvement. to make sustainability the central element of the business process that contributes to the creation of the products supplied to the The Corporation is especially committed against the major concerns market in which it operates. of our times: sustainable growth, the observance of the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights and the adherence to international Our company belief is that a sustainable development is the only standards as defined by OCSE, the UN and the Global. form of society growth that doesnʼt compromise the possibility, for the future generations, to persist in the development itself, The aim of the entire Palladio Group is to pursue, year after year, an maintaining the quality and quantity of the assets and natural economic growth compatible with the social equity and the reserves. ecosystems, operating in a regime of environmental balance. This means that the economic, social and environmental dimensions are The respect and protection of the health and safety in the workplace, closely related to each other and any programming intervention will, of the environment and human rights are the foundation for the inevitably, have to take into consideration the mutual companyʼs operative strategy and their concern throughout the interrelationships. whole Organisation in relation to the pertinent activities/processes Sustainability Report 2016 Page 7 Strategy and Analysis Section 1 During the years we invested in human and economic resources to guarantee wellbeing and satisfaction in the workplace. In this regard we carried out the analysis of the internal organisational climate intended to record the appreciation degree compared to the employment in all its aspects, in order to improve and develop new initiatives (yoga classes, contest with prices, sport competitions). We also confirmed our commitment in joining charitable activities that could help others, making donations to no profit foundations both local and international, aware that our small gesture is, for them, a big help. We actively supported environmental projects, social and cultural activities in the local communities especially involving the future generations. Recently we established new targets for the total gas emissions for 2018 & 2020, representing a total reduction of 15% within 2018, and 20% within 2020, based on 2012 levels. Over the coming years, we will continue to improve our economic, social and environmental performances, always thinking of our future generations. Page 8 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 Organizationʼs Profile Sustainability Report 2016 Page 9 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 Page 10 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 Organisationʼs profile secondary and primary packaging, of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. In particular:  Folding cartons (flat and glued) G4 ‒ 3  Blister packs Palladio Group spa  Leaflets on reels/folded/flat/booklet  Flow pack (leaflets + alert card) G4 4  Self-adhesive labels Palladio Group S.P.A was established in 1946 and thus has about 70  Printed aluminium tapes years of experience characterized by a progressive growth focused  Cartons overlabelling on the commitment to fulfil, in the respect of a sustainable and  Vendor Managed Inventory socially responsible industrial development, the expectations/ needs  Artworksʼ development of its customers and all other Interested Parties. A growth that has  Serialisation enabled the company to transform itself from a small local business to an international company, technologically advanced, capable of imposing itself in the challenge against leading competitor in the national and international markets in which it operates. Our clients are leading multinational companies with whom we have established supply relationships and collaboration that are fundamental to innovation and continuous improvement of the Palladio Groupʼs main goal is to offer products, services and expertise products and services provided. in compliance with the requirements, while trying to anticipate and meet customer needs. Nowadays Palladio Group is a cutting edge Italian multinational The production is based on a project, according to the information operating in the production-delivery of goods and services for and technical specification provided by the customer, in compliance with the applicable requirements and mandatory laws. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 11 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 All the production activities are performed using machinery and All the activities supporting the production process are listed facilities that are technologically highly advanced, this in order to below: guarantee safety, environmental protection and reduction of energy  Computerisation of management processes and production consumption. planning.  Procurement of energy and natural resources. The production cycle consists of the following macro phases  Procurement / storage and use of raw materials, packaging common to all sites: materials and ancillary materials (chemicals, films, aluminium • Pre-press: the set of activities that starting from an artwork, in plates, etc.). paper or digital form, lead to implement / develop polymers for  Equipment and facilities maintenance. printing.  Shipping & Delivery. • Printing press: the set of activities that allow, using appropriate  Controlled management of waste produced by the plants machinery, printing plates and inks / varnishes, to obtain the (temporary storage and handling). printed media with one or more colours (in our case the printed  Administration & Sales material consists of paper, cardboard or laminate).  Staff training. • Post Printing: All those activities that, starting from the printed material and using appropriate machinery, glue and packaging materials, lead to make the finished product through the stages of die cutting, folding, gluing and packaging. Page 12 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 G4 ‒ 5 Palladium Group spa has its headquarters in Dueville (Vicenza) and more productive sites located within the national territory and abroad in line with the business strategy to produce in countries where growth is expected and / or where opportunities for business exist. Palladio Group spa Via Campazzi, 10 Thiene (Vicenza) ‒ Italy Products: cartons, blister Area: 16.000 m2 Headquarter Palladio Group spa Palladio Group spa Via Maremmana (Z.I. Gello) ‒ Pontedera (Pisa) Italy Via Cresole, 8 ‒ Dueville (Vicenza) Italia Products: cartons, leaflets, labels, aluminum tapes Area: 38.000 m2 Products: cartons, leaflets Area: 31.000 m2 Palladio Ireland ltd Palladio East doo Sragh Industrial Estate Tullamore (Co. Offaly) ‒ Ireland Beogradski put 26300 ‒ Vršac (Vojvodina) Serbija Products: cartons Area: 10.000 m2 Products: cartons, leaflets, labels Area: 20.000 m2 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 13 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 G4 ‒ 6 G4 ‒ 7 Over the years Palladio Group has grown to extend its Palladio Group, the parent company of the Group, is a stock manufacturing capacity in Foreign Countries. company under the Italian law. The entrance into the international market has opened our horizons The two subsidiaries are limited companies. from a commercial point of view. This opening to foreign countries contributed to our growth thanks G4 ‒ 8 to the contacts with the surrounding communities and the foreign Our main market is the Pharmaceutical industry and our core staff working at our Plants . business is the production of secondary packaging material for the Currently the production is carried out in three countries: most important pharmaceutical multinational companies. Italy, The Groupʼs activities object is substantially uniform among the Ireland various sites and can be referred to as the design and production of Serbia packaging for the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries”. In the image below are shown the countries in which we operate G4 ‒ 9 In our group, to 31/12/2015, were employed 531 employees, operating within the five factories. The total production capacity of the Group is approximately: 1500 million cartons, 800 million leaflets 600 million labels. 50 million blisters 10 million booklets Page 14 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 G4 ‒ 10 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2015 Employees age < 30 years 2013 2014 2015 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Men 64 76 56 39 0 17 Women 17 19 12 5 1 6 White collar Men 3 3 3 1 0 2 White collar Women 5 5 4 1 1 2 Blue collar Men 63 73 53 38 0 15 Blue collar Women 13 14 8 4 0 4 Manager 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total < 30 years 81 95 68 44 1 23 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2015 Employees age 30 50 years 2013 2014 2015 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Men 261 247 277 201 9 67 Women 74 72 87 56 2 29 White collar Men 39 36 40 24 0 16 White collar Women 22 21 25 12 2 11 Blue collar Men 220 211 236 176 9 51 Blue collar Women 51 50 61 44 0 17 Manager 2 1 2 1 0 1 Total 30-50 years 335 319 364 257 11 96 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 15 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2015 Employees age > 50 years 2013 2014 2015 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Men 53 64 77 69 2 6 Women 17 18 22 21 0 1 White collar Men 14 16 15 15 0 0 White collar Women 6 6 7 6 0 1 Blue collar Men 33 42 56 50 2 4 Blue collar Women 11 12 15 15 0 0 Manager 6 6 6 4 0 2 Total > 50 years 70 82 99 90 2 7 2013 2014 2015 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Average age 38,52 39,62 40,42 43,60 41,00 36,26 Page 16 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2015 Totals summary 2013 2014 2015 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Total Employees Men 379 387 410 309 11 90 Total Employees Women 109 109 121 82 3 36 Total General Employees 488 496 531 391 14 126 Employees on permanent contract Men 309 304 337 261 8 68 Employees on permanent contract Women 62 70 82 62 2 18 Employees on fixed term contract Men 55 45 23 2 3 18 Employees on fixed term contract Women 11 19 18 0 1 17 Employees on part-time Men 15 9 6 6 0 0 Employees on part-time Women 12 15 11 11 0 0 temporary workers Men 24 28 44 40 0 4 temporary workers Women 5 6 12 11 0 1 With trade union membership 89 84 91 91 0 0 Affected by Disability 22 22 24 23 0 1 Foreigner 19 17 15 7 8 0 Salaries above minimum wage % employees 76,94% 78,80% 91,17% 87,73% 100% 100% Annual salary Increments % over employees 32,52% 32,19% 33,15% 11,28% 7% 100% Bonuses % over employees 99,78% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100% 100% Benefits % over employees 11,98% 12,43% 13,29% 14,91% 0% 10,32% Overtime % of hours worked 5,64% 5,55% 5,75% 4,52% 2,68% 8,93% Holiday hours % of hours worked 8,27% 8,59% 8,88% 8,45% 10,66% 9,68% Disciplinary Measures % over employees 4,39% 6,25% 5,88% 5,88% 0% 0% Worked hours 763871 831033 828626 561451 25490 241685 Holiday hours 63161 71364 73557 47457 2716 23384 Overtime 43104 46151 47644 25376 682 21586 % Ethical complaints 0,44% 0,00% 0,55% 0,77% 0% 0% Sustainability Report 2016 Page 17 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 G4 ‒ 11 G4 12 / G4 ‒ 13 Within Palladio Group the Labour National Collective Agreements The Group's suppliers operate in different sectors amongst which: (working act) are regularly applied and consequently all employees raw materials, ancillary materials to the pharmaceutical packaging are covered by such contracts. The company recognizes all (such as inks and paints), services and specific contractors. employees the right to join trade unions as they wish, this does not Percentages of supply acquired in the local markets for each Division imply any advantage or disadvantage attitude towards its division 2013 2014 2015 employees. Italy 61.69% 64.5% 51,00% In this regard, the trade unions have the freedom to carry on their Serbia 43,57% 46,93% 35,49% activities without any pressure or interference by the Executive Ireland 90.81% 80.14% 75,24% Board. From a geographical point of view, the Group gives priority to local The Human Resources Department is always willing to listen and suppliers and, in particular, companies that are able to provide address any issues of workers seeking satisfactory solutions for goods and / or services in the local markets in which the various complainants while respecting corporate ethics and confidentiality. facilities of the Group operate. Most of the spending on supplies for Our employees through a voting system, which guarantees the the three countries in which Palladio Group operates is made from confidentiality and anonymity, elect their WSR (Workers Safety local suppliers, i.e. operators located in the same country and in Representatives) and TUR (Trade Union Representatives). many cases in the same region or city, in which the premises of the Group are. The raw material used for production is defined by the customer and, generally, is produced / manufactured by paper mills. The table shows the percentage of supplies acquired in the local markets of the country where the each specific Group's plant operates. The main suppliers have always been subjected to a vendor rating, or an assessment, based on a specific set of parameters for quality Page 18 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 and service. Since 2011, the qualification of the main suppliers is also integrity is necessarily dependent upon that of trading partners with based on the verification of technical, economic and organizational which it has relationships, we demand that our suppliers comply requirements, of their compliance with environmental, safety and with the following standards: Health and safety in the workplace, corporate social responsibility (with a focus on Human Rights related working conditions, freedom of association and not retaliation, to child labour and forced labour) standards, these verifications are forced and compulsory labour, child labour, no discrimination, carried out through the filling in of a specific questionnaire. compliance with environmental legislation, Abuse of office and 2013 2014 2015 corruption. Consequently, during the year we have modified the N. forwarded questionnaires 75 3 2 procedure of supply by inserting specifically that the qualification of a new supplier must also be based on the acceptance of our Code of N. returned questionnaires 41 3 2 Conduct for suppliers (suppliers guidelines); a document that N. forwarded codes of conduct 86 requires the respect of values and ethical principles and which must be countersigned by the suppliers and returned as confirmation of N. returned code of conduct 51 acceptance. All the suppliers (contractors) that are selected to carry out any work During 2015, the process of selection and qualification of suppliers to be done within our premises, are required to provide, in has been modified, so that now for all the new suppliers it is accordance with our procedures and current legislation, mandatory the assessment of the environmental, security, and social documentation demonstrating compliance with the legislative and data, as evaluation parameters (sending questionnaires activities contractual obligations towards their employees, the corporate started in 2013 has been changed). It was also established that all social responsibility and compliance with the rules of conduct laid major suppliers must receive and accept the supplier code of down by the Health Safety and Environment Management System of conduct. Consequently, we have begun the gradual alignment Palladio Group. Moreover, in terms of health & safety in the activities by sending the code of conduct on the leading suppliers workplace we ask the supplier/service provider to have full already qualified by Palladio Group. The situation is represented in knowledge of local regulations on this subject and to follow the table below. indications as per documentation provided which must be signed for acceptance by the same (DUVRI). Since the Group's ethical Sustainability Report 2016 Page 19 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 Sustainable procurement of forest based products confirmed the origin of the material and they all hold a valid certification. Palladium Group, through compliance with PEFC and FSC Having subscribed a commitment to monitor human rights in our certifications, purchase forest based products that come exclusively supply chain and also in order to comply with some customersʼ from controlled sources. During 2013 we adjusted our system demands, we went into action by initiating an investigation into according to EUTR Regulation and to the Due Diligence System in some of our suppliers to explore the topic conflict minerals . order to ensure Palladium Group, through compliance with PEFC and The 10 suppliers of materials that could potentially contain such FSC certifications, purchase forest based products that come minerals have received the same number requests in order to receive exclusively from controlled sources. During 2013 we paid the confirmation that in their production processes is not used materials adjustment of our system according to EUTR Regulation and the Due extracted in conflict zones. Should be noted that as planned and Diligence System in order to ensure the lawful origin of timber reported in the previous report, in the year 2015, was completed the product. In order to guarantee the origin of the raw material in the doubling of the production area and offices the Serbian plant. Chain of Custody all our suppliersʼ forest based raw materials are checked through appropriate DDS statements and verified by the FSC and PEFC websites to evaluate their capability / validity. G4 ‒ 14 In 2015, all our 21 suppliers of forest based raw material (18 from The utilisations of cutting edge technologies help achieve the objectives set in our environmental and the Health and Safety at Sustainable Procurement Certified raw material Work protection policy. In recent years, thanks to technological and Total of raw material suppliers 21 paper board effective processes, we managed to reduce and (in some cases) FSC certified suppliers 20 3 17 eliminate the emission of substances harmful to the environment as well as to the Health and Safety in the Workplace. The above has PEFC certified suppliers 4 1 3 enabled greater protection for our employees and the reduction of % certified suppliers 100% emissions (waste, air emissions, discharges etc.) of dangerous which we buy cardboard and 3 from which we buy paper) have substances. Page 20 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 G4 ‒ 15 the Organisation is also committed to not be involved, directly or indirectly, in activities that are inconsistent with their policies of From the point of view of continuous improvement and in order to quality, environment and safety. The table shows the certifications ensure all customers and consumers the quality and safety of our achieved by the various plants on the date 31/12/2015: products, Palladio Group adopted, for some time, a Company Management Systems conforming to the requirements of the During the year 2015, the plant in Vrsac has begun the process for following voluntary frameworks: the Environmental certification ISO 14001 and Health and Safety ISO 9001(certified since 1994) OHSAS 18001, and in September 2015 successfully passed the Stage ISO 14001 (certified since 2001) 1 audit carried out by SGS Certification Body. The achievement of the OHSAS 18001 (certified since 2010) certifications is planned for the year 2016. CoC FSC (certified since 2010) CoC PEFC (certified since 2011) The foreign plants: Palladio Ireland and Palladio East have not yet Certification Standard reached the environmental and safety certifications, nonetheless the Plant ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 CoC FSC CoC PEFC two companies comply with the applicable legislation and the Dueville X X X X X purchase of raw materials originating from forests is managed Thiene X X X X X Pontedera X X X X X according to the Forestry Sustainability Policy and to the common Tullamore X written procedures and Vendor List. Vršac X Audit Stage 1 Audit Stage 1 X X We also wish to remind our commitment to Ethics and Social The Quality Management System is developed and maintained Responsibility. taking into account the GMP requirements applicable to Therefore, in addition to the adhesion, in 2011, to the 10 principles of pharmaceutical packaging. the UN Global Compact, we want to disclose: Recently, the organisation has also obtained the voluntary and Our Ethic Code, (since 2008) independent certifications of traceability (chain of custody CoC) of Our Chart of Values (since2011) products derived from forests certified FSC or PEFC. Because of this Sustainability Report 2016 Page 21 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 The adhesion since 2011to Chart of Environmental ‐ ATIF (Italian Technical Association for the development of Sustainability Principles Flexography) The adhesion since 2006 initiatives promoted by the ‐ CIAL (Aluminium Packaging Consortium) COMIECO Consortium ‐ COMIECO (National Consortium Recovery and Recycling of The adhesion since 2014 initiatives promoted by cellulose packaging) Legambiente ‐ CONAI (Packaging National Consortium ) ‐ ECMA (European Carton Makers Association) ‐ ENIPG (Ente Nazionale Istruzione Professionale Grafica) G4 ‒ 16 ‐ GIFASP (Italian Group Carton box Manufacturers) Palladio Group is an official member of the Global Compact of the ‐ GIPEA (Italian Group of Autoadhesive Labels Manufacturers UN since May 2012 and in order to ensure the communication of ) well-organised information about sustainability, while satisfying the ‐ HCPC Europe (Healthcare Compliance Packaging Council) ten principles of the UN Global Compact, we have prepared and ‐ I.I.I. (Italian Institute of Packaging) integrated the Communication on Progress (COP) using ‐ INDUSTRIAL UNION (Italian and Serbian) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Palladio Group pays the regular membership fees and considers the Since 2012, on yearly bases, we subject our CSR to an assessment by taking part in associations as strategic. Ecovadis. We have also joined: Chart of Principles for the Environmental Sustainability of the Palladio Group is a member of the following national and Industrial Union international associations: Initiatives promoted by COMIECO ‐ AFI (Associazione Farmaceutici Industria) Initiatives promoted by Legambiente ‐ ASSOGRAFICI Page 22 Sustainability Report 2016 Organisationʼs profileSection 2 Our history The milestones This is the story of an Italian company founded in 1946, which has 1946 always been focused on results, evolving from a local dimension to Girolamo Marchi together with his sons Antonio, Aldo e Guido, as national levels and that has been able to stand out against its part of a policy of product diversification, invested funds in S.I.T.A.P international competitors .All this was possible because the (Società Industria Tipolitografica Andrea Palladio). company remained firmly attached to a working model that proved During the 50s, the company developed and changed its name to to be effective over the years, and that is now appreciated by all our Palladio Industria Tipolitografica S.p.A.. It was the starting point of customers as synonymous with quality and reliability. the specialisation in the pharmaceutical sector. Our origins 1980 The entrepreneurial intuition behind the industrial project of the The work was constantly increasing. The company moved to the Marchi Family: new plant in Dueville, which is still today Palladioʼs headquarter. In 1886 the same year, Mauro Marchi, Antonioʼs son, joined the company; he Starting with the entrepreneurial activities of the Marchi family from represents the third entrepreneurial generation. Arzignano, in the field of silk spinning. In the early years of 900, the family owned 4 spinning mills with 1996 about 500 employees 50 years after the foundation of the company a second plant was 1945-1955: opened in Thiene. This allowed the doubling of the production Collapse of the silk sector and business response of the Marchi capacity and the extension of the packaging market to the cosmetic family. Productive diversification: Acquisition of a share of industry. Tipolitografia Palladio Conversion of the facility: Arzignano from spinning mill to a paper mill. The growth within the paper market leading to the giant Burgo Group. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 23 Organisationʼs profile Section 2 2000 2013 The plant in Dueville started the production of leaflets; this led to the As part of the strategy of diversification of the industry in which it expansion of the range of products of secondary-packaging supplied operates, Palladio Zannini takes control of the Officina Farmaceutica to its customers Pharma Partners, integrating it into a larger project of industrial growth. 2004 Palladio acquired Grafica Zannini spa: the group is now enriched 2014 with two new factories in Tuscany, one in Ireland and one in Serbia. The floor area of the Serbian plant was increased by 2000 m2. The Group is the overall leader in Italy in the field of secondary packaging for the pharmaceutical sector. 2015 Start of construction of the new plant, in Obninsk in the Kaluga 2011 Oblast region (Russia), the company name is Palladio Obninsk.In The merge between Palladio and Grafica Zannini was officialised. October Palladio Zannini changes its corporate name and becomes From this fusion Palladio Zannini Industrie Grafiche Cartotecniche Palladio Group S.p.A. Even the foreign plants, located in Serbia and S.p.A. was born. Ireland, Zannini East and Zannini Ireland, take part in this evolution becoming respectively Palladio East and Palladio Ireland Packaging 2012 Solutions. (See item G4-5) The Serbian subsidiary Zannini East celebrates its 10th anniversary. Zannini east development and growth are so impressive that Dr. Mauro Marchi does not hesitate to approve the project sets to double the facility by 2014. Page 24 Sustainability Report 2016 Identified material aspects and boundariesSection 3 Identified material aspects and boundaries Sustainability Report 2016 Page 25 Identified material aspects and boundaries Section 3 Page 26 Sustainability Report 2016 Identified material aspects and boundariesSection 3 3 Identified material aspects and perimeters G4 ‒ 17 Palladio Group is part of the Holding Group Marchi,according to the structure shown in the organizational chart below. HOLDING GROUPMARCHI SPA PALLADIO GROUP SPA Plants :Dueville, Thiene, Pontedera BURGO GROUP SPA (Italy) PALLADIO EAST DOO PALLADIO IRELAND LTD PHARMA PARTNERS SRL Plant Vrsac Plant Tullamore Plant Prato (Serbia) (Ireland) (Italy) With the view of reporting homogeneity,in relation to the type of materials produced in the various plants of the Group, it has been determined that the scope of the reporting will be limited to the plant operating in the Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic sectors and producing primary and secondary packaging materials, such as: ‐ Palladio Group spa plants in Dueville-Vicenza (Italy), Thiene-Vicenza (Italy), Pontedera-Pisa (Italy) ‐ Palladio East doo: plant in Vrsac Vojvodina (Serbia) ‐ Palladio Ireland ltd: plant in Tullamore County Offaly (Ireland) Therefore, when the report will quote Palladio Group or the Group,all the plants above shall be considered . Sustainability Report 2016 Page 27 Identified material aspects and boundaries Section 3 G4 ‒ 18 As shown in the picture below, each of the four phases covers The Palladio Group's management of the environmental, economic specific elements of the process defining what is relevant and and social material aspects complies with G4 Guide lines that where it is relevant. delineate a process divided into the following four stages, in order to determine the material aspects and their relevant perimeters: 1. Identification 2. Prioritization 3. Validation 4. Review STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 IDENTIFICATION PRIORITIZATION VALIDATION REPORT Sustainability Completeness Materiality Context Stakeholder Inclusiveness STEP 4 REVIEW Sustainability Context Stakeholder Inclusiveness Page 28 Sustainability Report 2016 Identified material aspects and boundariesSection 3 In order to ensure the quality of the information and the compliance Degree of influence to the principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, timeliness, Refers to the ability of a given aspect or impact to influence the comparability and reliability of the GRI, Palladio Group defined the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. The assessment of these contents of this Report, according to the following principles: two parameters (Significance and Degree of influence) leads to the  Materiality. definition of two threshold values, one for each of the two  Sustainability Context. parameters, which, when both are overcome, lead to the  Completeness. identification of a given factor as Relevance Factor that identifies  Stakeholder Inclusiveness. this aspect as Material . By the Materiality principle, Palladio Group identified, using an algorithm based on a number of benchmarks, which Aspects can be Therefore, the first step of the process (identification) saw the defined “Material”. identification of materials aspects, through the use of Stakeholder The variables taken into consideration are the significance and the inclusiveness and Sustainability Context” Principles. degree of influence on evaluations and decisions of stakeholders related to this factor. The second phase of the process (Prioritization) has determined the priorities, narrowing the list of relevant topics drawn in the previous Significance step. The algorithm adopted involves the assessment of the significance Only those aspects that reflect significant economic, environmental on the basis of: probability and severity of a given impact linked to and social performance which could substantially influence the the aspect (Environmental, Social and Economic), the criticality of the assessments and decisions of stakeholders taken into consideration, impact on the medium to long-term performance of Palladio Group and in this way it is possible also to define only the perimeters or S.p.A. and the possibility of risk and opportunity depending from areas that receive the main significant impacts related to them. that aspect. In this phase the Principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness and Materiality are in use. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 29 Identified material aspects and boundaries Section 3 This universally recognized reporting technique use specific G4 ‒ 19 / G4 ‒ 20 / G4 ‒ 21 indicators, depending on the levels of application, bringing the company to: Identification and context of each material aspect ‐ Perform a complete monitoring of its performance. The Materials aspects have been identified based on the various ‐ Draw up a final balance of the main environmental impacts of consultations, assessments and observations made in the first phase; the Groupʻs production activities. same are listed below, subdivided according to the following ‐ Communicate the progress in relation of the UN Global categories: Compact Principles.  Environment (EN) ‐ Ensure that a measurable progress has been achieved.  Economic (EC)  Labour (LA) In the third step of the process -Validationthe various department  Human rights (HR) managers of Palladio Group, according to their roles and tasks across  Social (SO) the Group, were involved in the activities and they have been  Product Responsibility (PR) centrally coordinated by the Quality and Sustainability department In order to identify the potentially materials aspects, the following manager. elements of Palladio Group S.p.A. were taken into consideration: During the validation phase all aspects identified as Materials were  The most significant environmental aspects for Palladio reviewed under the principles of Completeness and Stakeholder Group S.p.A., according to the Environmental Management inclusiveness. System. The results of the Validation activities were then finally approved  The economic aspects which better respond to the needs of by the Executive Committee of Palladio Group S.p.A. an increasingly competitive market.  The most significant labour aspects, in accordance to the Corporate Policy and in compliance with health and safety at work as per the Workers' Health & Safety Management System and mandatory laws. Page 30 Sustainability Report 2016 Identified material aspects and boundariesSection 3  The most significant aspects according to the Code of Ethics The application of the stages of identification and prioritization, of Palladio Group and in compliance with fundamental according to the objective methodology as previously indicated, has human rights, as defined by the concerning International allowed the determination of the materials aspects and of the Conventions. boundaries which are shown in table (Annex 1) in section 10 and in  Aspects relating to the product which are deemed to be the matrix below. significant in relation to the relationship with the consumer and the compliance with international laws. Visual representation of prioritization of aspects 6 Expenditures and investments Economic performances 5 Anti-corruptions Energy Involvment ; Conformity; Influence on Stakeholder assessments and decisions Customer Privacy ; Freedom of association Compilance 4 Emissions Procurements Customer Health and Safety Health & Safety in the workplace Remuneration 3 Safety practice Antidiscrimination; Employment; Child Labour; Procurement; Unfair competition Waste 2 Indigenous populations Industrial Relationships; Materials; Forced Labour Diversity and equal opportunities 1 Product and services Biodiversity Training and education 0 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 Significance of Economics, Enviromental, and Social Impacts Sustainability Report 2016 Page 31 Identified material aspects and boundaries Section 3 G4 ‒ 22 G4 ‒ 23 The reporting data refer to the last three years (2013, 2014, and 2015) There were no significant changes in the reporting period regarding and are indicated for each individual production plant and for the the scope, reporting limits or measurement methods. whole Group. Some data may have been revised, if compared with If, in some case, a new method of measurement has been used, previous years, due to changes in the coefficients, basic errors and same will be highlighted under the relevant indicator. homogeneity in the reporting, in order to allow comparisons without distortion. To be highlighted some significant changes concerning the The table (Annex 2) in section 10 shows the coefficients used for the introduction of new machinery, size of property, but above all the environmental calculations, during the three years. expansion of services which led to increase the consumption of energy resources. Page 32 Sustainability Report 2016 Stakeholder engagementSection 4 Stakeholder engagement Sustainability Report 2016 Page 33 Stakeholder engagementSection 4 Page 34 Sustainability Report 2016 Stakeholder engagementSection 4 G4 ‒ 24 G4 ‒ 26 Palladio Group had success on the domestic and international The sustainability approach used, in order to ensure the markets because it kept in mind that its activities are directed achievement of the objectives, the quality of information and the primarily to Stakeholders. adequacy of the presentation of the principles towards stakeholders The Groupʼs development was built prioritising the satisfaction of is to use the principle of inclusiveness and materiality. Palladio Group the needs of all stakeholders, including rights as defined by national wanted to encourage information and relationships with several laws and applicable international standards (vseeG4-25) stakeholders by promoting initiatives transversally involving different stakeholders through communication integrated external and internal platforms that stakeholders can use without any G4 ‒ 25 particular constraints, such as: Stakeholders are those bodies who have interests in place with our  Web site (www.palladiogroup.com) business such as:  Intranet The Shareholders,  E-mail address (info@palladiogroup.com) The Employees The Collaborators,  Facebook (www.facebook.com/pages/Amici-di-Palladiogroup) The Customers,  Linkedin (www.linkedin.com/company/palladiogroup) The Suppliers,  Yammer (www.yammer.com/palladiogroup.com) The Business Partners. It is our intention to use these media more and more, in particular We also consider stakeholders all those individuals or groups, as well the social networks as dynamic platforms where we can intercept as organisations and institutions that represent them, whose any requests, have more ways of sharing, understand the new interests are affected by the direct and indirect effects of the requirements, needs and duties. For the preparation of this report, activities of Palladio Group in particular, the local communities in specific groups of internal stakeholders were involved. which we operate, environmental groups, the future generations. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 35 Stakeholder engagementSection 4 Palladio News In 2014 our company newsletter was restored. It is now published every four months with the main purpose of explaining about the company, starting from the internal organisation, passing through the main events, up to the latest products news, but also with the important goal of promoting and increasing the sense of belonging among employees, the spirit of collaboration and teamwork, improving the climate for business. With this additional communication tool we want to stimulate the participation and involvement of employees, keeping them updated about activities that are taking place and encouraging the flow of information between departments. The structure of the publication includes an editorial signed by the CEO, the focus on a relevant topic of particular interest for the company, then the various sections telling the news coming from our operational sites and the final pages are dedicated to the events , corporate life and our people. Page 36 Sustainability Report 2016 Stakeholder engagementSection 4 G4 ‒ 27 Our Sustainability Principles (Values) are both the result of material issues that have emerged from the involvement of the various functions and of the various forms of dialogue and discussions with Groupʻs stakeholders. This document was the first step in the preparation of a Sustainability Report in line with GRI which led us to focus more on the aspects that really matter, on which we will target our efforts in response to the needs and expectations of our stakeholders. Over the year 2015 there no critical issues emerged from the activities of stakeholders' involvement. The drafting and publication of the sustainability report and other reports on the assessment of our Corporate Social Responsibility by Ecovadis Enterprise has received appreciation from all of our stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 37 Stakeholder engagementSection 4 Page 38 Sustainability Report 2016 Report ParametersSection 5 Reportʼs Parameters Sustainability Report 2016 Page 39 Report Parameters Section 5 Page 40 Sustainability Report 2016 Report ParametersSection 5 Reportʼs Parameters G4 ‒ 28 G4 ‒ 30 The reportʼs data refer to the last three years (2013, 2014, and 2015) The Sustainability Report is published annually and reports the and they are indicated both per production unit and at group level. qualitative and quantitative information required by the Core indicators and the main Additional GRI indicators. The aim is to annually disclose, to Stakeholders, information relevant to economic, environmental and social performances resulting from the Palladio G4 ‒ 29 Group's production. In particular, the report aims to frame in a wider Foursustainability reports and two Communication On Progress have context the activities of the company in accordance with the been published, the last publication, available on our web site and standards and the G4 guidelines of the GRI and the Principles of the that one of the UN Global Compact, dates back to May 2014. Palladio Global Compact, which are part of the budget itself. Group as an official member of the U.N. Global Compact since May 2012 drafted and integrated the Communication on Progress (COP) and the Sustainability Report using the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) version G4, this in order to ensure well-organised information on sustainability while meeting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 41 Report Parameters Section 5 G4 ‒ 31 G4 ‒ 33 This report will be published on the website of the Global Compact This report, prepared in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative of the United Nations, on the G.R.I. website and on our website GRI G4 Core , has been subjected to external verification activities (www.palladiogroup.com) as well as the company Intranet. by SGS.Italia spa. The certification related to this report is provided in For any additional information please contact: section 9. giampaolo.carone@palladiogroup.com. Data on economic performance, deferred in the relevant section, are extracted from the Consolidated Financial Statements verified by auditors of Soc. Ernst & Young. G4 ‒32 The document was developed based on the Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4, which are today the main internationally recognized standards in terms of sustainability reporting, also including the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. The standards of preparation, structure, and content of the document and the resulting level of application meet the G4 criteria in accordance ‒ Core* of the guidelines aforementioned In the closing pages can be found the index of published indicators, which shows where the required information is located within the document and how the 10 principles of the Global Compact are met. * The GRI G4 provides for two possible levels in accordance: Core and Comprehensive . The Core includes most of the disclosure standard and the relevant indicators for each material aspect. The Comprehensive includes all the standard information and all relevant indicators for each material aspect. Page 42 Sustainability Report 2016 Governace Section 6 Governance Sustainability Report 2016 Page 43 Governance ‒ Section 6 Page 44 Sustainability Report 2016 Governace Section 6 4 Governance efficient and transparent functioning of the Companyʼs organs of government and control systems. G4 ‒ 34 The members of the Board of Directors are appointed according to The Governance model in use is the “traditional” type, which means integrity, professionalism and competence criteria defined by the that it is characterised by the dichotomy between the management Statute, they shall hold office for a period not exceeding three body (Board of Directors) and the supervisory body (Board of financial years and they end the mandate at the date of the Meeting Auditors); the activities of statutory audit are entrusted to an Audit called to approve the financial statements for the last year of their firm. term. The directors are re-elected in accordance with art. 2383 of the The mechanisms of corporate governance adopted by Palladio Italian Civil Code. Group, in line with the statutory provisions, intend to ensure an Sustainability Report 2016 Page 45 Governance ‒ Section 6 The shareholders of Palladio Group, by resolution dated 13/05/2015, Link to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, appointed the new Board of Directors of the Company in office for the year per 2015. The sustainability model adopted by Palladio Group is inspired by In line with the provisions of the D.L. 6 July 2012, n. 95, converted by the United Nations Global Compact. L. 7 August 2012 n.135, The Palladio Groupʼs Board of Directors is In May 2012 Palladio Group has formalized its adherence to the U.N. composed of seven members: President, CEO and five Councillors. Global Compact, a pact that binds all those companies committed to More specific details about the members (i.e. .: age, gender) can be aligning their operations and strategies to the 10 universally found on public record available, upon request at one of the Group accepted principles concerning human rights, labour, environment Companies, at the Register of Enterprises of the relevant Chamber of and anti-corruption. Commerce. The table in Annex 3 section. 10 which shows the commitment of Palladio Group (Accounted for in this report) to respect and promote Palladio Group pursues the aim of good governance through the these principles, shows which GRI G4 version indicators,applicable to implementation of a set of values, rules and procedures , stated in Palladio Group, are considered in conjunction with each of the 10 the Ethic Code, which outlines the commitments and responsibilities principles of the U.N. Global Compact. This is in order to facilitate the that the company and those who work there, are taking in the research of the information relevant to the stakeholders which are management of each business activity. interested in evaluating the implementation of the Principles by Palladio Group. To find the pages where the GRI indicators are discussed please refer to the correlation chart of the Report (GRI 4) and link with the 10 UN Global Compact principles contained in Annex 3 of Section 10 (Source: GRI-Global Compact, making the Connection ) Page 46 Sustainability Report 2016 Ethics and Integrity ‒ Section 7 Ethics and Integrity Sustainability Report 2016 Page 47 Ethics and Integrity Section Page 48 Sustainability Report 2016 Ethics and Integrity ‒ Section 7 G4 ‒ 56 Our Principles and Values of Reference Our ethic conduct is represented by the value and content of the Consistently to our Mission: Ethic Code. Palladio Group pursues its economic goals giving priority to the social factors, the health and environmental protection, with the “To build and maintain, in compliance with laws and corporate knowledge that our entrepreneurial actions have to be in line with ethics, our leadership in the competitive market creating innovation the society interests: and value both for the Customer and for other Stakeholder”, Responsibility We know that our entrepreneurial actions have to be in line with Palladio Group has always invested in technology and advanced societyʼs interests, the people, and the cautious management of the equipment, developed thanks to the close relationship established resources and the respect of the environment. between customers and suppliers. All this has helped and continues to help provide a measurable added value in terms of logistics, Human Rights productivity and lead-time. We support and comply with the observance of the human rights, as recognised within international levels, especially the rights of our collaborators and business partners. Equal Opportunities The workforce of Palladio Group is formed without regards to race, colour, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, handicap, political opinions, national origin, and social background. We respect any political and religious belief of our employees, as long as such believes is based on democratic values and on the tolerance of Sustainability Report 2016 Page 49 Ethics and Integrity Section different opinions.The employees can complain to their direct Relationships with the Union superior or to the relevant department director in the event they feel We recognise the basic right, of all the employees, to join a trade unfairly treated in regards of their work conditions. union according to their own free will. The employees wonʼt be The employees will not suffer any disadvantage in regards of their neither advantaged nor disadvantaged because of their membership complaint. We refuse any kind of forced labour and respect the to a trade union. The company is open to dialogue with them and principle of the work freely chosen. with the organisations that may represent them. Integration of People with Disabilities Qualification From our point of view, people with disabilities have the same Our company, as well as encouraging the training of the employees, benefit of equal rights as members of society and professionally. in order to develop skills, knowledge and professionalism, shall Supporting these people in the process of integration in the ensure to maintain and enhance the know-how of its employees company and working with them in a cooperative environment, is through specific training programs. essential to our entrepreneurial culture. Health and Labour Protection Child Labour The safety in the workplace and the health of our employees are of We condemn child labour and respect childrenʼs rights. high priority to us. Palladio Group meets the national standards for a safe and hygienic working environment and, on this regard, takes Fairness of the Working Conditions appropriate measures to ensure its employees' health and safety at The salary and social benefits available to our employees work and the working conditions are not harmful to their health. The correspond, at least, to the minimum national or local legal enforcement of OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 regulations ensure the standards, to the provisions of the respective agreements. Over 70% highest safety standards, in compliance with the laws in force and of our employees benefit a superminimum wage (above the legal with the constant surveillance of the environment. minimum wage). We respect the national legislation in relation to working time and annual leave. Page 50 Sustainability Report 2016 Ethics and Integrity ‒ Section 7 Environment Suppliers Palladio Group, through its policies (Quality, Environmental, Safety Palladio Group, through a process regulated by specific quality, and Sustainability forestry) and program management, is committed environmental and safety procedures, is constantly seeking for long to preserve natural resources by reducing the environmental impact lasting partnerships with its own suppliers .In this process Palladio of its activities. Palladio Group is committed to environmental Group undertakes to verify that its suppliers perform the required protection.Our certifications ISO 14001, FSC e PFSC show our tasks in line with our Code of Ethics, the tenderʼs specifications and environmental responsibility. These principles are included in the according to the environmental and safety procedures. various manuals of quality management, environmental management, safety, FSC and PEFC as well as in the relevant policies. Shareholders Palladio Group is guided by the principles of corporate governance, particularly in the research of returns and growth of capital invested Satisfation of the Stakeholder by its shareholders. Our growth and sustainability and, therefore, our ability to meet our commitments to our stakeholder, are conditioned by the customerʼs Partnership satisfaction. Palladio Group tries to build sincere and positive relationships with all its Stakeholders. To meet their needs, we cultivate a spirit of partnership based on Customers mutual responsibility, dialogue and interest. Palladio Group aims to provide products, services and expertise in compliance with the requirements and, at the same time, to Corruption anticipate and meet their needs. There is no tolerance for corruption. The data and know‐how provided by our customers and partners The relationships between employees and customers, suppliers, are treated with the utmost confidentiality, protection and in partners, and public services are managed with objectivity and compliance with laws and regulatory requirements. integrity. Any kind of agreement or any ancillary clauses in agreements relating to the acquisition of advantages or benefits for Sustainability Report 2016 Page 51 Ethics and Integrity Section individuals through procurement, allocation, delivery, performance and payment of commissions is forbidden. Transparency and Trust Transparency, honest communication and openness to dialogue are hallmarks of our communication programs. Our goal is to provide reliable and relevant information to enable an objective assessment of our management of the environment, finance, corporate and social performance. Profitability We act and decide targeting the profitability; this is to ensure growth and financial autonomy. It is our duty to achieve and maintain high returns for our shareholders, employees and all our stakeholders. Integrity All our decisions are based on honesty, integrity and loyalty in the scrupulous observance of all the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates. Page 52 Sustainability Report 2016 Ethics and Integrity ‒ Section 7 The Ethic Code At the end of the year 2013, on the occasion of the new issue of the Code of Ethics (integrated with the new procedure whistle-blowing) Issued and approved by the Board of Directors in July 2009, it has all our employees have been trained on the ethic code. Refresh been subject to some minor modification to make it compliant with training was provided in 2015. the changes that took place in the legislation, however its meaning and usefulness remains the very same, in fact still encloses the values Palladio Group refuses to be an accomplice, even indirectly, in the and principles that inspire and orientate the act of Palladio Group abuse of human rights. For this reason the organisation exercises its towards its stakeholders. control over companies with which it collaborates for work The Code is a fundamental feature of the terms of employment: all performance and / or service, making sure that our suppliers of employees are in fact committed to engage a conduct in line with goods and/or services are aware of our commitment to this cause the Code. Palladio Group also requires, in the mandates and service and they must share the principles and values set out in our Code of contracts that the suppliers adhere to the contents of the Ethic Code. Ethics. The Code allows anyone becoming aware of violations of the Codeʼs We require, as per our procedures, that all the suppliers (contractors), principles to report them (Whistle-blowing procedure) to the selected to carry out work within our premises, must demonstrate to Groupʼs Ethics Committee be in possession of documentation certifying compliance with During the year 2015 the Ethics Committee received 3 complaints legislative and contractual obligations towards their employees. that have been resolved without any specific intervention. They also have to be in compliance with the corporateʼs social responsibility and the good practice standards lay down by the The Ethic Code can be downloaded, both in Italian and English, from Environmental and health & safety management system of Palladio our website: http://www.palladiogroup.com. Same was also Group. translated in the languages of the countries where Palladio Group is; a copy was given to all employees (and from each of them Since the Corporate Social Responsibility is one of the basic undersigned) and made available on the company's intranet site. principles on which our group is based, we have started a process to assess the Suppliers commitment to social responsibility. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 53 Ethics and Integrity Section In order to raise the suppliersʼ awareness and to verify that they carry out their activities in accordance with the principles of ethics and of During the reporting period, we didnʼt refuse any contract, we have business management a letter and a specific questionnaire were sent not imposed particular performance conditions nor have we to all of them. This activity, which began in 2012 with the main subjected our suppliers, contractors and other business partners to suppliers of raw materials and the main contractors, became a any action following the assessment of respect for human rights standard so that now, every new supplier is also assessed on these criteria. As the qualification and evaluation of suppliers is based on verification of technical, economic and organizational requirements, compliance with environmental standards, safety and social Corporateʼs responsibility, as well as the acceptance of the Group's Code of Ethics, in the course of 2015, we started to send to all our suppliers a specific document (Code of Conduct) that asks the respect of values and ethical principles. Through this code we intend to encourage our suppliers to understand and respect what in it reported to allow, through compliance with these criteria, the continuation of the supply relationship according to clear and transparent codes of conduct. Consequently, we not only require a responsible attitude towards Palladio Group, but also an obligation to respect the same commitments within the supplierʼs company. Page 54 Sustainability Report 2016 Ethics and Integrity ‒ Section 7 Our commitment on the Minerals Conflictʻs issue initiating an investigation into some of our suppliers to explore the topic conflict minerals and received confirmation that in their In July 2010, the US Congress brought as part of human rights production processes no use is made of materials mined in conflict violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and areas neighbouring countries (collectively, the DRC )the mining and trading of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold ( minerals coming from conflict areas ). United States approved a new regulation, called the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires companies based in America and in all other countries, to make public any possible use of so-called Conflict Minerals extracted in the mines of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and associated countries. G4 ‒ 57 / G4 ‒ 58 Palladio Group has a zero tolerance attitude toward corruption. The In August 2012, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in value that guides our choices is based on meritocracy and ethics, accordance with the requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, has rewarding our employees only in accordance with these principles. adopted final rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 This principle is taken into account in the management of our (Exchange Act) issuing a reporting warrant for the public companies customers, suppliers and any authority with which Palladio Group in connection with the use of conflict minerals originating in the has relationships. In line with the contents of our Code of Ethics, democratic Republic of the Congo or an neighbouring country, since 2013, it is possible to implement the Whistle-blowing collectively referred to as the DRC. procedure in order to report any unethical or illegal conduct. The The deadline was May 31, 2014. whistle-blowing procedure can be activated both internally and externally through the exchange and communication platforms with As per above, having Palladio Group signed a commitment to our stakeholders. (See G4-26) monitor human rights in our supply chain and also in order to comply with some customersʼ demands, we went into action by Sustainability Report 2016 Page 55 Ethics and Integrity Section Page 56 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Management approach and performance indicators Sustainability Report 2016 Page 57 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Page 58 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Economic Performance the strategy already established with other foreign plants to produce directly in countries in which the market is expected to grow by allowing us to expand as multinational. G4 ‒ DMA EC Economic Management Approach Such activities contributed, although indirectly, to improve the economic conditions of local communities in which we operate, and In recent years Palladio Group has reorganised its structure to better also generated value for our company. We also support projects in meet the needs of an increasingly competitive market by making favour of the community such as social, cultural and artistic activities many investments aimed to make our production more efficient and that are fundamental values to civil society, helping to improve the to improve the organisation by introducing innovative concepts quality of life of local communities in which we operate. In recent such as the lean thinking. years we have supported several local associations, national and In addition to the accomplishment of important projects such as the international, such as: City of Hope Foundation, Caritas, the Italian launch of the new printing machine at the Serbian plant, the Red Cross, Mission Ciudad Del Nino, Charity Water, Legambiente, implementation of the new flowpack process, the closing of the etc.. integrated factory project, we have also increased our services to customers by focusing on the solution of problems related to anti Once again this year the company has doubled the proceeds of the counterfeit products through various through various types of annual lottery carried out by employees donating them to various methodologies and innovative products able to assist the final user local associations as indicated by the employees. During the year we have achieved significant results, strengthening our leadership in the market in which we operate through joint ventures with other companies of the sector; we doubled our factory in Serbia and we are planning the construction of an additional facility, together with a foreign partner, in Russia. This project follows Sustainability Report 2016 Page 59 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ EC1 G4 ‒ EC2 As we are aware of the importance of ensuring a sustainable Palladio Group 2013 2014 2015 development of our activities and a more efficient use of energy and Directly Economic Value 63.510.353,39 66.055.508,11 70.348.839,00 materials on the long term, Palladio Group pursues continuous Generated improvement of its environmental performance and energy, a) Revenues 63.510.353,39 66.055.508,11 70.348.839,00 applying best practices which will improve the environmental Economic Value Distributed 59.114.349,00 60.453.974,73 65.822.717,00 management in a cost effective way. To achieve these goals, the Company adopted a management model b) Operating Costs 46.515.223,09 41.501.192,00 42.958.247,82 based on the preventive analysis of the environmental impacts of its c) Employee wages and benefits 15.462.135,00 16.148.111,82 17.048.524,00 activities and the constant monitoring of consumption and waste. d) Payments to providers of This approach has allowed us to identify the areas which need our 250.869,00 621.185,17 490.759,00 capital intervention to achieve an environmental improvement; we acted in e) Payments to government (by 1.831.094,00 1.931.595,26 1.738.329,00 this direction with targeted activities that led to progressive country ) reductions in CO2 emissions. To spread the culture of sustainability f) Community investments 40.697,91 69.059,00 37.205,00 in the company, initiatives to reduce energy consumption and Economic value retained 4.396.004,39 5.601.533,38 4.526.122,00 facilitate the recycling in the offices were also promoted awareness. Palladio Group is aware of the risks due to physical changes in relation to climate change but, at present, we believe that will not affect the operations of its plants and business decisions in the medium and long term. The company has, however, signed insurance contracts to protect themselves in case of unexpected weather events and has put into procedures a business continuity plan to ensure continuity of its activities. Page 60 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ EC3 Presence on the market Palladio Group, totally in line with the current regulations, provides a pension plan to its employees as required by the countries where it G4 ‒ EC5 operates. The most important operational sites (based on the high number of The coverage of the Retirement Plan over the years is shown in table. employees) are located in Italy and Serbia. The salary of new Year Italy Serbia Ireland Total employees in all locations of the group is on average higher than the 2014 3.309.039 519.089 54.384 3.882.512 minimum wage required by law without any distinction between genres and backgrounds. 2015 3.521.218 453.774 46.676 4.021.668 2013 2014 2015 Salaries above the minimum wage by law % employees 76,94% 78,80% 91,17% G4 ‒ EC4 Annual salary’s Increments in % over employees 32,52% 32,19% 33,15% In the reporting period significant financial benefits were not Economic benefit % over employees 99,78% 100,00% 100,00% received from the Public Sector. The Public Sector is not part of the shareholding structure. Benefit % over employees 11,98% 12,43% 13,29% Sustainability Report 2016 Page 61 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4EC 6 Palladio Group doesnʼt have a specific policy regarding the global Indirect Economic Impacts recruitment of staff residing in the vicinity of establishments; By recruitment practices however priority is given to people living in G4 ‒ EC7 the vicinity where the activity takes place. On a general base the Donations, financial contributions and pro bono activities were managers and the employees of both the foreign subsidiaries and carried out during the year of reference in relation to a preliminary the various Italian plants have their habitual residence nearby the analysis on the needs of local communities or on the general public relevant local communities. interest. Beyond what it is included in the paragraphs DMAEC, SO1, The senior managers are those top-level functions and the local EN6 and EN12, it is reported that Palladio Groupʼs employees, communities are intended as the country in which the plant together with the company, have contributed, also during the year operates. 2015, to support, through donations, various associations of humanitarian and social nature. % of senior manager employed from the local community Palladio Group 2013 2014 2015 Anno Italia Serbia Ireland Donations and financial contributions 69.059,00 37.205,00 40.698 2014 100% 100% 80% 2015 100% 100% 80% G4 ‒ EC8 A systematic analysis of data related to indirect economic impacts is not present. Page 62 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Procurement approach G4 ‒ EC9 The Group favours domestic suppliers and, in particular, companies that can provide goods and / or services in the whole national territory. Most of the spending on supplies, for the three countries in which the organisation operates, is made from local suppliers, i.e. operators located in the same country and in many cases in the same region or city, where the offices of the Groupʼs companies are. The raw material used for production is defined by the customer, and generally produced / manufactured by multinational paper mills. We avail, as much as possible of local suppliers, as shown in the paragraph G4-12. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 63 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Environment have resulted in significant energy efficiencies and reductions in energy requirements.. G4 ‒ DMA EN Environmental Management Approach Reduce general and natural resources waste In relation to our activities, products and services we identify our Another important step in the policy of reducing waste is the direct and indirect environmental aspects and the related impact management of waste arising from our raw material (paper and factors. According to their significance we determine the most cardboard). Most of this material is in fact handled as a by-product. important ones, this is in order to keep them under control and This material is therefore collected to be reused or recycled at the prevent any risk for the environment. Our Register of Impact end of its life cycle. The organisation, in order to improve the Factors” provides an overview of the most significant activities. In efficiency in the use of materials and resources, also separates the this context, the applicable legal requirements and other various packaging materials (such as wooden platforms, some types requirements subscribed by the Organisation are taken into account of plastic, iron, etc.) Since 2009 Palladio Group has analysed its LCI in the definition, implementation and maintenance of the monitoring their emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) resulting in Environmental Management System. particular from: Specific improvement objectives are defined on an annual basis in ‐ Consumption of natural gas (direct emissions of greenhouse order to improve our performance and reduce consumption gases) resulting from any waste. ‐ Consumption of electricity (indirect emissions of greenhouse Goals that over the years have brought significant benefits as it gases) emerges from the data reported in this section. Several studies, aimed to define and modify the procedural methodology and the Verification of indirect impacts arising from our own production structural measures, have led to a reduction in consumption activities: resulting from waste. The implementation of these interventions, Consumption paper raw materials such as: home automation management of air conditioning, lights Transport resulting from the purchase of paper raw materials and various utilities supplying the production, use of LED lights, Transport resulting from the sale of finished products. Page 64 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Following the evaluation of environmental impacts (LCIA), in relation to the annual production, our consumptions were monitored to intervene significantly by establishing objectives aimed to: reduce natural resources waste reduce our contribution to Global Warming. The extent of reduction was determined through the evaluation of the Carbon Foot Print for the years taken as reference. Focus on Biodiversity One of the environmental elements in which Palladio Group pays its attention, is biodiversity. Of course we do not operate in protected areas or where there are endangered species, but through the adherence to the Forest Management Systems as FSC and PEFC , we confirm our interest in this field. Supporting the protection of forests and wildlife, as well as standing up against the illegal trade in the wood industry; seems only right given our kind of manufacturing. Our staff awareness in this field is very strong; the company promotes initiatives which directly involve the employees, and in some cases their families by advertising our sustainability activities through brochures, posters and visits to our facilities, all this is making sure that our vision and commitment in the environmental field is also shared with them. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 65 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Raw Materials Palladio Group works on a contract basis, on such a contract/purchase order the customer specifies the type of raw G4 ‒ EN1 material and supplier to be used (pharmaceutical packaging) 100% of the used raw materials,derivating from wood, come from consequently we must strictly comply to these requests , this limits resources controlled in accordance with the EUTR Regulation our possibility to purchase recycled raw materials. Being unable to 995/2010 (see also G4 EC1). 99% of raw materials are extracted from act directly on the finished product, we promote the concept of renewable resources.Thanks to the adoption, for some years now, of sustainable consumption with our Customers through initiatives the Lean Manufacturing which resulted in benefits and improved aimed to raise the customerʼs awareness to use recycled cardboard performances, we were able to reduce the overall environmental or to reduce the board grammage, this would help to implement: impact at a Group level. In fact, despite the increased production, A positive effect on the environment improved efficiency has limited the increase of CO2. A reduction of cardboard waste Raw Materials Used U.M. 2013 2014 2015 year -1 An economic benefit for the customer A rationalisation of the supplier's stock Board used kg 16.901.290 18.198.627 18.967.429 4,22% Greater flexibility in the orders production. Paper used kg 2.981.309 2.852.735 3.338.770 17,04% As can be seen from the table below, our initiatives originated Self-adhesive material used kg 92.731 89.354 108.904 21,88% positive results. In fact, during 2015, the demand for using recycled Aluminium for blister used kg 11.405 9.430 10.691 13,37% cardboard by our customers remained stable (please also see EN28). Total Raw Materials from Percentage incoming Recycled raw kg 19.975.329 21.140.716 22.425.794 6,03% U.M. 2013 2014 2015 renewable resources materials Total Raw Materials from nokg 11.405 9.430 10.691 13,37% Total recycled raw materials kg 2.510.036 3.791.475 3.918.578 renewable resources Total Raw Materials kg 19.986.734 21.150.146 22.415.103 5,64% Total board used kg 16.901.290 18.198.627 18.967.429 Percentage incoming board / recycled Product delivered kg 13.512.615 14.159.878 14.994.793 5,90% % 14,85% 20,83% 20,66% raw material used G4 ‒ EN2 Page 66 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Energy G4 ‒ EN3 Currently Palladio Group does not produce energy, this is only purchased, and therefore itʼs impossible to determine if this is In the composition of the energy mix used to produce the electricity coming from renewable sources. As per above we can only assume sold to the company it is estimated that about 34% comes from that same is coming from no-renewable sources. The energy renewable sources. consumption for heating production floors and offices during winter Energy consumption for production & air U.M. 2013 2014 2015 conditionind during Summer time is exclusively attributable by the use of natural gas (Italian plants and plant Serbia) or oil fuel (Irish plant). Specific interventions Electric Power GJ 30.185,4 30.221,6 33.922,8 have enabled a reduction in consumption, both at an absolute level, For the conversion from KWh to gigajoule it has been used the standard conversion factor equal to 0.0036 and comparing it with the shipped product against the worked Energy consumption for heating U.M. 2013 2014 2015 Natural Gas GJ 10.458,79 8.078,57 12.864,14 G4 ‒ EN5 / EN6 / EN7 Gas oil GJ 415,9 422,7 653,5 It is evident that the energy consumption in comparison with For the conversion of volumes in gigajoules it has been used the table in paragraph G4-22 of this report shipped products or with hours worked is constantly decreasing. hours This reduction was achieved through a series of specific procedural and structural interventions, or through acts to sensitize all employees to for greater awareness. The structural interventions targeted a modernization of the production equipment such as the The consumption of electrical energy is significant as it has the replacement of bulbs neon lamps with high energy efficiency (LED), greater environmental impact. This type of consumption derives the use of domotic equipment for the management of services from both the normal production and the use of compressors for air subservient to the production and Cooling environments conditioning. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 67 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Absolute and comparative % Furthermore, thanks to the adoption of Lean Manufacturing, we U.M. 2013 2014 2015 Consumption of natural gas Year-1 were able to reduce the absolute environmental impact of the Natural Gas Consumption Sm3 295.121 230.724 367.400 59,24% Group, managing to limit the increase of CO2 associated with an Gas used Sm3/h 1,274 0,974 1,453 49,10% Sm3 / working hour increased production. Gas used Sm3/kg 0,022 0,016 0,025 50,37% Sm3 /kg delivered product In terms of energy efficiency a series of specific structural and Absolute and comparative % U.M. 2013 2014 2015 procedural interventions or acts to sensitise all employees for greater Consumption of electric power Year-1 Electric power Consumption kwh 8.316.953 8.394.892 9.422.989 12,25% awareness have been implemented. The structural interventions Electric power used aimed to the modernisation of the production equipment such as kwh/h 35,915 35,451 37,258 5,06% Kwh / working hour the replacement of bulbs neon lamps with high energy efficiency Electric power used kwh/kg 0,615 0,593 0,628 6,00% (LED), the use of domotic equipment for the management of services Kwh /kg delivered product subservient to the production and air-conditioning of environments. Absolute and comparative % Consumption of gas oil U.M. 2013 2014 Year -1 We are also committed to efficiently use resources in order to Gas oil Consumption l 11.830 12.022 18.587 54,61% achieve a constant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Gas oil litres/ working hour l/h 1,380 1,247 2,238 79,50% which affect the global climate. Gas oil litres/ kg product l/kg 0,033 0,033 0,061 86,30% delivered We recently set new targets on total emissions of greenhouse gases for 2018 and 2020, representing an absolute reduction of 15% by To find solutions that can bring efficiencies we are constantly 2018 and 20% by 2020, based on 2012 levels. monitoring the indirect impacts arising from our own production activities such as: Consumption of paper raw materials Transport resulting from the purchase of paper raw materials Transport resulting from sales of finished products. Page 68 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Water We believe that water is an important resource, and we try to use it sparingly at all sites of the Group. To raise awareness among our G4 ‒ EN 8 / EN9 / EN10 employees on the correct use of this resource we have publicly supported a charity: water a serious and reliable US organisation, whose mission is to provide clean water and easy access to the As shown in the table below, the Groupʼs plants use only enough people and villages that are in difficulty. This initiative called Palladio Group + Charity: Water was aimed to engage employees with these U.M. 2013 2014 2015 % Year-1 issues, joining the initiative with a donation. The target we set out Wather withdrawn from mains m3 5.222 5.162 6.298 22,01% was largely achieved. Wather withdrawn from wells m3 1.336 1.162 1.328 14,29% Water withdrawn from other sources m3 0 0 0 Total water withdrawal m3 6.558 6.324 7.626 20,59% water not to significantly damage the water sources. This because in all the premises of the Group water is mainly used for sanitary purposes. There are no recycling / reuse methods in place. In 2015 have been consumed 7,626 m3, for a consumption of about 14 m3 per head. Almost all the water consumed comes from municipal water while about 18% of consumption consists of ground water, used only at the plant in Dueville. To reduce water consumption, flow reducers were installed to the taps in the toilets of our sites, simple devices that mix air with water and double buttons for draining water sanitation so as to minimise the waste of this resource. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 69 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 promoted by CONAI called Open Recycling and, from 2013, we Biodiversity organize ,at our plants, the Sustainability Days. Such initiatives involve our employees, their families and especially local G4 ‒ EN11 / EN12 / EN13 / EN14 All the Group's plants are located in technological / industrial areas, away from protected zones, from areas with a high concentration of biodiversity or where the species named in the red list UINC have communities. their natural habitat. As confirmation of our environmental commitment and consistently Palladio Group with the path taken in the previous years, in 2015, we participated to pays its attention “Clean Up the World initiative promoted by Legambiente, which to biodiversity by took place on 25-26-27 September 2015. supporting the This event, with the collaboration of the protection of Tourism Organisation of the Municipality forests and wildlife of Vršac and the patronage of PEFC Italy and standing up took place in Vršac (Serbia). There have against the illegal been various cleaning activities in the trading in the Path of Health located inside the Natural timber sector through voluntary certification PEFC CoC and FSC CoC; Oasis of the Vršacʼs hill and saw the and by purchasing only forest based products originating exclusively participation of about 170 people, among them, 145 students from from controlled sources. the schools of Vršac. In addition to the above, in order to promote the protection of resources and environment, we actively participate to the events Page 70 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Emissions The data for the last three years containing the quantities of raw G4 ‒ EN 15 / EN 16 / EN17 / EN18 / EN1 materials incoming to each plant have been used . In detail, there are the following incoming materials: The following environmental aspects have been identified and taken  Cardboard boxes for processing in the line; into account :  Paper for for leaflets in line processes ; Scope 1) Emissions of greenhouse gases due to the combustion of  Self-adhesive Labels for stickers production; natural gas and diesel fuel in the plants for premises  Inbound Travel (for the supply of raw materials of paper and heating (direct and controllable emissions ); cardboard) and output (for delivery of finished products) For each plant, the consumption of natural gas and diesel (invoices) from all plants of the Group. for the last three years has been used. Scope 2) Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of electricity in the plants (indirect emissions);The energy consumption data (invoices),issued the last three years,have been used. Scope 3) Greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of raw ̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲ Scope 1 refers to emissions and absorption of direct greenhouse gas, Scope 2 refers to materials incoming to the production cycle and from the greenhouse gas indirect emissions associated with the use of energy, Scope 3 are other transportation of raw materials and finished products indirect emissions, for further details please refer to the definitions of the Greenhouse Gas (other indirect emissions); Protocol ( www.ghgprotocol.org). Sustainability Report 2016 Page 71 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Total CO2 Emissions and comparison between the groupʼs plants The following graphs compare the total emissions, the emissions at each plant and the emission percentage breakdown according to the different sources. Picture 2 Total CO2 emissions by plant Picture 1 Total CO2 emissions in the three years Picture 3 ‒ Total CO2 emissions evaluation of the contribution of different sources Page 72 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 CO2 Emissions due to raw material and finished products distance, was calculated the mileage over the three years transportation individually for Pontedera, Tullamore and Vrsac, overall for the two plants Vicenza. It was then possible to determine the emission of greenhouse gases generated by the Pontedera, Tullamore, Vršac plants and for the two factories located in Vicenza. During the evaluation of the data for the calculation on the CO2 emissions related to transportation (raw materials and finished products) were considered the tons of CO2 over the tons of finished product. Picture 4 shows the total emissions, while picture 5 shows the emission by plant inclusive of the variation which occurred in the last three years. Picture 4 ‒ total emissions of tCO2 due to transports The amount of CO2 emitted per kilometre travelled was calculated using the values provided by ANPA (National Agency for Environment Protection). Travels to and from the plant With regard to inbound travel, we calculated, considering the records (shipping documents), the distances travelled, over the three years, for the deliveries of raw materials to the plants: individually for Picture 5 emissions of tCO2 due to transports for each plant Pontedera, Tullamore and Vrsac, overall for the two plants Vicenza. In relation to travel in output, based on the number of trips and their Sustainability Report 2016 Page 73 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 CO2 Emissions resulting from raw material processing (paper, provided by paper mills weighed on the amount of raw material cardboard and other paper material) incoming to the process purchased and the difference between the purchased material and production waste. The total emissions are shown by Picture 6, while picture 7 reports the CO2 emissions for each plant with the changes that occurred in the last three years. Picture 6 ‒total tCO2 emissions originated by raw material processing For the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of paper materials employed in the plants of Palladio Group we considered the value of CO2 emissions per ton of raw material Picture 7 total tCO2 emissions d originated by use to raw material processing for each plant produced, provided by different paper mills. Specifically the emission of CO2 was weighed according to the amount of material taken. If the supplier has not sent / delivered the value per ton of CO2 we applied the highest value available. We also note that CO2 emissions considered and referred to as CO2 from processing is derived from the product of the conversion index Page 74 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 CO2 Emissions originated from Natural Gas and Heating Oil Picture 8 total tCO2 emissions originated by fossil fuels Picture 9 total tCO2 emissions originated by fossil fuels for each plant As stated above, natural gas is consumed for premises heating of the Italian and Serbian plants while the Irish plant uses for the same purpose oil fuel. Based on the data from the invoice relating to the consumption of each plant were calculated emissions of individual production units. The total emissions are shown by Picture 8, while picture 9 reports the CO2 emissions for each plant with the changes occurred in the last three years. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 75 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 CO2 Emissions originated from Electric Power consumption Picture 10 total tCO2 emissions originated by electric power Picture 11 total tCO2 emissions originated by electric power for each plant The amount of CO2 released into the environment has been determined through the transformation of consumption (expressed in kWh) in Equivalent Tons of CO2 through the application of a conversion factor, specific to the country in object, as recommended by the IEA (International Energy Agency report CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2015 Edition”) Page 76 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Carbon Footprint Carbon footprint fuel tCO2/ton product delivered 0,044 0,033 0,048 In recent years, thanks to a series of activities aimed to define and Carbon footprint electric power tCO2/ton product delivered 0,285 0,276 0,292 modify the procedural methods and the structural intervention that 0,827 Carbon footprint paper and board production tCO2/ton product delivered 0,798 0,800 would allow a reduction in consumption resulting from any energy Carbon footprint Transportation tCO2/ton product delivered 0,139 0,142 0,172 waste, we avoided to increase the Greenhouse Gas emission Carbon Footprint (from all sources) tCO2/ton product delivered 1,267 1,251 1,339 (measured on all sources). The foregoing despite the enlargements of the plants, the LAST YEAR VARIATIONS implementation of additional production lines, the production Data reference EXPRESSED EXPRESSED IN % IN tCO2 differentiation and the increase of the business that have led to an CO2 Emissions 0,048 2411,09 increase in energy consumption. direct CO2 emissions 0,292 267,83 from fossil fuels The following tables show the data for each source unit during the indirect emissions of CO2 eq 0,827 594,32 reporting period. (i.e. generated by the provider ep) UNIT DATA CARBON FOOTPRINT indirect emissions of CO2 Unit of 0,172 1068,44 Data reference YEAR 2013 YEAR 2014 YEAR 2015 from paper and paperboard production (finished product) measure indirect emissions of CO2 CO2 Emissions tonCO2 17.114,03 17.719,48 20.075,65 1,339 480,50 from transportation direct CO2 tonCO2 589,40 468,03 725,90 Carbon footprint fuel 50,22% emissions from fossil fuels (natural gas) indirect emissions of CO2eq Carbon footprint electric power 6,89% tonCO2 3.851,18 3.910,15 4.373,79 (i.e. generated by the provider ep) Carbon footprint paper and board production 3,34% indirect emissions of CO2 from paper and paperboard production tonCO2 10.788,73 11.328,93 12.395,08 Carbon footprint Transportation 16,04% ( as finished product) Carbon Footprint (from all sources) 6,82% indirect emissions of CO2 tonCO2 1.884,72 2.012,37 2.580,88 from transportation Sustainability Report 2016 Page 77 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ EN 20/EN21 Palladio Group has no significant emissions into the atmosphere for U.M. 2013 2014 2015 % Year-1 which the competent authorities prescribed monitoring activities. Total waste produced kg 3.027.174 3.356.437 3.640.979 8,48 Therefore emissions of harmful ozone-depleting substances are not Total raw material waste (*) kg 6.462.714 6.980.838 7.420.310 6,30 measured. Total waste retrieved (R) kg 2.864.631 3.098.810 3.411.780 10,10 hazardous waste kg 170.241 147.650 103.147 -30,14 % hazardous waste on total % 5,624 4,399 2,833 -35,60 waste generated Drain, waste non-hazardous waste kg 2.856.933 3.208.787 3.537.832 10,25 Waste directly related to kg 263.348 223.730 211.753 -5,35 production Production waste / raw G4 ‒ EN 22 kg/kg 0,013 0,011 0,009 -10,74 materials taken The wastewaters are not measured because they are only those Total waste / raw materials % 15,15% 15,87% 16,24% 2,31 taken resulting from the use of toilets and therefore are treated as Total hazardous waste / raw domestic sewage. % 0,009 0,007 0,46% -34,11 materials taken (*)Note: part of the raw material waste is sent, by the paper mills, for recycling or reuse. G4 ‒ EN 23 Palladio Group follows a clear strategy for waste management. The G4 ‒ EN 24 objective is to prevent and reduce the amount of waste so that the No significant spills recorded over the three years global environmental impact related to the waste remains minimal. Page 78 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ EN 25 The quantities of hazardous waste produced in the last three years Palladio Group is just a waste producer, not a dealer. We do not show a reduction percentage in relation to the quantity of raw deliver, import, export or treat waste. All waste is disposed of and materials taken / used for the production. recycled by the authorized waste disposal companies. After the waste has been collected from our premises it is delivered (via road U.M. 2013 2014 2015 Total produced waste kg 3.027.174 3.356.437 3.640.979 transport) to local deposits where it will be treated. The chart below shows the percentage of waste and raw material non Hazardous waste kg 2.856.933 3.208.787 3.537.832 waste compared to the total quantity of raw material taken for Hazardous waste kg 170.241 147.650 103.147 Total recycled waste production. kg 2.864.631 3.098.810 3.411.780 (R) Picture 14 ‒ Hazardous Waste Production Picture13 ‒ Total waste production Sustainability Report 2016 Page 79 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ EN 26 All waste / production waste are appropriately separated to be sent Our offices and manufacturing facilities are located in industrial areas for recycling. and have no critical issues on biodiversity. The production cycle does not provide water discharges. Conformity Products and services G4 ‒ EN 29 G4 ‒ EN 27 During the reporting period there have been no administrative or See EN2 criminal sanctions, financial and non-financial res judicata due to nonconformity or failure to comply with laws and regulations G4 ‒ EN 28 relating to the environment. Percentage of recycled product 2013 2014 2015 Product sold kg 13.372.935 14.159.878 14.994.793 Total Purchase recycled raw kg 2.510.036 3.791.475 3.918.578 material Transport Total recycled products and their G4 ‒ EN 30 kg 6.602.394 6.980.838 7.420.310 packaging The Organization, in order to mitigate the environmental impacts Percentage recycled products % 49,37% 49,30% 49,49% linked to the productsʼ transportation, is constantly committed to (recycled products /sold products) Percentage total recycled products optimize both the outbound and inbound travels. This optimisation (recycled products + recycled raw % 68,14% 76,08% 75,62% is possible through the procurement and the subsequent production material)/ sold products of the finished product in factories that are located closer to the Our activities, due to the type of material used, involve a productsʼ customer to who the material is delivered (also see G4-EN16) recycling system that stands at very high rates. Page 80 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 U.M. 2013 2014 2015 Expenditures and investments for Total inbound + n. 420.401 393.174 422.938 the environmental protection and U.M. 2013 2014 2015 outbound travels security Total inbound travels n. 417.209 389.561 417.002 Waste disposal, treatment of emissions, remediation, prevention Euro 259286,78 260583,83 210140,51 Total outbound travels and environmental management for finished product n. 3.192 3.613 5.936 shipments Safety costs Euro 204.177,22 201.001,06 210.798,46 Km incoming routes km 1.313.126 1.270.090 1.253.016 Km out routes km 1.334.354 1.556.635 2.372.258 Environmental assessment of suppliers and control and complaint management G4 ‒ EN 32 / EN33 / EN34 As per G4 -12 e G4 -13, since 2016, all new major suppliers are selected and qualified based on environmental and social criteria. General Particular attention is placed on suppliers of forest based raw G4 ‒ EN 31 materials on which are carried out additional controls. In 2015, the environmental management and protection costs were Any negative environmental impacts and possible complaints an estimated 210.000 euro, mainly due to the installation of cleaner related to the same impacts are handled through the documented technologies (implementation of new videoconferencing systems, nonconformity management. LED lighting, etc.), Training for staff directly involved in the In the reporting period, neither significant environmental impacts environmental management, external services, purchases of green nor complaints regarding environmental impacts were recorded. products, waste disposal. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 81 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Social performance Indicators  The assessment of our suppliers on their compliance to the requirements and to the principles of ethical work G4 DMA LA management Social Management Approach Since 2012, we are part of the Global Compact; which joins Palladio Group supports the implementation of adequate work businesses, UN agencies, work organisations and civil society, practices, in both the workplace and in all areas of its sphere of encouraging corporate social responsibility through the respect and influence. promotion of nine fundamental principles concerning human rights, The adoption of appropriate working practices is for us a moral work and the environment. They are universally shared principles commitment and we are sure that this, together with a strongly derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the widespread business ethic, helps the performance of our company. Declaration of International Labour on Fundamental Principles and Palladio Group always places people” first ensuring respect for Rights at Work and the Rio Declaration on Environment and human rights and denouncing any form of abuse towards their Development workers. The letter of intent signed by the CEO highlights our commitment In developing our policy of respect and promotion of human rights, and defines the objectives that Palladio Group follows at group level, we have taken into consideration the factors that contribute to with profuse commitment by all, for achieving these principles. comply with these principles: Our Code of Ethics together with the Chart of Values emphasises that  The protection of human resources which are the core capital Palladio Group adopted practices of respect and gratification to its for the companyʼs development and success. employees, enabling them to co-operate within the company  Sharing policies and business objectives system. This is thanks to all the form of protections guaranteed by  The involvement of employees in training activities to the company, such as: increase their skills.  The promotion of activities aimed to the integration of  The application of the Workers National Contract, applicable personnel. to our sector, allows the protection of our employees and the respect of laws relating to protection of labour. Page 82 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8  The free membership to trade union groups In 2014, at the Serbian plant, an independent audit was performed  Compliance with the Health and Safety At Work, thanks to by Intertek company. Same was conducted in accordance with the the OHSAS: 18001 SMETA (Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit) best practice guidance.  The growth of professionalism to our employees, through targeted training programs, implemented at all levels, providing know-how aimed to prepare them to deal with the customers which will benefit of an exceptional experience with the company.  The breakdown of employees by gender, age, minority group, as demonstrated by our corporate data  Equality of pay between men and women, in accordance with the job categories of membership. . Our personnel, on annual bases, receive a performance bonus to encourage active participation in the work of the company and to reward those that contribute to the excellent results of Palladio Group. Through a reward mechanism, based on meritocracy, employees are guaranteed a super minimum (or equivalent) higher than the legal minimum wage. Also the new employeesʼ salaries, in all sites of the group and especially in Serbia, are on average higher than the minimum wage required by law. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 83 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Employment G4 ‒ LA1 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2015 2015 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA New hires Men <30 8 5 0 3 New hires Women <30 2 0 0 2 New hires Men 30-50 12 9 0 3 New hires Women 30-50 6 5 0 1 New hires Men >50 0 0 0 0 New hires Women >50 0 0 0 0 Total leaving employment 11 9 2 0 Total New employees hires 28 19 0 9 Rate of hires Men <30 1,51% 1,28% 0,00% 2,38% Rate of hires Women <30 0,59% 0,00% 0,00% 1,59% Rate of hires Men 30-50 14,63% 2,30% 0,00% 2,38% Rate hires Women 30-50 26,09% 1,28% 0,00% 0,79% Rate of hires Men >50 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Rate of hires Women >50 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Rate of leaving employment 2,07% 2,30% 14,29% 0,00% Rate of New hires 5,27% 4,86% 0,00% 7,14% Page 84 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ LA2 The temporary employees enjoy the same benefits as those in a BREAKDOWN 2015 permanent contract. IRELAND SERBIA ITALY TOTAL 2015 Our benefits (See G4 10) are, for instance:  Provision of supplementary health care (in total paid by the company) women women women  Adherence to free prevention programs (such as vaccination men men men against flu, tetanus, etc. number of employees, broken down by gender, who were entitled to 13 7 5 0 0 0 1 parental leave. number of employees, broken down by gender, who have taken parental 13 7 5 0 0 0 1 leave G4 ‒ LA3 number of employees, broken down The mandatory maternity leave is up to all staff of the Group in by gender, who have returned to 14 7 5 0 0 0 2 (1) work at the end of parental leave accordance with relevant legislation in the different countries. number of employees, broken down All employees can take parental leave in accordance with local by gender, who have returned to work after parental leave and who 13 5 5 0 0 0 3 regulations. were still employed twelve months The Organisation adheres strictly to the laws and, if necessary, after they returned to work favours ancillary requests by granting holidays and leaves. rate of return of employees 100 100 100 0 0 0 100 retention rate of employees back to 100 100 100 0 0 0 100 work (1) return from leave availed in 2014 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 85 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Industrial Relations G4 ‒ LA4 Health and Safety on the workplace In the event of significant organisational changes, the Group will inform in advance the workers' representatives and trade unions in G4 ‒ LA5 accordance with what is defined by the European Regulation Each manufacturing site of the Group has active formal committees 2002/14 / EC, implemented by the Member States, in terms of for health and safety. These committees, consisting of transfers of businesses or plants (fully or partially) to another representatives of management and workers, have the task of employer as a result of a legal transfer or merger, the transferor and assessing, control, monitor and advise on programs for workplace transferee are required to inform the representatives of the workers safety. On average, the percentage of the workforce represented in concerned in due time , this means that , in Italy, according to the these committees is up to 75%. law (art. 47 l. 428/1990), the communication has to be made at least 25 days before. The Italian legislation establishing a general framework of informing and consulting employees is Legislative Decree. N. 25/2007, which implements the European directive mentioned above G4 ‒ LA6 In the reporting period there were no organizational changes and / In each plant there is at least one person responsible for the or significant changes in corporate operations. calculation and updating of statistics on trends of accidents. These statistics result from the processing of data in accordance with UNI 7249 dated 21/06/2007. The trend of accidents is periodically examined, both per plant and at Group level. Page 86 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 The table below shows the results relating to the reporting period. G4 ‒ LA7 The company assesses the risks and identifies the causes of the most TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2015 serious diseases and disorders (example: work-related stress, manual ITALY IRELAND SERBIA 2013 2014 2015 handling of loads, noise, use of computers) to prevent them the M F M F M F N° total work accidents 12 6 15 11 0 1 0 3 0 following measures for workers are in place: training, surveys of N° total accidents in transit 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 opinion, reduction of overtime, flexible working hours and N° total days of absence interventions on systems, equipment and property assets. These due to accidents (no in 299 425 409 296 0 113 measures aim to maintain the organisation of workplaces always transit) adequate to protect the health and safety of the workers, to create Hours worked by the Employees (excluding 786.023 867.909 853.737 564976 25490 263271 more comfortable working conditions and increase the efficiency holidays, illnesses) and reliability of the man-machine systems. All the measures listed N° total hours of absence due to accidents (no in 2390 3396 3272 2368 0 904 above are reassessed at least annually or at the request of the parties transit) concerned. % hours of absence due to During 2015, three requests for occupational disease were accidents on total hours 0,304 0,391 0,383 0,419 0,000 0,343 worked submitted.After appropriate assessment by the relevant government Injury severity index 0,38 0,49 0,48 0,52 0,00 0,43 bodies, none of these requests have been acknowledged. Accident frequency index 20,36 8,07 17,57 15,93 39,23 11,40 Absenteeism 3,29% 4,00% 3,25% 3,69% 0,96% 2,52% Hours out for sick leave 25.853 34.741 27.728 20852 244 6632 G4 ‒ LA8 N° total work accidents 0 0 0 0 0 0 In Italy, it is enforced the Decree n. 81 -April 9, 2008 Consolidation Act for the protection of health and safety in the workplace to which is added the agreement governing the workers' representation for Safety. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 87 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Memorandums of Understanding (MoUn) or formal agreements with We invest in training and opportunities for improvement because we the unions govern, in the National Collective Labour agreement are convinced that they are (CCNL), health and safety issues such as, for example, the essential elements for the participation of workers' representatives to inspections and audits on personal growth of our employeesʼ health and safety, accident investigations, training, employees. performance targets or commitments on the level of practices to be During 2015 our employees adopted, periodic inspections and the presence of joint committees have attended more than for the health and safety. 7.500 hours of training, of In the foreign plants, in compliance with applicable laws of the which over 3.900 hours specific on the safety in the workplace and country and not as part of formal agreements with trade unions, the about 800 that included specific courses of Team Working and same activities under the Italian sites are still implemented ,such as Change Management for employees, managers and executives . regular meetings with employees on health and safety at work. In Numero ore addestramento anno 2015 suddivise per categoria Italia Irlanda Serbia Totale Serbia an outside consultant has been appointed as the plant WSR impiegati operai impiegati operai impiegati operai impiegati operai (Workers' Safety Representative), while in Ireland there is an 1578 4050 25 183 493 1157 2096 5390 employee who is in charge as Safety Rapresentative. Media Ore addestramento anno 2015 per categoria dipendenti Italia Irlanda Serbia Totale impiegati operai impiegati operai impiegati operai impiegati operai 26,75 12,39 8,33 16,64 15,41 12,71 22,30 12,56 Training and education Numero ore addestramento anno 2015 suddivise per genere G4 ‒ LA9 / LA10 / LA11 Italia Irlanda Serbia Totale Average hours of training uomini donne uomini donne uomini donne uomini donne Year Italy % Ireland % Serbia % Total average hours 4631 997 183 25 1281 369 6095 1391 2013 14,07 41,87 14,76 15,09 Media Ore addestramento anno 2015 addestramento per genere 2014 16,58 47,69 14,75 17,13 Italia Irlanda Serbia Totale uomini donne uomini donne uomini donne uomini donne 2015 14,39 14,86 13,10 14,10 14,99 12,16 16,64 8,33 5,48 4,10 15,75 12,76 Page 88 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Training is not only a key element of Palladio Group, but also one of  Trade Union Relations Management the objectives that we pursue constantly in our daily activities.  Lean Processes and IT  Suppliers Strategic Management Safety Training  Public Speaking In order to promote a more interactive communication the Company  Customer Service Training has established the Circles of Security which are organised by the  Leadership and Innovation head of departments involving the staff. Within these circles, the  Time Management safety data together with the outcome of any complaint received  The role of the head of the department from the employees are analysed and any improvement opportunity  Change management is shared and evaluated  Team Building -CookingTo reduce the so-called abnormal behaviour among the employees Ethical Training we have adopted a disciplinary code that defines sanctions in Aware that the fight against corruption is a major global challenge connection with possible violations of company rules on safety. and is a major obstacle to a sustainable development; in 2013 we carried out training in this regard. This training, which involved all Professional Training employees, executives and managers of Italian and foreign sites, Professional training is also managed by: treated globally topics listed in the Code of Conduct focusing  Specialised technical courses useful in carrying out specific particularly on issues relating to corruption. tasks of the Group's business;  Training courses useful to comply with the rules in force; Environmental and sustainability Training  Transversal Courses for the development of managerial skills The staff awareness, in this field, is very strong; the company (e.g. Time management, innovation, negotiation, promotes initiatives that directly involve the employees, and in some sustainability, etc.); cases their families through advertising campaigns of our The following courses, having the purpose of skills' development sustainability activities using brochures, posters and visits to our ,were carried out during 2015: facilities. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 89 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 All this is in order to ensure that our vision and commitment to the environmental sustainability cause is also shared with the workforce Palladio Pensioners Group Palladio Group assists its employees in the transition from Weekly meetings employment to retirement, which sometimes causes problems. The weekly meetings attended by all the members of the Since a few years it also created the “Palladio Pensioners Group to commercial and production departments (made via videogive the opportunity to the conference) contribute to the formation and growth of the retired employees to meet and, competence of participants through the sharing of know-how held together refresh the binding of by executives. Such meetings are not recorded in the official record long working life spent within but their amount can be estimated at more than 5000 hours / year. the company. In this context, the company Percentage of employees evaluated on performance and career has taken charge of organising development tours, plant visits, theatre performances and other initiatives to At 2015 year end specific self-assessment forms have been filled in involve former colleagues. The same are increasingly called to by every employee with the purpose of assessing the knowledge of participate in the exchange of Christmas greetings along with all the all employees, enhancing or developing their competence, staff in the service and delivery of the Christmas hampers reserved identifying training gaps and being able to finally develop specific for retirees. and individual training plans. Over the course of 2016 individual Once again this year, for our meetings will be carried out to compare the feedbacks of the heads retirees and their families, it has of the depatment/managers against each employees self assessment been organized free trip t0 the Iseo , in order to identify any training deficiencies and to give annual Lake and the Franciacorta hills, feedback on staff performance.. with a guided tour of the historic centre and of the St. Peter's Monastery in Lamosa. Page 90 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Diversity and equality Porterage, warehouse handling).See G4-10. G4 ‒ LA12 The roles and responsibilities are well defined as reported in Equal pay for women and men documentation relating to the management systems and all our G4 ‒ LA13 employees are treated with social equality ensuring the same equal See G4-10. opportunities. The employmentʼs processing is through the recognition of qualifications of staff, experiences and skills. All this is in order to frame each worker in a befitting manner in order to pay Assessment of the suppliers' working practices and mechanisms an adequate salary for the work performed, regardless of any of complaints management discrimination. Managers and employees of the various Italian and G4 ‒ LA14 / G4 ‒ LA15 / G4 ‒ LA16 foreign subsidiaries are generally residing in the local communities As per G4 -12 e G4 -13, since 2016, all new major suppliers are of reference or surrounding areas. In order to promote and selected and qualified based on environmental and social criteria. encourage their career development, all employees are annually The service providers (contractors) are also subjected to further evaluated on the basis of individual or collective (by department) selection criteria (also provided by the legislation) in relation to performance. Internal and external training courses, allow us to employment practices. Any negative environmental impacts and increase the skills of our human resources to facilitate, if necessary, possible complaints related to the same impacts are handled exchanges between departments and operations of mobility within through the documented nonconformity management. the group. The above support the implementation of the company In the reporting period, neither significant environmental impacts policy to give priority to internal recruitment. The company, in order nor complaints regarding environmental impacts were recorded. to anticipate or reduce any negative impact due to redundancies, makes use of employment agencies for minor activities (e.g. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 91 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Human rights Performance indicators  In all countries where our Factories are and where we operate, the employees are guaranteed a working treatment G4-DMA HR above the average of workers present in that particular Management approach to Human Rights country. We also indirectly guarantee the respect of Palladio Group always operates in compliance with fundamental indigenous people and their territorial assets through human rights. As established by international conventions on the membership of the FSC Forestry Standard. subject, it has based its activities on the support of those rights. The  Disputes concerning human rights have never risen as a main points of reference were already reported in our Chart of result of our decisions or activities. Values. Our policies define at all the levels of the organisation and in all countries where we operate the commitment relating to the practices of respect and preservation of Human Rights. To confirm the above:  We maintain working relationships with suppliers that demonstrate respect for human principles  Any discriminatory behaviour based on race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, nationality or social extraction is reported, to the Committee of Ethics.  Child labour is forbidden  We donʼt accept any form of forced labour. Any required work, falling outside the normal working hours, is regulated by national contracts in agreement with the workers' representatives and trade unions, providing compensation based on the overtime worked Page 92 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Investment and Procurement Practices 2015 refresh training was carried out and involved more than 71% of employees. G4 ‒ HR1 Year H of training Trained employees % Trained employees 2012 44.5 89 20% Palladio Group refuses to be an accomplice, even indirectly, in the 2013 426.5 488 100% abuse of human rights. For this reason the organisation exercises its 2014 15 15 3% control over companies with which it collaborates for work 2015 406 379 71% performance and / or service, making sure that our suppliers of goods and/or services are aware of our commitment to this cause and they must share the principles and values set out in our Code of Non-discrimination Ethics. We require, as per our procedures, that all the suppliers (contractors), selected to carry out work within our premises, must G4 ‒ HR3 demonstrate to be in possession of documentation certifying Among the objectives of the company policy is the right to equal compliance with legislative and contractual obligations towards opportunities and social, racial and religious discrimination is their employees. They also have to be in compliance with the condemned in favour of the integration of individuals and cultural corporateʼs social responsibility and the good practice standards lay exchange. We are in line with the national law requirements with down by the Environmental and health & safety management regard to the percentage of disabled people employed, in order to system of Palladio Group. (Also see G4-12/G4-13). ensure equal treatment; Palladio Group also supports their integration within the Organisation through assignments of G4 ‒ HR2 dignifying tasks in respect of their disability. The conditions and workplaces are maintained / designed to encourage mobility for The training on human rights was given to all of our employees at people with disabilities. the end of year 2013 on the occasion of the issue of the new Code of In 2015 we were not submitted reports of discriminatory practices of Ethics (integrated with the new whistle-blowing procedure). During human rights. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 93 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Child Labour G4 ‒ HR4 G4 ‒ HR5 All employees are free to join trade unions or similar organisations, Child labour is not allowed in any plant of the Organisation. The without this causing any attitude of advantage or disadvantage in table shows the minimum age of employees for each Groupʼs plant. their regards (see G4 LA1). The trade unions have the freedom to ITALY IRELAND SERBIA carry on their business, within all Palladio Group activities, without Minimum employees age 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 experiencing pressure or interference from the Company. In the 22 23 22 21 26 27 20 19 20 Group companies, periodically, are held meetings with the trade unions (paid) open to all employees in order to support the right of With regard to the provisions of our Code of Ethics our main raw workers to the freedom of association. material suppliers are monitored through specific questionnaires During the year 2015: (see HR4) and all service providers (contractors) are controlled by There were no hours of strike by employees; specific statements attesting to their fulfilment of legislative and 492 paid hours has been spent for meetings with trade union ; contractual obligations. The percentage of members of trade unions is 17.14%. Our suppliers are monitored through appropriate control activities (guidelines and questionnaires), in which there are specific references to the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Forced Labour G4 ‒ HR6 We guarantee to all our employees appropriate working hours as enshrined by the National Contract; the work done in overtime is paid in accordance with the relevant legislation and workers participate on a voluntary basis to any initiative of overtime. Palladio Page 94 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Groupʼs working hours are determined so as not to prejudice the adhesion to the principle of non-complicity in abuse of human right of every worker to daily rest periods, needed for the rights, we are also committed through obtaining FSC certification, to refreshment of psychophysical and intellectuals energies. Every buy our raw material in accordance with the principles promoted by worker has the right to holidays and sick leaves as they require. Once the Organisation, including the recognition and protection of rights again our suppliers are monitored / controlled, on this regard, of indigenous peoples and other minorities forest-dependent (such through specific activities (please see G4-12/G4-13). as local communities). Assessment Security Practices G4 ‒ HR9 G4 ‒ HR7 The organisation, aware of its commitment to respect human rights, All staff (not only security guards) received specific training on periodically controls and reviews the human rightsʼ aspects relating procedures relating to human rights relevant to operations of the to all its activities. This is done through a process of formal organisation. assessment based on information provided by the Ethics The security services, which primarily relate to the night surveillance Committees and the various directors for all activities of the Groupʼs of buildings, are provided by external companies. There is no plants. In this way Palladio Group can correctly address the decisions evidence on training of such companies. of the Organisation avoiding to be associated or considered complicit in the activities undertaken by other entities with which they have or may have relationships. Indigenous populationʼs Rights G4 ‒ HR8 In Palladio Group there were no incidents involving the rights of the G4 ‒ HR10 / G4 ‒ HR11 communities in which it operates. We do not operate in countries Please see also G4-12/G4-13. where there are indigenous communities. As Confirmation of our Sustainability Report 2016 Page 95 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Human rights complaints management G4 ‒ HR12 In 2015, neither the Group's factories nor the work carried out by our employees (from either internal or external stakeholders) have been subjected to complaints concerning the violation of human rights and the. Page 96 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Society Performance Indicators In Palladio Group:  It is allowed to promote the development of roles and reward G4 ‒ DMA SO corporateʼs collaborators only in regard to the merits they Management Approach to Society demonstrated in terms of participation, professional growth, Palladio Group intends to be active and participatory in the achievement of objectives and a sense of belonging to territories in which it operates by creating better economic society. opportunities for the local community, supporting the improvement  It is not allowed to promise and / or offer (to managers, of the social and cultural conditions. Many were the initiatives in the Officials and employees of the Public Administration or their field of solidarity, environmental education and sustainability, which relatives) objects, services, benefits or favours of value in are considered priorities for our organisation. order to achieve an interest or an advantage for Palladio Social commitment has always played an important role in the Group. The offer of gifts or other benefits of nominal value corporate culture of Palladio Group, it is firmly anchored to our are permitted only if consistent with the legitimate uses or values and it is reflected in the daily activities of all Plants which are customs. programmed in order to mitigate the potential and actual impacts of  Parties, their representatives or candidates are not funded by our business. Prevention programs have been established and Palladio Group, and shall refrain from any pressure (direct or implemented to ensure compliance with the law, protect the indirect) towards politicians. physical, economic, and natural resources of the populations present  It is allowed to provide donations only to non-profit in the areas where our Plants are located. associations and Charities with regular statutes and Palladio Group has no tolerance to corruption. The value that guides constituent acts. our choices is based on meritocracy and ethics, rewarding our  We allow the sponsorship of activities which may relate to employees only in accordance with these principles. This principle is social, environmental, sports, art and culture in general. taken into account in the management of our customers, suppliers Our commercial relations are based solely on trusting relationships and any authority with which Palladio Group has relation. with our customers which choose us only for the intrinsic qualities of the product we supply our suppliers are properly selected and Sustainability Report 2016 Page 97 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 qualified. None of them receive preferential treatments and there are no agreements in place where conflicts of interest are exposed or evident. Those who collaborate with our company should see in us a valuable partner in business and be aware that our way of doing business is based on principles and values of social ethics, not based on monopolistic practices that could lead to unfair competition or which may be in conflict with principles of anti-trust. For this reason, from the point of view of fair Marketing, we sent tour customers and suppliers disclosure in which we present the commitment made by Palladio Group on Social Responsibility, aiming to sensitise them to operate in line with the our principles. As stated above, it is confirmed, by the fact that our company has never received any administrative or judicial sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Page 98 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Local Communities EN12). Palladio has always felt there was a deep connection between G4 ‒ SO1 personal well-being and job performance, an indicator that in the The Company has an on-going dialogue with the various local past was measured only in terms of productivity. institutions and other organisations in order to assess any significant Today we measure it by combining productivity with new ideas and impact that our activities and business decisions may have on the the desire to continuously improve can only come from people who community. are motivated and interested in the work they do. Following this The required percentage is not available as there is no a system of conviction and in line with our commitment, we believe it is essential measurement in use for this indicator. to organise cultural, artistic and sports activities for our employees in In 2015 Palladio took part in the event organized by Legambiente order to increase the integration and to strengthen the team spirit Clean Up the World”; this is a global environmental campaign held that makes us stand out. We believe that the above constitutes the in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Programme key to improving the quality of life, work performance and the (UNEP). company atmosphere In the national territory, Palladio supported schools located in the Over the years we have promoted recreational” activities in which areas where its plants are, giving away kit packages for the the employees can connect their professional lives with their private organization of the voluntary environmental day. At the plant in one. In 2015 we have implemented additional initiatives including: Vrsac, with the participation the schoolsʼ pupils, it has been carried ‐ Tennis Tournament out a series of cleaning activities in the Path of Health located ‐ Prize contest inside the Natural Oasis of the Vrsac hill. ‐ Schoolsʼ tours of our factories In Italy the schools of Schio, Valdagno, Calenzano and Sovicille ‐ Open recycle (by Conai) received the Clean Up the World kits with our contribution (see also ‐ Recreational activities for the employees' children Sustainability Report 2016 Page 99 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ SO2 related to corruption are not available due to the company size, an  In relation to the activities of the Group, the negative impacts assessment of that risk is not carried out. Our financial statements, is on local communities are identified in: subject annually to review by Reconta Ernst & Young which  economic impacts, which are related to the job offer and the determine and verify compliance with the regulations governing the purchase of goods and services from local suppliers; reporting criteria. In this perspective, any accounting operation or  logistical impacts, related to commuting and reception / transaction is based on the accuracy, completeness and freight transport; authorisation of the basic information for the entries. All payments to  environmental impacts, due to the handling/transport of be paid are appropriate to business performance and contractual goods and to the management of production plants rules and cannot be made to an entity other than the contracting (pollution risk). party. If employees become aware of any type of falsification or The impacts on the environment have been properly identified and omission, they must immediately report it to our Ethics Committee. analysed. The same are constantly monitored. G4 ‒ SO4 Anti‐Corruption The Company has carried out specific training to all employees, managers and executives about the anti-corruption policies and G4 ‒ SO3 procedures. In all factories of Palladio Group we have a zero tolerance policy All employees were given a general training about the new issue of against corruption. The value that guides our choices is based on the Code of Ethics (as a matter of Whistle-blowing) and the antimeritocracy and ethics. This brings us to reward our employees only corruption policies and procedures of the organisation. In 2015 it on the basis of that value. Such a principle is also taken into account was organized a refresh training that involved more than 75% of in the management of our customers, suppliers and any authority employees (see HR2). dealing with Palladio Group. Information about the percentage of business units analysed for risks Page 100 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 G4 ‒ SO5 founding of political parties or their members. In 2015 there were no incidents of corruption involving employees and / or suppliers. In 2014 we had to take legal action for fraud against two employees Anti-Competitive Behaviour 2013 2014 2015 G4 ‒ SO7 total number of episodes for which employees There were no legal proceedings for anticompetitive behaviour, antiwere dismissed or subjected to disciplinary action 0 1 0 for corruption trust and monopoly practices. total number of episodes for which contracts with business partners were not renewed for violations 0 1 0 relating to corruption number legal actions regarding corruption 0 2 0 practices against the organization or its employees Compliance who were fired. G4 ‒ SO8 We interrupted business relationships with a supplier for violations In the reporting period we have not experienced any administrative related to corruption and legal actions against same were taken. The or penal sanctions, pecuniary and non-pecuniary res judicata for above actions are still on-going. non-compliance or non-compliance with laws and regulations to No legal proceedings concerning corruption practices have been which the Group's facilities must comply. undertaken against the Groupʼs companies. Evaluation of the suppliers for the impact on society and Public Politic complaint management G4 ‒ SO6 G4 ‒ SO9 / G4 ‒ SO10 / G4 ‒ SO11 Palladio Group has relations with public institutions primarily As indicated in G4 -12 and -13, from 2016, all new major suppliers are through the national trade associations and consequently does not selected and qualified on the basis of social and environmental take positions on public policy and also does not participate in the criteria. Any reports or complaints related to the impacts on society development of public policies. Company policies forbid the themselves are treated through the documented Noncompliance Sustainability Report 2016 Page 101 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 management. In 2015, there were no reports or complaints relating to impact on society (in 2014 there was one case immediately dealt with and resolved, see G4-SO5). Page 102 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators specific training courses, weekly meetings and provides appropriate support and behavioural guidelines for carrying out the activity. G4 DMA PR Contractual relations and communications with customers are based Management Approach to Product Responsibility on principles of fairness and honesty, professionalism, transparency For Palladio Group high quality standards means meeting customer and cooperation in the search for the best solutions to their needs. needs in terms of functionality, reliability and safety. The Quality Over the years, our offer has been enriched and diversified, offering Management System, in line with the applicable GMP (Good the full range of products and services to cover a variety of solutions Manufacturing Practice requirements requested by our customers, for the pharmaceutical and cosmetic packaging. By investing in new have the responsibility to ensure compliance with the procedures technologies, research and development, and introducing ourselves while promoting a culture of quality across the company through to the customers as reliable partners it has been possible to achieve the involvement of all employees. all these results, and we managed to be closer to our customers and The customer satisfaction has a key role in the strategic vision of the focused on their satisfaction while still guaranteeing the compatible Palladio Group that is committed to developing its own products use and protection of natural and human resources. and services according to a customer-driven approach to business. Relationships with our clients are managed through a team of The ability to constantly be able to respond to the customerʼs actual commercial accounts divided by geographical areas operating as needs and expectations constitutes a prerequisite for creating and specialised consultants. maintaining the confidence needed for long-lasting relationships. To know the needs and the degree of satisfaction with products and We have also added to our team of commercial accounts a function services provided, we organise periodically numerous initiatives of of Marketing and Innovation which, through various communication dialogue with customers. channels (meetings at the premises, fairs, and website) this allows us The management of customer relationships and the ability to to offer a consultancy service specialized in understanding customer provide specific services plays a key role for the implementation of needs and developing bespoken solutions depending on different business strategies. The Group therefore it prepares for sales force needs of the market. Improvements were also made to the customer Sustainability Report 2016 Page 103 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 service function in order to continue to offer a precise, reliable and timely service to our clients. We also conduct customer satisfaction survey to measure the satisfaction of our customers and receive their valuable suggestions to improve products and services Page 104 Sustainability Report 2016 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Customer Health and Safety to each batch produced through appropriate statements issued by the Quality Office in which is stated the type of raw material used for G4 PR1 the production In general terms, due to the nature of products delivered by the Palladio Groupʻs companies, there is not a significant risks to G4 ‒ PR 4 customers in terms of health and safety. Nevertheless we have No recorded cases of non-compliance with regulations and decided to consider the possible repercussions on the collectivity, voluntary codes concerning information and labelling of products / therefore we have catalogued the life cycle of our product, and services. analysing and evaluating all aspects, in order to improve its manufacturing (see EN 16). G4 ‒ PR 5 The customer focus is of strategic importance to the Company. This concept has spread to all levels of the organization so that there is G4 ‒ PR 2 awareness of the duty to pay due attention to the demands and There were no cases of non-compliance with regulations and expectations of customers whose satisfaction is periodically verified voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products / through constant meetings and questionnaires. services provided by the plants of the Palladio Group during their life cycle. Marketing communication Product and Service Labelling G4 ‒ PR6 The Organisation has not adhered to programs, codes of conduct for G4 ‒ PR 3 marketing activities. This is due to the fact that these types of The type of product supplied does not require labelling. The Group product are not provided directly to the final user that could be the shall provide appropriate documentation to its customers in relation subject of any sponsorship activities. Sustainability Report 2016 Page 105 Management approach and performance indicators Section 8 Customers are typically contacted through normal business practices or through participation in public tenders. G4 ‒ PR7 In the reporting period there were no cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the provision and use of products and services from any of the Group companies Privacy G4 ‒ PR8 In the reporting period, there were no complaints about invasion of privacy or loss of customer data. Compliance G4 ‒ PR9 In the reporting period there were no cases of non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services from any of the Group companies Page 106 Sustainability Report 2016 Assurance Section 9 Assurance Sustainability Report 2016 Page 107 Assurance Section 9 Page 108 Sustainability Report 2016 Assurance Section 9 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 109 Assurance Section 9 Page 110 Sustainability Report 2016 Assurance Section 9 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 111 Assurance Section 9 Page 112 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 Annex and index Sustainability Report 2016 Page 113 Annex and index Sezione 10 Page 114 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 Annex 1Determination Table of the material aspects and boundaries Influence on Typology of the Aspect Material Aspect GRI Indicators Internal External Significance Priority Stakeholder Economic Performance G4‐EC1, G4‐EC2, G4‐EC3 X SI Economic Market Presence G4‐EC5, G4‐EC6, G4‐EC7 X SI SI SI Procurement practices G4‐EC9 X SI G4‐EN15, G4‐EN16, G4‐EN17, Emissions X G4‐EN18, G4‐EN19 G4‐EN3, G4‐EN4, G4‐EN5, Energy X SI SI SI G4‐EN6, G4‐EN7 Materials G4‐EN1, G4‐EN2 X SI Environment G4‐EN11, G4‐EN12, G4‐EN13, Biodiversity X X SI SI SI G4‐EN14 Waste G4‐EN23, G4‐EN24, G4‐EN25 X SI Products and services G4‐EN27 X SI Compliance to laws and regulations G4‐EN29 X SI SI Expenditures and investments for environmental protection G4‐EN31 X SI Employment G4‐LA1 X SI SI SI Health & Safety in the workplace G4‐LA5, G4‐LA8 X X SI SI SI Labour Training and education G4‐LA9, G4‐LA10, G4‐LA11 X SI Diversity and equal opportunities G4‐LA12 X X SI Remuneration G4‐LA2 X X SI SI SI Industrial Relationships G4‐LA4 X Antidiscrimination G4‐HR3 X X SI Freedom of association G4‐HR4 X X SI Child Labour G4‐HR5 X X SI Human Rights Forced Labour G4‐HR6 X X Safety practice G4‐HR7 X X SI SI SI Indigenous populations rights G4‐HR8 X Procurement G4‐HR10, G4‐HR11 X SI SI SI Involvement of local communities and relationships with stakeholders G4‐SO1, G4‐SO2 X SI SI SI Anti‐corruption G4‐SO3, G4‐SO4, G4‐SO5 X X SI Social Unfair competition G4‐SO7 X SI Conformity G4‐SO8 X X SI SI SI Customer Health and Safety G4‐PR3 X SI SI SI Product Responsibility Customer Privacy G4‐PR8 X SI SI SI Compliance G4‐PR9 X SI SI SI Sustainability Report 2016 Page 115 Annex and index Sezione 10 Annex 2Table of the coefficients used for environmental calculations over the three years CONVERSION FACTORS CONVERSION CRITERIA REF. U.M. SOURCES FACTORS DENSITY kg/l 0,82 What is described below is used to determine the CO2 emissions resulting from the combustion of gas LCV GJ/t 42.877 oil in the reference period (calendar year). The amount of fuel used is expressed in terms of energy content (TJ) and therefore the basic calculation formula is: Ton/CO2 = (t of gas oil x LCV x Emission EMISSION Fonte:http://www.seai.ie/Energy-Data-Portal/Frequently-AskedGAS OIL FACTOR TCO2/TJ 73.587 factor x Oxidation factor) x 0.000001. Where: the quantity of gas oil is given by the purchase invoices. Questions/data_and_data_manipulation_FAQ/#What_fuel_densities The other data are retrieved from the table of national parameters communicated by EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) OXIDATION FACTOR COEFF. 1.000 GJ/ LCV 35.014 1000Stm3 EMISSION FACTOR TCO2/TJ 55.841 Publication of the Ministry of the Environment, Territory and What is described below is used to determine the CO2 emissions resulting from the combustion of methane in the reference period (calendar year). The amount of fuel used is expressed in terms of Sea:http://www.minambiente.it/sites/default/files/archivio/allegati/emission_tradi energy content (TJ) and therefore the basic calculation formula is: Ton/CO2 = (Sm3 of gas x LCV x ng/tabella_coefficienti_standard_nazionali_2012_2014_v1.pdf METHAN OXIDATION Emission factor x Oxidation factor) x 0.000001. Where: The amount of gas used is derived from the FACTOR COEFF. 1 invoice data. The other data are retrieved from the table of national benchmarks communicated by the Ministry of the Environment (Emissions Trading Directive) GJ/ PCI Serbia 1000Stm3 33.338 AERS Serbia Fatt. Emiss. Serbia TCO2/TJ 56.1 IPCC (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventory Vol. 2) ITALY 324 Italy -http://www.sinanet.isprambiente.it/it/sia-ispra/serie-storicheWhat is described below is used to determine the volume of CO2 in relation to the electricity purchased emissioni/national-inventory-report/view (Page 409) CONVERSION gCO2/ KWH regardless of how this is used. The specific quantity of CO2 grams related to 1 kW/h (as provided by the ELECTRIC grid or by recognized standards) needs to be calculated. Through these benchmarks the amount of SERBIAN 724 Ireland http://www.seai.ie/Energy-Data-Portal/Emission_Factors/ POWER COEFFICENT electricity-produced CO2 is determined. The formula will then be: (amount of purchased energy in kWh x conversion factor) x 0.000001. IRELAND 456.6 Serbia http://www.iea.org/media/freepublications/2012/CO2Highlights2012.xls DA KM A GCO2/ A publication by ANPA (National Agency for Environment Protection) on CO2 TRANSPORTS Transformation from km to gCO2 GCO2 KM 712 emissions from road transport: 712 gCO2/travelled km ADHESIVE Transformation from m2 to kg COEFF. KG/MQ 0.107 Specific Weight Board 0.936 CONV. TCO2/ RAW MATERIALS COEFFICENT Ton. Carta prod. Paper 0.571 ETS data provided by the suppliers or maximum value specified in the table Adhesive 0.936 Page 116 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 Annex 3Correlation Table of the Report (GRI 4) and link with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact AREA GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE GRI INDICATOR Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in HR2 ‒ HR7 ‒ HR8 ‒ HR9 ‒ HR12 ‒ SO1 ‒ SO2 HUMAN RIGHTS their respective spheres of influence. Principle 2 HR1 ‒ HR10 ‒ HR11 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, not even indirectly. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of employees and the effective recognition of G4-11 ‒ HR4 ‒ LA4 the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 HR6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour LABOUR Principle 5 HR5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 G4-10 ‒ EC5 ‒ EC6 ‒ LA1 ‒ LA3 ‒ LA9 ‒ LA11 ‒ LA12 ‒ LA13 ‒ Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and HR3 occupation. Principle 7 EC2 ‒ EN1 ‒ EN3 ‒ EN8 ‒ EN15 ‒ EN16 ‒ EN17 ‒ EN20 ‒ EN21 ‒ Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges EN27 ‒ EN31 EN1 ‒ EN2 ‒ EN3 ‒ EN4 ‒ EN5 ‒ EN6 ‒ EN7 ‒ EN8 ‒ EN9 ‒ EN10 Principle 8 ‒ EN11 ‒ EN12 ‒ EN13 ‒ EN14 ‒ EN15 ‒ EN16 ‒ EN17 ‒ EN18 ‒ ENVIRONMENT Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN19 ‒ EN20 ‒ EN21 ‒ EN22 ‒ EN23 ‒ EN24 ‒ EN25 ‒ EN26 ‒ EN27 ‒ EN28 ‒ EN29 ‒ EN30 ‒ EN31 ‒ EN32 ‒ EN33 ‒ EN34 Principio 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN6 ‒ EN7 ‒ EN19 ‒ EN27 ‒ EN31 technologies. Principle 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-56 ‒ G457 ‒ G4-58 ‒ SO3 ‒ SO4 ‒ SO5 ‒ SO6 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Sustainability Report 2016 Page 117 Annex and index Sezione 10 Explanatory table of the contents of Report (GRI 4) Option “in accordance Core” Strategy and analysis G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐1 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer and commitment to the principles of the U.N. Global Compact G4‐1 G4‐2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4‐2 Organisational Profile G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐3 Name of the organization. G4‐3 G4‐4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. G4‐4 G4‐5 Location of organization's headquarters. G4‐5 G4‐6 Number of countries where the organization operates, G4‐6 G4‐7 Nature of ownership and legal form. G4‐7 G4‐8 Markets served G4‐8 G4‐9 Dimensions of the organisation. G4‐9 G4‐10 Number of employees per contract type, region e type G4‐10 G4‐11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4‐11 G4‐12 Description of the supplier chain G4‐12 G4‐13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding G4‐13 G4‐14 Explanation of the precautionary approach application G4‐14 G4‐15 Codes of conduct Underwriting G4‐15 G4‐16 membership to associations G4‐16 Page 118 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐17 Companies included in the consolidated financial statements and an indication of the companies included in the report G4‐17 G4‐18 Process of defining report content G4‐18 G4‐19 List of aspects identified as material G4‐19 G4‐20 Indication of the scope of consolidation for each material aspect (within the organization) G4‐20 G4‐21 Indication of the scope of consolidation for each material aspect (outside the organization) G4‐21 G4‐22 Explanation of the effects of changes in calculations significant changes from the previous reporting period G4‐22 G4‐23 Significant changes from the previous reporting period G4‐23 Stakeholder Engagement G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐24 List of stakeholder groups involved in the organization’s engagement activities G4‐24 G4‐25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to undertake engagement activities G4‐25 G4‐26 Approach of stakeholders engagement activities, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4‐26 Key topics and criticalities emerging during the stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded to those concerns, with G4‐27 G4‐27 reference to what is stated in the report Reportʼs Profile G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4.28 Reporting period. G4.28 G4‐29 Date of most recent previous report. G4‐29 G4‐30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). G4‐30 G4‐31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. G4‐31 G4‐32 Indication of the chosen option In accordance ; GRI table of contents; references to external verification G4‐32 G4‐33 External assurance of the report G4‐33 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 119 Annex and index Sezione 10 Governance G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐34 Governance structure of the organization G4‐34 Ethic e integrity G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐56 Mission, values, codes conduct, principles G4‐56 Management approach and Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐DMAEC Management approach on the Economic responsibility G4‐DMAEC G4‐EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, G4‐EC1 G4‐EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. G4‐EC2 G4‐EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. G4‐EC3 G4‐EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. G4‐EC4 G4‐EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. G4‐EC5 G4‐EC6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. G4‐EC6 G4‐EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for “public benefit” G4‐EC7 G4‐EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. G4‐EC8 G4‐EC9 Percentage of the spending on locally‐based suppliers in the most significant operation plants G4‐EC9 Page 120 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 Environmental Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐DMAEN Management approach on the Environmental responsibility G4‐DMAEN G4‐EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. G4‐EN1 G4‐EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. G4‐EN2 G4‐EN3 Energy consumption within the organization G4‐EN3 G4‐EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization G4‐EN4 G4‐EN5 Relative energy consumption G4‐EN5 G4‐EN6 Reducing energy consumption G4‐EN6 G4‐EN7 Reducing energy consumption of products and services G4‐EN7 G4‐EN8 Total water withdrawn by source G4‐EN8 G4‐EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4‐EN9 G4‐EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. G4‐EN10 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected G4‐EN11 G4‐EN11 areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value G4‐EN12 G4‐EN12 outside protected areas. G4‐EN13 Habitats protected or restored. G4‐EN13 Number of species of IUCN Red List and species in the national conservation lists with habitats in areas affected by operations, broken down by G4‐EN14 G4‐EN14 level of extinction risk G4‐EN15 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases G4‐EN15 G4‐EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions from energy consumption G4‐EN16 G4‐EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4‐EN17 G4‐EN18 Relative greenhouse gas emissions G4‐EN18 G4‐EN19 Reduction of the greenhouse gas emissions G4‐EN19 G4‐EN20 Emissions of substances that damage the ozone layer by weight G4‐EN20 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 121 Annex and index Sezione 10 G4‐EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight G4‐EN21 G4‐EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. G4‐EN22 G4‐EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. G4‐EN23 G4‐EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. G4‐EN24 G4‐EN25 Hazardous waste G4‐EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's G4‐EN26 G4‐EN26 discharges of water and runoff. G4‐EN27 The entity of reduction of the environmental impacts of products and services G4‐EN27 G4‐EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are retrieved, broken down by category G4‐EN28 G4‐EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non‐monetary sanctions for non‐compliance with environmental laws and regulations. G4‐EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and G4‐EN30 G4‐EN30 transporting members of the workforce. G4‐EN31 Total environmental expenditures and investments by type G4‐EN31 G4‐EN32 Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on environmental criteria G4‐EN32 G4‐EN33 Existing and potential significant adverse environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken G4‐EN33 G$‐EN34 Number of complaints received relating to the environmental impacts addressed and resolved through formal complaint management system G$‐EN34 Social Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐DMALA Management Approach on employees G4‐DMALA G4‐LA1 Total number of hiring and turnover rates age groups, gender and region G4‐LA1 G4‐LA2 Benefits provided to full‐time employees that are not provided to temporary or part‐time employees, by major operations. G4‐LA2 G4‐LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. G4‐LA3 G4‐LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. G4‐LA4 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management‐worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on G4‐LA5 G4‐LA5 occupational health and safety programs. Page 122 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 G4‐LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work‐related fatalities by region and by gender. G4‐LA6 G4‐LA7 Workers with a high incidence or high risk of accident or occupational disease G4‐LA7 G4‐LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions G4‐LA8 G4‐LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. G4‐LA9 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing G4‐LA10 G4‐LA10 career endings. G4‐LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. G4‐LA11 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group G4‐LA12 G4‐LA12 membership, and other indicators of diversity. G4‐LA13 Ratio of male and female base salary by category and operational qualification G4‐LA13 G4‐LA14 Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on criteria relating to work G4‐LA14 G4‐LA15 Existing and potential negative Aspects related to labour in the supply chain and actions taken G4‐LA15 G4‐LA16 Number of complaints related to the aspects concerning the work received, addressed and resolved through formal complaint management G4‐LA16 Human rights Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐DMAHR Management approach on Human Resource G4‐DMAHR Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or G4‐HR1 G4‐HR1 that have undergone human rights screening. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the G4‐HR2 G4‐HR2 percentage of employees trained. G4‐HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. G4‐HR3 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or G4‐HR4 G4‐HR4 at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. G4‐HR5 main suppliers with high risk of recourse to child labour, and measures taken to contribute to its elimination G4‐HR5 G4‐HR6 Activities with a high risk of recourse to forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination G4‐HR6 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to G4‐HR7 G4‐HR7 operations. G4‐HR8 Number of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken G4‐HR8 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 123 Annex and index Sezione 10 G4‐HR9 Number and percentage of operational areas subjected to screening on human rights G4‐HR9 G4‐HR10 Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on criteria relating to human G4‐HR10 G4‐HR11 Existing and potential aspects relating to human rights significant to the supply chain and actions taken G4‐HR11 G4‐HR12 Number of complaints related to aspects concerning human rights received, addressed and resolved through formal complaint management G4‐HR12 Society Performance Indicators REPORT G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION PARAGRAPH G4‐DMASO Managerial approach to a responsible business conduct G4‐DMASO G4‐SO1 Percentage of operational areas with implementation of programs involving the local community, impact and development assessment G4‐SO1 G4‐SO2 Operational areas with existing and potential significant negative impacts on local communities G4‐SO2 G4‐SO3 Percentage and total number of operational areas analysed for risks related to corruption G4‐SO3 G4‐SO4 Communication and training on anti‐corruption policies and procedures G4‐SO4 G4‐SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. G4‐SO5 G4‐SO6 Total value of financial and in‐kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. G4‐SO6 G4‐SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti‐competitive behaviour, anti‐trust, and monopoly practices. G4‐SO7 G4‐SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non‐monetary sanctions for non‐compliance with laws and regulations. G4‐SO8 G4‐SO9 Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on criteria related to the impacts on society G4‐SO9 G4‐SO10 Aspects regarding the negative impacts on existing companies and potentially significant in the supply chain and actions taken G4‐SO10 G4‐SO11 Number of complaints received related to the impacts on society, addressed and resolved through formal complaint management G4‐SO11 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4‐DMA PR Management Approach on Product Responsibility G4‐DMA PR G4‐PR1 Percentage of product and services categories for which the impacts on health and safety are assessed G4‐PR1 Page 124 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 Total number of incidents of non‐compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and G4‐PR2 G4‐PR2 services during their life cycle. Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information G4‐PR3 G4‐PR3 requirements. G4‐PR4 Total number of incidents of non‐compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling G4‐PR4 G4‐PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys G4‐PR5 G4‐PR6 Sales of banned or contested products G4‐PR6 Total number of incidents of non‐compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including G4‐PR7 G4‐PR7 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. G4‐PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. G4‐PR8 G4‐PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non‐compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. G4‐PR9 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 125 Annex and index Sezione 10 Page 126 Sustainability Report 2016 Annex and index Sezione 10 Sustainability Report 2016 Page 127
