YEAR IN, YEAR OUT: IMPACT IMPACT REPORT UPDATE 2015 WHAT WE’VE DONE for our customers and products 08 Products Case Study 09 Product Updates 12 Terminal Infographics 14 Industry Vertical Infographics 16 Media Infographics 17 Events Infographics WHAT WE’VE DONE for our people and communities 20 People Case Study 21 People Updates WHAT WE’VE DONE 24 People Highlights & Milestones for the planet 26 People Infographics 27 Planet Case Study 28 Planet Updates 32 Energy Infographics 35 Paper Infographics 35 Waste & Water Infographics 36 Performance by the Numbers ii Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents IMPACT REPORT UPDATE 2015 Contents 02 Message from Mike 03 About Bloomberg 04 Bloomberg Highlights from COP21 06 2020 Targets 08 Products 18 BCAUSE Highlights 20 People 27 Planet 38 External Assurances  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 1 Bloomberg ImpactBack to Update Report Contents 2015 1 Message from Mike. Since our founding in 1981, Bloomberg has been guided by the principle that making markets more transparent empowers investors, fuels entrepreneurs, and supports economic growth. As new developments in markets arise, we are committed to making sure that our clients have the tools they need to understand them — and act on them. Sustainability, especially as it relates to climate change, is a great example. In recent years, we have taken a number of steps to enhance the data on sustainability that our products provide. We’ve added Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data to the Bloomberg Terminal, purchased Bloomberg New Energy Finance, and helped advance the emerging Green Bond Market. But our products can only be as good as the information they channel. And for the most part, the sustainability information that is disclosed by corporations today is not useful for investors or other decision-makers. To help address this issue, I became chair of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) in 2014, and last year, I agreed to build on that work by chairing the new Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The Task Force, which was announced at the UN Climate Conference in Paris, is developing a common set of voluntary guidelines to bring transparency to both the risks and opportunities that climate change presents to financial markets, investors, and businesses. The market cannot accurately value companies, and investors cannot efficiently allocate capital, without comparable, reliable and useful data on increasingly relevant climate-related issues. The Task Force and SASB will help firms understand what data financial markets seek, and it will encourage firms to make disclosures in standardized formats, to improve the data’s utility to investors and others. By doing so we will not only help investors manage risks, we will spur global investments in technological innovation and clean energy. Making markets more transparent will benefit both the environment and the economy. Sustainability is important at Bloomberg not only because of its economic implications, and not only because it is a growing product line that our customers need and demand. It’s also important because we are committed to protecting public health and advancing environmental stewardship around the world — especially in all 192 cities we work in. In addition, our commitment to sustainability helps us attract and retain the most talented workforce. Market forces, combined with technological innovation, are the two most powerful drivers of change in the world. If through our products and initiatives we can help our customers make smart choices, we can drive economic growth that protects our planet and improves lives around the world. 2 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-2 Back to Contents BLOOMBERG IMPACT REPORT 2015 about Bloomberg. About Bloomberg Bloomberg News, delivered through the Our People Bloomberg, the global business and Bloomberg Terminal and Bloomberg Together, our Diversity & Inclusion, financial information and news leader, Media, including television, radio, Wellness, Philanthropy & Engagement gives influential decision makers a mobile, digital and print — Bloomberg and Sustainability units address critical edge by connecting them to Businessweek, Bloomberg Markets social and environmental issues a dynamic network of information, and Bloomberg Pursuits — covers the that are relevant to our business and people and ideas. The Company’s world with more than 3,200 news and our partners – customers, vendors, strength — delivering data, news and multimedia professionals at 150 bureaus employees, nonprofits, governments analytics through innovative technology, in 73 countries. and communities. quickly and accurately — is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional® service, Our Products Our Planet which provides real-time financial Bloomberg’s products and services By looking at our business through an information to more than 325,000 provide essential information to the environmental lens, we have been able subscribers globally. world’s most influential audiences. to reduce costs, minimize risk and We are a signatory of the United Nations engage our employees, while Bloomberg’s Enterprise Solutions Principles for Responsible Investment generating $81 million in financial build on the Company’s core strength, and the UN Global Compact; we believe savings for the Company. leveraging technology to allow customers that sustainability presents a market to access, integrate, distribute and opportunity. For Bloomberg, sustainable Materiality manage data and information across finance is a broad category that For this 2015 Impact Report Update, organizations more efficiently and covers all forms of investment-activity Bloomberg is In Accordance with effectively. analyses — from business, government GRI G4 Guidelines — Comprehensive The Industry Verticals group — and capital markets — that seek to Option (G4 Content Index and Media Bloomberg Government, Bloomberg integrate environmental and social Sector Supplement). Also noteworthy New Energy Finance (BNEF) and considerations with financial analysis. is the integration of industry-specific Bloomberg BNA (BBNA) — provides accounting standards from the data, news and analytics to decision Sustainability Accounting Standards makers in industries beyond finance. Board (SASB). For a full Materiality Map, go to bloomberg.com/bcause. *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-4, G4-8, G4-42, G4-EC7  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 3 Back to Contents Bloomberg Highlights from COP21 Michael Bloomberg, Our Company and Bloomberg Philanthropies at COP21 Bloomberg New Energy Finance Throughout and after COP21, Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) covered discussions during and the outcomes of the climate negotiations. BNEF provided its clients insight and analysis from the Task Force on Climate-Related Paris Agreement and the impacts on the energy markets. Financial Disclosures Read More Announced by Mark Carney, Governor of the Bank of England and Chairman of the Financial Stability Board (FSB), our founder Michael Bloomberg is leading a new global taskforce, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The TCFD is charged with assessing what constitutes efficient and effective disclosure of climate-related risks to help companies produce disclosures that are responsive to the needs of lenders, insurers, investors and other users of disclosures. Its members span private providers of capital, major issuers, accounting firms and rating agencies, thereby presenting a unique opportunity to form a collaborative partnership between Sustainable the users and preparers of financial reports. The Task Force seeks to capitalize on the work already done by regulators, policymakers, Finance Brief NGOs and other climate-disclosure standard setters to improve the quality and content of climate-related financial disclosures. Bloomberg Brief released a daily special issue of the Sustainable “What we will aim to do is to produce comparable Finance Brief during COP21. The Bloomberg Sustainable Finance statistics that are easily accessible so that the market Brief Special Edition reached more can then make decisions.” than 18,000 readers during the – Michael R. Bloomberg conference. The brief highlighted topics, including: key decisions, Read More solar markets, pollution, targets and pledges, coal and climaterelated risks. Read More 4 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back Back to to Contents Contents Climate Summit for Local Leaders Bloomberg News On December 4, 2015, our founder and three-term Mayor of New York City, Print, radio and television reporters Michael R. Bloomberg, and Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo convened more than 440 from Bloomberg filed up-to-themayors at Paris City Hall for the Climate Summit for Local Leaders — the largest-ever minute reports from the talks in global gathering of mayors confronting the effects of climate change. The Summit Paris, informing customers using framed city leadership as a key ingredient in an ambitious climate agreement, put the Terminal as well as the web, mayors squarely at the center of climate diplomacy and was a platform from which Bloomberg Businessweek and numerous other city and business interventions were leveraged. channels worldwide. Anchors During remarks at the Summit, Bloomberg announced the aggregate impact of Thomas R. Keene and Francine city commitments to the Compact of Mayors — the world’s largest coalition of cities Lacqua spearheaded interviews committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and tracking their progress — and with dozens of experts, whose one of Mr. Bloomberg’s main initiatives as the U.N. Secretary-General’s Special commentary suggested ways Envoy for Cities and Climate Change. Through the aggregate report and investors in renewables, fossil-fuel accompanying video, Mr. Bloomberg showed that Compact-committed cities can industries and markets were deliver half of the global urban potential greenhouse gas emissions reductions responding to the meeting. available by 2020. Read More The Summit concluded with the presentation of the Paris Declaration, a commitment by the more than 500 cities present at the Summit to deliver up to 3.7 gigatons of urban greenhouse gas emissions reductions annually by 2030 — equivalent to more than the annual emissions of the U.S. and EU at today’s levels. Read More Bloomberg Bloomberg Philanthropies — Ice Watch Carbon Clock Sponsored by Bloomberg Philanthropies, Ice Watch, an installation by artist Bloomberg News rolled out Olafur Eliasson and geologist Minik Rosing, consisted of 80 tons of free-floating The Bloomberg Carbon Clock, blocks of ice from Greenland arranged in a clock formation. Remaining in the public a real-time estimate of the global square at Place du Panthéon, the ice melted, visually representing the climate monthly atmospheric CO2 level. change taking place on our planet. The carbon clock projections are the result of two mathematical “Ice Watch is a great example of how public art can draw procedures – the “wavelet” and the Singular Spectrum Analysis attention to big challenges and spur people to action.” (SSA) Algorithm. – Michael R. Bloomberg Read More Read More  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 5 Back to Contents 2020 TARGETS Measure the impact. Accelerate the results. our 2020 targets Our founder’s ethos of “If you can’t we announced 2020 Targets; on measure it, you can’t manage it” is at the the following page, we summarize core of everything we do. In 2013, our progress. highlights We continue to have robust products and services, media outlets participation across our leadership and industry vertical groups. In 2015, we development and engagement programs. developed the Portfolio Carbon Footprint For the second year in a row, we saw Tool, which allows customers to calculate more than 80% of our employees the emissions of their portfolios and the engage with at least 1 of our social Water Risk Valuation Tool, which models impact groups and 52% (up from 27% potential asset-stranding and estimates last year) with 2 or more. We continue the effects of water risk on earnings and to make significant investments to bring share price. Sustainable Finance deeper into our bloomberg In the spirit of innovation, The projects we undertake align with collaboration and entrepreneurship, the challenges we are best-suited to impact accelerator the Impact Accelerator provides an address — those at the intersection avenue for our employees — across of technology, data and finance. departments, businesses and regions — For example, in partnership with the to use their skills to work with nonprofits Sustainability Accounting Standards and other partners to address societal Board (SASB), Bloomberg employees challenges. The program is a leadership helped develop the Fundamentals opportunity for Bloomberg employees, of Sustainability Accounting (FSA) while also making an impact that far Credential, a professional certification to exceeds the boundaries of our day-to-day help professionals learn how to effectively business efforts. use and apply the SASB disclosure framework. Another example is our work Over the past two years, we completed with Martha’s Table: our employees 22 projects with 13 nonprofit partners provided them with strategic business, with the help of 159 employees, operations and communications utilizing more than 106 skill sets assistance to improve services for and involving more than 2,000 hours. under-served families in Washington, DC. 6 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-42 Back to Contents 2020 TARGETS How We Measure the Progress Toward Our 2020 Goals 2013 Goal Target Baseline Progress Against Target % to Target Engagement Expand BCAUSE programs across all 17 offices — BCAUSE rolled out March 2015 to all 100% major offices major offices Establish BCAUSE Ambassadors to ingrain the 17 offices — Ambassador program in development programs into our culture Increase engagement of the global employee 75%, 2 or 20% 52.5% of employees engaged with population across all BCAUSE programs more groups 2 or more BCAUSE groups 70% and initiatives 90%, at least 50% 81% of employees engaged with 1 group 1 BCAUSE Group 90% Extend reach of BCAUSE initiatives 50% — 1,700 “friends and family” attended at to Bloomberg families, engaging spouses least 1 BCAUSE event. Data capture & dependents improvements in progress Leadership Development Drive Impact Accelerator participation 17 offices 6 We have projects in all 17 major offices 100% in all major offices Complete Impact Accelerator projects 50 projects 2 22 total projects completed since 2013 44% Incorporate BCAUSE engagement into — In progress the management evaluations system Product Development Integrate “Sustainable Finance” across 7 asset classes 1 Equities and Fixed Income are all financial products and asset classes integrating Sustainable Finance 29% Be the leading voice on sustainability in Most influential source 1 A leading voice in investment industry business across news and media platforms for business, policy & on sustainable finance, with continued 50% finance leaders progress in policy and business coverage Expand sustainability analysis into all major 3 industry vertical 1 BNEF and BBNA have expansive industry vertical products and services products sustainability analyses 66% Operations Reduce emissions vs. 2007 20% 186,483 2015 emissions are up 10.9% vs. baseline (MT of CO2 e) 2007 baseline -55% Return on investment 20% — 65% ROI on 2014–2015 Capital Projects 325% Cost Savings 2014–2020 100 million — $25.5 million in cost savings in 2014–2015 25.5% Direct clean energy 35% 1% 1% direct clean energy 2.9% Ensure that suppliers abide by Bloomberg 75% of suppliers — In progress sustainability policies & standards Clean energy projects developed by our partners 10MW — In progress Institute an internal price on carbon and allocate $20 target — In progress across business units for planning purposes How we judge $500 billion in new, clean in globalbillion $500 new, energy 50% of all Global 50% Assets all global of Under Develop the next generation Develop of global the next generation service-oriented 15 partners 15 partners (cust­omers Contribute to healthier, the impact of global cleanannually investment energy assets under Management of globaltoservice-oriented leaders address complex (custvendors) and ­omers cleaner and investment annually management managed sustainably leaders to societal address issues complex using the and vendors) committed to an more diverse our efforts managed sustainably societalofissues power using the & data, innovation committed absolute to an emissions inclusive power of data, innovation & technology reductionmissions absolute of 20% communities technology reduction of 20% Beyond Bloomberg, Global clean energy 30% of Global Assets The Impact Accelerator taps In 2015, Bloomberg committed we recognize the investment, according Under Management into our employees’ skill sets to the American Business Act on exponential impact that to BNEF, grew to are managed to work on social problems Climate Pledge, furthering our our leadership can have $329.3 billion in 2015, sustainably, according that Bloomberg, as a media, commitment to reducing emissions on our industry and 65.8% toward the to the Global technology and financial data 20% by 2020. 91 partners society. These are areas global target of Sustainable Investment company, is uniquely positioned (vendors, customers) have joined where we can meaningfully $500 billion Alliance (GSIA) report, to address. The program the pledge, 24 have committed contribute to broader annually. up 40% since 2012 doubles as a leadership to at least a 20% reduction sustainability goals. and 60% toward a development program. To date, by 2020. global target of 50% nearly 160 employees have by 2020. participated in the program. *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-42  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 7 Back to Contents BLOOMBERG PRODUCTS products The Bloomberg Terminal is the most powerful and flexible software service for financial professionals who need real-time data, news and analytics to make smarter, faster and more informed business decisions. PRODUCTS CASE STUDY Making relevant emissions data available to decision makers leads to better outcomes. Portfolio Carbon Footprint Tool Committing to the Environment Bloomberg believes in the business case for Bloomberg provides both asset sustainability, so corporate sustainability managers and asset owners with a better data is collected and made accessible to understanding of the carbon impact of asset managers. their investments. This enables them to comply with regulations and meet voluntary standards, as well as make informed investment decisions that are good for business and the environment. Understanding Impact Asset Managers can pair the portfolio’s The Portfolio Carbon Footprint Tool financial performance with sustainability calculates the carbon emissions of a data to measure the portfolio’s environmental portfolio both in absolute terms and impact. This informs them of investment against a benchmark. It then helps options that are better for society. investors pinpoint the sources of their carbon exposure — whether it’s a sectoral bet or a position in a particular name. This information can be used to start a Higher Standards dialogue about whether high-emitting Bloomberg makes this information readily names warrant investment, which available to clients to help them comply with facilitates the transition to a voluntary standards and upcoming disclosure low-carbon environment. regulations, as well as follow through on commitments to the Montreal Carbon Pledge. 8 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-42 Back Back to to Contents Contents PRODUCTS overview Our products and services provide opportunities — into our products and essential information to the world’s services. Our service supports the growth most influential audiences. Our primary of sustainable and responsible investment purpose is to serve our customers’ current by offering a straightforward way to and future analytical needs. Increasingly, access comprehensive, decision-useful Bloomberg integrates sustainability Sustainable Finance information and information — about both risks and integrated analytics. core terminal The Bloomberg Terminal is a seamlessly • Our Water Risk Valuation Tool – a integrated information service that provides practical, high-level demonstration tool real-time data, news and analytics to help with a focus on gold and copper mining market participants make smarter, faster, companies — illustrates how water risk more informed business decisions; can be incorporated into companyit also provides execution capabilities valuation models. that financial and business professionals • Bloomberg Intelligence’s special report count on. on the sharing economy highlights the Sustainability issues have become risks and opportunities for this growing material concerns for many businesses industry. and investors. Bloomberg has invested in our Environmental, Social and Challenges: Governance product offerings to help our There is a lack of complete, consistent, customers meet this challenge. comparable and decision-useful data that empowers the investment community • Bloomberg New Energy Finance and to value sustainability risks and Fixed Income teams now have full opportunities. coverage of green bonds. Green bond issuances totaled $46 billion by yearIn response, we continue to work with end 2015, up from the $37 billion investors, corporates, nonprofits and issued in 2014. government agencies to encourage disclosure on the risks that sustainability • The Bloomberg Pay Index tracks 200 of issues and climate change present to the highest-paid publicly listed company companies and markets around the world. executives in the United States, allowing users to drill down into the specifics of their compensation. LOOKING CLOSER: Bloomberg Brief’s weekly newsletter on Sustainable Finance offers exclusive news, interviews and in-depth analysis for the investment community. The publication focuses on sustainable, responsible and impact investment strategies, as well as industry trends like green and social bonds. It also takes on major themes like executive compensation, employee engagement and the business opportunities created by the transition to a more sustainable global economy. Read More  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 9 Back to Contents PRODUCTS industry The Industry Verticals group — • BNEF hosted its first-ever Asia Summit, Bloomberg New Energy Finance held in Shanghai, which focused on verticals (BNEF), Bloomberg Government and trade, technology and the transition to a Bloomberg BNA (BBNA), which are lower-carbon energy system. all web-based businesses, provide • Bloomberg Government further industry-leading news, analysis and data expanded a comprehensive Lobbying about the government, law, regulation Intelligence Tool that highlighted and energy. These groups dive deep into corporate spending on key legislative sustainability issues — to provide clear issues such as the Wind Production and actionable intelligence to help our Tax Credit and the Energy Policy customers navigate this ever-evolving and Modernization Act of 2015. increasingly complex landscape. • “Tech Companies Work to Curb Water Bloomberg New Energy Finance Use as Demand for Data Continues provides unique analysis, tools and data to Increase” – a special report by for decision makers driving change in BBNA sustainability reporter Andrea the energy system. BNEF’s sectoral Vittorio – received a company award products provide financial, economic for editorial excellence. Interviewing and policy analysis, as well as news key players in the tech sector, including and a comprehensive database of officials from Facebook and Microsoft, assets, investments, companies and Andrea took an in-depth look at an equipment in the clean energy space, increasingly important issue — the drive while their regional products provide a to reduce water use in various parts comprehensive view on the transformation of the economy, such as data centers, of the energy system by region. given increasing constraints on water Bloomberg Government provides supply. data-driven decision tools, news and analytics to government affairs, federal Challenges: and contracting professionals to help Certain data sets, e.g., government data, them make smarter decisions and stay require a great deal of standardization, ahead of their competition. cleaning and normalization to be useful and actionable for our users. Using BBNA is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bloomberg expertise, we are able to Bloomberg and a leading source of legal, surface this data in an actionable and regulatory and business information for user-friendly way. professionals. BBNA’s Daily Environment Report and Energy and Climate Report give prominent coverage to sustainability issues. LOOKING CLOSER: The inaugural Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summit brought together more than 40 leading companies to discuss Sustainable Finance, the Sharing Economy and the Emerging Technologies that are redefining business. Participants in the event included industry leaders like Accenture, Biogen, Waste Managment, Xerox and TD Bank. Read More 10 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PRODUCTS media Bloomberg Media includes print and covers global sustainability and clean (Bloomberg Businessweek, Bloomberg energy with a unique lens, providing Markets and Bloomberg Pursuits insight into and analysis of emerging magazines), television, radio, Internet and technologies, policies and trends. mobile offerings. These assets create • Bloomberg Businessweek published its a platform for syndicating coverage second annual Good Business issue. and analysis of sustainability issues to different constituencies in business, • The best-performing story of 2015 finance, government and others, providing was the data visualization produced by them with critical insights to both the the Bloomberg Graphics team, titled pressing issues of the moment as well as “What’s Really Warming the World.” deeper coverage of long-term economic, • The Good Business Conference in social and environmental trends. London, hosted by Bloomberg LIVE, Bloomberg Business, with reporters focused on challenging the status quo of in more than 70 countries, publishes business-as-usual to ensure prosperity, more than two dozen stories every day productivity and responsible growth. about how key trends are encouraging • Launched in November, Bloomberg companies and governments to hone Gadfly offers fast-paced, data-driven long-term strategies. Bloomberg View, commentary about the most pivotal the opinion section of Bloomberg Media, corporate financial and market news of has weighed in on many important and the day — with environmental topics an controversial sustainability challenges, area of analysis. with a primary focus on energy. Bloomberg Businessweek offers a Challenges: global perspective and comprehensive Sustainability-related issues, being insights to help business leaders profit long term in nature, often get pushed out from smarter, faster and more-informed of a fast-paced news cycle. We strive to decisions. keep these issues relevant and reported The magazine has integrated sustainability on in a timely manner. into every aspect of its news coverage. Bloomberg Television (BTV) reaches more than 360 million homes worldwide LOOKING CLOSER: Bloomberg <GO> is Bloomberg TV’s new morning show. Along with high-profile guests, the show includes segments and conversations about corporate leadership, environmental stewardship, philanthropy and sustainable investment strategies. Read More  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 11 Back to Contents PRODUCTS core terminal. than 16,000 companies with executive ESG Customers Bloomberg collects Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data compensation data in 69 countries. from published company material ESG data is fully integrated with all of and integrates it into the Equities and Bloomberg’s cutting-edge analysis Bloomberg Intelligence platforms. and tools, such as the Equity Screener Bloomberg covers more than 11,300 (EQS), Portfolio Analytics (PORT), companies with ESG data and more Relative Value (RV) and our Excel-based NUMBER OF analytical models, including our ESG CUSTOMERS 12,078 Customers Scorecard and award-winning Carbon 15,000 Are Using ESG Data Risk Valuation Tool. 12,078 12,000 11,730 Please note that we have redefined the way we measure unique users of ESG to be more stringent, doubling the activity 9,000 7,150 threshold required, to better reflect the increasing interest and diversification of 6,000 5,331 use and users. As the market matures, 3,849 we will continue to respond accordingly 3,010 3,000 by re-calibrating as necessary how we 1,545 measure ESG integration. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bloomberg Bloomberg Intelligence provides • Dedicated analysts provide insight in-depth analysis, commentary and into the latest renewable energy and Intelligence data sets on industries, companies and environmental, social and governance government, credit, litigation, economic issues and outlook, as well as related and ESG factors that can impact decision government policy and litigation. The BI making. This focused and dynamic ESG dashboard offers a one-stop hub approach to analysis allows users to for ESG analysis from across Bloomberg swiftly get an overview of an industry or Intelligence, as well as access to company and its drivers and competitors. Bloomberg and third-party ESG country and company data, scores and news. United States Carbon Emissions MILLION METRIC TONNES OF CO2e • The global COP21 climate agreement 8,000 reached in December 2015 in Paris reflects high ambitions to speed the shift to a low-carbon economy. Rules supporting national carbon pledges from 7,000 top emitters such as the U.S., China and Heavy Duty Vehicles Rule (Phase 1 & 2) EU are already helping shift investment Light Duty Vehicles Rule to lower-carbon energy and technology. 6,000 Clean Power Plan Additional efforts to meet climate Methane Natural Gas Systems Emissions gap of 419 million metric goals may further impact industry and tonnes to meet the United States’ company winners and losers. low-ambition target in 2025 Low Ambition Carbon Pledge 5,000 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 Sources: EPA, Bloomberg Intelligence 12 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PRODUCTS Green Bonds Marketplace Landscape More than $46 billion of new green bonds were issued in 2015, topping the previous record of $37 billion set in 2014. Bank of America Merrill Lynch was the top underwriter Underwriters* DEAL COUNT AMOUNT UNDERWRITTEN of green bonds in 2015, arranging $4.8 billion of corporate, municipal, supranational and municipal green bond deals in Bank of America ML 41 $4.84B both the U.S. and overseas. Bloomberg data and analytics, HSBC 21 $3.65B plus research from Bloomberg New Energy Finance, give JPMorgan 28 $3.55B users ground-breaking transparency into green bonds. Credit Agricole 45 $3.39B $46 Billion in 2015 Citigroup 26 $3.00B Issuance By Year SEB 22 $2.63B BILLIONS 40 Morgan Stanley 25 $2.45B $37B Barclays 19 $2.26B 30 Deutsche Bank 12 $1.31B Societe Generale 7 $1.07B 20 Jefferies 1 $1.03B $15B Goldman Sachs 9 $993M 10 Lloyd’s 5 $804M $6B $5B $3B $4B BNP Paribas 10 $779M $1B $2B 0 Wells Fargo 8 $734M 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: Bloomberg New Energy Finance *Most Active Underwriters Data for Good The Bloomberg Data for Good Exchange is a catalyst for the use of connect data scientists, both academic and industry, with the NGO, public sector data-driven problem solving for social and nonprofit partners that can benefit good. The goal of this initiative is to most from applied data science. Dreamers “The Data for Good Exchange will be an excellent forum for the data science community, government officials and the NGO world to Scientists Doers come together to figure out what we can do 500 better and more effectively when it comes to the use of data in our daily work.” — Oliver Wise, Director of Performance and Accountability for New Orleans Problem Solvers Thinkers  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 13 Back to Contents PRODUCTS industry verticals. Bloomberg BNEF research shows that global four key influences: an expanded list of clean energy investment rose for the emerging countries committing billions New Energy second year in a row, growing by 4% to clean energy; cost-competitiveness Finance from 2014 levels to a new record of oneimprovements in solar and wind; wind and third of a trillion dollars. The increased solar’s capacity share rise; and the lack of about.bnef.com volume of investment in 2015 reflects impact from low fossil fuel prices. 4% Increase to $329 Billion BILLIONS 300 16% -7% 16% -8% 250 32% 0.8% 200 18% 150 36% 46% 100 42% 50 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bloomberg The chart below shows the number of companies and organizations that hired The environmental issue with the highest number of lobbying registrations was the Government government affairs professionals to lobby Environment and Super Fund in 2015, Lobby on environmental issues. and the lowest was hazardous, solid, interstate or nuclear waste. COMPANIES 1,500 1,359 1,278 1,200 1,128 1,151 1,074 1,002 900 738 717 680 600 498 531 485 300 88 77 63 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Environment Clean Air and Natural Resources Waste Energy/Nuclear and Super Fund Water Quality (Hazardous/Solid/ Interstate/Nuclear) 14 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PRODUCTS Bloomberg Government helps the environment and related policy Bloomberg government affairs and government and regulation is critical for executives Government sales professionals do their jobs better. as these issues continue to grow in Understanding the nexus of energy, importance. Reports on Energy and Environment Regulations 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 EPA Final Rules 607 554 532 635 533 479 Notices 759 670 677 762 884 1,021 Department of Energy Final Rules 75 60 57 52 60 59 Notices 2,101 2,070 2,006 2,427 2,351 2,277 Bloomberg BNA BBNA is a leading source of legal, regulatory and business information for news, practice tools and guidance – the information that matters most to our Environmental professionals. Its network of national and customers. In 2015, BBNA published Reporting international correspondents and leading practitioners delivers expert analyses, 18,175 stories on environmental topics, up 13.6% from 2014 bna.com/about-us 4,091 Articles by Topic Articles by Publication 7,145 2,950 2,453 1,846 2,007 1,247 4,353 Waste Management & Cleanup Chemicals Liability Water Pollution 2,627 Legislative & 1,955 1,610 Administrative Climate Activity Energy Change 485 222 Environmental 828 259 Due Dilligence 1,063 888 321 Guide Report Species Protection Chemical Regulation Sustainability Reporter Natural Resources Water Law & Policy Monitor Water Resources International Environment Reporter Hazardous Materials Energy & Climate Report Air Pollution Daily Environmental Report  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 15 Back to Contents PRODUCTS media. Journalism Awards In 2015, Bloomberg News won its first Pulitzer Prize for Zachary R. Mider's reporting on corporate tax avoidance. Annual Number of Awards Distribution of Awards in 2015 167 3 154 154 153 16 Broadcast Businessweek 13 3 111 Markets Honorary 105 103 92 3 81 Corporate 62 Print 2 Photography 1 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Design Media Our media properties report on the sustainability issues that matter most to business and financial professionals. 16 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PRODUCTS events. BLIVE Bloomberg anchor Caroline Hyde addresses the delegation at the Bloomberg’s Curtis Ravenel interviews Mike Bloomberg and Tom Steyer London Good Business Conference to discuss the impact of climate change on the business landscape Bloomberg Good Business Conference Markets Most Influential Conference Good business drives innovation, creativity, growth and longBloomberg convened financial leaders in Hong Kong, term success — it also requires a different way of doing things. London and New York for a day of exciting conversation, The Bloomberg Good Business conference brings together networking and cross-border thought leadership. The Markets leaders looking to grasp the vast opportunities that focusing Most Influential conferences harnessed Bloomberg’s global on people, planet and profit can bring. footprint and unparalleled reporting resources to deliver cutting-edge ideas and smart perspectives. Bloomberg BNA Sustainable Business Summit In November 2015, Bloomberg BNA hosted the inaugural Sustainable Business Summit. The Summit highlighted the vital role the business community plays in establishing the foundations upon which sustainable development will be realized and took a future-oriented look at how companies are innovating through sustainable business models and adopting best practices and processes throughout their organizations. The Sustainable Business Summit showcased and connected senior business leaders, top government officials, influential media observers and other key stakeholders in conversations about these major issues. Bloomberg anchor Stephanie Ruhle interviews Cradle to Cradle author William McDonough BNEF Future of Energy Summit Since its inception in 2008, the Future of Energy Summit has featured a unique convergence of the old and the new — traditional players and advanced-energy leaders. It continues to create an environment for making new connections and serves as a forum to discuss the critical energy issues of today and the next decade. The 2015 Summit addressed topics such as: changing fundamentals and the value of electricity, the rise of distributed energy and smarter energy management. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon addresses delegates at BNEF Future of Energy Summit  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 17 Back to Contents Diversity & Inclusion Bloomberg Employees: Yunfei, R&D Brett, Information Systems More than 4,000 employees are members of seven Diversity & Inclusion Communities. Sustainability Sustainability makes good business sense. We’ve saved $81 million since 2008 by scrutinizing every aspect of our environmental impact. 18 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents Health & Wellness Bloomberg Employees: Kieran, Electronic Trading Solutions 2,076 employees engaged in 12,262 visits with on-site or telephonic wellness coaches to pursue their health and wellness goals. Philanthropy & Engagement Bloomberg Employee: Samantha, Diversity & Inclusion Amin, Legal Bloomberg employees volunteered more than 86,845 hours in 2015.  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 19 Back to Contents BLOOMBERG PEOPLE people 81% of our employees engaged in Diversity & Inclusion, Wellness, Philanthropy & Engagement and Sustainability efforts CASE STUDY Inspiring the Next Generation In 2015, Bloomberg Startup, our global education engagement program, worked to expand awareness of, inspiration about and skills in the fields of science and technology to students. More than 2,500 employees serving business journalism, college campus as Bloomberg mentors around visits, computer-aided design (CAD) Mike Bloomberg, Martin Volerich and the world participated in a wide and robotics with FIRST Robotics. the Harlem Knights Robotics Team. variety of workshops and programs Bloomberg Startup provided 58 high designed to inspire and support the school and college students with next generation of technologists and internships in New York, London entrepreneurs. Since the launch of and San Francisco. In recognition of Coding and Java the program in 2014, more than 9,000 Bloomberg’s commitment and longstudents have participated in Startup standing efforts to inspire students programming. Taught by Bloomberg and advance science and technology Literacy and volunteers, Startup workshops aim to education in underserved communities, Language improve college and career readiness Michael Bloomberg was honored by and are held in collaboration with FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition Bloomberg nonprofit partners in 18 of Science and Technology) at the cities. Programs included coding inaugural FIRST Inspire Awards in News Literacy and Java, literacy and language, November 2015. “Bloomberg’s hands-on commitment to the next College Campus Visits generation of innovators is setting a new standard in mentoring that is impactful, transformative, Computer-Aided and inspiring.” Design (CAD) – Dean Kamen, Inventor and Founder of FIRST Robotics with FIRST Robotics 20 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Backto Back toContents Contents PEOPLE overview Our employees bring a spirit of the larger world. Through our employee innovation and collaboration that has engagement and social impact groups, made Bloomberg the premier provider Bloomberg strives to achieve greater of key information for business, finance impact for our employees, our partners and news around the world. We are also and our communities. dedicated to connecting our business to global philanthropy Bloomberg’s Philanthropy & • In 2015, we expanded our partnerships Engagement program builds on the with customers, including Goldman & engagement long-standing philanthropic and serviceSachs, Citigroup, UBS and others, focused commitment established at the through opportunities to give back to company by founder Michael Bloomberg, local communities and small businesses. shaping our day-to-day operations and • Through Bloomberg Philanthropies, strengthening communities where we provide vital support to cultural we live and work worldwide. As a organizations in 41 cities worldwide, part of Bloomberg Philanthropies, with a focus on advancing creativity, our philanthropic initiatives engage innovation, access, and new employees from across the company in technologies in the arts. service activities in local communities, assisting neighbors in need, fostering • With a focus on environmental stewardship in cities where we have stewardship, 2,000 employees gave offices across the globe and inspiring more than 10,000 hours helping clean the next generation of leaders through a and revitalize local parks, rivers and diverse range of mentoring and education beaches in 21 cities. initiatives as part of Bloomberg Startup. • The Bloomberg Media Initiative Africa We work in collaboration with our (BMIA) expanded in 2015, bringing Diversity & Inclusion, Sustainability and together business and media leaders, Wellness programs through BCAUSE. academics and Bloomberg employees • In 2015, Bloomberg Startup, our global in News and BNEF to strengthen education engagement program, economic and financial reporting worked to expand awareness of, in Africa and to improve access to inspiration about and skills in the fields information on the continent. of science and technology to students. With a 230% increase in engagement Challenges: as Bloomberg Mentors, more than Employee engagement has grown at a 2,500 employees around the world rapid rate. In 2016, we will work to maintain participated in wide variety of workshops momentum and diversity in engagement and programs designed to inspire opportunities in more global cities. and support the next generation of technologists and entrepreneurs. LOOKING CLOSER: Bloomberg Teams Up with Veterans Aid and Habitat for Humanity In 2015, 561 employees in London volunteered to rebuild “Veterans House,” a collaboration with Veterans Aid and Habitat for Humanity to refurbish a Veterans Aid center in East London that provides free housing to homeless veterans in need of crisis support. At the close of the project in March 2016, the London office will have refurbished the building and the 12 bedrooms offered to homeless veterans. *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-SO1  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 21 Back to Contents PEOPLE diversity & At Bloomberg, we believe diversity • We continued to develop our talent and inclusion power innovation and global through the delivery of high-quality inclusion success. With 204 offices across 74 and actionable diversity trainings countries, we’re dedicated to building and access to our external diversity and maintaining a diverse workforce. leadership partners. This means establishing an inclusive • We enhanced the Bloomberg work environment where all employees employment brand in diverse feel respected and empowered to communities and partnered with not just solve client problems but to Recruiting to increase the diversity of anticipate our clients’ needs. Our candidate slates for job opportunities hard-working employees are at the core globally. of our collaborative culture — when we channel their diverse thoughts, ideas and • Our Communities expanded across experiences market-moving innovation regions and led high-impact initiatives happens. that focused on developing our leaders and deepening relationships • In 2015, the Diversity & Inclusion with our clients. team engaged senior leaders to create and submit a global diversity • Working with members of the LGBT plan tailored to their unique Business and Ally Community, Diversity and challenges and opportunities in three Inclusion facilitated the signing of a focus areas: recruitment, retention corporate amicus filing supporting and development. Business plans marriage equality before U.S. were presented to Chairman Peter Supreme Court and extended this Grauer to discuss the Business’s advocacy to support of marriage progress. equality in Australia. • Diversity & Inclusion Leaders Challenges: Exchange: Hosted by Chairman In 2016, we will continue to increase Peter Grauer, these periodic forums awareness and education for diversity were created to provide access to and inclusion initiatives globally. We will Management, increase transparency, continue to partner with key stakeholders enable open dialogue and encourage to attract, retain and develop top talent. shared accountability around diversity initiatives. Forum topics included Black and Latino leadership and Women in R&D, among others. LOOKING CLOSER: In 2015, Bloomberg began an initiative to create, develop and maintain a Financial Services Gender-Equality Index focusing on gender equality in the workplace and beyond. The index considers internal company statistics, employee policies, gender-conscious product offerings and external community support and engagement. By late 2015, the firms queried had submitted Bloomberg-requested data disclosing company policies and practices. Bloomberg is working with third-party thought leaders to provide insights about best-in-class statistics and procedures. Bloomberg is now in the process of integrating the firm-specific data and developing the index with a target launch in 2016. 22 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PEOPLE benefits & BWELL provides a comprehensive • In larger offices, BWELL offers suite of programs for employees and many on-site wellness services, wellness dependents to improve their health and including health centers and wellness well-being, reduce risks and manage coaching. In 2015, we expanded the work/life demands. At Bloomberg, all skin cancer screenings, Alan Carr employees globally have access to “Easy Way to Quit Smoking” clinics “core” wellness-related benefits, and on-site health vaccines pilot including an Employee Assistance programs. Program, ergonomics, lifestyle and • We completed several capital preventive programs such as fitness projects, including a new wellness discounts and subsidies, on-site health multi-purpose room with “movement screenings, flu shots and smokingstations” and equipment at 120 cessation resources. Health Track, Park and capital improvements to BWELL’s signature U.S. program that the health centers in both the 731 includes a biometric screening and Lexington (New York) and Skillman, health assessment, provides New Jersey, offices. recommendations about employee health and risks for chronic conditions Challenges: like diabetes and heart disease. With the Having employees dispersed across use of incentives, an average of 83% of 74 countries poses a challenge in U.S. employees completed the program providing equitable, culturally relevant from 2012–2015. programs and services to meet their • We offer programs and resources unique needs. In 2016, we will continue for our employees and their families to assess the needs and any gaps in for fertility, adoption, lactation, our offerings. We are also rolling out a parenting, child care, education and new global wellness platform to engage adult/elder care. In 2015, Bloomberg employees in wellness challenges, with a implemented a new and enhanced focus on movement. global minimum standard for parental leave: 18 weeks of paid leave for primary caregivers and 4 weeks for secondary caregivers. LOOKING CLOSER: To engage our employees in meditation and other health-promoting practices, BWELL offers special events throughout the year. In December 2015, BWELL and Bloomberg’s Pan Asian Community partnered to bring integrative medicine expert and author Deepak Chopra to our NY headquarters for a Lunch and Learn workshop. We streamed the special event via Live <GO> and set up rooms in key offices across the globe so all employees could participate. Additionally, we promoted Deepak’s 21-Day Meditation Challenge and provided copies of his new book, Super Genes. Participants were informed and inspired by the talk, which was hosted by our very own Pimm Fox. *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-LA2  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 23 Back to Contents PEOPLE Highlights & Milestones Enterprising Women 167 summer Launched Enterprising interns were Women, a client-facing mentored by program geared toward senior business and Community technology executives, members designed to promote through the Bloomberg’s commitment inaugural Employees to Diversity & Inclusion. Communities spent 6,900 Connector hours combating program hunger at 37 nonprofits in 15 cities Tradebook 305 journalists, business and Charity Day government professionals trained generated on the fundamentals of business more than reporting through BMIA $1.25 million Bloomberg in gross Startup commissions Bloomberg led a Startup session in collaboration The net of which will be donated to the Brazil Diversity & Inclusion Week with UBS and 100 students from nonprofit 20 participating Bloomberg brought together partner school Petchey charities, including 150 people and 75 corporations for Academy in support Room to Read and the its second annual Diversity & Inclusion of City Giving Day in Albert Kennedy Trust. Week in Sao Paulo to discuss and London, an initiative of attend workshops on best practices London Mayor Boris in Diversity & Inclusion. Johnson. Employees raised more than 17 client firms Since 2010, $488,600 for disaster relief attended BWELL has Employees raised money in diversity and graduated response to the devastating inclusion events 254 Incubator earthquake in Nepal, the global refugee crisis during Diversity participants with affecting cities in Europe Awareness a total weight and floods in Brazil and Week in Asia loss of more India for organizations providing direct relief than 1,250 lbs. efforts on the ground in affected communities. 24 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PEOPLE Donated 1,700 Trained 1,323 Employees ran, units of blood employees biked or walked in 15 cities for in minimizing more than our neighbors unconscious 20,000 in need bias across kilometers 12 cities for charity 1,500 Hours of Pro-Bono 200 Employees participated in Small Business Coaching Citi’s Global Community Day 200 Bloomberg To support Citi’s 10th Annual Global Community Day, employees teamed up more than 200 Bloomberg employees and their families with Goldman Sachs to joined Citi employees, including Citi CEO Michael Corbat, provide strategic advice in 12 community volunteer projects in 4 global cities. $ to 48 small businesses in the U.S. and the UK over the past two years. Through office Employee hits drives held to our redesigned throughout the Diversity & year, employees Inclusion website, 4,781 Engaged more provided more which enhances employees than 4,000 than 11,000 employee provided with employees warm coats awareness, a flu shot across 188 increased events in 1,100% 15 cities on over 2015 Diversity & Inclusion efforts Arts & Culture In 2015, our support helped launch the premiere of the National Youth Orchestra of the United States of Participated America in China, Alvin Ailey in 28 Habitat American Dance Theater’s Painted 17 for Humanity historic tour to Johannesburg schools and and Cape Town and new projects in community digital experiences at the 14 cities Cooper Hewitt and the centers in Science Museum. 5 cities  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 25 Back to Contents PEOPLE 2015 Volunteering 9,800 86,845 by the Numbers 8,000 7,311 80,000 57,227 5,162 4,000 37,908 Bloomberg’s Philanthropy & 40,000 Engagement program builds on the long-standing philanthropic 0 0 and service-focused commitment 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 established at the company by Unique Employees Volunteer Hours founder Mike Bloomberg, shaping our day-to-day operations and strengthening communities where 60 56 1,491 we live and work worldwide. In 53 1,224 1,200 2015, more than 9,800 employee 42 1,200 volunteers contributed over 86,800 40 hours of service in 56 cities around 600 the world. 20 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Cities Nonprofits Communities at Communities are employee-run In 2015, the Diversity & Inclusion team networks where employees can: rolled out a new global framework that Bloomberg ensured strategic alignment to our • Serve as culture carriers, role models businesses across Communities and and brand ambassadors through focus areas. The framework supported philanthropic and other employee the expansion of Communities, including engagement activities; the launch of the Bloomberg Working • Expand professional networks and Families Community in New York and over 4,000 build leadership and management London, the Abilities Community in skills; and Tokyo and the LGBT & Ally Community members across in Hong Kong. This year, more than • Promote a global dialogue on 67 offices diversity and inclusion. 4,000 employees were members of a Community and participated in activities related to commercial impact, leadership development, recruiting and community engagement. 16 executive 8 sponsors communities at Bloomberg chapters executive cities communities 35 sponsors chapters chapters executive cities communities focused on commercial impact, sponsors 15 leadership development, recruiting, cities and community cities communities where chaptersbrand visibility executive communities sponsors engagement exist globally chapters executive cities communities sponsors 26 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents BLOOMBERG PLANET planet Through our environmental strategy, we are scrutinizing every aspect of our business with the aspiration of creating a fully sustainable Bloomberg. CASE STUDY Arkwright Summit Wind Project In Q4 of 2015, Bloomberg and EDP Renewables Arkwright Summit Wind Farm announced a 20MW Wind Power Purchase Retired BPU Jamestown Coal Plant Agreement, the largest corporate renewable energy purchase in the State of New York. New York Offices Bloomberg’s clean and efficient energy strategy is comprehensive, focused on reducing overall Bloomberg consumption, implementing projects savings of energy-efficiency projects at our $10 million facilities and developing renewable and avoided energy projects with a sharp focus ARKWRIGHT emissions of SUMMIT WIND FARM on the bottom line. The Arkwright Summit Wind 340,500MT over the 20-year Project is our newest clean energy agreement project is expected to produce an estimated 61,000MWh annually starting in 2017. The project is located less than 30 miles from the BPU Jamestown Coal Plant that Average Fixed was retired as part of the Sierra PPA Price Club’s Beyond Coal campaign $53.41/MWh over 20-year term in partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies. The Project Average estimated market price demonstrates the important role over 20-year term corporates will play in bringing $62.03/MWh more clean energy onto the grid Total Expected and contributing to the retirement Volume of dirty coal plants, while generating 1,219,514MWh NEW YORK OFFICES a positive return on investment. NEW YORK INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATOR (NYISO) *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-42  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 27 Back Backto toContents Contents PLANET overview Our sustainability strategy’s primary implement more than 120 environmental objective is to decouple the company’s projects, resulting in 550,084 metric growth from environmental impact, tonnes of avoided CO2 emissions – while proving the business case for the equivalent of over 2.5 years of sustainable operations. To date, we have Bloomberg’s carbon emissions – and improved operating margins, minimized avoided $81 million in operating costs. risk and collaborated with our partners to energy In 2015, Bloomberg’s total energy • Completed the Bloomberg-JFK Airport emissions were 114,773 metric tonnes. Park Solar Project. The project utilizes As a company with more than 18,000 “Remote Net Metering,” enabling sites employees located in 204 offices globally, with poor solar characteristics to benefit including data centers, reducing our from a solar array on an alternate site energy-related carbon emissions is with excellent solar characteristics. critical to reducing our total The project is expected to produce environmental impact. 1.8 million kWh of clean energy and save almost $100,000 annually. Bloomberg’s energy-reduction strategy is comprehensive, focusing on reducing • Received LEED Platinum for our consumption, implementing efficiency Sao Paulo, Brazil, and Santiago, Chile, projects, developing onand off-site offices and LEED Gold certification renewable energy projects and building for our data center and our offices in facilities to Leadership in Energy and Los Angeles, CA, and Arlington, VA. Environmental Design (LEED) standards. The number of LEED Certified offices in our global real estate portfolio is 26. • Our Princeton, NJ, and San Francisco, CA, offices have on-site photovoltaic • Announced a 20-year power purchase solar power systems that together agreement for 20MW of wind energy produce over 2.7 million kWh of with EDP Renewables. The Arkwright electricity annually. Summit Wind Project will power about half of the energy use of all of our Our data center efficiency is a priority New York Offices. for us; we are aggressively pursuing creative solutions to save energy at our data centers, including: airflow and temperature management studies, using winter air to naturally cool IT equipment, aisle containment and replacing older systems with more efficient equipment. 28 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PLANET energy continued • Replaced 4,297 existing fluorescent Challenge: lights and 2,140 compact fluorescent Given our urban presence, the majority lights in our 731 Lexington Avenue office of our offices are challenged in the ability with LED bulbs, reducing energy usage to support large-scale, on-site solar by over 966,159kWh, reducing carbon installations. We therefore rely on emissions by 268 metric tonnes and remote PPAs that are difficult to saving almost $200,000 annually. source and implement. LOOKING CLOSER: Announced a 2.9MW solar installation that will power our New York–based Data Center. Coming on line in 2017, the project is expected to generate enough clean and reliable electricity each year to offset more than 5% of the data center’s electricity usage, reduce CO2 emissions by more than 11,600 metric tonnes and save us $2 million over the life of the 15-year agreement. Read More paper Bloomberg’s paper usage goes • With revisions to our online office supply beyond the publishing of three process, we have been able to increase magazines – Bloomberg Businessweek, the amount of recycled content in office Bloomberg Markets and Bloomberg paper from an average of 46% PCW to Pursuits – to in-house print facilities in 77% PCW. New Jersey, London and Hong Kong and Bloomberg BNA’s publishing company in Challenge: Maryland. Emissions from our publishing A contracting paper market, with major operations now account for 12.4% of suppliers closing paper mills, required company emissions. sourcing from a smaller pool of vendors and longer transport distances from mills • Our three magazines are printed on to some printing locations. The smaller pool Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) of potential paper suppliers also presents certified paper; Bloomberg is the only a challenge to maintaining a consistent and major publisher to print its magazines price-competitive supply of FSC-certified exclusively on FSC paper. paper. • We had a 47% increase in digital subscribers in 2015 from 2014, up to 4.8 million for the year. LOOKING CLOSER: Starting in 2016, Bloomberg Markets will reduce its frequency from 11 issues per year to 6 issues per year. Bloomberg Pursuits will increase its frequency from 4 issues per year to 6. The net effect is expected to be a decrease of approximately 700,000 pounds of paper purchased and shipped, with correlated reductions in emissions. Read More About Bloomberg Markets Read More About Bloomberg Pursuits *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-EN19  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 29 Back to Contents PLANET business travel & Employee travel and logistics are key distribution. This success depends on our components of our operations, accounting ability to utilize lower-carbon methods of logistics for 31% of total emissions. As a service shipment and shorten transport distances, company with multiple publications, while maintaining the highest service level employee travel, internal logistics, product to all customers and finding better ways to shipments and magazine distribution are distribute more than 50 million magazines all crucial to the success of our business. per year. Our regional sales strategy and • Proactive customer keyboard upgrade, commitment to providing best-in-class started in 2015, is resulting in increased customer service makes reducing travel shipping activity into 2016. emissions challenging. As we add • Distributing Bloomberg Markets from customer-facing headcount, business Poland saves us more than million travel increases accordingly. While we 1,000MT CO2e annually. always look for opportunities to mitigate this impact, the importance of travel to our Challenges: business does not waver. Our Global Logistics is challenged, as • 2015 saw a 24% increase in inter-city we are across our operations, by growth. travel vs. 2014, highlighting our Impacted by constant headcount growth, aggressive approach to customer-facing customer growth and customer turnover, travel. we maintain an approach of continuous improvement while recognizing that We have been more successful in shipping activity, and emissions, are sure addressing the environmental impact to increase over time. of our global logistics and magazine LOOKING CLOSER: In 2015, our Alternate Delivery program, which bypasses the Postal Service and uses newspaper carriers to deliver Bloomberg Businessweek, expanded by 37,000 deliveries to over 300,000 weekly. This method of delivery consolidates the transportation process and reduces material handling through the distribution chain. Read More supply chain While our calculated supply chain and life-cycle assessments of our emissions include of all shipment customer-facing equipment. Bloomberg logistics, we give attention to our supply is an E-Steward enterprise committed chain as a much broader entity. We still to the use of downstream recycling and focus on our downstream supply chain, disposal partners that meet the E-Steward but we are now taking a more in-depth certification requirement. look upstream, including strict supplier • Bloomberg was recognized by the requirements, on-site audits of Bloomberg Sustainable Business & Enterprise manufacturing suppliers, implementing Roundtable as the 2014 Outstanding a Vendor Risk Management program Corporate Leader. 30 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-12, G4-EN19, G4-EN30, G4-HR5 Back to Contents PLANET supply chain continued • More rigorous responsibility checks • Enhanced the office supply and at suppliers who provide Bloomberg premiums catalogs for internal premiums. We have undertaken procurement to give preference comprehensive investigations into to green items. product certifications for electronic premium items for safety, which have Challenges: resulted in Bloomberg switching As a small player in the electronics suppliers or discontinuing items that industry compared with large retail did not meet our certification criteria. brands, we don’t have the scale to change to materials that have lower environmental impacts. LOOKING CLOSER: We collaborated with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to bring HERFinance, a financial literacy program, to our main supplier in Guadalajara, Mexico; it has trained more than 4,000 workers in the basics of the local financial system and basic savings principles. Read More waste & water Aggressive recycling, composting • In 2015, 87% of all pantry waste was and, most recently, upcycling programs divertible from landfills. in key markets have driven our waste• By 2015, we had a 56% decrease in reduction/diversion success. We paper usage per employee vs. 2007. continue to educate our employees and build awareness surrounding our wasteChallenge: reduction efforts globally. Water-reduction There remains a limited availability of measures have been implemented in key commercial composting programs within offices, but water risk is generally not a municipalities – both within the U.S. material issue for the company. and globally – which limits our ability to • Bloomberg has composting in expand our programs to new markets. 20 offices. Additionally, waste separation practices are a continual employee engagement • In 2015, we were presented the challenge and require constant education. Rockland Recycles Award for our program in our upstate New York data center for our excellence in recycling and waste prevention/reduction programs. LOOKING CLOSER: We have expanded our TerraCycle Bloomberg Commingled Wrapper program to most of our North American offices. Since launching the program, our TerraCycle partnership has diverted 145,515 snack wrappers from landfill. Read More *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-12, G4-EN19  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 31 Back to Contents PLANET energy. Emissions by Total kWh and kWh per Employee Activity kWh PER HEADCOUNT (THOUSANDS) 25 2020 Emissions Reductions: Absolute & from Business +2.8% as Usual (BAU) METRIC TONNES OF CO2e -8.5% 22,477 23,105 400,000 13% 20 21,139 -9.9% Paper 19,050 -12.5% Consumption +2.2% +0.3% -2.9% -1.5% and Waste 16,663 17,028 17,083 16,348 300M kWh 350,000 15 16,592 Reduction % from BAU 299.3M 31% 56% 43.0% 286.6M 275M kWh Travel and Identified Energy Useprojects, if completed, 300,000 10 & achieve a will offset growth Facilities/Technology Logistics 8.7% reduction vs. 2007 265.9M 267.4M baseline emissions 250M kWh 254.4M 2.5% Magazine Publishing 250,000 5 241.7M 238.4M 225M kWh bsolute & from Business as Usual (BAU) .05% Travel/Other 232.3M 226.8M 2.9% Infrastructure 200,000 0 200M kWh Energy and travel continue to 2007 2008 7.3% 2009Renewable Energy2011 2010* 2012** 2013 2014 2015 dominate Bloomberg’s emissions To achieve our goal kWh Usage by Headcount 150,000accounting for 87% profile, of Bloomberg still needs to* First full-year impact of Businessweek /BNEF identify an additional 11.3% emissions ** reduction First full-year impact of BBNA, mid-year addition of PolarLake kWh Usage by Year our total. Reduction % from BAU 100,000 projects, if completed, 43.0% set growth & achieve a2015 Facilities/Technology 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 7% reduction vs. 2007 2020 Carbon baseline emissions Reductions/Target 2.5% Magazine Publishing Travel/Other sual (BAU) CO2e Reductions.05% from Energy 2020 Emissions Reductions: Absolute & from Business as Usual (BAU) 2008–2013 METRIC TONNES OF CO2e 2.9% 0.7% Infrastructure 2014–2020 Solar/Wind 7.3% Renewable Energy 400,000 10.0% tion % from BAU 6.0% 0% 5.0% Solar/Wind Other Infrastructure To achieve our goal Infrastructure rg still needs to identify es/Technology Renewables 1.1% % emissions reduction Other 350,000 Renewables Reduction % from BAU Magazine Publishing 2018 2019 2020 Identified projects, if completed, 43.0% 93.3% 300,000 83.9% Demand Reduction Demand Reduction will offset growth & achieve a Facilities/Technology Travel/Other 8.7% reduction vs. 2007 baseline emissions 2.5% Magazine Publishing 250,000 0.5% Travel/Other 2014–2020 nfrastructure 10.0% 5.0% Solar/Wind 2.9% Infrastructure Infrastructure erRenewable Energy 200,000 ewables 1.1% 7.3% Renewable Energy Other To achieve our goal, Renewables 150,000 Bloomberg still needs to identify an additional 11.3% in emissions reduction 83.9% Demand Reduction 100,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 32 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 CO2e Reductions From Energy Back to Contents 2008 – 2013 PLANET 2015 LEED Offices LEED certification for commercial Upon completion of the London interiors was achieved in 6 additional Bloomberg Place project, more than offices in 2015. As of December 31, 2015, 71% of our employees will be based Bloomberg has attained the highest rating in a green-certified office. of LEED Platinum for 14 projects and The primary challenge in building to LEED Gold for 12 projects. LEED specifications is the increased level We currently have 9 additional offices of coordination and planning required. pursuing LEED certification. Our London Attention must be paid to every detail to headquarters, due to be completed in 2018, ensure that the majority of purchases are is seeking BREEAM Outstanding — the local, have a high recycled content and highest certification level. meet indoor air quality specifications. 20,008 Total 18,310 Headcount 17,276 15,264 15,617 15,653 Employees in Certified 71.8% 12,689 Office Space 50% of 10,317 10,990 Headcount In 2015, we completed projects in our data center; Sao Paulo, Brazil; Arlington, % of VA; Santiago, Chile; and Los Angeles, 28.2% 26.2% 27.5% Employees 8.6% 26.7% CA. We currently have 9 additional 1.7% 2.5% 4.6% in Office2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2018 certified projects pursuing LEED Certification. Anticipated Space Projects Completed in 2015 Sao Paulo, Brazil Santiago, Chile Los Angeles, CA Arlington, VA – Achieved LEED Platinum in Achieved LEED Platinum in Achieved LEED Gold in BBNA Offices March 2015. We garnered 87 July 2015. This project is the December 2015. This project Achieved LEED Gold in points in this project, our thirdfirst office in Chile with this has a lighting power density May 2015. This project was highest score to date. This certification. of .67 watt per square foot, the first LEED project for project was the first Bloomberg an improvement of more than BBNA and demonstrates LEED project in Latin America. 35% vs, allowable lighting. Bloomberg’s commitment We now have LEED projects to LEED across all of our in all Bloomberg regions and business groups. on 6 continents. Carbon Footprint METRIC TONNES CO 2 e 2007–2015 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2007 Baseline 2015 vs. 2007 Baseline Scope 1 Direct Combustion Emissions 9,729 12,160 9,848 12,357 12,148 6,085 59.89% Scope 2 Indirect Combustion (Electricity, Steam) 110,729 108,676 104,983 105,151 99,617 102,084 8.47% Scope 3 Employee Business Travel 48,546 36,912 35,670 27,241 30,062 20,819 133.18% Magazine Distribution 7,347 8,115 8,708 10,135 10,844 4,345 69.07% Material Transport 3,092 2,606 2,328 2,060 1,723 3,337 (7.36%) Publishing Paper Consumption 24,978 27,035 29,513 31,332 35,045 7,429 236.24% Other Paper Consumption 844 796 919 890 739 963 (12.35%) Landfill Waste 1,533 1,300 1,160 1,249 1,965 2,473 (38.02%) Bloomberg Total Emissions 206,797 197,599 193,129 190,415 192,142 147,536 40.2% Renewable Energy PPAs (1,065) (1,022) (969) (951) N/A N/A N/A REC Purchases (33,799) (33,083) (81,111) (80,464) (81,597) (0) N/A Bloomberg Carbon Footprint 171,933 163,494 111,049 109,000 110,545 147,536 16.5%  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 33 Back to Contents PLANET Performance Summary by Department Percentage Reduction in CO2e Emissions and Net Savings by Department 2015 vs. 2007 Baseline Intensity Absolute Department Saving 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% -20% -40% -60% -80% -100% Facilities/ -43% Offices $17.5M -3.1% -44% Info Systems $19.9M -1% Networks -15% $0 17% -19% Broadcast $449K -19% Facilities/Data Centers -59% $8.0M -1.6% R&D Systems -47% $0 28% Employee Business Travel 18% $26.3M 119% -45% Markets Magazine $7.4M -34% -22% Businessweek $1.4M Environmental impact management -25% has resulted in reduced CO2e and significant operating cost reductions BLP Ink -10% vs. business as usual (BAU). $498K • CO2 e Intensity Reduction 35% 24% • Avoided CO2 e from BAU -47% Asset Mgmt $1.7M (2008—2015) 550,084MT -18% • Cumulative Net Avoided Costs (2008–2015) $81M* -96% Pantry $0 *Net avoided costs includes -92% additional savings of $12.7M and expenses of $14.2M -63% not represented in individual Waste, Other $0 -28% department savings. 34 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PLANET paper. Annual Employee Usage Pounds of paper used per year, per All-In Employees 56% REDUCTION Paper represents 12% of 17.81 19.95 14.3 Bloomberg’s carbon emissions — 19.12 responsible sourcing of paper 23.30 19.40 32.81 and printing services is critical 24.38 to mitigating our environmental 24.61 impact in this area. Internally, we 2015 have implemented various projects 2014 and programs to reduce employee 2013 printing-paper usage. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 waste & water. 2015 Compost, Recycling & Landfill Waste At Bloomberg we continue to 2% Plastic Less than 1% aggressively recycle, compost and Glass Batteries 8% upcycle in key markets and offices. Mixed Recycling Aluminum Light Bulbs 23% Other Metals TerraCycle 9% Landfill Cardboard Trash 10% 19% Compost Paper 16% 11% WasteE-Waste to-Energy Recycling Compost Landfill Metric Tonnes Metric Tonnes Metric Tonnes 2,500 3,000 600 500 2,000 2,500 2,000 400 1,500 1,500 300 1,000 1,000 200 500 500 100 0 0 0 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 Increase in recycling due to increase in Increased due to the full implementation of An 18% increase in 2015 due to headcount electronic waste and mixed recycling. composting at 120 Park Ave., resulting in growth and loss of a composter at key offices in an additional 127 metric tonnes of compost New Jersey. in 2015.  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 35 Back to Contents PLANET Performance by the Numbers 2015 vs. 2007 Baseline Unit of 2007 Measure 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Baseline % Corporate Summary Average Full-Time Employees 17,997 16,352 15,671 15,510 13,771 9,719 85.17% Average All-In Employees 19,942 18,111 17,496 17,153 15,439 10,277 94.03% Revenue ($Million) 9,450 9,045 8,590 8,255 7,668 5,446 75.54% Total Facilities Metric Tonnes Total Facilities CO2e 114,773 113,806 108,852 110,848 104,899 104,258 10.09% (MT) of CO2e Facilities CO2e/ MT/All-In All-In Employees 5.76 6.28 6.22 6.46 6.79 10.14 (43.26%) Employees Kilowatt Hrs. Electricity Consumed 299,335,919 286,644,356 267,396,199 265,930,842 254,350,762 226,768,598 32.00% (kWh) Electricity Consumed/ Kilowatt Hrs./ All-In Employees 15,011 15,827 15,283 15,504 16,475 22,065 (31.97%) All-In Employees Gross CO2 e from Electricity MT of CO2e 109,916 107,589 103,753 103,956 98,334 100,170 9.73% Electricity CO 2 e/ MT/All-In All-In Employees 5.51 5.94 5.93 6.06 6.37 9.75 (43.45%) Employees CO2e from Non-Electrical Power MT of CO2e 4,858 6,218 5,099 6,892 6,565 4,088 18.83% Business Travel Total Travel Miles Traveled 184,955,625 149,763,642 140,274,056 125,174,301 119,143,024 79,504,347 132.64% Travel CO2e MT of CO2e 54,231 43,941 41,649 33,901 36,928 24,730 119.29% Travel CO 2 e/ MT/FT Full-Time Employees 3.01 2.69 2.66 2.19 2.68 2.54 18.43% Employees Inter-City Travel Miles Traveled 178,041,319 143,575,591 133,642,330 118,728,318 112,862,561 73,641,875 141.77% CO2e from Inter-City Travel MT of CO2e 51,705 41,631 39,131 31,471 34,634 22,527 129.52% Intra-City Travel Miles Traveled 6,914,306 6,188,051 6,631,726 6,445,983 6,280,463 5,862,472 17.94% CO2e from Intra-City Travel MT of CO2e 2,525 2,310 2,518 2,430 2,294 2,203 14.65% Paper Consumption Global Paper Lbs. of Paper Consumption 19,666,169 21,142,901 23,243,854 24,501,458 23,987,590 5,696,800 245.21% Used Global Paper CO2e MT of CO2e 25,822 27,830 30,432 32,222 35,784 8,392 207.70% Bloomberg Markets Lbs. of Paper Consumption 3,598,694 3,765,000 3,905,966 3,665,253 3,665,929 4,694,031 (23.33%) Used Bloomberg Markets CO2e MT of CO2e 4,781 5,006 5,148 4,851 5,333 7,183 (33.44%) Businessweek Lbs. of Paper Consumption 14,278,398 15,626,425 17,204,732 18,815,850 19,319,893 N/A (18.05%) Used Businessweek CO2e MT of CO2e 18,970 20,775 22,768 24,992 29,340 N/A (28.86%) BBNA Publishing Lbs. of Paper Consumption 984,777 1,007,404 1,259,678 1,170,723 292,681 N/A (15.88%) Used BBNA Publishing CO2e MT of CO2e 1,226 1,254 1,596 1,488 372 N/A (17.60%) BLP INK Lbs. of Paper Consumption 519,221 421,456 542,425 521,594 409,645 481,517 7.83% Used BLP INK CO2e MT of CO2e 586 485 588 518 419 694 (15.64%) BLP Press Lbs. of Paper Consumption N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 184,000 N/A Used BLP Press CO2e MT of CO2e N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 245 N/A Global Office Paper Lbs. of Paper Consumption 285,079 322,617 349,053 328,039 299,442 337,252 (15.47%) Used Global Office Paper CO2e MT of CO2e 259 311 332 372 320 269 (3.86%) Global Office Paper/ Lbs. Used/All-In All-In Employees 14.30 17.81 19.95 19.12 19.40 32.81 (56.44%) Employees 36 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents PLANET Performance by the Numbers (continued) Unit of 2007 Measure 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Baseline % Supply Chain Total Shipments CO2e MT of CO2e 10,438 10,722 11,036 12,195 12,567 7,683 35.87% Total Items Shipped # of Line Items 705,164 598,422 527,375 487,280 484,568 411,884 71.20% Total Weight Shipped MT Shipped 10,490 8,883 7,420 6,841 6,757 8,535 22.90% Weight of Ground/ Sea Shipments MT Shipped 9,760 8,265 6,817 6,284 6,350 7,892 23.67% Ground/ Sea Shipments CO2e MT of CO2e 1,625 1,369 1,161 1,075 1,089 1,855 (12.41%) Weight of Air Shipments MT Shipped 730 618 604 556 406 643 (13.50%) Air Shipments CO2e MT of CO2e 1,467 1,237 1,167 985 634 1,482 (1.03%) Markets Magazine Distribution Annual Print Run 4,949,737 5,398,300 6,161,040 5,712,741 5,136,838 4,800,220 3.11% Markets Magazine Distribution CO2e MT of CO2e 2,786 3,110 3,224 4,076 4,752 4,345 (35.87%) Businessweek Distribution Annual Print Run 46,593,729 49,597,016 52,011,705 54,028,043 50,926,573 N/A (7.65% Businessweek Distribution CO2e MT of CO2e 4,560 5,007 5,484 6,059 6,093 N/A (22.98%) Waste Total Global Waste MT of Waste 5,925 5,159 5,363 5,557 4,056 N/A N/A Diverted Waste/ % of Total Global Waste Diverted Total Global 76% 77% 80% 80% 56% N/A N/A Waste Global Landfill Waste MT of Waste 1,395 1,183 1,055 1,137 1,788 2,250 (38.02%) Global Landfill Waste/ Kg Waste/ All-in Employees 70 65 60 66 116 219 (68.06%) All-In Employees Global Landfill Waste CO2e MT of CO2e 1,533 1,300 1,160 1,249 1,965 2,473 (38.02%) Global “Waste-to-Energy” MT of Waste 957 1,070 1,211 1,031 107 N/A N/A Global Recycling MT of Recycling 2,971 2,403 2,518 2,962 1,763 N/A N/A Global Recycling/ Kg Recycling/ All-in Employees 149 133 144 173 114 N/A N/A All-In Employees Global Compost MT of Compost 602 502 579 427 398 N/A N/A Kg Compost/ Global Compost/ Applicable Employees Applicable 46 44 50 37 36 N/A N/A Employees Total CO2e 206,797 197,599 193,129 190,415 192,142 147,536 30.90% COMMENTS: • Avg. All-In Employees includes Part-Time, • Businessweek Consumption: Businessweek • Landfill Waste is any waste that cannot be recycled or Contractors, etc. Acquired December 2009 composted or sent to Waste-to-Energy • Electricity Consumed includes all components of • BBNA Publishing Consumption: • Waste-to-Energy began in London in 2011 and at Facilities (R&D, IS, Networks) BBNA Acquired September 2011 731 Lexington in 2012 • CO 2 e from Non-Electric Power includes Natural Gas, • BLP Press Paper Consumption: BLP Press • No CO 2 e associated with recycling — includes Steam, Oil, Refrigerants discontinued in-house year-end 2009 e-waste, metals, plastic, glass, paper and cardboard • Inter-City Travel (between cities) includes • Supply Chain includes BLP INK shipping data; • Composting in NYC (HC: 8,203), Upstate NY (HC: Commercial Air, Private Aircraft and Rail Businessweek Distribution began in December 2009 48), Washington, DC Area (HC: 1,238), SF (HC: 278), London (HC: 2,686), Tokyo (HC: 591), Johannesburg • Intra-City Travel (within cities) includes Car Rental, • Diverted Waste is waste that is recycled, composted (HC: 68), Cape Town (HC: 52), Milan (HC: 19) Car Service, Taxi and Field Service Car miles or sent to Waste-to-Energy  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 37 Back to Contents Cventure Verification Statements Bloomberg LP Cventure LLC GHG Inventory Verification Summary March 28, 2016 Reporting Entity: Bloomberg LP (Bloomberg) Contact: Jason Shulman Lead Verifier: Kevin L. Johnson, Cventure LLC Emissions Inventory: Global, corporate-wide FY2015 GHG emissions inventory covering: Scope 1 emissions from fuel combustion, company aircraft, and refrigerant losses; Scope 2 emissions from imported electricity and steam; and Scope 3 emissions associated with employee business travel, supply chain shipping, paper usage, and waste. Boundaries include owned/leased facilities which Bloomberg exhibits operational control. CO 2, CH4, and N2O combustion, electricity, and mobile source emissions, and HFC refrigerant gas emissions, were calculated; CO 2 equivalent emissions were calculated for paper consumption and waste disposal; Bloomberg has no SF6 or PFC emissions. Greenhouse Gas Management Plan: Bloomberg 2015 Carbon Emissions Calculation Process (CECP) document, Version 9.0 (March 11, 2016) developed internally by Bloomberg, to calculate carbon emissions and support their GHG emissions reduction strategy. Verification Approach: Tier II of the ERT Standard: “Corporate GHG Verification Guideline” by ERT, prepared for U.S. EPA Climate Leaders. Tier II-level verification is appropriate for basic reporting, and voluntary efforts for which there are no imminent requirements for compliance obligations, as in Bloomberg’s case, as direct GHG emissions from each of their facilities are well below any existing or pending GHG regulatory requirements. It is intended to support baseline determinations and enable assessments of performance of GHG reduction initiatives by Bloomberg. This verification effort covers Bloomberg’s FY2015 GHG emissions inventory. This Tier II review is designed to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the GHG emissions assertion is materially correct. Reviews of methodologies, calculations, and data management used in Bloomberg’s inventory estimates were conducted. A site survey visit and data collection meeting was conducted at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters on March 10-11, 2016, with Bloomberg’s GHG inventory manager and data coordinators. Raw data collection and reporting spreadsheets/supporting documentation containing emissions data-related information for each of the reviewed emissions source types, i.e., facilities (electricity, steam, and fuel use), paper, business travel, waste, and supply chain shipping, were provided by Bloomberg. Verification review of reported data, representing >95% of Bloomberg’s total GHG emissions inventory, are subjected to detailed reviews and associated root data sampling. These raw data sampled are compared against activity data in Bloomberg’s GHG inventory spreadsheets (e.g., monthly electricity data from the external, NUS energy management database reports are reviewed for a series of Bloomberg facilities). Error checking tests are performed on subsets of the data to assess the information collected, including missing data, limits and reasonableness, units of measure (UOM), and re-computation crosschecks. The GHG emissions sources in this detailed, root audit data review represent over 80% of Bloomberg’s entity-wide GHG emissions. Boundary checks include reviews of the Bloomberg Tririga real estate database reports. Emissions aggregation checks are also made, and compared against inventory reported data. No material misstatements or omissions were found in those types of checks. We believe our work provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Opinion: Based on its review of Bloomberg’s GHG emissions inventory, Cventure verified the information received as being consistent with the Bloomberg CECP methodology and reporting document, Version 9.0 (March 2016). Cventure finds that the FY2015 (January 1, 2015 – December 31, 2015) GHG inventory conforms to generally accepted GHG accounting standards. The CECP document is based upon, and was found to be generally consistent with, the WRI/WBCSD GHG reporting protocol; the WRI report, “Hot Climate, Cool Commerce: A Service Sector Guide to Greenhouse Gas Management” (May 2006); and the WRI GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015). GHG emissions estimates are calculated in a consistent, transparent manner, and found to be a fair and accurate representation of Bloomberg’s actual emissions, and to be free from material misstatements or omissions. Cventure verified a total of 206,797 metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions (9,729 Scope 1; 110,729 Scope 2; and 86,339 Scope 3) with a reasonable level of assurance. GHGVS.Bloomberg LP (3-28-2016) 38 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-32 Back to Contents VerificationSummary BloombergLP GlobalCorporateͲWide Verifiedby:CventureLLC 2015GRIAnnualSustainabilityReport Date:March28,2016 LeadVerifiers: WileyBarbour KevinL.Johnson Report ContentandBoundaries: AthirdpartyverificationfocusedonBloombergLP's(Bloomberg's)6th SustainabilityReport,coveringCY2015,conducted byCventureLLC(Cventure)overtheDecember2015Ͳ March2016timeperiod.Corporatereportingboundarieswere establishedbasedonthethefollowingglobalstandards:theGlobalReportingInitiative(GRI)G4guidelines,witha comprehensivelevelofreportingscope;theSustainabilityAccountingStandardsBoard(SASB)standardsforMedia Production,ProfessionalServices,andInternetMedia&Servicesindustrysectors;andtheGRISectorSupplementfor theMediasector.BoundariesincludeallactivitiesunderBloomberg'soperationalcontrol.GRIG4guidelineswere followedinselectionofcontentandscope,resultinginareportwhichfocusesonenergyconsumption,product manufactureanduse,paperuse,supplychainshipping,andbusinesstravel,asmaterialdriversofenvironmentalimpact undermanagementcontrol. VerificationApproach: Thisverificationengagementisbeingconducted accordingto theAA1000 AS(2008)standard,Type2engagement, addressingPrinciplesandSustainabilityPerformanceInformation,includingquantitativeandqualitativeGRIperformance indicators,profiledisclosures,andmanagementapproach.Adherencetoprinciples(inclusivity,materiality,and responsiveness)andthereliabilityandqualityofperformanceinformationarebeingassessed,toprovideamoderate levelofassurance.Cventurepersonnelbegantheprocessforsupportingdataanddocumentationcollectionin December2015,includinginterviewswithseveralmanagersandprimarydatacoordinatorsresponsibleforsustainability reporting,aspartofsitevisitswhichwereconductedatBloomberg'sheadquartersinNewYorkonMarch10Ͳ11,2016. CventurewasnotinvolvedinanyBloomberg2015SustainabilityReportdatacollectionactivities,ordevelopmentof disclosuresorassertions,anddidnotprovideanyservicestoBloombergwhichcouldcompromiseCventure's independence.CventuredisclaimsanyliabilityforanydecisionmadebythirdpartiesbasedonthisVerificationSummary. Major FindingsandConclusions: Bloomberghassustainabilityprogramreportingsystemsandprocessesinplace,datagatheringpractices,degreeof disclosuretransparency,andaccuracyofcalculationsnecessarytodemonstrateadherencetosustainabilityprinciples, andthereliabilityofsustainabilityperformanceinformation.Thisreportisconsideredanupdatetolastyear'sextensive report,sotheformalmultiͲstakeholderengagementprocesswasnotrepeatedthisyear(theformalstakeholder engagementprogramwillberesumednextyearwiththereturnofafullreport).Internally,theirsustainabilityprogram isintegratedatalllevelsofthefirm,andacrossoperationsandbusinessunits,tobuildcapacityandidentifymaterial issues.Aspartofthedevelopmentofthe2015SustainabilityReportandGRIG4ReportingIndex,Bloomberghas preparedadetailedandcomprehensivematerialityassessment.Thisassessment,alongwithassociateddocumentation andevidentiarysupportinginformation,supportstheidentificationandprioritizationofcriticalsustainabilityissuesfor thefirm.AlloftheseactivitiesareledbyanaccountableSustainabilityDepartment,whoseDirectorreportsdirectlyto theChairmanofBloombergLP.AtrackrecordofintegrationofstakeholderfeedbackintoBloomberg'ssustainability programdirectionandmanagement;arobustmaterialityassessmentprocess;significantresourcecommitmentsto sustainabilityissuesandsustainabilityͲrelatedprojects;andcomprehensive reportingunderGRIG4guidelinesareallkey characteristicsofBloomberg'ssustainabilityprogram. Opinion Summary: BasedonitsreviewtodateofBloomberg'sdisclosuresinits2015SustainabilityReportandGRIG4ReportingIndex, Cventurehasfoundnoevidencethatthesustainabilitydata,disclosures,andclaimsarenotmateriallycorrect,andno evidencethatBloomberg'sassertionisnotafairandaccuraterepresentationofBloomberg'ssustainabilityposition, withamoderatelevelofassurance. *Content on this page reflected in GRI indicators: G4-32  Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 39 Back to Contents PLANET The cover of the 2015 Bloomberg Impact Report Update was designed by Roma Lazarev, a 30-yearold Moscow-based designer. Roma is an alumni of D&AD, a nonprofit that aims to inspire a community of creative thinkers by celebrating and stimulating the finest in design and advertising. Bloomberg has supported D&AD since 2002. Our efforts and impact are truly global, with more than 18,000 employees in 204 offices in 74 countries. Featured on the front and back cover are New York, London, Tokyo, Sao Paolo, San Francisco, and Hong Kong. To learn more about Bloomberg www.bloomberg.com/company To learn more about BCAUSE www.bloomberg.com/bcause To learn more about Bloomberg Philanthropies Bloomberg has 2 print shops which www.bloomberg.org are FSCTM certified and is the only major publisher to produce all its ©2016 Bloomberg L.P. all rights reserved magazines on FSC certified paper. 40 Bloomberg Impact Report Update 2015 Back to Contents
