Annual Report 2015 presentation 01 Index Flying in 2015 06 Excellence Performance management with quality 08 36 Corporate Talent identity management 14 46 Sustained Social and growth environmental responsibility 26 54 Ibase 64 GRI Indicators 66 Summary of GRI content 84 02 annual report 2015 presentation 03 PRESENTATION For complete alignment with strategy and business, the material issues, the Sustainability Master Plan and the GRI indicators were validated by Embraer’s Board of Directors, which concentrates management efforts on: governance; environment; people; value chain; and products, services and customers. |GRI G4-19, G4-27, G4-48 | This document was prepared in a participative There were also no significant changes in manner, based on interviews with the top exfigures and information released in previous Embraer Materiality Matrix* ecutive body of Embraer, and considering the publications. Any restatements are identified stakeholders demands, formalized in the Mateand clarified in footnotes or throughout the riality Matrix (learn more later on). The content document content. |GRI G4-22, G4-23| • Natural resources and also takes into account the requirements of the waste management • Ethics Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the CorQuestions, comments and suggestions concern• Atmospheric emissions • Attraction, development • Noise • Human and and retention of talent porate Sustainability Index (ISE in Portuguese) ing this Report may be forwarded to investor. workers’ rights • Product safety of BM&FBOVESPA, as well as the ten principles relations@embraer.com.br. More information • Health and safety of the United Nations Global Compact (UN), of is available at the Investor Relations website Importance for stakeholders which Embraer has been a signatory since 2008. (ri.embraer.com.br). |GRI G4-31| |GRI G4-18| • Transparency and •C  hemical substances MATERIALITY MATRIX communication management • Environmental life-cycle With the aim of providing greater transparency To maintain performance and strategic position•S  upply chain • Preventing management management and stablishing a comparison of the Company’s ing with a focus on sustainability, Embraer priorinappropriate use • Socio-economic •E  xport control of product development of local performance with other organizations, Embraer itizes and directs efforts to creating value for its •N  ew sustainable community business activities, publishes its results annually and, since 2008, business and key stakeholders (customers, share• Research, development products and services and innovation has followed the Global Reporting Initiative holders, people, partners, society and the environ(GRI) guidelines. This material was prepared in ment). In this context and aiming to identify the accordance to the G4 version of GRI (Essential most material issues, the Company carried out a Option). The data presented, including the consultation process in 2012 with its key internal • Biodiversity •E  ngagement with • Crisis management • Philanthropy and financial statements, refers to all Embraer and external stakeholders, formalizing these deofficial bodies volunteering •D  ata privacy and security • Local productive chain units in Brazil and abroad (except for some mands in a Materiality Matrix. The process also • Dematerialization environmental information, whose scope is included an assessment of best practices of other clarified throughout the document) during companies from various sectors, including aviathe period from January 1st to December 31st, tion. The consultation work proceeded through 2015. The previous Embraer Report, regarding 2012, and the results, revised in 2013, lead to a Influence on business strategy 2014 performance, was released in May 2015. clearer picture of the indicators. The process re|GRI G4-17, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-32| quires a review every three years and the revision Governance | Environment | People | Value chain | Products, services and customers work will take place during 2016. The Materiality The financial data complies with international acMatrix results provide the basis for the Sustain*The limit of the material aspect outside of Embraer can be found in the GRI indicators. |GRI G4-21| counting standards – the International Financial ability Master Plan (2015-2017), whose objective Reporting Standards (IFRS) – and was audited by is to define strategies and set targets, complying SUSTAINABILITY KPMG. The Greenhouse Gas emission inventory with the applicable legal requirements and EmMASTER PLAN |GRI G4-20| (GHG) was audited by Lloyd’s Register Quality braer’s sustainability guidelines. |GRI G4-18| Embraer’s Sustainability Master Plan spans There is an annual reassessment of the Plan to Assurance (LRQA) and additional environmental three years, with the first cycle between 2015 identify the need for adjustments, taking into information was collected and verified, with no and 2017, and is comprehensive, with the exaccount growth strategies, but always with the external audit. |GRI G4-33| ception of water, energy, waste and atmospheaim of building a sustainable future. With the ric emissions indicators that are related to the same objective, the Sustainability Committee units located at Faria Lima, Eugenio de Melo, integrates Embraer’s governance structure Taubaté, ELEB, Gavião Peixoto and Botucatu, with the duty of evaluating and proposing to which represent about 90% of the Company’s the Board of Directors strategies, indicators workforce. The collection of global environmenand targets related to the topic. tal indicators will allow, for 2018, in the second cycle of the Master Plan, the definition of complete global strategies for Embraer. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY MASTER PLAN |GRI G4-2| Ethics and Compliance About 70% of the reports received by Helpline are related to behavioral ASPECT INDICATOR GOAL DEC. 2017 2015 problems. These cases are submitted to the Ethics Committee Ethics Adherence percentage to compliance policies and procedures 100% Leaders: 100%1 Non-Leaders: 98.98%1 assessment, which consists of a multidisciplinary team of leaders from Attraction, development Favorability percentage in climate survey in climate survey 80% 89% various areas. and retention of talent Attraction, development and retention of talent Number of training hours per year 500,000 hours/year 557,077 hours/year These analysis results have been satisfactory, standardizing good Retention of type-approval certificates (CHT in Brazil) Product safety for Commercial and Executive Aviation aircraft 100% of relevant accreditations 100% management practices and raising important discussions about the Product safety Retention of appropriate company accreditations across all Embraer premises identified as relevant by 100% of relevant accreditated sites 100% company’s values in day-to-day issues. Moreover, these reports have Business Units generated structural actions in the Human Resources department, such Development of new system for managing chemical Phase I – definitions and structuring: by February 2015 Completed the first phase of the modification of registration of hazardas action plans, policies and procedures reviews, awareness campaigns, Chemical Phase II – platform availability and data input: ous substances in the SAP system. Ongoing training of employees who Substances substances, to ensure adequate knowledge of chemical composition of product line in order to conform to by December 2016 input substance data in the system. Beginning of data input into the group reading of the Code of Ethics and Conduct and staff training. Management system, to comply with environmental legislation. From December 2015, current and future environmental legislation Phase III – fully operational system: by 2017 all entries already include the changes made in the modified system. Supply Chain Percentage of suppliers classified as “high 0% 0% Management environmental risky” by risk assessment Export control Adherence to export control policies and procedures 100% of areas covered by compliance assessment survey 77% Human Rights New sustainable business activities, products and Number of new businesses activities, products and serTo launch annually a project that demonstrates the Chrome-free leather available for use in aircraft interiors seats. In 2008, Embraer joined the UN Global Compact, integrating vices launched incorporating sustainability assumptions incorporation of sustainability principles services systematically its procedures with the Compact’s ten principles. In Management of natural To reduce by 3%, the consumption per aircraft equivalent relresources and waste Energy consumption (MWh) per aircraft equivalent ative to the base-year 2014 (603,78 MWh/aircraft equivalent) 551,96 MWh/aircraft equivalent (9% reduction) both Embraer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Human Resources Management of natural resources and waste Water consumption (m³) per capita To reduce by 4% per capita water consumption in relation to the base-year 2014 (44,66 m3/per capita) 41,78 m3/per capita (6% reduction) Policy (globally applicable) the commitment to the UN Global Compact Management of natural resources and waste Solid waste generation/net revenue To reduce by 3% total waste generated per million dollars received relative to the base-year 2013 (2,76 ton/million dollars) 3.21 ton/million dollars (16% increase) is established, in particular regarding the respect of peoples’ dignity and Management of natural To reduce by 3% total hazardous waste generation per universal human rights, freedom of association and the right to collective Hazardous solid waste generation/net revenue million dollars received relative to the base-year 2013 0.57 ton/million dollars (14% increase) resources and wastes (0,5 ton/million dollars) bargaining, the absence of any form of forced or child employment as well Management of natural Percentage of industrial units (manufacturing) and Em100% of the industrial units and services centers operating in 2014 with ISO 14001 certification. New installa47.05% (8 of 17 units) as any discrimination on peoples’ jobs or activities. resources and waste braer service centers with ISO 14001 certification tions shall be certified within three years from its opening. 100% of the industrial units and services centers existing in 2014 to be mapped with respect to environmental Percentage of industrial units(manufacturing) liabilities (and their respective treatment plans). New Management of natural and Embraer service centers assessed for buildings acquisitions, new facilities or businesses ac76.47% (13 of 17 units) resources and waste environmental liabilities tivities must be preceded by environmental liability due diligence assessment, in order to ensure access to inforHealth and Safety mation necessary to the Company for decision-making Greenhouse gas emissions To reduce by 3% greenhouse gas emissions Among various disease prevention activities, the Embraer’s Tensional Atmospheric emissions (Scopes 1 + 2)/net revenue2 (Scopes 1 + 2) per million dollars of revenue in relation to the base-year 2013 (5,06 ton/million dollars) 5.48 ton/million dollars (8% increase) Reeducation Training Program (acronym PERTO in Portuguese) – stands out. Atmospheric emissions Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions/net revenue To reduce by 3% VOC emissions per million dollars received, compared to the base-year 2013 (0,0063 ton/million dollars) 0.0034 ton/million dollars (46% reduction) Since 2010, it has worked on postural reeducation and on guidance for carrying Human and Percentage of individual cases derived from Excellence standard (as a market reference), below the out activities focused on reducing eventual discomfort, all guided by physical national average for similar size companies, in compli3.91% workers’ rights labor complaints per employee ance with the regulatory body in each country therapy professionals. The program is based on the concepts of biomechanics Workers’ health and safety Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) To reduce LTIR by 30% in relation to 2014 rate Increase of 29.31% and investigates human movement in the workplace through a quantitative Workers’ health Percentage of industrial units (manufacturing) and 100% of the industrial units and service centers operating in 2014 with OHSAS 18001 certification. New installations 47.05% (8 of 17 units) assessment with instruments such as electromyography, accelerometer, force and safety Embraer service centers with OHSAS 18001 Certification shall be certified within three years from its opening. plates and video cameras. Transparency Percentage of indicators addressed in the Company’s Annual GRI Report – Comprehensive Level 89.65% and communication Global Reporting Initiative report (GRI) The incorporation of environmental requirements products has already been implemented in the E2 program. Verification of compliance with From this analysis, activities with functional exercises are recommended Product environmental Environmental requirements To incorporate environmental requirements, in addition to those regarding noise and emissions, in 100% of new these environmental requirements in the E2 program is ongoing. aiming at improving the employee’s overall physical condition, the correction life-cycle management in product development For the next aircraft program to be launched by the company, all enviproducts launched ronmental requirements will be incorporated, by way of the Integrated of possible postural defects and minimization of muscle fatigue during the Development Product process rules. To use the “DfE Matrix” to assess 100% of new products New products in 2015: Legacy 450, which was assessed via the specific activity being investigated. Product environmental Use of simplified life cycle assessment DfE Matrix. Total portfolio: The E-jets, Phenoms and the Legacy launched; for existing products, to evaluate their equivalife-cycle management (“DfE Matrix”) for products 500/450, responsible for 86% of Embraer’s revenues, have already lent to a minimum of 50% of Embraer’s revenue been assessed. Monthly monitoring is carried out and the employees report improvements A customer technical guide containing operational guidelines regardProduct environmental life-cycle management Customer orientation as to product end-of-life To create a document containing Embraer’s product strategic directives for end of life cycle ing the proper disposal of end-of-life products has in productive activities and they also take the program’s concepts to their been completed. Local socio-economic Social Partnership Program Balanced Score Card (BSC) Score 4, in a range from 0 to 5 points 2.45 personal lives. PERTO program contributed to a 44% reduction in perceived development average for each year supported projects results Number of Embraer volunteers engaged in Entrepreneurdiscomfort in the last three years. Local socio-economic To increase the number of volunteers by 20% ship programs, the Social Partnership Program and other 12% increase (565 volunteers) development in relation to the base-year 2014 (506 volunteers) social projects supported by Embraer Institute Embraer School Juarez Wanderley: 84% pass-rate to public universities Local socio-economic Pass-rate of Embraer Schools’ students in To maintain the pass-rate of Embraer Schools’ development Universities entrance examinations students in entrance examinations above 80% Embraer School Casimiro Montenegro Filho: 83% pass-rate to public universities Continuous increase in the percentage of annual investment Share of annual investment in technological Research, development in technological development applied to projects yelding development applied to environmentally 78% and innovation environmental benefits, reaching a minimum of 50% by beneficial projects 2017 (for resources to be applied in 2018) 1. Percentage of employees who completed the Anticorruption training – Code of Ethics and Conduct. 2. Considering Scope 1 emissions related to: fugitive emissions; fuel consumption other than kerosene (jet fuel); and jet fuel consumption from production flights (the current portfolio aircraft). Fuel consumption from development flights, new product certification, as well as the Defence and Security UN aircrafts, are not considered. 06 annual report 2015 profile 07 FLYING IN 2015 |GRI G4-1| WE CLOSED 2015 WITH A BETTER RESULT THAN IN 2014. (...) IN 2016 WE WILL CONTINUE TO DEVELOP PROJECTS, INNOVATE IN OUR PRODUCTS, INVEST IN OUR PEOPLE, SEEK EXCELLENCE IN MANAGEMENT AND ADVANCE IN CUTTING GUIDED BY OUR CORPORATE VALUES and in Brazil, from the ‘Great Place to Work’/ AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES, WE HAVE Época magazine as well as in the ‘Best People EDGE TECHNOLOGY ACTED OVER THE YEAR WITH A FOCUS Management’ from newspaper Valor EconôON STRENGTHENING OUR GLOBAL COMmico/AON. We were also classified among the PANY POSITION by investing in the develop‘35 Best Companies to Start a Career’ accor2015 also brought good results for our Executithe United States. In addition to these activiment of our people and the consolidation of our ding to Você S/A magazine and the Institute ve Jets business, which celebrated ten years of ties, we have transferred the head office of our international presence, improving our processes, of Administration and Talent Company Founexperience in the market with a wide range of European subsidiary in Villepinte, France, to the increasing our competitiveness and solidifying dation (FIA in Portuguese). certified aircraft operating in five continents – Netherlands, in Amsterdam. the foundation for the Company’s long-term the latest of which is the Legacy 450. Sales sustainable growth. Throughout this effort, the Regarding financial performance, we closed 2015 volume, which surpassed US$2 billion in value, We were included, by BM&FBOVESPA, in the 11th search for management excellence and contiwith higher revenue than in 2014. Whilst the and the generation of positive cash flow were portfolio of the Corporate Sustainability Index nuous technological development are central Defense and Security segment contracted, the highlights of the financial year. We estimate a (ISE in Portuguese) and, for the sixth consecutive elements of our activities. Commercial and Executive Aviation businesses global demand for more than 9,100 new busiyear, listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index expanded, boosting the Company’s consolidated ness jets during the next 10 years. (DJSI) on the New York Stock Exchange. In the During 2015 we have strengthened the figures. We achieved a net revenue of R$20.3 latest, we are a reference in the Aerospace and Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program billion and an operating profit of R$1.1 billion Embraer Defense and Security showed a decrease Defense sector in two economic dimension as(P3E), with improvement in cell qualification, in the financial year. Cash flow generation, as in net revenue as compared to the previous year, pects: innovation management and supply chain in leadership development and in culture measured by profit before interest, depreciation mainly due to devaluation of the Real and the management, in which we obtained the highest management. This was certainly one key and amortization (EBITDA) increased by 10% to downsizing of some contracts with the Brazilian score among all the companies in the category. factor that contributed to the National R$2.6 billion. We fulfilled the aircraft deliveries Government. Given this scenario, we are seeking In line with our commitment to sustainability, Quality Award given by the National Quality expectations and recorded, in our portfolio, to expand our presence in the international we reaffirm our commitment to the United NaFoundation (FNQ in Portuguese). We were US$22.5 billion in firm orders (backlog). market as well as to prospect for new customers, tions Global Compact (UN), and moreover, our considered in the Magna cum laude category, keeping our focus on four main programs: the integration with other important multilateral for demonstrating levels of excellence and for The year was one of the best in the Company’s LAS/Super Tucano for the United States Air forums, such as World Economic Forum’s PACI – receiving this award for two consecutive years. Commercial Aviation business history, with the Force, the KC-390 cargo aircraft for the Brazilian ‘Partnering Against Corruption Initiative’. delivery of 101 aircraft and sales of 170 more for Air Force, the Brazilian Geostationary Defense and Our people management processes were also future delivery. We estimate a global demand Communications Satellite (SGDC in Portuguese) In 2016 we will continue to develop projects, inrecognized, internally and externally. The orfor 6,350 commercial jets in the 70-130 seat caand the Integrated Border Monitoring System novate in our products, invest in our people, seek ganizational climate survey with our emplotegory during the next 20 years. We have accu(Sisfron in Portuguese) for the Brazilian Army. excellence in management and advance in cutyees achieved 89% satisfaction, reflecting mulated a total portfolio of 640 aircraft (incluting edge technology. Throughout this journey, their support for our career development poding firm orders and commitments to buy) for In the industrial context, we have pushed forwe would like to truly thank the contribution of licies, remuneration and the benefits offered the new generation of E-Jets (E2), consisting of ward in the consolidation of operations at units all our stakeholders. by the Company, in addition to the transpathree models (E175-E2, E190-E2 and E195-E2), in Évora, Portugal, in Melbourne, United States, rency that guides our internal communication which will arrive in the marketplace in 2018. and completed the acquisition of 100% of the process. We were listed in the rankings of the shares of Aero Seating Technologies (AST) , an FREDERICO PINHEIRO FLEURY CURADO Best Companies to Work for in Latin America aircraft seat manufacturing company based in President and CEO management of excellence EXCELLENCE The Embraer Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E) The four is the cornerstone for the P3E pillars are: Company’s management model, by which all Organizational culture MANAGEMENT employees work together in reviewing People development L eadership development Corporate efficiency procedures, searching for constant improvement Through the four pillars of P3E, of results Embraer seeks continuous All activities improvement in processes in order to The Management Excellence undertaken by Embraer aim to ensure good performance and quality Model (MEG in Portuguese) provided by the National create value for product delivery Quality Foundation (FNQ in its stakeholders: Portuguese) is the basis of customers, Embraer Business System shareholders, people, (SEE in Portuguese), which partners and society defines the Company’s and the environment business management model 10 annual report 2015 Embraer focuses on maintaining excellence. The Company operates in the global market and aims to expand its international operations in a sustainable way. In this sense, the Company maintains Embraer Business System (SEE in Portuguese), which defines the business management model and is based on the Model of Management Excellence (MEG in Portuguese) of the National Quality Foundation (FNQ in Portuguese). This system encompasses P3E, the management model and the organization model, as well as the definition and orientation of the key roles and responsibilities for the improvement of management practices. P3E – Enabling excellence Results Culture Stakeholders’ Values |GRI G4-24| Business People efficiency Shareholders Economic return/Financial health Leadership Customers Tra nsf ent Availability | Performance | Competitive Offers – Solutions | Security orma m tion Manage Society and the Environment Embraer also has a corporate procedure that defines guidelines for stakeholder engagement, and all Company-developed activity aims to create value for them, that is, entities and other interfaces Respect for society and the environment, creating wealth and well-being that affect or are affected by the Company’s activities and, directly or indirectly, have some influence over the management or the business outcome (learn more about forms of approach and stakeholders’ engagement frequency in Embraer in the GRI Indicators). For this reason, in Partners 2015, the Company directed its efforts to the evolution of P3E, with the implementation and management dissemination through value streams. The new concept also includes processes Integrity and Continuity review and the pursuit of continuous improvement with a focus on stakeholders (customers, shareholders, people, partners, society and the environment). |G4-24, G4-25, G4-26| People Personal and professional fulfillment 12 annual report 2015 management of excellence 13 FROM THE LEAN SYSTEM TO VALUE FLOWS MANAGEMENT The primary mission of P3E was to implement the lean system philosophy in the Company’s Responding to requests | Providing Embraer Serving shareholders | Managing the activiunits, through waste reduction, increased productivity gains, process optimization and use of products in time and with the quality needed ties of Embraer Business, ensuring adherence the kaizen concept, focusing on continuous improvement. Thus, P3E was based on the concept to maintain customer satisfaction and loyalty, to the planned results and aiming at excellent of lean enterprise and was developed based on its four pillars, in such a way as to contribute to under cost conditions that allow the Company management, the generation of economic valthe excellence of processes management and products quality performance. to compete successfully and maintain adeue and financial health. quate remuneration for its investors. To plan, configure, modify, schedule and purchase Creating value for partners | Developing a longproducts and services necessary for manufacterm relationship with partners and suppliers, Env turing and assembly; to manage internal and focusing on integrity and business continuity. y ir o external logistics of materials, equipment and ic et nm tools; to manufacture and assemble products Respecting society and the environment | ands according to specified procedures and stanUnderstanding the needs of society; to idenDem R es u So lts en dards, consolidating documentation and detify relevant compliance responsibilities; to t livering the product to the customer. analyse risks, opportunities and adherence to ip L ea nd s rsh de ma Embraer’s performance; to generate internal e De ul t r sh ad s R es Le ge Inn ip Serving customers | Undertaking the necessary requirements or developing projects; to ened ov o wl at ion activities for after-sales support of aircraft, sure compliance with requirements or impleKn aiming to ensure customer satisfaction and menting and maintaining projects; to monitor operational safety. To provide technical and and communicate results. lders operational support, as well as special support Results Demands VALUES Proc services, parts repair management and aircraft Attracting and retaining talents | Taking ace ders hip eopl Leader Custo esse maintenance, in order to ensure the highest tion for the continuous development of the reho Lea P level of dispatch reliability and operability. entire workforce, aiming at personal and proa m s ship h fessional growth. S ers Strategies Dem lts su and Plans an *Embraer is studying the creation of a Business Management flow in order to aggregate Serving shareholders, Value Re d generation for partners, Respecting the society and the environment and Attracting and retaining talents. s Leadership s De ma Result nds Partners The following value streams were defined*: Attracting customers | Taking advantage of Developing products | Transforming new marketing opportunities for products and serideas and opportunities into products, manuvices that generate economic and expected facturing systems and customer support sysfinancial results, aiming to ensure complete tems, developing and delivering quality at the customer satisfaction and loyalty. To devecost and time required by the market. To defilop and strengthen Embraer’s presence in the ne and specify the product, executing, coordimarket, establishing its strategic vision and nating and integrating multiple processes. long-term marketing. 14 annual report 2015 perfil 15 CORPORATE World’s largest US$ 5.92 manufacturer billion in net revenue and IDENTITY of commercial aircraft with up to 130 seats. Embraer is one of US$22.5 billion in firm orders were confirmed by the Company in the financial year the leading The constant pursuit of companies in the global aerospace entrepreneurial excellence and About 1,100 leaders, sector 18,000 employees customer satisfaction makes and 400 business Embraer one of the main aerospace 46years partners were companies in the world trained in anticorruption of successful history + than 100 countries can count on Embraer’s support and qualified service 16 annual report 2015 corporate identity 17 FROM BRAZIL TO THE WORLD Embraer is a Brazilian company with global With 46 years of history, completed in August 2015; and offices in Brasília, São Paulo and Rio Along with its global presence, in 2015, presence that designs, develops, manufactures 2015, Embraer’s headquarters is located in São de Janeiro. Abroad, it has offices and facilities Embraer had more than 19 thousand direct and sells aircraft, systems and solutions for José dos Campos (São Paulo state), where it has in the United States, Mexico, Portugal, France, employees in Brazil and abroad, and delivered Commercial Aviation, Executive Aviation, and two facilities and a wholly-owned subsidiary, Ireland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, 241 aircraft, the highest number in five years. Defense & Security. It also provides support ELEB, which produces landing gear systems and the United Arab Emirates, Singapore and ChiDuring the year, it earned US$4.07 billion in and after-sales services for customers in more hydraulic and electro-mechanical components na. In China, the Company also owns 51% of exports, ranking as the fifth largest Brazilian than 100 countries. With expertise in all stages for the aviation industry. It also has manufacHarbin Embraer Aircraft Industry Co. (HEAI), in exporter, with a significant contribution to the of its complex activities, it is the world’s largest turing plants in Botucatu and Gavião Peixoto; association with the Aviation Industry Corponational trade balance. At the end of the year, manufacturer of commercial aircraft with up to Executive Aviation service centers in Sorocaration of China company (AVIC), and in Portuit had recorded US$5.92 billion in net revenue 130 seats, and one of the leaders in the aeroba; Logistics centers in Taubaté and Campinas; gal, it owns 65% of OGMA – a company with and US$22.5 billion in firm orders. |GRI G4-9| space sector – a position achieved thanks to the Engineering and Technology Centers located in operations in the manufacture and mainteconstant pursuit of entrepreneurial excellence Brazil in Belo Horizonte, in the United States in nance of aero-structures. |GRI G4-5, G4-6, G4-8| and the complete satisfaction of its customers. Florida, and in Portugal in Évora, inaugurated in |GRI G4-3, G4-4| UNITED KINGDOM NETHERLANDS Farnborough Amsterdam IRELAND Dublin FRANCE Le Bourget EUA PORTUGAL Nashville Évora CHINA Fort Lauderdale Alverca – OGMA Beijing Melbourne Harbin – HEAI Mesa UNITED ARAB Windsor Locks EMIRATES Jacksonville Dubai Irwindale SINGAPORE Singapure BRAZIL São José dos Campos Gavião Peixoto Botucatu Taubaté Brasília Belo Horizonte São Paulo Rio de Janeiro Sorocaba Campinas Manufacturing plants 18 annual report 2015 PORTFOLIO |GRI G4-4| Synonymous with innovation, Embraer has internationally renowned partners and attracts and keeps its Embraer has a broad-based structure of share Our people are what make us fly | Happy, ownership, without the presence of a control capable, valued, and fulfilled people who are customers worldwide through a broad and varied portfolio of products and services. group or controlling shareholder, and with only committed to what they do. People who work one class of common shares, thus extending the as teams and who act with integrity, coherence, right to vote to all of its shareholders. The Compatrust in each other and respect for diversity. ny has shares trading in both São Paulo (BM&FBOVESPA: EMBR3) and in New York (NYSE: ERJ) We are here to serve our customers | Customwith structured governance practices, and and its ers are earned by delivering full satisfaction and shares are listed in the portfolios of the Corporate by building strong and enduring relationships. Sustainability Index (ISE) of BM&FBOVESPA and Partnerships are based on genuine commitCommercial Aviation the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). ment and flexibility. ERJ 145 family E170 E175 (37 to 50 seats) (70 to 76 seats) (76 to 86 seats) VISION AND VALUES |GRI G4-56| We strive for company excellence | The Company’s activities are conceived with simplicity, Vision agility, flexibility, and safety in mind, along Embraer will further consolidate its position with a sustained pursuit of continuous imas one of the leading forces in the global aeroprovement and excellence. An entrepreneurial space and defense and security industries. outlook based on coordinated planning, wise E190 E195 E175-E21 Embraer is a market leader in the segments in delegation, and disciplined execution. (97 to 106 seats) (106 to 118 seats) (80 to 88 seats) which it operates and commands a reputation for excellence. Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks | Company in the technological vanguard, with Values a capacity for continuous learning; transformEmbraer’s values unite and model the attiing from within and influencing the markets E190-E21 Check out the portfolio and their features at tudes of its workforce, strengthening its rein which it operates. A strategic vision and an (97 to 106 seats) E195-E21 www.embraercommercialaviation.com/ (120 to 132 seats) en-us/Pages/Default.aspx sults and ensuring the Company’s long-term ability to overcome challenges with creativity future. These are the set of beliefs that guide and courage. business and strategic decisions on a daily basis, at all levels. Global presence is our frontier | Global presence and local actions underpin the Company’s comBased on collective creation, these values are petitive advantage, leveraging the best of each truly present in the culture and routine of its of the locations in which it operates. A vision of employees, forming a solid ethical foundation a borderless world that values diversity. We build a sustainable future | A constant Phenom 100E Phenom 300 Legacy 450 striving to consolidate the foundations for (6 to 8 seats) (8 to 11 seats) (7 to 9 seats) long-term success, delivering profitability to Executive Aviation shareholders and heedful of quality of life, the environment and the community in general. With solid and ethical Legacy 500 (8 to 12 seats) Legacy 600 (13 or 14 seats) Legacy 650 (13 or 14 seats) corporate values, the Company strengthens its results and ensures its long-term future Lineage 1000E Check out the portfolio and their features at pt.embraerexecutivejets.com/en-us/Pag(13 to 19 seats) business es/Index.aspx 20 annual report 2015 corporate identity 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE To ensure an effective management and to All relevant issues to stakeholders are covered minimize risks, the Compliance and Internal in the Board of Directors meetings, particularAuditing departments report directly to the ly the monitoring of action plans and of EmA-29 ISR Special missions Audit and Risk Committee. This Committee braer’s strategic planning (consultation proSuper Tucano and the Human Resources and Strategy Comcesses between stakeholders and the highest mittees advise the Board of Directors. The Ingovernance body in relation to economic, enDefense & Security ternal Risk and Control department reports to vironmental and social topics are presented in the Board of Executive Officers. the GRI Indicators). |GRI G4-37| KC-390 Aerial surveillance radar Moreover, there are executives responsible for the Company’s performance in economic, environmental and social areas: the Executive Vice President of Finance and Investor RelaAircraft modernization • Maintenance and aircraft repair (Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul – MRO) • Unmanned aerial tions and the Vice President of People and vehicles (UAV) • Training and operational support (Training and Operation Support System – TOSS) • Security Systems3/ Sustainability, respectively. |GRI G4-36| C44 • Air traffic control systems • Remote sensing • Aerial surveillance radar • Satellites • Development and integration of complex systems for sectors outside of aviation and defense. Corporate governance structure |GRI G4-34, G4-40, G4-41, G4-42| Development and integration Shareholders Check out the portfolio and their features at of complex systems for sectors www.embraerds.com.br/portugues/content/home/ and beyond aviation and defense www.embraer.com.br/pt-br/sistemas/paginas/default.aspx Fiscal Board Board of Directors Human Resources Committee Compliance Agricultural Aviation Audit and Risk Committee Internal Auditing Strategy Committee Check out the portfolio and its features at Ipanema www.embraeragricola.com.br/pt-BR/Paginas/default.aspx Board of Executive Officers Risk and Internal Controls Embraer is associated with the Brazilian Institute and strategies is monitored, allowing greater In light of the maintenance of recognized of Corporate Governance (IBGC in Portuguese), the Brazilian Association of Public Companies accuracy in discussions and deliberations. Issues that require constant monitoring, such as corporate governance practices, the (ABRASCA in Portuguese), the Brazilian Institute environmental topics (dealt with at least twice of Investor Relations (IBRI in Portuguese) and the a year), internal auditing (also dealt with at least Company is listed on the Corporate 1. Under development. National Institute of Investors (INI in Portuguese). twice a year) and the risk map (dealt with at Sustainability Index (ISE in Portuguese)  ransport of official representatives, MEDEVAC 2. T (medical evacuation) and in-flight inspection (FIS). 3. Defense and security applications. The Company maintains a Governance Portal, least once a year) are monitored on the recurring agenda. The measures taken to develop and imof BM & FBOVESPA and the Dow Jones 4. Command, control, communication, computing and intelligence revitalized in 2015 to provide information to the Board of Directors. The time spent by the Board prove the knowledge of the Board of Directors and the Board of Executive Officers members . Sustainability Index (DJSI) in following up Embraer’s most critical issues are disclosed in the GRI indicators. |GRI G4-43| 22 annual report 2015 corporate identity 23 For greater effectiveness in the Board of Direc• Meetings take place eight times a year, or Board of Executives Officers Strategic planning |GRI G4-45| tors’ work, there is a transparent process for whenever necessary, for the analysis of en• Comprises 4-11 members. Besides forward planning with a 15 year vision, assessing their performance. In the first year vironmental, social and economic issues, as • Meets at least monthly. Embraer’s strategic plan is reviewed annually of mandate, each Board of Directors member well as risks, opportunities and potential im• Proposes the business fundamental guidewith the participation of all business, operationmakes a formal evaluation of the Board of Dipacts assessment – 13 meetings were held in lines, creates and shuts down operations, al and corporate areas of the Company. The plan rectors’ performance as a formal body. In the 2015. |GRI G4-47| opens, closes and transfers offices and subsidis approved by the Board of Directors, in order to second year, there is an assessment made by • Members are elected every two years. The iaries, authorizes the provision of guarantees ensure that the management of impacts, risks directors and the Comittes of the Board of Direclast election was held in April 2015. and allocation of resources to subsidiaries. and opportunities arising from economic, envitors as a formal body, conducted by the Human ronmental and social issues is aligned with perResources Committee and supported through Strategy Committee Fiscal Board formance expectations and the stakeholders’ inexpert external advice. Thus, members evalu• Consists of up to five members. • Consists of five members and five deputies. terests. In this process, opinions and involvement ate themselves and assess each other by a 360° • Meets quarterly. • Meets quarterly or whenever necessary. of stakeholders are considered, as formalized in methodology and the President-CEO who, in • Supports the Board of Directors in the study • Monitors administrative activities and anathe Company’s Materiality Matrix. Due diligence turn, gives an evaluation of the Board of Direcof potential opportunities (new business), lyzes the Company’s financial statements. processes considered critical are forwarded to the tors’ activities performance every year. |GRI G4-44| and by defining the Company’s action and Board of Directors for analysis. strategic plans. Embraer’s by-laws provide protection mechaTransparent Management |GRI G4-SO3, nisms to ensure not only the wide distribution Human Resources Committee G4-DMA (Anti-corruption)| of the company’s shares, but also that any Gen• Consists of up to five members. Embraer is committed to the highest level of eral Assembly decisions are exercised by Brazil• Meets quarterly. ethics and compliance with the laws, regulaTo learn more about the duties and the composition ian shareholders, guaranteeing the guidance • Supports the Board of Directors in the election of the Board of Directors, of the Committees, tions and policies relevant to their activities. established in the Company’s privatization. and removal of Executive Officers, in evaluthe Fiscal Board and the Board of Executive The Compliance Department is active in the Officers, please visit ri.embraer.com.br/show. ating the Company’s resources transferation, aspx?idCanal=faCmtrrpA6+GuZRyw7IVVw==. dissemination and application of this concept General Assembly the definition of long-term incentive proThe profile of the highest governance body and based on four pillars: strengthening, preventcommittees’ members can also be seen in the GRI • Is the highest deliberative body. grams, salary policy and Human Resources. Indicators. |GRI G4-35, G4-38| ing, remedying and detecting. Through these, • Decisions are made by a majority vote, with the Company covers all processes and operaforeign shareholders restricted to a total of Audit and Risk Committee tions based on the risk assessment, policies 40% of the votes present, in order to ensure • Consists of three to five members. and procedures, training and communication, the prevalence of national interest in the • Meets every two months. monitoring and auditing, counseling and comaerospace sector. • Supports the Board of Directors in the munication channels. monitoring and assessment of business Board of Directors risks; in the human and financial resources • Consists of up to 11 full members, eight of allocated for risk management adequacy them being independent. evaluation; in the analysis and opinions • The Brazilian government, a special class regarding general financial information; in shareholder (golden share) that has guarthe assessment and management of risk Risk Assessment Review existing processes Policies and Procedures anteed the right of veto in certain strategic models and in the analysis and review of risk STRENGTHEN PREVENT Improve as needed Internal controls issues for the Company and the country, management guidelines and policies. Compliance Bad conduct appoints a director and a deputy. The direcProgram Training and communication tors and their deputies indicate two others: Instruct and advise employees one from the Investment Club of Embraer Employees (CIEMB in Portuguese) and the second directly. Investigate problems • The Board’s by-laws establish parameters for Solve problems Respond and Monitor DETECT a knowledge and skills combination among Take appropriate action REMEDY Points for Audit the members, aiming at a more efficient (Including disciplinary) attention Helpline management and diversified points of view. 24 annual report 2015 corporate identity 25 Compliance Program |GRI G4-SO3, G4-DMA Helpline |GRI G4-49, G4-57, G4-58, G4-SO3, G4QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY (Anti-corruption)| • implement best practices in accordance with P3E DMA (Grievances and complaints procedures related In the year, Embraer was awarded the followIt aims to ensure the adoption of the highest • consolidate all compliance initiatives, espeto environmental impacts), G4-DMA (Grievances and ing recognitions: international standards of integrity and good cially the Anti-Corruption and Export Control complaints procedures related to labor practices), G4practice, as well as compliance with the laws programs DMA (Grievances and complaints procedures related National Quality Award (PNQ in Portuguese) | of countries in which Embraer is operating, to human rights), G4-DMA (Grievances and complaints Awarded in the Magna cum laude category for especially regarding anti-corruption practices It is divided into: procedures related to impacts on society)| presenting levels of excellence in management and export control. This is a fundamental isThis tool allows employees and stakeholders to for the second consecutive year by the National sue for the Company, formalized in its Materi• Leadership and organizational structure inform or seek support on ethical and behaviorQuality Foundation (FNQ in Portuguese). ality Matrix. Its main objectives are: • Risk management al issues related to possible violations of Em• to promote an integrity culture based on the • Policies, procedures and controls braer policies or national and international laws The Most Admired Companies in Brazil | Chocorporate values and in Embraer’s Code of • Training and communication and regulations. The information is received sen in the ‘Most Admired in Brazil’ category in a Ethics and Conduct • Monitoring, auditing and Helpline and processed by an independent company and ranking sponsored by ‘Carta Capital’ magazine. • support the values and principles of the (learn more below) then forwarded to the Compliance Department. Company by prevention All contacts are treated confidentially, and the ‘Best Companies to Work for’ | Ranked among complainant receives a protocol through which the top 130 companies in Brazil, by the magazine it is possible to consult, at the Helpline’s web‘Voce S/A’, and voted one of the top 100 in Latsite, the status of their account. in America by Época magazine – ‘Great Place to Code of Ethics and Conduct |GRI G4-56, G4-57, G4-SO3, G4-DMA (non-discrimination), G4-DMA (Anti-corruption)| Work’ for the seventh consecutive year. The Code of Ethics and Conduct reflects EmThe Code of Ethics and Conduct (compliance. In 2015, no complaints related to social and braer’s commitment to achieving business goals embraer.com.br) and the By-laws and Policy environmental impacts were registered. Also, Viracopos Logistics Excellence | Awarded as with social responsibility, valuing its relationfor Negotiation and Disclosure, approved by there was no internal or external case of disthe Best Importer, the Outstanding Exporter ships with shareholders, employees and supthe Board of Directors in 2015, and drawn crimination based on ethnic origin, gender, re(company with the largest growth in ‘free on pliers, preserving the environment and contribup in accordance with the Statement of the ligion, ideology, nationality or social origin (the board’ values – FOB), Best Supply Chain (Recof uting to the development of the communities Securities Commission of Brazil (CVM in number of grievances and complaints related category) and Best Plant (importer by the Nawhere the Company is operating. Portuguese) No. 358/2002, are both public to labor practices and the impacts on human tional Register of Legal Entities – CNPJ) by Viavailable at: ri.embraer.com.br. rights is available in the GRI Indicators). |GRI racopos Airports Brazil Concessionaire (ABV). Through this document, the Company also G4-EN34, G4-LA16, G4-HR3, G4-HR12, G4-SO11| seeks to comply with anti-corruption laws and In 2015, more than 19,000 employees and Air Transport News | Awarded in the Regional international trade and to integrate volunteer more than 400 national and international Aircraft Manufacturer category, by Air Transinitiatives, such as the International Forum on suppliers were trained regarding the anti-corport News (ATN). Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC in Portuguese) ruption issue. and the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative Crystal Cabin Association Award | Winner in of the World Economic Forum (PACI-WEF). the Industrial Design and Visionary Concepts category – for the E-Jets-E2 aircraft cabins www.embraer.com.br, icon Helpline, or area – in the Aircraft Interiors Expo annual www.embraerhelpline.com event, in Hamburg, Germany, by the Crystal Anti-corruption training – Code of Ethics and Conduct |GRI G4-SO4| Cabin Award Association. 2013 2014 2015 Leaders 100% (1,152) 100% (1,171) 100% (1,110)* Brazil: 0800-721-5968 Non-Leaders Portugal: 800-180-118 Embraer’s Code of Ethics and 51.05% (9,520) 77.80% (14,000) 98.98% (18,077)* *Employees who have completed new training or refresher training and/or new employees/leaders have been taken into account. United States: 1-877-900-8779 Singapore: 800-130-2122 China: 400-120-4946 Conduct provides the necessary France: 0805-080608 foundations for compliance with anti-corruption and international trade legislation sustained growth SUSTAINED GROWTH Embraer delivers results and assists its diverse stakeholders working with respect for society and the environment 100% of Aero Seating Technologies 10,797 kaizens carried out in the Embraer’s strategic shares, manufacturer financial year promoted a plan is composed of luxury seats in California US$51 million profit and a (USA), were acquired by US$238 million reduction of five sections, Embraer in 2015 in stocks reviewed annually: Commercial Aviation; Executive Aviation; Defense & Security; Embraer aims to achieve its international Diversification; and expansion in a sustainable manner and, for People, sustainability, this reason, holds certification in ISO 14001/ organization and Environmental Management and OHSAS 18001/ processes Occupational Health and Safety 28 annual report 2015 sustained growth 29 Innovation and technology To maintain the competitiveness of its products and serCONSOLIDATION AND EXPANSION Strategic plan vices, Embraer leads market trends, always attentive to its customers’ requirements, its competition and the public’s Encouraging To maintain its leading position in the world market and further its international expansion in a Embraer’s strategic plan, reviewed annually, is based on five aspects: needs in general. For this reason, investing in technology and innovation is a key part of strategic planning. The Comimprovement sustainable manner and with earnings for its dipany, in addition to engineering and product development verse stakeholders, Embraer maintains qualified Commercial Aviation | Solidify Embraer’s leaderareas, also has three advanced Engineering and Technolprofessionals and continually invests in improving ship position in its segment, expanding the custoogy Centers (CETEs in Portuguese), one in Brazil, one in Embraer leaders challenge its organizational culture, in innovation of its promer base, perfecting the E-Jets, and pursuing excelthe United States, and one in Portugal. It also allocates employees to seek solutions ducts and business diversification – all actions are lence in the customer support model. resources to courses and programs that encourage and recfor process improvement, supported by the SEE. Its implementation bases ognize employees’ contributions to qualified business and are the P3E (see more in Excellence Management Executive Aviation | Consolidate Embraer’s position portfolio development. cost reduction and production on page 08), maintaining the Company’s Environas one of the world’s leading manufacturers of exoptimization. In 2015, there ment, Health and Safety Systems certification in ecutive jets, increasing its market share, developing Additionally, the Company has adopted stimulated and sponwere seven challenges, which its units in Brazil (ISO 14001/environmental manew products and sustaining high levels of customer taneous innovation. One of the activities that has been deveoriginated 183 ideas. nagement and OHSAS 18001/occupational health satisfaction with client services and support. loped is the Innova project, which fosters the spirit of team and safety), to retain its position in the DJSI and ISE innovation by providing channels and areas for receiving and Improvements are also sustainability indexes and the adoption of the MaDefense & Security | Be a key player in Brazil’s national consolidating contributions. Other notable programs are Good encouraged by the use of kaizen. nagement Excellence Model. defense and security system, diversify product and Idea, which encourages employees to contribute suggestions, In 2015, there were 10,797, which service offering and expand its international presence, new tools and creative techniques to develop activities with promoted earnings of US$51 while pursuing excellence in customer support. more efficiency or at lower cost; and Green Light, which allomillion and US$238 millionstock ws employees with innovative proposals to deviate from norDiversification | Invest effort in diversifying Emmal daily work for up to 100% of the time in order to develop reduction. braer’s business via a focus on synergies with the them, with financial support from Embraer. Good Idea adopCompany’s core competencies. ted 14,300 contributions in 2015, achieving US$42.1 million in Luxury seats People, sustainability, organization and processes | To economic returns. Green Light received 126 proposals, of which nine were approved. manufacturing keep advancing as a global organization committed both to delivering customer satisfaction and valuing The Company also runs Stimulated Innovation, a program company |GRI G4-13| its people; a Company that grows sustainably and serves as reference in the market for innovation and supported by Innova (learn more in the box) and which is aimed at areas that have the creation, development and imcorporate excellence. plementation of innovations as their main role. In parallel, Embraer celebrates with its employees the adoption of creative R$37 Embraer acquired 100% of programs by recognizing innovation. In 2015, 1,097 employees the shares of Aero Seating were recognized for 394 improvement suggestions. Technologies (AST), a Embraer also supports the strengthening of its secmanufacturer of luxury seats tor through the Aerospace Investment Fund (FIP in in California (USA). As part of Portuguese), established in 2014 in partnership with its business strategy, the new the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES in Portumillion from the Aerospace AST seats assembly line will be transferred to the industrial guese), the federal government’s Funding Authority for Studies and Projects (FINEP in Portuguese) Participation Investment Fund complex of Titusville, Florida and the São Paulo development funding agency was allocated in 2015 for (USA), with a forecast for Desenvolve SP. The start-up capital of the fund was R$131.3 million, of which R$37 million was allocated in the development of operational start-up in the second half of 2016. 2015 to four companies in three sectors: space, defense companies in this sector and cyber-security. 30 annual report 2015 sustained growth 31 Sustainable development Supply chain management |G4-DMA (Products and services)| |GRI G4-12, G4-DMA (Environmental assessment of Embraer maintains the Integrated Development of Ensuppliers), G4-DMA (Evaluation of suppliers regarding The management of partners is monitored by vironmentally Sustainable Products Program (DIPAS in labor practices), G4-DMA (Evaluation of suppliers scorecard, a tool used to control the monthly indiPortuguese), based on the Design for the Environment regarding Human Rights), G4-DMA (Evaluation of cators; a shared action plan, in which Embraer exThrough the Aeronautics (DfE) methodology. With this concept, products are designed with a focus on the inclusion of innovations and suppliers’ impacts on society), G4-DMA (Investments), G4-DMA (Child labor), G4-DMA (Forced or slave labor)| ecutives discuss strategic issues with contractors that could affect the operation; risk assessment, Chain Development Program in compliance with environmental requirements. Embraer separates its purchasing structure into direct supplies (products that are purchased directly to monitor supply capacity, including on-site audits in suppliers’ plants. In 2015, many of the trading (PDCA in Portuguese), Embraer The technological development plan, combined for the aircraft) and indirect supplies (services and partners were submitted to environmental impact strengthens its supply chain with innovation and efficiency, covers items such as materials to support all industrial, administrative assessment. The process consists of applying a risk aerodynamic improvement of aircraft; intensive use and technical activities). For the management analysis questionnaire, which contains a specific of lighter materials to reduce the aircraft structural of this chain, technical skill, productive capacity, section on environmental, health, safety and soPDCA: Evolution chain weight; aircraft development with more electrical reliability, after-sales service, competitive pricing, cial rights requirements, with the analysis of nine systems and less dependency on the engine energy environmental responsibility, financial health, aspects: finances, business, production, quality, afGROWTH IN generation; taking part in the development of new risks, certifications, experience and logistics criteria ter-sales, foreign trade, supply chain, engineering VOLUME OF 2013 generations of engines in cooperation with propulare adopted. In addition to these requirements, and environment. |GRI G4-EN33| PURCHASES (%) sion system manufacturers; technological research there are contractual clauses for 100% of partners to reduce internal and external noise levels, with the that aim to ensure compliance with aspects of Embraer also has tools to help with the training of 2015 +34% aim of increasing passenger comfort and reducing human rights, labor and environmental laws, its suppliers. The Development of Aeronautics Chain noise impact near airports; and the search for alterbesides avoiding impacts on society. For these Program (PDCA in Portuguese), implemented in partnative fuels. The application of advanced technoloreasons, there were no identification of significant nership with the Brazilian Industrial Development gies in engines, wings and avionics components of or potential negative impacts in labor practices in Agency (ABDI in Portuguese), strengthens the chain the new jets generation aims to reduce fuel conthe supply chain during 2015. |GRI G4-EN32, G4-LA14, and makes it more competitive, promoting sustainGROWTH IN AMOUNT 2013 sumption, emissions, noise and maintenance costs, G4-LA15, G4-HR1, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR10, G4-SO9| ability in the aerospace supply chain. Improving qualOF PART and increase airlines operational efficiency. ity and productivity of suppliers allows not only for an NUMBERS increase in Embraer’s supply of parts and services, but 2015 also for other industries, with quality and efficiency. +35% PDCA runs on four pillars – service, costs, quality and waste disposal – by applying excellence modHIGH-RISK els in quality, kaizen concepts, cell-based, producSUPPLIERS 2013 10 tive development and strategic management. The framework is from National Quality Foundation (FNQ in Portuguese) Management Excellence Mod2015 2 el and was adapted to this segment. Through the year, the Company also held meetings between suppliers and FINEP entities, the Research SupDIRECT port Foundation of São Paulo (FAPESP in Portuguese), JOBS 2013 BNDES and the Ministry of Development, Industry and Trade (MDIC in Portuguese) for project presentation, lines of credit and other clarifications. 2015 10% DELIVERY PERFORMANCE 2013 (orders within deadline) 84% 2015 98% 32Kaizens annual report 2015 sustained growth 33 with suppliers Between 2014 and 2015, the kaizens developed with suppliers resulted in improvements in 911 processes. The main gains in the period were: Risk management |GRI G4-2, G4-14, G4-46| • Average reduction of 50% 2015 was the year for strengthening risk management at Embraer, with the consolidation of develin the production cycle opment processes and compliance. In June, in light of a more unstable market, the Company issued • 40% increase bonds to capture emerging markets funds amounting to US$1 billion, an important milestone for prein productivity serving cash for ten years, the deadline for return of the obtained funds. • Reduction of 360 km in Analysis and periodic monitoring are also carried operators’ movements out to capture the executives’ perspectives, in a structured manner, regarding key aspects of man• Reduction of 2,135 hours agement and risks involved in operations, in the areas and processes of the Embraer business. These of machine stoppage for insights are obtained based on interviews with set-up operations senior management, periodic risk reviews, questionnaires, action plan follow-up meetings, as well as addressing activities, validations and leadership The Company’s Indirect Supplies assessments, reporting to the Board of Directors Team also trained suppliers in and the Audit and Risk Comittee. Additionally, all business risks are monitored by risk owners who accordance with lean concepts follow up on the development of action plans for and key tools of the P3E At Embraer, all mitigation and monitoring indicators. methodology. business risks Moreover, there is also risk management in product development, from pre-design to the serial phase, are monitored by through constant monitoring (at least weekly), including the observance of opportunities identirisk owners who fied by Audit and Risk Comittee. follow up on the Risk management methodology focuses on four categories: strategic, operational, financial and Intangible assets development regulatory/legal risks (learn more in the table). The structure is strengthened through work in the area In its annual cycle of the strategic plan review, the Company identifies and prioritizes its intangible assets of mitigation of Risk and Internal Controls. Internal Auditing is in order to maintain and enhance its value for the stakeholders. action plans and also maintained, which operates independently and reports directly to the Audit and Risk Comittee, enmonitor indicators. suring the independence and objectivity of auditors contracted for external auditing services. ASSETS IDENTIFICATION METHOD Brand Monitoring materials (positive and negative) of Embraer’s brand; From the prefavorability index of organizational climate; portfolio of sustainability project period Knowledge Monitoring the activities index in communities and the developed practices maturity; Index of knowledge recycling to the serialized phase, risk Intellectual Property Invention patents portfolio; of industrial design patents portfolio; business secrets portfolio management is People Climate research; classification in the ranking of the ‘Best Companies to Work for’; skills evaluation (annual cycle); reaction evaluation during training; carried out through results assessment Leadership Annual Leadership Cycle; external evaluation; 360º evaluation; monitoring Evaluation Committee 34 annual report 2015 sustained growth 35 Consolidating the development of Risk processes and Regarding climate change, risk assessment categorization compliance results have not shown vulnerability for Embraer to make substantial changes in its |G4-DMA (Economic Performance)| marked the strengthening operations, revenues or costs due to risks reof risk management at lated to legislation, physical or other climate Strategic | Based on the permanent monitoring Embraer in 2015 parameters. The analysis carried out on the of market trends, senior management topic considered, with a five-year horizon, decisions that may impact the economic value aspects such as Brazilian environmental of Embraer. Issues that may pose risks to legislation as well as from other countries operations and the brand are communicated where the Company operates, the Europeby the Investor Relations Department in an Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU advance to stakeholders. ETS) and discussions about carbon taxation. Embraer’s main manufacturing sites are in DIPAS Operational | Related to the possibility of Brazil, a country less susceptible to extreme is based on the Design for natural phenomena such as tornadoes, losses (in production, assets, customers Environment methodology, earthquakes and volcanoes, and in regions and revenues) resulting from failures, and it allows, from with very low flooding or frost risks. The deficiencies or inadequacy of internal conception, for Embraer’s processes, people and systems, as well as overseas units also present risks and posproducts to be designed with the constant effort sible impacts considered to be very low. All external events, such as natural disasters. units follow crisis management guidelines to include innovations and compliance with to minimize the effects of possible events. Financial | Related to the exposure environmental requirements |GRI G4-EC2, G4-DMA (Economic Performance)| of financial operations, including the efforts for managing cash flows in order Throughout 2015, the Company cooperated to increase the operating cash flow 100% fully with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US Department generation, the financial transactions of Justice (DOJ) in the ongoing investigation returns generation and funds collection and of contracts with concerning the possibility of non-compliuse. Guided by the Financial Management suppliers contain clauses ance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Policy, and approved by the Board of that aim to ensure Act (FCPA) in certain aircraft sales outside Directors, the Finance Committee analyzes compliance with aspects Brazil. Soon after learning of the investigaand suggests action in scenarios with of human rights and tion in the US, the company hired speciallabor and environmental potential financial exposure. ized lawyers in the US and Brazil to conduct legislation a thorough internal investigation. Regulatory/Legal | Embraer operates with respect to the environmental legislation US$ billion1 in bonds were issued of all the locations where it operates and complies with aviation industry regulations in each step of the aircraft manufacturing design process, from design to after-sales by Embraer in 2015 support. to capture emerging market resources 36 annual report 2015 performance with quality 37 85% The development With 101 aircraft delivered PERFORMANCE and test flights in the year, the Company of the first maintained its average favorability in relation to after-sales KC-390, leadership a multi-role military in the 70-130 seat WITH QUALITY support for Executive Aviation as measured at the transport aircraft, commercial aircraft Embraer Executive Operators highlighted the performance category, with more than Conference in 2015 of Embraer Defense & 50% of sales and 60% of Security in this period deliveries worldwide 267 The Ipanema 203, launched and certified in In 2015, commercial aviation sales 2015, is the leading aircraft increased – the production line in in its category, with over 2016 is already filled – Executive Jets 60% 82 light and 38 large jets firm orders delivered in 2015 by the completed ten years of operation and in 2015 for Company in the Executive the E-Jets-E2 the Defense & Security business has Aviation sector program market share in Brazil consolidated its presence, affirming its ability to perform 38 annual report 2015 performance with quality 39 BALANCE IN BUSINESS 2015 ended positively, ensuring Embraer’s busiIn the Commercial Aviation Satisfaction Surconsolidating the Company and expanding its The E2 program reinforces Embraer’s commitness stability. Commercial Aviation sales grew vey (CSS), the General Spontaneous Satisfacpresence in several markets. Examples are India ment to continuous investment in its range and the production line in 2016 is already comtion Index (ISGE) scored 85.9% and in the Aband the United States – in which the company of commercial jets and to maintain its market mitted. Executive Aviation celebrated ten years solute Favorability Index scored 77%, placing has targeted efforts to gain new sales. leadership in the 70-130 seat category. These and ended the year with an increase in deliveries the company in second.These results confirm jets will have high performance and the cutcompared to 2014. The Defense & Security busiour commitment to serving customers with At the end of 2015, the E-Jets family operated ting edge engines which, together with new ness, in line with its commitment to strengthexcellence. |GRI G4-PR5| with approximately 70 customers – including wings with improved aerodynamics, full flyening Brazil’s defense and security systems, has nine gained in 2015 – in 50 countries. The target by-wire flight controls and improvements in consolidated its presence affirming its capacity Commercial Aviation is, with the momentum of the new portfolio, various systems, will enable lower fuel conto deliver national strategic projects. Accounting for 55.9% of total Company to reach 100 operators by 2018. The first jet of sumption, as well as reducing the mainterevenue, Comercial Aviation business achieved the E-Jets E2 family, the E190-E2 model, will fly nance cost, emissions and external noise. The Company applied research to assess the another milestone with the delivery of E-Jets for the first time in the second half of 2016 (its satisfaction of its Commercial and Executive number 1,200. The customer base is comprised entry into service will take place in 2018). The Aviation customers regarding their products, of over 100 airlines in 70 countries. During the other two aircraft of the second generation, the services and support, employing the results for year, 101 aircraft were delivered maintaining E195-E2 and E175-E2 will come into operation in continuing improvement. At the 2015 Embraer the leadership in the 70-130 seat commercial 2019 and 2020, respectively. Executive Operators’ Conference, the Company aircraft category, with more than 50% of sales measured an average of 85% favorability rate and 60% of deliveries in the world market. in relation to its Executive Aviation after-sales Several attributes justify this increase, such support. During the year, Embraer also won first as attractive and competitive operating costs, place in the Satisfaction survey for Executive allowing airlines to operate in less dense Aviation Product Support in ProPilot magazine, routes, with lower costs and, therefore, better Commercial Aviation Deliveries in 2015 a leading specialist publication in the industry. economic results. In Aviation International News (AIN), also one of the most respected in the world, Embraer mainThe E-Jets E2 program, launched in 2013 as tained the same level of satisfaction obtained the second generation of the E-Jets family, in 2014, placing second and remaining for the achieved a portfolio of 267 firm orders plus 265 fourth consecutive year among the best in the options and purchasing rights to airlines and customers’ opinion. Another important survey, leasing companies from various world regions. the 5th Readers’ Choice Survey, in Business Jet About 40% of new E-Jets deliveries will be to Embraer E170 Embraer E175 Traveler magazine, also highlighted the Compaleasing companies, which have a great global 2 units 82 units ny – of the eight categories assessed, Embraer capillarity and are strategic for Embraer’s won first place in four and second place in three. commercial business, since they contribute to |G4-DMA (Labelling of products and services)| Total With its focus on Embraer E190 8 units Embraer E195 9 units 101 continuous improvement, Embraer applies surveys to assess the satisfaction of its Commercial and Executive Aviation customers 40 annual report 2015 performance with quality 41 cabin in its class, with 1.83 meters in height and flat floor – received certifications from the Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC in PortuEmbraer Executive guese) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the aeronautical authorities Phenom 300 Operators’ Conference in Brazil and the United States, respectively. The Legacy 450 was also certified by the Euis Number 1 in ropean Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), allowing its operation in European Union member deliveries An important relationship channel between Embraer countries and other nations associated with and its business stakeholders is the Embraer Executive Embraer’s Phenom 300 was the this regulatory authority. The model entered Operators’ Conference (EEOC). This meeting aims to share service in the last quarter of 2015, and three most-delivered executive jet in the experiences, by presenting technical sessions about the aircraft were delivered. world in 2015 for the third consecutive new aircraft models and thereby enhancing trade ties. year, with 70 aircraft delivered to During 2015, there were seven conferences involving more For the next ten years, Embraer Executive Aviacustomers. The Phenom family project than 400 customers and operators. tion plans to grow in the countries where it operwas based on the most sophisticated ates and consolidate its global presence. For this, industry requirements and the product the segment has partnered with Atlas Air Service, is recognized as one of the mostwho will act as its sales representative in Europe. This German company will operate in Austria, desired light jets for shared-ownership Switzerland and Germany. companies, charter services, corporate flight departments and private pilots. The forecasts indicate that light and mid-size Because of its features, the Phenom 300 aircraft will have greater market share, especialfleet of 320 jets is already in operation ly in the United States and European countries. in 28 countries, and has accumulated Executive Aviation The Company also foresees that these categoaround 300,000 flight-hours Celebrating ten years with 975 jets delivered in over 60 countries and ries’ demand will be higher due to the American a complete products portfolio, the Executive Aviation segment reposiand Chinese markets. tioned its brand and showed growth in an unfavorable global scenario. Business income represented 30% stake in the Company’s total revenue. Over the years, Executive Aviation has certified its aircraft, expanded product Executive Aviation deliveries in 2015 requirements and is currently working to optimize its position in customer support ranking. In this sense, the segment will expand its service to customers in Europe with the opening of a new maintenance service center at Le Bourget airport in Paris. The center will have 4,000 square meters, double the area of the current facilities, and a hangar will be built in a privileged area to facilitate routine inspections and planned or unplanned maintenance of Embraer executive jets. The new service unit will begin its operations in the Phenom 100E Phenom 300 Legacy 450 second half of 2016. |GRI G4-13| 12 units 70 units 3 units In 2015, 82 light and 38 large jets were delivered. The year was marked by the delivery of business jet number 300, 100th Phenom jet built at the Melbourne plant, and the success of the Legacy 500, with a total of six class speed reTotal 120 cords. The first model was delivered to Flexjet LLC, an American jet operator. Legacy 500 Legacy 600/650 Lineage 1000E The Legacy 450 – the first executive jet in the mid-light category to 20 units 12 units 3 units have fly-by-wire flight control technology, fully digital, with the best 42 annual report 2015 performance with quality 43 Partnership for Defense & Security As leader in the aerospace and defense industry in Agricultural aviation Agricultural Aviation launched the Ipanema 203 in Geostationary production of the Latin America, the contribution of Embraer Defense & Security in the Company’s revenue was 13%. While 2015, the sixth version of the product, already certificated by ANAC. This aircraft is a category leader, with Satellite: Gripen NG fighter maintaining strong roots in the Brazilian market, in 2015 the segment sought to adopt new strategies over 60% market share in Brazil and more than 1,360 models sold, 19 of which were delivered in 2015. The Launch date in 2016 focusing on the international market. new version has a 16% larger capacity hopper and a wingspan two meters wider than the previous model, The Strategic Defense and Communications Embraer, in partnership with In 2015, the most important project was the dewhile the wing tips have been redesigned, increasing Geostationary Satellite (SGDC in the Swedish company Saab, will velopment of the KC-390, the multi-role milicontrol and improving spray efficiency as well as the Portuguese) will be launched in 2016 in coordinate the development of the tary transport aircraft. During the year, the first aircraft’s productivity. Other new features are the air French Guiana. The satellite is the first fully F-X2 project (F-39 fighter), which is a flight tests were carried out, and all procedures conditioning system, safety belt with air bag and an controlled by the Brazilian government and fleet retrofitting and modernization will continue moving forward in 2016. Moreover, ergonomically-designed cabin. The control levers and the Satellite Program Geostationary Defense and pedals have also been redesigned, with smooth anis being built in France. Through the joint program of the Brazilian Air Force’s venture with Visiona Space Technology, Communication (SGDC in Portuguese), whose ingles allowing more precise control. (FAB in Portuguese) supersonic tegration is the responsibility of Visiona Space Embraer (with a 51% stake) and Telebras military aircraft. The Company will be Technology, continues on schedule, fulfilling all GENERATING VALUE (49%) supervise the work and manage the responsible for systems integration, contractual deliveries as planned. Embraer’s revenues in 2015 totaled R$20,301.8 system and technology absorption. In 2015, flight testing, final assembly and million, representing 36.2% growth compared to the installation of the 13 meter antennas delivery of the single-seat version Embraer Defense & Security also offers a com2014. The good performance was mainly due to for satellite control began and the join of the Gripen NG to FAB. Also in plete range of Command and Control integrated the dollar’s appreciation against the real. Total net solutions and applications (C4I); radar; Intelliincome was R$241.6 million and earnings per share between the platform and the satellite partnership with Saab, Embraer communication module was completed gence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR); were R$0.3309. Gross margin was 18.4%, 1.4 p.p. will entirely develop the two-seat and space. This portfolio includes integrated less than in 2014, especially due to certain cost base (payload), thereby initiating the integration version. In October 2015, Embraer information systems, communication, borders revisions on Defense & Security contracts, changes in and testing cycle of the satellite. sent the first group of engineers monitoring and surveillance, as well as authorities the product delivery mix in the Commercial Aviation and technicians to Sweden in order transportation and special-mission aircraft. With segment and the lower gross margin presented by The SGDC will allow information traffic to begin the technology transfer a growing presence in the global market, the Dethe Executive Aviation business. through a national network, increasing process and also started building the fense & Security products and solutions are availsecurity and allowing remote communities Center for Design and Development able in more than 60 countries. Operating income and operating margin to have access to communication services Operating income and operating margin amounted of Gripen at its industrial plant in throughout the country. Once launched, it In 2016, Embraer Defense & Security will advance to R$1,103.1 million and 5.4%, respectively. In 2014, Gavião Peixoto. The center opening is with the KC-390 project and the Brazilian Gripen. the same figures were R$1,303.8 million and 8.7%, will be positioned at a distance of 35,786 scheduled for mid-2016. It also continues investment in the Sisfron Project respectively. The decrease was due to the cost base kilometers above the Earth’s surface. The (Integrated Border Monitoring System) which, in its revisions for certain contracts in the Defense & Sesatellite is expected to come into operation third year of implementation, completed more than curity segment, along with provisions related to in the first quarter of 2017. 50% of the project. Sisfron is managed by Savis & the impairment of assets in the Company’s portfoBradar, subsidiaries of Embraer Defense & Security. lio of used aircraft Net income and earnings per share Balance Sheet indicators Defense & Security Deliveries in 2015 Adjusted net income, excluding income tax and deThe free cash flow generation was R$1,244.6 million, above the free ferred social contribution and also the net after-tax cash flow use presented in 2014 of R$823.8 million. impact of the provision for financial guarantees regarding the Republic Airways bankruptcy filing, was Value-Added Statement (Vas) |GRI G4-EC1| R$499.4 million for the year. Adjusted earnings per The VAS aims to confirm the wealth generated by Embraer and its Total share, excluding these same items were R$0.6839. distribution to society, represented by shareholders, employees, financial institutions and the municipal, state and federal government. Super Tucano EMB 145 AEW&C 20 The added value totaled R$5,907.2 and represented 29.1% of net revenue in 2015. 19 units 1 unit 44 annual report 2015 performance with quality 45 Consolidated VAS (R$ million) |GRI G4-EC1| The Company’s shares have been listed on the decline of 20% during the year. The decline New Market (Novo Mercado in Portuguese) of of the Dow Jones Index in the period was 2%. the São Paulo Stock Exchange BM&FBovesThe market value of Embraer reached US$5.5 2015 2014 2013 pa since 1989 and on the New York Stock Exbillion in 2015, lower than the previous year, Revenue 22,360.1 16,343.0 15,163.1 change (NYSE), through the Level III negotiatwhen it was US$6.8 billion. Inputs acquired from third parties (16,364.1) (11,144.2) (9,968.8) ed receipts program (ADRs), since 2000. The Gross value added 5,996.0 5,198.8 5,194.3 EMBR3 shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA Allocation of the results of Depreciation and amortization (1,073.4) (676.8) (633.3) ended 2015 quoted at R$30.19, an appreciathe Company and shareholder Net value added 4,922.6 4,522.0 4,561.0 tion of 24% compared to the end of the previremuneration produced by the entity ous year, while the index of the BM&FBOVESIn 2015, Embraer distributed R$117.8 million to Added value received by transfer 605.2 418.7 345.3 PA had declined 13% in the same period. The its shareholders in the form of Interest on CapDistribution of added value 5,527.8 4,940.7 4,906.3 American Depositary Shares (ADSs) of the ital (JCP in Portuguese), representing a payout Personnel 3,342.4 2,502.3 2,368.5 Company (ERJ), listed on the NYSE, reached of 49% of the consolidated net profit of R$241.6 Government (taxes, fees and 1,251.6 1,058.1 1,126.0 a price of US$29.54 at the end of the year, a million. Earnings per share were R$0.3309. contributions) Interest and rent 652.2 553.7 625.4 Interest on Own Capital 117.8 214.3 202.1 (JCP in Portuguese) and dividends Retained earnings / losses 123.8 581.8 575.6 for the year Minority Interest 40.0 30.5 8.7 Embraer held its leading position in the year by remaining Taxes and social contributions in the theoretical Taxes, social security contributions and local, state and federal taxes totaled R$1,377.1 in 2015. sion of the Brazilian Government and subject to completion of a Public Tender Offer (OPA in portfolios of IBrx, the Portuguese). In case of a purchase offer for the IGC, the Itag, the INDx, Capital market |GRI G4-41| The broad distribution of shares adopted by Company, all shareholders, including minority shareholders, have guaranteed rights of sale the IVBx2 and IBrX50 the Company results in the extension of votunder the same conditions (tag-along). ing rights to all shareholders, without distinction, with representation of, at most, 5% of the In 2015, the Company remained in the theoretshare capital. The By-laws also impose other ical portfolios of the Brazil Index (IBrx in Porconditions to avoid the concentration of stocks tuguese), of the Corporate Governance Stock or stock receipts traded on the NYSE (American Index (IGC in Portuguese), of the Stock Index Depositary Receipts – ADRs), to prohibit any with Differentiated Tag Along (ITAG in Portushareholder or group of shareholders acquiring guese), of the Industrial Sector Index (INDx in a stake greater than or equal to a 35% stake Portuguese), of the Bovespa Index Value 2nd in Embraer, except with the express permisLine (IVBx2 in Portuguese) and of the Brazil Index 50 (IBrx50 in Portuguese). 46 annual report 2015 perfil 47 With employees 19,373 4.9million TALENT from more than 20 nationalities and investment in their employees, with 17,007 allocated in Brazil and 2,366 abroad, contributed was allocated for the Embraer Designer Program (PPE in Portuguese) and the MANAGEMENT training to the qualified Engineering Specialization performance achieved by Program (PEE in Portuguese), Embraer in 2015 including people directed at Embraer’s with disabilities as internal and external public 90% well as young people In line with the corporate value through the Young “Our people are what make us fly,” Human Resources Policy aims at the Apprentice Program (PJA in Portuguese), the Company aims of leadership positions and 32% 12.9million of others were filled internally, organizational climate quality and the to value diversity contributing to the maintenance was allocated for training and to maintain its of 89% of favorability in the provision in order to maintain employees’ continuous development, teams excellence organizational climate at Embraer continuous qualification of the workforce with health and safety 48 annual report 2015 talent management 49 TEAMS PROFILE |G4-DMA (Employment)| The Company’s Human Resources Policy aims In line with the company’s innovative profile, at maintaining a favorable organizational climore than 70 online courses were developed mate, which leads to the expected results and in 2015, with the aim of offering more versaallows the attraction and retention of talent. tility to employees. The courses are available Bolstered by this commitment, the Company in several formats: e-learning, game-playing, ended 2015 with 19,373 employees, with 17,007 video learning, tutorials and infographics, as allocated in Brazil and 2,366 abroad. The turnwell as applications for smartphones. Another over rate in the period was 6.23% (see the functeaching strategy used is short videos, called tional team framework formation and employKnowledge Pills, which can be accessed anyment rates in GRI Indicators). |GRI G4-10, G4-LA1, time and anywhere. G4-DMA (Diversity and equality of opportunities)| Employees are also offered a scholarship proStill with the purpose of keeping teams gram, subsidized by the Company, for attendcommitted to excellence, Embraer values ing Undergraduate, Graduate and language diversity in its workforce once the Company understands that different types of skills can courses. The training areas in such cases must be related to the improvement points idenEmbraer’s boost performance. At the end of 2015, with tified in the Personal Development Program employees have employees from more than 20 nationalities, Embraer kept the investment in People with (PDI in Portuguese). behavioral and Disabilities (PCDs in Portuguese) training, Embraer also has training partnerships, for Internal courses and planning for pre-retirement technical training through the Embraer program On The Path to Diversity, held since 2012 and carried out people inside and outside the Company, such as the Engineering Specialization Program |GRI G4-LA10| programs available, in partnership with the Center for Business(PEE in Portuguese) held with the Technologi2013 2014 2015 besides scholarships Schools Integration (Centro de Integração Empresa-Escola — CIEE in Portuguese). cal Institute of Aeronautics (ITA in Portuguese). Participants receive a scholarship and complete Employees 80 116 90 for Undergraduate, Focusing on young people, the program a professional master schedule in Aeronautical Value invested (R$) Scholarships 170,476 80 190,820 116 80,000* 90 Graduate and had 50 participants in 2015. In December, the Government of the State of São Paulo Engineering. There is the possibility for the student to be hired by Embraer after completing *Embraer units in Brazil considered. The 2015 program will end in 2016, therefore the investment language courses was lower when compared to previous years. announced that the Company was recognized the course. There is also the Embraer Designwith the “São Paulo Diversity Seal” (see er Program (PPE in Portuguese), sponsored in the composition of governance bodies and conjunction with the São Paulo Faculty of Techbreakdown of employees per employee nology (FATEC in Portuguese), in which young In 2015, R$12,929,953 was allocated to training, Leadership Pillar |G4-DMA (Training and category according to gender, track age, professionals undergo technical training and which totaled 77,607 hours, representing an education), G4-DMA (Investment)| minorities and other diversity indicators in personal development monitoring, working as average of 26 hours per employee. Of the total Based on the P3E Leadership pillar, the CompaGRI indicators). |GRI G4-LA12, G4-DMA (Diversity and interns in the Company, with employment workforce, 27.5% participated in human rights ny continued the investment and the internal equality of opportunities)| prospects. In 2015, investment in PEE and PPE policies training (see the average number of development for this audience. Actions were totaled R$4,978,989. hours of training per year per employee, broken designed to meet the leaders’ functional and Focus on development |G4-DMA (Training down by gender and employee category, as well management needs essential for supporting and education), G4-DMA (Investment)| Embraer also runs the Post-Career Program, as the total number of hours of employee trainthe Company’s strategy and direction by encourEmbraer maintains improvement training prowhich offers life-planning support for employing human rights policies in the GRI Indicators). aging continuous improvement in their teams, grams for employees from different areas and ees in the retirement phase. Participation is |GRI G4-LA9, G4-HR2| promoting career development. In this scenario, positions. They are divided between behavioral voluntary. |GRI G4-LA10| the Embraer Business Leader School was conand technical issues, in which, in some cases in solidated in 2015, with the goal of providing a the operational areas, there is a tutor’s support comprehensive and continuous education envi(a professional who has conducted the training course “Benefactors and Monitors”). 50 annual report 2015 talent management 51 ronment, strengthening the Business LeaderThe leadership evaluation seeks to identify Organizational Climate ship role, promoting readiness in Leadership for strong points and development opportunities Embraer identifies opportunities for continAs to External Surveys, the company was again succession and the business growth and perpein relation to the skills required for Embraer’s uous improvement in the workplace through awarded in 2015 as one of the “Best Compatuity. The development activities established in leaders through self-assessment, as through the Internal Organizational Climate Survey and nies to Work for” in Brazil and in Latin America the School focus on improvement in Leadership, the assessment of their immediate superiors participation in External Surveys, conducted by (GPTW), “The Best Companies to Start a CaMarket and Business and Results areas. and subordinates, peers and customers (360° market institutions. In 2015, the Climate Surreer” (Voce S/A), “The Best Companies to Work model). In 2015, the development and sucvey showed 89% favorability, three percentage for “(Voce S/A) and “The Best in People ManPerformance Analysis |GRI G4-LA11| cession planning processes were reviewed. In points above the 2014 performance. agement “ (Valor Econômico newspaper). Embraer uses three models to analyze human 2016, the Company is planning a new review capital. One is the process for skills evaluation, cycle (see the percentage of employees receivcovering employees of units in Brazil and abroad ing regular performance and career developEmbraer Organizational Climate Survey through ‘My Embraer’ – an online tool for global ment analyses, broken down into gender and personnel management. The results subsidize job categories, in the GRI Indicators). 2013 2014 2015 the Personal Development Program (PDI in PortuAdherence* 89 91 89 guese), enabling the Manager to direct employees Internal growth Satisfaction 84 86 89 to courses designed for their improvement. Embraer promotes an Internal Employment *Global. Program (API in Portuguese), which publishAnother evaluation method is the automatic es vacancies for employees before their anwage progression, directed at the operational nouncement to the public. Thus, any open Remuneration and benefits |G4-DMA workforce at the beginning of their careers – positions are preferably filled by promotion (Market presence), G4-DMA (Employment)| when the assessment is positive, the employ(vertical growth) or lateral movement (horiProfessional’s remuneration is fixed according Employees in Brazil and from certain affiliates ee receives wage adjustment, automatically. zontal growth). In 2015, 90% of leadership poto the function’s complexity, individual perand subsidiaries may also participate volunsitions and 32% of all others were filled by the formance and compatibility with the salaries tarily in the Embraer Prev complementary employees themselves. offered in the market. It consists of fixed repension plan. There is no restriction for memmuneration, which conforms to jobs and salabership, and the service time is considered for ries plan, and variable, linked to the Company’s the effect of benefit redemption. The sponresults and the employee performance (see sor (Embraer or its subsidiaries) deposits the variation in the proportion of the lowest wage, same monthly contribution amount chosen by broken down by gender compared to the local the participant, up to 8% of the employee’s minimum wage in GRI). |GRI G4-EC5| salary. There is no charge rate for the participants, once they are fully funded by the sponIn Brazil, the benefits offered include life insursor. There are similar benefits in units abroad, First trainee program ance, health insurance, incapacity or disability coverage (through life insurance), maternity subject to prevailing legislation and market conditions in each location. |GRI G4-EC3| leave (180 days) and paternity leave (five days), More than 11,000 applications were Innovation, Finance, Information and shares acquisition plan (Ciemb – optional). received for the first Embraer trainee Technology, Operations and Supplies. In units abroad, Embraer offers different beneprogram, for Brazilian candidates. The program, beginning in 2016 and fits established according to the current legisla23 vacancies were offered in Brazil lasting two years, encompasses tion in each country. |GRI G4-LA2| for jobs in different areas of the development activities in the Commercial Aviation and Defense classroom and on-the-job training, and Security Business Units, as including job rotation. There is a well as Internal Auditing, Human forecast for expansion of this program Resources, Corporate Excellence and in the United States in 2016. 52 annual report 2015 talent management 53 Health and safety |G4-DMA (Health and safety at work), G4-DMA (Freedom of association and collective bargaining)| To ensure a healthy and safe working environment in In line with the Environment, Health and Safety Health and safety issues are contained in Policy (MASS in Portuguese), Embraer is comagreements with the Trade Unions – in Brazil, accordance mitted to a safe and healthy working environ7.2% of Embraer’s employees are unionized, ment, in accordance with ergonomic requirebut 100% are covered by the terms negotiatwith ergonomic requirements ments and labor and environmental legislation. ed in collective bargaining agreements – inand labor and environmental legislation, the Company There are no employees involved in occupationcluding the supply and use of Individual Promaintains the Environment, al activities who have a high incidence or high tection Equipment (EPI in Portuguese); the Health and Safety Policy risk of specific diseases. Health programs are installation of health and safety committees (MASS in Portuguese) developed from the epidemiological profile of composed of the leadership and employees; the teams, formulated through periodic medithe participation of workers’ representatives cal examinations, which have a 100% employin safety and health inspections and accident ee adherence. From the results, the Company audits; training and education; the complaints adopts preventive actions with an educational system; and periodic inspections. |GRI G4-11, G4focus, such as the Behavioral Program, the TenLA8, G4-HR4| sional Reeducation Training Program (PERTO The first Embraer trainee program, for the in Portuguese), Educational and CommunicaOn these bases, in the year, there were 82 accicandidates from Brazil, tion Action Plan, Ergonomic Risk Management dents involving personnel with time off work and received more than and Prevention through Design. |GRI G4-LA7| the occupational diseases rate was 0.22% (see 11,000 applications for the safety indicators in GRI Indicators) |GRI G4-LA6| 23 vacancies in different Since 2001, following recognized management Company’s areas practices, the Company has maintained the Quality of life international OHSAS 18001 certificate, with Embraer is investing in preventive health acannual establishment of Management System tivities and promoting quality of life. The main 87.8% targets, aimed at reducing incidents and improving working conditions. Safety indicators initiatives are consolidated in the Well-Being program, that comprise several aspects for the of employees are are also monitored and analyzed monthly by various life stages of the employee: Well-Berepresented by members the Board of Executive Officers and the Board ing Minute, Well-Being without Cigarettes, of the Internal Accident of Directors, in order to maintain excellence levWell-Being without Drugs, Well-Being with Prevention Committee els in accident prevention. Scales, Well-Being with Maternity, Well-Being (CIPA in Portuguese), with You, Well-Being with Physical Activity, which operates in all Since 1971, there is the Internal Commission for Cycle of Lectures, Health Week, Immunization industrial units Accident Prevention (CIPA), representing 87.8% Program and Reintegration Program. of the employees. The commission is formed by installed representatives and operates in all industrial units. CIPA organizes once a year the Internal Week of Occupational Accident Prevention (Sipat in Portuguese), and its Committee meets monthly. The body is composed of employees’ representatives, elected once a year, and in the same proportion, representatives appointed by the employer. |GRI G4-LA5| social and environmental responsibility SOCIAL AND 20million The Company’s institutional historical management is promoted by the Embraer Historical Aiming at improving its full compliance with current of reais was designated Center, which also in 2015 to social projects environmental preserves and publishes ENVIRONMENTAL promoted by the legislation and information on the Embraer Institute for at anticipating history of the Brazilian Education and Research aviation industry future regulations, the Company RESPONSIBILITY implemented 565people 960 the first phase of its new chemical engaged in substances programs and management Embraer invests in initiatives aimed at improving its volunteer activities, demonstrating the students were benefited by system during Embraer Juarez Wanderley industry and contributing to the long-term development staff’s commitment and Casimiro Montenegro 2015 to solidarity Filho high schools of the communities in which the Company is located 56 annual report 2015 social and environmental responsibility 57 EMBRAER INSTITUTE |GRI G4-SO1, and whose monthly family income does not exEntrepreneurship G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-DMA (Indirect economic impacts), ceed nine minimum wages. The second criterion Embraer encourages entrepreneurship internally G4-DMA (Local communities)| requires that the applicant have attended all Priand externally. For this, the Company has the folEmbraer seeks to positively transform commary Education – Cycles I and II – the first to the lowing programs: Cockpit for Talents, Company in munities in the surrounding areas of the Company, and thus contribute to the empowerninth year – at a municipal, state or federal public school in Brazil and be enrolled, in 2015, since Action, Company Program, Let’s Talk About Ethics, Economics for Success and Job Shadow. Scholarship ment of young people and partner institutions through education. Social projects are prothe beginning of the school year, in the 9th grade of elementary school in São José dos Campos, Social Partnership Program Fund Program moted by the Embraer Institute for Education Jacareí, Caçapava or Taubaté, to apply for São Embraer, with the Social Partnership Program, and Research, for which funds in the order of José dos Campos; and in the cities of Botucatu, funds and supports educational projects promotR$ 20 million were directed in 2015. ResponsiSão Manuel, Areiópolis, Pardinho, Itatinga, Aned by civil society organizations. The working isManaged by Embraer Institute, ble for managing the Company’s social investhembi, Bofete and Pratânia, to apply for Botucasues are chosen in public consultations with local the Scholarship Fund is available ment capital, the Institute’s pillars of activity tu. Those selected will receive a full scholarship, community representatives, in a participative and for former Embraer High School are: Education (Embraer High Schools, scholplus uniform, teaching materials, meals and transparent method, in order to meet main restudents approved in public arship fund and entrepreneurship), historical transportation during the school period. Stugional social gaps. or private universities with preservation (Embraer Historical Center) and dents also have the opportunity to participate engagement with society (volunteering and in the University Preparation Program (PPU in In 2015, the program covered the topics: formal full exemption of tuition. The the Social Partnership Program). Portuguese), which provides professional guideducation, infrastructure and technology, womgoal is to financially support ance and an overview of the job market in difen’s empowerment and prosperity and equity. students during university, with a Embraer High Schools ferent areas of knowledge (sciences, social scimonthly stipend to cover general The highlight of 2015 was the inclusion of two ences and biological sciences). In 2015, Embraer Volunteering expenses. In order to provide new criteria in the selection process of Embraer’s Juarez Wanderley College figured in the ranking Maneged by Embraer Institute, the program aims economic sustainability for the high schools – Juarez Wanderley High School in of highest scores in ENEM 2014, compiled by the to promote the volunteering culture among emprogram, the former students also São José dos Campos and Casimiro Montenegro National Institute of Educational Studies and ployees. Activities promote solidarity culture, by become donors, once they find Filho High School in Botucatu. The first one, a Research (INEP in Portuguese), with 1st place in keeping an active virtual community to exchange socioeconomic criterion, aims at accepting stuthe Vale do Paraíba region, 12th in the State of experiences and share opportunities for volunteer a place in the job market, after dents who have a gross monthly per capita inSão Paulo and 54th in Brazil. work. In 2015, 565* people were actively involved a grace period. The initiative, come of up to 1.5 the national minimum wage, in programs and voluntary actions, with highwhich benefited 277 students in lights for actions abroad, which reached a total 2015, also is supported by other of 336 volunteers in Portugal, the United States companies and individual donors. and China. Throughout the year, the Institute also creation Value In 2015, the Embraer Institute conducted campaigns to encourage this engagefocused efforts on expanding Histo ment. See testimonials from Embraer volunteers: its activities abroad. Besides rica www.noticiasinstituto.embraer.com.br/blog/Pathe presence of the Historic lp ginas/Detalhes.aspx?IDP=216. p shi eur ation Center in several units, the ren erv r ae l trep volunteering portal Asas do br rica res Sch Em isto nter En Education ola H Ce Bem became available to Fun rship d employees in Évora, Portugal. *Taking into account volunteers effectively engaged, the Scholarship The Institute also coordinated Fund program donors, participants in social campaigns and the corpoer s rate volunteer portal, there is a total of 4,805 people involved. Volu actions with focal points in m bra hool nte erin E S c g various units and the number h Hig Social so of volunteers abroad almost doubled to 336 people. Partnership Program ciety Through the Scholarship Fund, Social with Partnership and Volunteering programs, ent Engagem Embraer Institute contributes to S o cial i m a ct sustainable social development 58 annual report 2015 social and environmental responsibility 59 Charters, principles, and other externally-developed initiatives |GRI G4-15| Countries and/ Adoption Stakeholders NAME or operations in Date involved which they are applied Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation companies and Towards Sustainable Aviation 22/03/2012 Worldwide organizations in the aerospace sector Friends of Rio+20 June 2012 Worldwide Companies from various sectors Suppliers, manufacturers, UN Global Compact 16/06/2008 Worldwide transportation companies and organizations from various sectors Commitment to Greenhouse Gases Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation companies and emission reduction in aviation 23/09/2014 Worldwide organizations in the aerospace (ICAO/ATAG) sector Suppliers, manufacturers, Call to Action 10/12/2014 Worldwide transportation companies and organizations from various sectors Inaugurated in Installed in Brazil with Biofuels research center 14/01/2015 global impact potential Partnership with Boeing Beyond the walls Embraer Historical Center SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIPS The Embraer Historical Center (CH in Portuguese) |GRI G4-15, G4-16| The expression of citizenship is active The Embraer firefighting unit is formed manages the Company’s historical preservation, Embraer seeks to contribute, through partnerdaily at Embraer. In this context, it is by 50 professionals working in units at while it also covers the aviation industry in Brazil. ship with associations, organizations, multiworth mentioning the firefighters, who Eugenio Melo, Faria Lima, Gavião Peixolateral organizations and voluntary initiatives, Catavento Museum, in São Paulo, held in 2015 to the formulation of public policies aimed at can be found working beyond fire preto and Botucatu, all located in the State a thematic exhibition on Technology in Aviadeveloping its industry. Participation is always vention duties in Embraer units. These of São Paulo. To answer the calls, the tion, based on Embraer Institute’s collection, aligned with the compliance program and Emfirefighters directly help the local Company has ambulances, support vehiwhich featured a full size passenger cabin. In braer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct (learn more communities of the Emergency Intecles and firefighting trucks. Embraer fireOctober 2015, in partnership with the Brazilabout Embraer’s participation in associations grated Network (Rinem in Portuguese) fighters have repeatedly been recognized ian Air Force (FAB in Portuguese), the Center and national and international organizations in the Vale do Paraíba region (SP), for their contributions, and the Company launched a virtual exhibition celebrating 30 in the GRI Indicators). which brings together City Hall teams, is one of three private organizations years since the first AMX flight in Brazil. hospitals and 39 private companies for that provide more support for society, Sector related actions were also conducted. In March 2015, at the ITA Aula Magna ceremospeedy service in critical situations. according to the classification by Rinem. ny, the Embraer Chair was announced, which The Brazilian Security Agency Associawill have as its first occupant Carlos Cesnik, a The network can be activated to provide tion (ABS in Portuguese) also certified Company’s former engineer and now professor support like first aid, terrestrial, aquatic Embraer in the diamond category, after at the University of Michigan. The chair is supand altitude rescue, as well as isolating winning gold for two consecutive years ported by Embraer and honors the former ITA areas in emergency situations such as for its commitment to social safety and Audiovisual and text historical contents can be found on the website student Guido Pessotti, who died in April 2015. fires or major accidents on highways. It welfare. www.embraerhistoricalcenter.com also works in the defense of the environment and wildlife, in case of fire. 60 annual report 2015 social and environmental responsibility 61 ENVIRONMENT |G4-DMA (Energy), G4-DMA (Water), G4-DMA (Emissions), G4-DMA Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Embraer operates in line with its commitment Chemical Substances (Effluents and waste)| In line with the guidelines and principles of to aviation industry sustainability – signed in 2012, and which establishes a 50% GHG emisManagement System its Environment, Health and Safety at Work sions reduction target in the sector by 2050, Policy (MASS in Portuguese), the Company based on year 2005. Other initiatives to miniIn 2015, the Company implemented that compose each part of the aircraft fully complies with environmental legislation, mize emissions in 2015 were the air-conditionthe first phase of the new chemicals and which ensures their proper use as aiming to minimize impact and manage risks. ing temperature operation and control in the The Company identified that the main enviFaria Lima unit, the replacement of incandesmanagement system to improve well as the total safety of employees ronmental aspects associated with facilities, cent bulbs with LED bulbs, and the movement its full compliance with current and customers. processes and products are Greenhouse Gas of aircraft without turning on the APU in flight environmental legislation and to emissions (GHG), the generation and disposal preparation for Commercial Aviation. anticipate future regulations. To The E-Jet E2 is the first Embraer of waste and the consumption of natural recreate this system, all the laws and jet to be manufactured using BOS sources. In order to reduce and mitigate these, Embraer’s inventory of greenhouse gas emisregulations for chemicals in the world, information. To continue this the Company operates with a focus on supply sions has been certified for the sixth conas well as the trends in this sector, initiative, a committee was formed in chain engagement and eco-efficient products secutive year by ISO 14064 Part I, which sets the Company to develop the second and services development. The analysis of enstandards for quantification, monitoring, verifiwere assessed. The system allows for the preparation of the Bill Off phase of the chemicals management vironmental impact is carried out based on ISO cation and validation of GHG emissions (see inSubstance (BOS), a list of substances system, to be implemented by 2017. 14001 standards, and the development of prodventory results of Embraer emissions in the GRI ucts that meet the requirements of Integrated Indicators). |G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN21| Development of Environmentally Sustainable Products Program (DIPAS in Portuguese) (learn Waste more in Sustainable Growth). Embraer manages its waste materials in an environmentally responsible manner, with outsourced In 2015, the Company did not record any signifiand qualified companies promoting co-processEnergy and water cant volume leaks. |GRI G4-EN24| ing, decontamination, reuse, recycling and/or Embraer measures and monitors energy and is the main expense in the aircraft operation disposal of materials (see total weight of waste water consumption (industrial and human) and, therefore, design options that promote generated and their destinations in the GRI Indiin their units through an intranet tool whifuel efficiency are always the focus of aircraft cators). |G4-EN23| ch is updated monthly. In 2015, energy conmanufacturers, thus meeting both market and sumption totaled 428,214 GJ, 0.6% less than environmental needs. Scheduled to go into in 2014. Reductions of 2,145,595 kwh/year operation in 2018, the new generation of Comin energy requirements were also obtained mercial Aviation jets (E2) has improvements at Embraer sites through LED lamp replacethat will allow a reduction of up to 24% in fuel ment, operational air-conditioning control, consumption and emissions. |GRI G4-EN7| adoption of an energy management system Weight in computers, among other improvements. The Company’s main water consumption is REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG) |GRI G4(tCO2e) |GRI G4-EN3, G4-EN6| administrative, in contrast to its small use in EN19| 2014 2015 industrial processes. The water supply comes Process Redesign – Scope 1 77 98 As aircraft operation is the longest stage (more from local dealers and deep wells. In 2015, EmEquipment conversion and modernization – Scope 2 47 239 than 15 years) of their life cycle, reducing enerbraer used 96.0152 cubic meters of water, of Equipment conversion and modernization – Scope 1 120 0 gy consumption, in relation to fuel consumpwhich 2% corresponds to recycled/reused water. Employees' behavior changes 22 0 tion, has great potential for improving their |GRI G4-EN8, G4-EN10| environmental performance. Fuel consumption Total emissions avoided 266 337 N: Atmospheric emissions data relates to units at SJK, EGM, TTE, ELEB, GPX and BOT. 62 annual report 2015 social and environmental responsibility 63 Total water use by source (m³) |GRI G4-EN8|* WATER SOURCES 2013 2014 2015 In order to have an Subterranean water 541,900 647,616 616,545 environmentally responsible management Municipal water supplies or from other water supply 103,180 115,737 344,268 companies and encourage consumption reduction, Total volume of water used 645,080 763,353 960,813 the Company measures *For 2015, data from units in Belo Horizonte, Sorocaba, Fort Lauderdale, Nashville, Melbourne, Évora, Beijing and and monitors its units’ affiliates OGMA and Harbin were also reported. The total water supplied by source in 2015, considering only the units water and energy data, on a reported in previous years, is equal to 710,544 m³. monthly basis Effluents Only two Embraer units discard their effluent ies and both are located outside of Environinto fresh-water environments (Gavião Peixomental Protection Areas (APA in Portuguese). to, in the Mulada stream, and Taubaté, in the The remaining wastewater is disposed of in Boçoroca stream), after proper treatment in the public network (see water discharge data their own Sewage Treatment Plants (ETE in of units broken down into treatment and disPortuguese). The disposal volume is much posal in the GRI Indicators). |GRI G4-EN22| lower than the carrying capacity of water bodProduct Responsibility |GRI G4-EN27| In January 2015, Embraer, together An Embraer aircraft will be used with Boeing, inaugurated the Joint in 2016 to perform tests within the Up to Research Centre for Sustainable Aviation Biofuels, in an effort to Boeing EcoDemonstrator Program. The program aims to accelerate the 24% reduction in fuel consolidate the establishment of the aviation biofuel industry in Brazil. Installed at the Technological Park in São José dos Campos (SP), the Center will coordinate and fund researches use of new technologies in order to increase flight safety and reduce fuel consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and aircraft noise. consumption and The year was also marked by the emissions per seat with from universities and other Brazilian the new generation of institutions into the production of raw release of a manual developed by commercial aviation materials, economic feasibility studies Embraer which provides guidance to (E-Jets E2), scheduled to and biofuel processing technologies. customers regarding the aircraft end of enter service in 2018 life. The aim is to encourage the proper The two companies also announced disposal or aircraft parts reuse without during the year a partnership to harming the environment, in line with improve aviation performance the sustainability principles adopted concerning environmental aspects. and defended by the Company. 64 annual report 2015 65 IBASE 5 – Workforce Indicators Number of employees at end of the period 2015 (in units) 17,007 2014 (in units) 17,094 Number of admissions during the period 827 788 1 – Calculation basis 2015 (R$ mil) 2014 (R$ mil) Number of outsourced employees 985 912 Net income (RL) 15,125,054 10,846,351 Number of trainees 336 337 Operational profit (RO) 241,601 796,085 Number of employees over 45 years old 3,104 3,055 Gross Payroll (FPB) 2,282,515 2,058,643 Number of women working in the company 2,519 2,523 Total Added Value (VAT) 4,457,294 3,969,878 Number of man working in the company 14,488 14,571 Percentage of management positions held by women 10.51 10.58 % above % above % above % above % above % above 2 – Internal social indicators R$ mil R$ mil Number of black people working in the company 889 829 FPB RL VAT FPB RL VAT Food 29,940 1.31 0.20 0.62 29,724 1.44 0.27 0.75 Percentage of management positions 2.60 2.67 occupied by black people Mandatory social charges 356,425 15.61 2.36 7.40 359,781 17.48 3.32 9.06 Number of persons disabled or with special needs 755 709 Private pensions 68,956 3.01 0.46 1.43 63,106 3.07 0.58 1.59 Health 121,458 5.30 0.80 2.51 113,678 5.52 1.05 2.86 6 – Relevant information re. the exercise Health and safety at work 21,737 0.95 0.14 0.45 15,643 0.76 0.14 0.39 2015 2014 of corporate citizenship Education 471 0.02 0.00 0.01 498 0.02 0.00 0.01 Ratio between the highest and lowest salaries in the company 49 49 Culture 365 0.02 0.00 0.01 186 0.01 0.00 0.00 Total number of work accidents 191 184 Training and professional development 17,791 0.78 0.12 0.37 12,160 0.59 0.11 0.31 ( ) Board of Executive Officers ( ) Board of Executive Officers Day care or day-care assistance 1,287 0.06 0.01 0.03 1,144 0.06 0.01 0.03 The social and environmental projects developed (X) Board of Executive Officers (X) Board of Executive Officers Sport by the company were defined by: and managers and managers ( ) All employees ( ) All employees Profit-sharing Program 89,462 3.91 0.59 1.85 97,475 4.73 0.90 2.46 ( ) Board of Executive Officers and ( ) Board of Executive Officers Transport Safety and health standards in the managers and managers Others 59,940 2.62 0.40 1.24 48,663 2.36 0.45 1.23 workplace were defined by: ( ) All employees ( ) All employees Total – Internal social indicators 767,832 33.57 5.08 15.91 742,058 36.05 6.84 18.69 (X) All employees + CIPA (X) Everyone + CIPA Regarding union freedom, the right to collective ( ) Not involved ( ) Not involved % above % above % above % above % above % above bargaining and internal representation ( ) Complies with ILO standards ( ) Complies with ILO standards 3 – External social indicators R$ mil R$ mil of workers, the company: (X) Encourages & complies with ILO (X) Encourages & complies with ILO RO RL VAT RO RL VAT Education 20,468 4.24 0.14 0.42 19,945 2.51 0.18 0.50 ( ) Board of Executive Officers ( ) Board of Executive Officers (X) Board of Executive Officers ( ) Board of Executive Officers Culture 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Private pensions include: and managers and managers Health and sanitation 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 ( ) All employees (X) All employees) Sport 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 ( ) Board of Executive Officers ( ) Board of Executive Officers Fight against hunger and food security 55 0.01 0.00 0.00 51 0.01 0.00 0.00 ( )B  oard of Executive Officers ( )B  oard of Executive Officers Participation in profits or results include: and managers and managers Sector indicator (X) All employees (X) All employees Others 1,149 0.24 0.01 0.02 745 0.09 0.01 0.02 When selecting suppliers, the same standards of ( ) Are not considered ( ) Are not considered Total contributions to society 21,672 4.49 0.14 0.45 20,741 2.61 0.19 0.52 ethics and social and environmental responsibility (X) Are suggested (X) Are suggested Taxes (excluding social charges) 685,172 141.87 4.53 14.18 412,829 51.86 3.81 10.40 adopted by the company: ( ) Are required ( ) Are required Total – External social indicators 706,844 146.35 4.67 14.63 433,570 54.46 4.00 10.92 ( ) Is not involved ( ) Is not involved Regarding participation of employees in ( ) Supports ( ) Supports voluntary work programs, the company: (X) Organizes and encourages (X) Organizes and encourages % above % above % above % above % above % above Total amount of damages and fines paid 4 – Environmental Indicators R$ mil R$ mil RO RL VAT RO RL VAT due to Judicial decision: Total investments in the environment 19,385 4.01 0.13 0.40 12,806 1.61 0.12 0.32 Total added value to be distributed (R$ thousands): 4,457,294 3,969,878 Distribution of Added Value (DVA in Portuguese): R$ mil % above total R$ mil % above total Distribution of environmental investments R$ mil % above total R$ mil % above total Government 1,076,882 24.16 732,840 18.46 Total investments in environmental preventive actions 19,385 12,806 Employees 2,449,729 54.96 1,984,542 49.99 Total investments in environmental maintenance actions 0 0 Shareholders 92,266 2.07 214,373 5.40 Total investments in environmental compensatory actions 0 0 Third parties 689,098 15.46 456,139 11.49 Regarding the establishment of annual targets for mini( ) No targets set ( ) No targets set Retained 149,319 3.35 581,984 14.66 mizing waste and consumption in general in production/ ( ) Complies from 0% to 50% ( ) Complies 0% to 50% operations to increase efficiency in the use of natural ( ) Complies from 51% to 75% ( ) Complies from 51% to 75% resources, the company: (X) Complies from 76% to 100% (X) Complies from 76% to 100% 7 – Other information 66 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 67 GRI INDICATORS Profile of employees |GRI G4-10| 2013¹ 2014 2015 2013 2014 20155 BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL Men Women Men Women Men Women WORKFORCE Men Women Men Women Men Women Director² 84 7 79 8 73 9 Contracted employees 16,393 2,885 16,246 2,921 14,488 2,519 Manager 364 55 234 43 235 40 Outsourced6 3,935 Supervisor 670 68 726 81 678 75 Total 0 0 20,9426 Pilot 104 0 106 0 102 0 1. In 2013, trainees were categorized (who are classified as operational) and apprentices (who are part apprentices with disability and administrative Engineer 3,642 526 3,708 576 3,783 586 and part Senai apprentices, who are operational). 2. The Board of Executive Officers is classified as: President and CEO, Vice Presidents and Directors. The difference between the years 2013 and 2014 in Professional 1,263 956 1,271 961 1,300 965 relation to effective leadership is due to the fact that in 2013 the classification sent abroad was taken into account. In 2014, an equalized classification Technician 2,940 258 3,013 277 3,168 300 was used. 3. In 2013, there was missing information from abroad. Values for Brazil and abroad were declared, except the United States. Administrative 526 425 490 386 480 377 4. In previous years the actual number in Brazil by region of the Country was declared; from 2015 the number began to be declared by country. Operational 6,800 590 6,619 589 6,603 599 5. Numbers refer to sites in Brazil. 6. The system used for third-party control does not allow breakdown by gender, but Embraer will work towards having this division in the next report. Total by gender 16,393 2,885 16,246 2,921 16,422 2,951 Total 19,278 19,167 19,373 Participation in associations and national and international organizations |GRI G4-16| 2013¹ 2014 2015 (All abbreviations apply to the Brazilian original format) BY TYPE OF CONTRACT Men Women Men Women Men Women Contributes Fixed term 264 90 226 67 217 89 Participation with resources Indefinite term 16,129 2,795 16,020 2,854 16,205 2,862 Seat on the Strategic ORGANIZATION/ASSOCIATION in projects/ in addition to Governance Board participation Total by gender 16,393 2,885 16,246 2,921 16,422 2,951 commissions the registration/ Total 19,278 19,167 19,373 association fee NATIONAL AGENDA 2013³ 2014 2015 Brazilian Association of Public Yes Yes No No Companies (Abrasca) BY JOB TYPE Men Women Men Women Men Women Brazilian Association of Industries for Defense Full day 15,247 2,674 16,219 2,916 16,403 2,945 Yes Yes No No and Security Materials (ABIMDE) Part time 0 6 27 5 19 6 Brazilian Association of Yes Yes No No Total by gender 15,247 2,680 16,246 2,921 16,422 2,951 General Aviation (ABAG) Total 17,927 19,167 19,373 Brazilian Association of Mechanical No Yes No No Sciences (ABCM) 2013 2014 20154 Aerospace Industries Association Yes Yes No No of Brazil (AIAB) BY COUNTRY Men Women Men Women Men Women Foreign Trade Association of Brazil (AEB) Yes Yes No No Brazil 14,793 2,509 14,571 2,523 14,488 2,519 Technology Park of São José China 45 30 43 27 48 26 No Yes No No dos Campos Association USA 1,147 204 1,189 221 1,406 262 National Association for Research France 206 81 187 75 89 19 and Development of Innovative Yes Yes No No Netherlands 3 0 4 1 56 10 Companies (ANPEI) Ireland 2 1 2 1 0 1 Center for Competitiveness and Innovation of the Eastern Region of the State of São Yes Yes No No Portugal 150 44 209 57 294 97 Paulo (CECOMPI) Singapore 46 17 41 16 41 17 National Confederation of Industry (CNI)* No Yes No No Total by gender 16,392 2,886 16,246 2,921 16,422 2,951 Federation of Industries of the Yes Yes No No Total 19,278 19,167 19,373 State of São Paulo (Fiesp) *Associative participation through FIESP system. 68 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 69 Contributes Limit of scope of materials outside the Organization |GRI G4-21| Participation with resources Seat on the Strategic ORGANIZATION/ASSOCIATION in projects/ in addition to Governance Board participation TOPICS STAKEHOLDER commissions the registration/ association fee Management of natural resources and waste Society NATIONAL AGENDA Atmospheric emissions Society and customers Brazilian Institute of Ethics People (employees), society and shareholders No Yes No No Corporate Governance (IBGC) Product safety Society and customers Industrial Enterprise Transparency and communication Customers, partners and shareholders Yes Yes No No Development Institute (IEDI) Environmental life cycle management Society and customers Brazilian National No Yes No No Local socio-economic development Society Confederation of Industry (MEI) Research, development and innovation Customers, partners and shareholders Management of chemical substances Customers, partners and shareholders and society INTERNATIONAL AGENDA Supply chain management Customers, partners and shareholders Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) No Yes No No Export control Customers and shareholders Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) Yes Yes No No New businesses, products and sustainable services Customers Aviation Working Group (AWG) Yes Yes No No Brazil Industries Coalition (BIC) Yes Yes No No American Chamber of Commerce (Amcham) Yes Yes No No Portuguese Chamber of Yes Yes No No Commercein Brazil (CPCB) Focus and frequency of stakeholder involvement |GRI G4-26| Brazilian Center for Yes Yes No No Consultation processes between stakeholders and the highest governance body |GRI G4-37| International Relations (CEBRI) Brazil-China Corporate Council (CEBC) Yes Yes No No Brazil-United States STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT AIM RESPONSIBILITY FREQUENCY Yes Yes No No Corporate Council (CEBEU) Conferences, dedicated meetings and workshops European Policy Center (EPC) No Yes No No with operators are carried out to maintain and improve their relationships and discuss issues Global Compact Foundation No Yes No No related to aircraft (maintenance, operation Foreign Trade Study and field items). It is a means for customers Yes Yes No No Conference with Customer Center Foundation (Funcex) to meet regularly, expressing their needs, their Operators (EOC/ Support Annual General Aviation Manufacturers expectations, their satisfaction, technical topics No Yes No No EEOC) Department Association (GAMA) and their experiences with Embraer products. Customer Support department collect, analyze, International Aerospace prioritize and develop action plans for the adoption No Yes No No Environmental Group (IAEG) of improvements in products and processes. It is a National Aeronautic Association (NAA) Yes Yes No No process of continuous improvement. United States Chamber of Customers To assist in the implementation of improvements Customer Continuous/ No Yes No No Kaizen with Commerce (USCC) in products and processes, aimed at improving Support According to customers Woodrow Wilson Center No Yes No No customer interface processes with Embraer. Department demand World Economic Forum (WEF) No Yes No No The technical know-how of some aircraftResearch for the Market operating customers are used in product Continuous/ development and Intelligence, improvement projects. For this reason, these According to improvement of Customer Support customers are contacted by the Company for demand products and Engineering meetings and research. Customer Customer To carry out research to gauge customer Support Annual satisfaction surveys satisfaction levels. Department Promotion and presentation of products to According to the Aeronautical fairs Sales Department potential customers and aircraft sales. global calendar 70 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 71 STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT AIM RESPONSIBILITY FREQUENCY STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT AIM RESPONSIBILITY FREQUENCY Strategic alignment, presentation of future Participation in CEO, VPs of the Embraer Suppliers scenarios, alignment of suppliers’ with Embraer’s international forums Department of Business Units Annual Conference (ESC) expectations, and awards for the best suppliers of and organizations Contributing to debate, proposing strategies, External Relations and Directors Throughout the the year. (WEF, ATAG, IATA, best practices and solutions for global issues, and and Corporate current year Program ICAO, UNDP, Global support for public-private dialogue. Sustainability Supply Chain Strategic and operational alignment, presentation Managers, Compact, WTO, AWG, Management Alignment (SCA), of scenarios and the year's challenges, aligning Directors Society among others) Annual Supply Chain Quality suppliers' and Embraer's expectations; work and and Supplier To ensure complete understanding of Embraer’s Meetings with Department of Alignment (SQA) action plans. Quality activities and projects; develop mechanisms for federal and state External Relations Department strengthening the relationship of the private Throughout the governments, and Corporate Executive meetings company and the government; contribute to the current year CEO, VPs of the municipalities and Sustainability (action plan and Following up indicators and action plans and formulation of public policies of interest to the Suppliers Business Units Quarterly government agencies Management indicator book with aligning suppliers' and Embraer's expectations. aerospace industry. and Directors suppliers) A direct communication channel from the President-CEO’s Blog President Continuous Meeting dedicated to the aftermarket, in order to President with all of Embraer's employees. discuss with suppliers' executives matters that Events between leaders and employees to Department CEO, VPs of the Customer Support impact the fleet and Embraer operators. At these disseminate and internalize Embraer's Values. of Culture Business Units Quarterly Meeting (CSM) executive meetings, fleet action plans concerning Values Cycle Divided into integrated cycles: individual practice, and Internal Bimonthly and Directors technical and commercial issues and individual collective practice and adequacy of processes, tools Communication operators are presented and discussed. and policies. Management Technical/operational follow-up of developmental Meetings for Meetings to monitor progress of the AP and Directors Program Review activities regarding the programs, for series following-up AP/ SMP, in which the leader gives instructions and At least and Program Half-yearly Leaders Meeting (PRM) production and aftermarket. Monitoring action SMP and half-yearly takes corrective course actions for achieving the quarterly Managers plan and route corrections. alignment agreed targets. Board of Director’s Monitoring Embraer's performance and approval According Carrying out research to find out the employees' Statutory VP Climate survey Meeting of the Strategic Plan (SP) and Action Plan (AP). to the calendar level of satisfaction, and meetings with employees and meetings Strategy Committee Assistance in the definition of the SP and AP and According for publicizing, development of sectoral action Leaders Continuous CEO between leaders and (CEST) monitor management and results. to the calendar plans and monitoring of the evolution of climate People employees improvement activities. Audit and Risk According Advising on risk and internal controls issues. CEO Confidential tool for employees and stakeholders Committee (CAR) to the calendar to inform or seek support on ethical issues and Compliance Assistance in the election or removal of directors Helpline Continuous behavior related to possible violations of Embraer Department Human Resources and establishing their respective functions, VP of According policies or laws and regulations. Committee (CRH) definition of remuneration and HR policies, People to the calendar among others. Department Shareholders of Culture Communication channel between Embraer and Meetings to reflect on and celebrate the practice Investor Blue Day and Internal Bimonthly Investor Relations its investors/shareholders in order to transmit of the Company's values. Relations Continuous Communication Portal information with transparency and fairness, Management Department ensuring corporate governance. Department Communication and transparency tool for stakeholders Corporate Communication tool for the entire leadership, of Culture Annual report concerning the Company's sustainable practices, in Sustainability Annually Messages to Leaders which aims to support leaders in their guidance to and Internal Continuous alignment with sustainability practices. Management employees on specific issues. Communication A time for Company interaction with its key Investor Management Embraer Day analysts and investors, focusing on key Embraer Relations Half-yearly information during the period. Department Management Ministry of Labor of Work Safety, Relationship with regulatory bodies, routine and Employment Occupational Bimonthly inspections and compliance with the law. Meetings Health and the Environment Meeting with State Sanitation Tech. Co. of S.P.(Cetesb), Corporate Society Health Surveillance, Relationship with regulatory bodies, routine Sustainability Federal/State Police, inspections and compliance with the law. Meetings Management/ Department of for survey of requirements and expectations of Throughout the Management the Army, mayors, municipalities related to education and social current year/ of Work Safety, municipal secretaries development. Strategic discussions and sectoral Fortnightly Occupational of Education, policies, as well as greater integration and learning Health and the professional with various sectors. Environment associations and Brazilian business associations 72 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 73 Profile of the highest governance body and its committees |GRI G4-38| Measures taken to develop and improve highest governance body’s knowledge on economic, environmental and social topics |GRI G4-43| COMMMITTEE Function Gender Independence MEASURES Governance body Economic Environmental Social Number (someone from Nature of other Presentation on the directors' duties, NAMES OF THE Nonof other Board of Directors x Executiva outside the functions and Female Male focusing on insider trading MEMBERS executive functions and organization commitments Presentation on environmental commitments Board of Directors x without links) issues in the Company's units Chairman of the Presentation by the Embraer Alexandre Gonçalves Silva x x 3 Board of Directors x Board of Directors x Institute Education and Research (IEEP) Company President Visibility of current governance issues Sergio Eraldo x x 5 Vice-Chairman of the x Board of Directors x de Salles Pinto of in the United States Board of Directors Member of the Board Annual compliance training Board of Directors x Alexandre x 4 of Directors, Auditing x Presentation by the Financial Magalhães Filho and Executive Board of Executive Officers x Management Committee Antonio Presentation of the Control Committee's x x Board of Executive Officers x Franciscangelis Neto work and of Environmental Risks (CCRA) Cecília Mendes Director of Previ Presentation of the Sustainability x x 1 x Board of Executive Officers x x Garcez Siqueira Administration Committee's work Herbert Claros da Silva x 1 Union Vice President x Presentation by the Ethics Committee Board of Executive Officers x Chairman of the Board of Directors and Audit Committee and the Board of the Brazil-Israel Israel Vainboim x x 5 Chamber of Commerce x Variation in the proportion of the lowest salary, distinguished by gender, compared to the and member and local minimum salaries in important operating units |GRI G4-EC5| Executive of the Board of Directors Company President and Percentage COUNTRY Gender Lowest salary paid Reference João Cox Neto x x 2 member of the Board x ratio (%) of Directors 2013 2014 2015 President and CoPresident of the Men R$1,155.00 R$1,337.60 R$,339.80 170 Josué Christiano Gomes Brazil R$788.00¹ x x 4 company, President of x Women R$1,148.62 R$1,337.60 R$1,470.55 187 da Silva the Board of Directors Men US$2,621.41 US$1,733.33 US$1,733.33 124 and Board member USA US$1,395.33² President and Women US$2,588.42 US$2,080.00 US$2,080.00 149 Pedro Wongtschowski x x 9 x Member of the Board Men €700.00 €700.00 €700.00 139 Portugal €505.003 Samir Zraick x x x Women €821.54 €700.00 €700.00 139 Frederico Pinheiro Member of the Board Men €1,890.00 €1,891.99 €1,891.99 130 x 5 x France €1,455.524 Fleury Curado of Directors Women €1,475.23 €1,891.99 €1,513.59 104 Marco Tulio Pellegrini x x 1. Minimum salary in Brazil. Vice President of the 2. Minimum salary in the state of Florida. Jackson Medeiros de x 5 Foundation and member x 3. Minimum salary in Portugal. Farias Schneider of the Board 4. Minimum salary in France. José Antonio Important operation units are considered to be those where Embraer is present and have a significant effect. None of the offices in the following countries x x were considered: Ireland, Singapore, China and the Netherlands, as added together they represent only 1.11% of the workforce. de Almeida Filippo Member of the Board of Mauro Kern Junior x 2 Trustees and Foundation x Paulo Cesar de x x Souza e Silva Terena x x Penteado Rodrigues Maurício Rodrigues Aveiro x x Nelson x x Krahenbuhl Salgado 74 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 75 Electricity consumption per unit |GRI G4-EN3| Total water disposal, distinguished by quality and destination |GRI G4-EN22| Consumption in MW/h TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER DISCHARGED (M³) 2013 2014 2015 Faria Lima 65,864 Domestic 1 442,602 372,878 414,049 Botucatu 17,291 SJK 292,078 213,196 164,318 Évora 14,218 BOT 46,551 54,435 38,518 Eugênio de Melo 13,707 EGM 56,249 46,867 56,970 Gavião Peixoto 13,443 GPX 36,650 38,009 34,465 OGMA 12,929 TTE 11,074 20,371 13,311 ELEB 10,959 OGMA N/C N/C 104,165 Melbourne 8,147 HEAI N/C N/C 2,302 Taubaté 4,031 Industrial2 79,472 72,233 117,892 Nashville 3,626 SJK 28,627 23,708 25,690 Fort Lauderdele 2,180 BOT 39,716 37,702 37,670 Sorocaba 900 EGM 4,161 4,160 4,200 Harbin 830 GPX 920 615 827 Belo Horizonte 636 ELEB 6,048 4,923 4,714 Beijing 179 OGMA N/C N/C 19,562 TOTAL 168,940 HEAI N/C N/C 1,763 EVO N/C N/C 23,466 1. Sum total of domestic effluents in 2015, only for units previously reported: 307,528 m³. 2. Sum total of industrial effluents in 2015, only for units previously reported: 73,101 m³. DIRECT EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES BY 2013 2014 2015 Variation (%) SOURCE (SCOPE 1 – IN TCO2E) |GRI G4-EN15| Combustion Processes 49,567 28,165 28,343 1 Fugitive emissions 2,343 2,111 3,058 45 Total 51,910 30,276 31,401 4 Total weight of waste, distinguished by type and disposal method |GRI G4-EN23|* Note: Atmospheric emissions data relates to units at SJK, EGM, TTE, ELEB, GPX and BOT. Hazardous Non-hazardous DISPOSAL METHOD waste (kg) waste (kg) INDIRECT EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES BY 2013 2014 2015 Variation (%) Recycling 113,000 12,284,373 SOURCE (SCOPE 2 – IN TCO2E) |GRI G4-EN16| Composting 1,007,740 Generation of electricity, heat or steam 11,063 16,693 15,699 -6 Co-processing 1,090,759 9,214 Note: Atmospheric emissions data relates to units at SJK, EGM, TTE, ELEB, GPX and BOT. Recovery, including energy recovery 2,217,450 2,489,554 Incineration (mass burning) 12,487 373,635 Landfilling 1,408,181 Industrial landfilling 29,869 OTHER INDIRECT EMISSIONS RELATED TO RELEVANT 2013 2014 2015 Variation (%) Sewage Treatment Plant (ETE) 757,770 695,380 GREENHOUSE GASES (SCOPE 3 – IN TCO2E) |GRI G4-EN17| Physical-chemical treatment 128,537 29,360 Transportation of employees and materials 8,864 7,569 8,396 11 Total 4,349,872 18,297,437 Business travel 19,109 20,949 23,859 14 Other emissions (waste management) 705 771 1,866 142 *Data for hazardous waste from the Évora unit is not included in the table, totaling 96.7 t and is referred to a responsible company that treats and disposes it according to local regulations. The variation in results between the years 2014 and 2015 is due to the inclusion of data from the Évora unit and OGMA and Total 28,678 29,289 34,121 16 Harbin affiliates, in addition to the previously already reported units at SJK, EGM, ELEB, BOT, GPX and TTE. Data relating to the Embraer units in the United States is not included. Note: Gases included in the calculations and potential rate of global warming (or GWP source): carbon dioxide (CO2) – 1; methane (CH4) – 25; Nitrous oxide (N2O) – 298; hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) – 140 to 1,700; perfluorocarbons (PFCs) – 8,830. Air emissions data refers to the units at SJK, EGM, TTE, ELEB, GPX and BOT. 76 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 77 Total number and rate of new hiring by age, gender and region in 2015 |GRI G4-LA1| Total number and turnover rate of employees by age group, gender and region in 2015 |GRI G4-LA1| Men Women Grand total Men Women Grand total COUNTRY Age group Total % Total % Total % COUNTRY Age group Total % Total % Total % Under 30 464 2.40 153 0.79 617 3.18 Under 30 221 1.14 99 0.51 320 1.65 Brazil Between 30 and 50 156 0.81 50 0.26 206 1.06 Brazil Between 30 and 50 350 1.81 97 0.50 447 2.31 Above 50 4 0.02 0 0.00 4 0.02 Above 50 132 0.68 13 0.07 145 0.75 Brazil total 624 3.22 203 1.05 827 4.27 Brazil total 703 3.63 209 1.08 912 4.71 Under 30 1 0.01 1 0.01 2 0.01 Under 30 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 China Between 30 and 50 7 0.04 7 0.04 14 0.07 China Between 30 and 50 2 0.01 9 0.05 11 0.06 Above 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Above 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 China total 8 0.04 8 0.04 16 0.08 China total 3 0.02 9 0.05 12 0.06 Under 30 98 0.51 22 0.11 120 0.62 Under 30 15 0.08 4 0.02 19 0.10 USA Between 30 and 50 210 1.08 28 0.14 238 1.23 USA Between 30 and 50 67 0.35 12 0.06 79 0.41 Above 50 51 0.26 5 0.03 56 0.29 Above 50 31 0.16 4 0.02 35 0.18 USA total 359 1.85 55 0.28 414 2.14 USA total 113 0.58 20 0.10 133 0.69 Under 30 10 0.05 1 0.01 11 0.06 Under 30 7 0.04 6 0.03 13 0.07 France Between 30 and 50 5 0.03 0 0.00 5 0.03 France Between 30 and 50 51 0.26 41 0.21 92 0.47 Above 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Above 50 12 0.06 4 0.02 16 0.08 France total 15 0.08 1 0.01 16 0.08 France total 70 0.36 51 0.26 121 0.62 Under 30 7 0.04 2 0.01 9 0.05 Under 30 5 0.03 0 0.00 5 0.03 Netherlands Between 30 and 50 34 0.18 7 0.04 41 0.21 Portugal Between 30 and 50 15 0.08 4 0.02 19 0.10 Above 50 11 0.06 0 0.00 11 0.06 Above 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Netherlands total 52 0.27 9 0.05 61 0.31 Portugal total 20 0.10 4 0.02 24 0.12 Under 30 36 0.19 23 0.12 59 0.30 Under 30 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Portugal Between 30 and 50 76 0.39 22 0.11 98 0.51 Ireland Between 30 and 50 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 Above 50 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 Above 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Portugal total 113 0.58 45 0.23 158 0.82 Ireland total 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 Under 30 1 0.01 1 0.01 2 0.01 Under 30 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 Singapore Between 30 and 50 5 0.03 1 0.01 6 0.03 Singapore Between 30 and 50 1 0.01 1 0.01 2 0.01 Above 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Above 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Singapore total 6 0.03 2 0.01 8 0.04 Singapore total 2 0.01 1 0.01 3 0.02 Grand total 1,177 6.08 323 1.67 1,500 7.74 Grand total 912 4.71 294 1.52 1,206 6.23 Accident frequency rate with time off work for all employees (contracted employees)1 |GRI G4-LA6| 2015 20132 20142 REGION Women Men South America (Brazil) 44 47 2 36 North America (United States of America) 11 11 3 17 Europe, Middle East and Africa 8 6 7 17 Asia 0 0 0 0 Total 63 64 12 70 1. One fatal accident in 2015 taken into account and which attributed 6,000 days lost in compliance with NBR 14280. 2. 2013 and 2014 data are consolidated because there was no gender discrimination. 78 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 79 Occupational accidents with time off work for all employees (contracted employees) |GRI G4-LA6| Accidents with time off work for all employees (outsourced) |GRI G4-LA6| 2015 REGION 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 REGION Women Men South America (Brazil) 1.37 1.45 1.17 South America (Brazil) 33 22 0 17 North America (United States of America) 4.30 4.29 7.63 North America (United States of America) 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 11.16 6.96 22.23 Europe, Middle East and Africa 11 12 0 1 Asia 0 0 0 Asia 0 0 0 0 Total 1.77 1.77 2.25 Total 44 34 0 18 Occupational illness rate for all employees (contracted employees) |GRI G4-LA6| Rate of accidents with time off work for all employees (outsourced) |GRI G4-LA6| 2015 REGION 2013 2014 Women Men REGION 2013 2014 2015 South America (Brazil) 0 0 0 1 South America (Brazil) 4.02 2.37 1.49 North America (United States of America) 0 0 0 0 North America (United States of America) 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 24.99 29.10 4.95 Asia 0 0 0 0 Asia 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 1 Total 5.08 3.51 1.54 Occupational illness rate for all employees (contracted employees) |GRI G4-LA6| Fatality for all workers (outsourced) |GRI G4-LA6| 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of Number of occupational illnesses – occupational Women + Men REGION illnesses REGION 2013 2014 2015 South America (Brazil) 28 15 8 0,25 South America (Brazil) 0 0 0 North America (United States of America) 0 0 0 0 North America (United States of America) 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 Asia 0 0 0 0 Asia 0 0 0 Total 28 15 8 0,22 Total 0 0 0 Rate of days lost (accidents + illness) for the total number of employees (contracted Rate of days lost (accidents + illness) for the total number of employees (outsourced) |GRI G4-LA6| employees) |GRI G4-LA6| Women + Men 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Number of Rate of Number of Rate of Number of Rate of Number of Rate of Number of Rate of Number of Rate of REGION days lost days lost days lost days lost days lost days lost REGION days lost days lost days lost days lost days lost days lost South America (Brazil) 1,440 44.83 993 30.55 6,945* 213.7 South America (Brazil) 315 36.58 223 24.04 210 1.49 North America North America 614 240.09 203 79.23 423 161.47 0 0 0 0 0 0 (United States of America) (United States of America) Europe, Middle East and Africa 92 128.37 110 127.65 438 405.64 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0 17 4.95 Asia 0 0 0 0,00 0 0 Asia 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 2,146 60.15 1,306 36.08 7,806 214.04 Total 315 34.00 223 23.00 227 1.54 *One fatal accident in 2015 taken into account and which attributed 6,000 days lost in compliance with NBR 14280. 80 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 81 Average number of hours of training per year per employee, distinguished by gender and employment category |GRI G4-LA9|* Analysis of career performance and development in 2015 |GRI G4-LA11| 2013 2014 2015 Number of Percentage Number of Percentage of EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY Men Women Men Women Men Women men who of men who women who women who EMPLOYMENT Total of Total of men underwent underwent underwent underwent Total workload 803 270 1,101 297 5,383 967 CATEGORY women Board of regular regular regular regular Total of employees in category 84 7 79 8 73 9 Directors assessment assessment assessment assessment Employees’ hours in category 10 39 14 37 74 107 Board of Directors 73 73 100 9 9 100 Total workload 6,244 1,390 4,512 1,692 16,544 3,312 Manager 235 235 100 40 40 100 Manager Total of employees in category 364 55 234 43 235 40 Supervisor 678 0 0 75 0 0 Employees’ hours in category 17 25 19 39 70 83 Pilot 102 97 95 0 0 0 Total workload 42,731 4,279 31,266 3,901 35,363 4,015 Engineer 3,783 3,763 99 586 573 98 Supervisor Total of employees in category 670 68 726 81 678 75 Professional 1,300 1,193 92 965 896 93 Employees’ hours in category 64 63 43 48 52 54 Technician 3,168 2,909 92 300 271 90 Total workload 1,160 0 1,332 0 1,285 0 Administrative 480 418 87 377 310 82 Pilot Total of employees in category 104 0 106 0 102 0 Operational 6,603 6,196 94 599 494 82 Employees’ hours in category 11 0 13 0 13 0 Total 16,422 14,884 91 2,951 2,593 88 Total workload 158,778 27,585 133,344 23,180 105,260 18,843 Engineer Total of employees in category 3,642 526 3,708 576 3,783 586 Employees’ hours in category 44 52 36 40 28 32 Total workload 44,047 27,723 31,691 21,669 29,652 21,756 Composition of groups responsible for governance and breakdown of employees by Professional Total of employees in category 1,263 956 1,271 961 1,300 965 employee category, according to gender, age group, minorities and other diversity Employees’ hours in category 35 29 25 23 23 23 indicators |GRI G4-LA12| Total workload 115,267 21,893 98,781 14,151 95,219 8,807 Technician Total of employees in category 2,940 258 3,013 277 3,168 300 EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY Total Women (%) Men (%) Employees’ hours in category 39 85 33 51 30 29 Board of Directors 82 11 89 Total workload 20,002 19,118 16,108 13,558 11,382 8,679 Manager 275 15 85 Administrative Total of employees in category 526 425 490 386 480 377 Supervisor 753 10 90 Employees’ hours in category 38 45 33 35 24 23 Pilot 102 0 100 Total workload 242,002 17,779 197,431 14,677 179,383 11,229 Engineer 4,369 13 87 Operational Total of employees in category 6,800 590 6,619 589 6,603 599 Professional 22,65 43 57 Employees’ hours in category 36 30 30 25 27 19 Technician 3,468 9 91 Total workload 631,033 120,038 515,565 93,126 479,470 77,607 Administrative 857 44 56 Total Total of employees 16,393 2,885 16,246 2,921 16,422 2,951 Operational 7,202 8 92 Employees’ hours 38 42 32 32 29 26 Total 19,373 15 85 *There was a change in data in relation to previous years because, in 2014, the Embraer standard of functional categorization was used. The consolidation of hours of training per capita, in which the total number of participants in training was considered, there was a change in the number of the Company’s workforce to be considered. Data from 2013, 2014 and 2015 is global. In 2015 there was an increase in Leadership training hours, due to the installation of the Leadership School. 82 annual report 2015 GRI indicators 83 EMPLOYEES BY MINORITY GROUPS* 2014 2015 Number of complaints and claims related to labor practices recorded, processed and resolved Number of black employees working in the company 829 889 through formal procedure |GRI G4-LA16|/Number of complaints and claims related to impacts on Percentage of management positions occupied by black employees 2.67 2.60 human rights recorded, processed and resolved through formal procedure |GRI G4-HR12| Number of people with disabilities or special needs 709 755 *Data refers only to Brazil. 2015 (Helpline) Reports registered on the complaints channel 304 Out of scope 40 Below 30 From 30 to 50 Over 50 Within scope 264 EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY Total years old (%) years old (%) years old (%) Measures applied 64 Board of Directors 82 0 45 55 Warnings and suspensions 9 Manager 275 1 67 32 Dismissals 8 Supervisor 753 1 81 18 Others (coaching, monitoring, orientation, awareness campaign and improvement of processes and policies) 47 Pilot 102 0 54 46 Engineer 4,369 20 68 12 Professional 2,265 14 73 12 Technician 3,468 22 62 17 Administrative 857 35 53 12 Operational 7,202 24 69 7 NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions (t) |GRI G4-EN21| Total 19,373 20 68 12 2013 2014 2015 Volume of Volume of Volume of CATEGORIES emissions in kg emissions in kg emissions in kg Total number of hours of employee training in human rights policies or procedures related to or multiples or multiples or multiples aspects of human rights relevant to the organization’s operations, including the percentage of NOx 153 103 97 employees trained |GRI G4-HR2| SOx 2 2 2 Volatile Organic Compounds 39 27 20 Number of hours Particulate Matter 28 36 26 Total number of Percentage of COUNTRY dedicated by hours dedicated hours dedicated Note: atmospheric emissions data relating to SJC, EGM, TTE, Eleb, GPX and BOT units only. employees (units) Brazil 510,867 3,006 0.6 China 1,421 16 1.2 Portugal 2,775 93 3.6 USA 40,692 536 1.4 France 462 14 3.2 Singapore 455 20 4.7 Netherlands 404 35 9.3 Ireland 1 1 100 Total 557,077 3,721 0.7 84 annual report 2015 summary of GRI content 85 SUMMARY OF GRI CONTENT |GRI G4-32| GENERAL STANDARD CONTENT REPORT PROFILE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Page Global compact G4-28 2 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-29 2 G4-1 6 and 7 G4-30 2 G4-2 5 and 33 to 35 G4-31 2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-32 2 and 84 to 87 G4-3 16 G4-33 2 G4-4 16 and 19 to 20 GOVERNANCE G4-5 16 to 17 G4-34 21 to 23 G4-6 16 to 17 G4-35 23 G4-7 Embraer S.A. G4-36 21 G4-8 16 to 17 G4-37 21 and 69 to 71 G4-9 17 G4-38 23 and 72 G4-10 48 and 66 to 67 6 G4-39 Not answered G4-11 53 3 G4-40 21 to 23 G4-12 30 to 31 G4-41 21 to 23 and 44 to 45 G4-13 28 and 40 G4-42 21 to 23 G4-14 33 to 35 G4-43 21 and 43 G4-15 58 and 59 G4-44 22 G4-16 58 and 67 to 68 G4-45 23 MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED AND LIMITS G4-46 33 to 35 G4-17 2 G4-47 22 G4-18 2 G4-48 3 G4-19 3 G4-49 25 G4-20 3 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-21 3 and 69 G4-56 18 and 24 10 G4-22 2 G4-57 24 and 25 10 G4-23 2 G4-58 25 10 INVOLVEMENT OF STAKEHOLDERS G4-24 10 and 11 G4-25 10 G4-26 10 and 69 to 71 G4-27 3 86 annual report 2015 summary of GRI content 87 SPECIFIC STANDARD CONTENT G4-DMA 53 G4-LA5 53 Health and safety at work G4-LA6 53, 77 to 79 Information about management Global G4-LA7 53 MATERIAL ASPECTS Page Omissions approach and compact G4-LA8 53 indicators G4-DMA 48 to 50 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-LA9 49 and 80 6 Training and education G4-DMA 35 G4-LA10 48 and 49 G4-EC1 43 and 44 G4-LA11 50 and 81 6 Economic performance G4-EC2 35 7 G4-DMA 48 Diversity and equality of opportunities G4-EC3 51 G4-LA12 48 and 81 6 G4-DMA 51 G4-DMA 30 to 31 Market presence G4-EC5 51 and 73 6 Evaluation of suppliers' labor practices G4-LA14 30 G4-DMA 56 to 58 G4-LA15 30 Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 56 to 58 Procedures for complaints and claims G4-DMA 25 56 to 58 related to labor practices G4-LA16 25 and 83 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL SUB-CATEGORY: Human rights G4-DMA 60 to 63 30 to 31 and G4-DMA 48 to 50 G4-EN3 61 and 74 7|8 Investments Energy G4-HR1 30 2 G4-EN6 61 8|9 G4-HR2 49 and 82 1 G4-EN7 61 8|9 G4-DMA 24 G4-DMA 60 to 63 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 25 6 Water G4-EN8 61 and 63 7|8 Freedom of association and G4-DMA 53 G4-EN10 61 8 collective bargaining G4-HR4 53 3 G4-DMA 60 to 63 G4-DMA 30 to 31 G4-EN15 60 and 74 7|8 Child labor G4-HR5 30 5 G4-EN16 60 and 74 7|8 Emissions G4-DMA 30 to 31 G4-EN17 60 and 74 7|8 Forced work or analogous with slavery G4-HR6 30 4 G4-EN19 60 8|9 G4-DMA 30 to 31 G4-EN21 60 and 83 7|8 Supplier evaluation as to human rights G4-HR10 30 2 G4-DMA 60 to 63 Procedures for complaints and claims G4-DMA 25 G4-EN22 63 and 75 8 Effluent and waste related to human rights G4-HR12 25 and 83 1 G4-EN23 60 and 75 8 SUB-CATEGORY: Society G4-EN24 60 8 G4-DMA 56 to 58 G4-DMA 30 Local communities G4-SO1 56 to 58 1 Currently unavailable. It is not yet possible to G4-DMA 23 and 24 Products and services G4-EN27 63 and 86 quantify extensions of 7|8|9 Currently unavailable. mitigations, as the The total number and program began in 2015. Fight against corruption G4-SO3 23 to 25 and 87 percentage of operations 10 subject to risk assessment G4-DMA 30 to 31 has not been declared Environmental assessment of suppliers G4-EN32 30 8 G4-SO4 24 10 G4-EN33 31 8 Supplier evaluation as to impacts G4-DMA 30 to 31 Procedures for complaints and claims G4-DMA 25 on society G4-SO9 30 related to environmental impacts G4-EN34 25 8 G4-DMA 25 Procedures for complaints and claims related to impacts on society G4-SO11 25 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: Product liability SUB-CATEGORY: Labor practices and decent work G4-DMA 38 Labeling of products and services G4-DMA 48 to 51 G4-PR5 38 Employment G4-LA1 48, 76 and 77 6 G4-LA2 51 CREDITS OVERALL COORDINATION Vice President of People and Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Management CONSULTANCY FOR INDICATORS, EDITORIAL COORDINATION, LAYOUT AND REVIEW TheMediaGroup CONTENT KMZ Conteúdo/TheMediaGroup ENGLISH TRANSLATION Corporate Sustainability Management PHOTOGRAPHY Embraer’s collection
