UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Human rights & labour Environment Anti-corruption Code of Conduct for service providers MISSION To develop reliable waste water and stormwater management, tailored to our customers’ requirements, with respect for those around us and the environment. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 3 ABOUT AQUAFIN A quafin has over 1,000 employees who work on the development and management of the infrastructure for the treatment of domestic waste water. Since its establishment by the Flemish Region in 1990, the company has raised the treatment level in Flanders from just 30% to 82%. Aquafin collects the domestic waste water from the municipal sewers in collector sewers and transports it to waste water treatment plants, where it is processed in accordance with EU and Flemish standards. It is Aquafin’s responsibility to ensure the optimum operation and maintenance of the infrastructure in which the region has invested. Aquafin also offers the same services for the municipal sewer systems. We want to create real added value for society and our living environment. Accordingly, we also want to help our customers deal with stormwater differently, by making more space for it and integrating it into public areas. Starting with the design, we pay attention to the entire lifecycle of the infrastructure, continuing to keep a close eye on its operation once it is up and running. Smart energy consumption, recovery of raw materials from waste water and reducing emissions in the water treatment process and discharge of untreated waste water are central to our activities. Based on our expertise and experience, Aquafin has become a much sought-after partner in research projects aimed at implementing the EU Water Framework Directive, both in Belgium and abroad. 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT FOREWORD A quafin continues to abide by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and has renewed its commitment this year. Besides reporting figures for 2015, this second “Communication on Progress” from Aquafin also contains information about relevant initiatives taken in the first half of 2016. This is because, as Aquafin first signed the UN Global Compact in June 2014, our reporting year always spans two calendar years. Our vision expresses what we aim for on a daily basis: clean watercourses for successive generations and a living environment in harmony with water. This is a socially responsible goal in itself and we aim to achieve this added value through our core business. Through the continued development and good management of the treatment infrastructure, we ensure that more and more domestic waste water is treated, reducing the chance of society or the environment suffering through the failure of the infrastructure. At the same time, we look forward and consider how to deal smartly with treated water and stormwater in our urban areas. We want to make a difference to society not just by what we do, but by how we approach things. In all of our processes, we aim to do business as sustainably as possible. Aquafin adopts a human approach to our environment and our employees, with the emphasis on communication and openness. We also expect our partners who work with us to fulfil a series of basic requirements based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. By adding a Code of Conduct to specifications, we try to have an impact on our entire supply chain. Naturally we realise that this is difficult to monitor. Nevertheless, we are convinced that in doing so we raise awareness of the principles, and enable their wider dissemination through our direct suppliers. Luc Bossyns Managing Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 5 AQUAFIN AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights & labour Working safely > Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Safety is a basic right under European and Belgian rights. legislation. Aquafin aims to promote safety awareness > Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that among its employees and technical partners and on they are not complicit in human rights abuses. construction sites. It supplies the necessary tools for > Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the this through various channels including posters, training elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory courses, e-learning, guidelines, ergotools, personal labour. protective equipment, etc. > Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. At the beginning of 2016, Aquafin set up an internal working group with the goal of defining a path for raising awareness of safety and safe working by the end of the year. In 2015, we recorded 20 lost time accidents, with a As a company incorporated under Belgian law, Aquafin is lower severity than in previous years. By focussing more subject to Belgian social legislation. Protecting human closely on safety, we aim to bring about a significant rights, banning forced and child labour these are reduction in the number of occupational accidents and fundamental principles of Belgian and European social their severity. legislation. In complying with Belgian legislation, Aquafin respects these 4 principles. Aquafin aims to communicate the same focus to its technical partners. Our sites must be a safe place to work. From 2017 onwards, Aquafin will also take “quality” into account when awarding contracts, along with price. This new award criterion involves an assessment of how safely the contractor works. Aquafin also performs on-site inspections in accordance with the legal requirement for the recording of attendance on major construction sites. If the company discovers an infringement, it speaks to the people concerned and draws up an official record. The contractor is then given the opportunity to make a statement. If no statement is made or if the statement is inadequate, Aquafin refers the matter to the Federal Public Service for Finance. The purpose of the recording requirement is to increase the well-being of workers on site as well as helping to combat social fraud in the sector. 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Aquafin views a widely diversified workforce as a definite > Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom asset. All employees, regardless of qualifications, position of association and the effective recognition of and seniority, are classed as white-collar workers. the right to collective bargaining. Home of ability to work As prescribed by Belgian law, Aquafin has a Works Council In 2015, Aquafin launched the “huis van werkvermogen” and a Health and Safety Committee with equal (home of ability to work) campaign as a metaphor for the representation. The employee representatives represent elements needed to feel good about work. The company the various categories of employees: white collar, engaged in specific campaigns based on each of these executives and young workers (no one has blue-collar elements. These campaigns are largely based on a welfare status at Aquafin). Employees are free to decide which survey organised by Aquafin in 2014 in conjunction with trade union to join, if any. Both the Works Council and SD Worx. the Health and Safety Committee meet on a regular basis. The minutes of these meetings are accessible to all employees. In 2015, the Works Council and the Health and Safety Ability to work Committee both met 11 times. Work On 10 May 2016, Aquafin organised elections for the Works Council and the Health and Safety Committee fully in accordance with the law. Ten full representatives were Standards and values elected for the employees’ delegation for the Works Council and ten deputies. Eight full members and eight Competencies deputies were elected for the employees’ delegation for the Health and Safety Committee. Health > Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the Work-life balance elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. © Vlaamse overheid Work: Work with an environmental value at As required by Belgian law, Aquafin does not discriminate a transparent benefits package. between people on the basis of ethnic or social origin, gender, age, sexual orientation, political or religious beliefs or whether or not they are members of a trade union. Standards and values: To set out a clear framework for what Aquafin stands for and In view of the high engineering content of the company’s what is the contribution of each employee activities, most applicants to Aquafin remain male. In 2015 to this. the ratio of our employees (expressed in FTE) was 683 men to 223 women. Competencies: Encouraging personal Under Belgian law, companies with more than 20 employees development through job rotation, job are required to draw up an employment plan designed to crafting, career planning, informal learning, maintain or increase the number of employees aged 45 or knowledge sharing, etc. older. Aquafin has drawn up such a plan in conjunction with the social partners. This plan is reviewed and updated on an annual basis. On 31 December 2015, 417 employees Health: Physical workability and a psychowere aged 45 or older. On the other hand, we also make social well-being policy. the efforts required by law to recruit young people. Work-life balance: Working independently of location and time within a clear agreement framework. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 7 Environment To this end, it is determined during the design phase what needs to happen to guarantee the waste flows during the works so that no untreated waste water enters the watercourses. Arrangements for the drainage of the > Principle 7: Businesses should support a preworking area, to enable dry working, are also made during cautionary approach to environmental challenges. the design phase. The number of projects for which the drainage water has to be removed via the sewers is very small. In most cases, a solution is found so that this ground Aquafin is responsible for the development and water can filter back further on or flow away into a management of the regional infrastructure for the watercourse. treatment of domestic waste water in Flanders. We also offer the same services for the municipal sewer system. The water we discharge into a watercourse following > Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives treatment must comply with Flemish standards, which are to promote greater environmental responsibility. even more stringent than European ones. In 2015, 97.6% of waste water treatment plants complied with all applicable standards. This is slightly down on the previous year, due to adverse weather conditions in the spring. Aquafin has to Aquafin is aware that the infrastructure works it carries comply with both concentration limits for treated waste out cause disruption to local residents, retailers and water, which were also very good this time, and removal passing traffic. However, our works are necessary in order percentages. High rainfall means that the waste water to collect waste water from households and transport it to entering the waste water treatment plants via largely a waste water treatment plant, so that it does not harm mixed sewer systems is very diluted. As a result, the the environment. We inform local residents in detail about pollution load concentrations of the incoming waste water the necessity of this, while also taking on board their tend to be below the discharge standards. This makes it concerns. In 2015, Aquafin organised 110 information very difficult to achieve the required removal percentages, evenings in relation to infrastructure works. even though the treated waste water discharged by us is of excellent quality. Citizens do not usually come into direct contact with Aquafin unless we are carrying out works in their area. All critical elements of Aquafin’s waste water treatment Nevertheless, we consider it important to familiarise them plants and pumping stations are monitored constantly by with our mission and the purpose of our works. In 2015, alarms. Online controls enable the treatment process to be 614 group tours took place on our waste water treatment adjusted very quickly if required. plants equipped for this purpose. We invite local residents to come and take a look at new waste water treatment The Flemish Environment Agency audits Aquafin’s environplants and take a tour to learn about the treatment mental performance. To measure the performance of process. In 2015, we organised nine neighbourhood tours. the treatment infrastructure managed by us on behalf of the Flemish Region, together with the Flemish Environment Agency, we have devised a set of ecological indicators which are reviewed on an annual basis. We also perform our own monthly calculations of the key performance indicators. If there are negative developments anywhere, we identify them swiftly and can make immediate adjustments. Of the 382 reports we made to the Flemish Environment Agency last year, 245 had an ecological impact. We also aim to ensure that the waste water reaches the treatment plant via the existing facilities when carrying out infrastructure projects. 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Chap’eau highlights clean watercourses Aquafin has cooperated in a Royal Decree at federal level requiring a pictogram for wet wipes that are not flushable. In 2015, Aquafin organised the second edition of Chap’eau, To raise public awareness of this, we have asked a yearly event together with the municipalities, the Flemish municipalities to include this information in their newsEnvironment Agency, the Flemish Region, contractors, letters and we are also spreading the message through consultancy and engineering firms and other partners that the most relevant media channels. help to ensure clean watercourses. Every year, we highlight a location that has made great progress towards good Making commuting more sustainable water quality. The polders of Kruibeke formed the backdrop for this year’s event, as otters had been spotted there again Aquafin aims to encourage its employees to find more after more than 30 years’ absence. The otters’ surfacing environmentally friendly ways of commuting. The company again is proof of the improved water quality in and around organises “Bike to work” campaigns several times a year the Scheldt basin and a promising sign that we wanted to and even won the “Bike to work Winter Trophy” for share with a wide audience during the event. Aquafin also businesses in the 800 to 3,500 employee category in made every effort to ensure that the various aspects of December 2015. In 2016, Aquafin took part in “Mobi”, the event were organised as sustainably as possible a mobility game in which teams of employees can register (vegetarian offering, green children’s entertainment, waste online and score points whenever they make an effort policy, etc.). We entered for OVAM’s GroenEvent (green to avoid driving during the rush hour. The aim is to make at event) award and received an honourable mention. least 1 in 5 commuter journeys in a sustainable manner. The greener the alternative, the more points are scored for Raising awareness about wet wipes the company. As an extra incentive, Aquafin is committed to converting the CO2 emissions saved by employees Pipes and pumps in our water treatment infrastructure through sustainable mobility into sponsorship of nature are becoming blocked more and more frequently by wet parks. Aquafin also tries to reduce the number of work wipes that are flushed down the toilet when they are not journeys through initiatives such as satellite offices and designed for this. Besides high repair costs, this can also flexible workplaces. cause environmental damage. If the pumps shut down and too much waste water collects in the sewer system, it is discharged into a watercourse via an overflow to prevent flooding. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 9 Young people work in water treatment for a day 1. 20% less primary energy thanks to Zuiddag (Work for Change) Once again In 2015, Aquafin carried out a number of projects leading to a reduction in the energy consumption By offering employees’ children the opportunity to spend of our waste water treatment plants. For example, a day working at Aquafin for Zuiddag (Work for Change), we systematically replaced our old aeration systems we enabled them to get to know the water treatment with new, low-energy fine bubble aeration. Last year, process from close up. In this way, we raise their awareness we also examined the energy consumption of five of the environment at the same time as supporting plants that were among the highest consumers and projects carried out by young people worldwide to create formulated action plans to reduce consumption. a fairer and more sustainable society. Every year, Aquafin sets aside a budget of 500,000 euros for energy projects involving minor investment. More major modifications of the infrastructure have to be included in the Optimisation Programme awarded to Aquafin each year by the Flemish Region. In 2015, total electricity consumption was 8% lower than in 2010, allowing for the consumption of newly added infrastructure. 2. Generate 13% of green electricity Through the digestion of sludge, a by-product of water treatment, Aquafin can generate its own green electricity. This proportion is rising year by year and amounted to 4.2% of our total electricity consumption or about 12 GWh in 2015. The company is investigating how the yield from sludge digestion can be increased further. In 2015, 36% of the non-digested sludge and the sludge > Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the that remains after the sludge digestion process was development and diffusion of environmentally dried in our own sludge drying plants in Deurne, friendly technologies. Houthalen or Leuven. We supply the dried sludge to the cement industry in the form of granules or pellets for co-incineration in cement furnaces, to replace fossil Reducing energy consumption fuels. Water treatment is an energy-intensive process. In 2015, 3. Reduce transportation by 20% the energy bill for Aquafin’s treatment activities amounted In order for the excess sludge produced during the to around 31 million euros, or a quarter of our total treatment process to be processed, it needs to be operating costs. transported to centralised processing plants. The less water the sludge contains, the lower the volume In 2011, Aquafin’s Management Committee and Board and therefore the less transportation is required. of Directors approved the energy policy statement, aimed Aquafin therefore does all it can to increase the dry at cutting primary energy consumption. In line with solids content of the sludge. In the period of 2010-2015, the European climate objectives and the commitment of this content of liquid sludge rose from 4.07% to 4.77%, Belgium, Aquafin aims to achieve the following energyso that in 2015 the number of kilometres travelled by related goals by 2020, compared with the reference year liquid sludge was 200,000 km lower than in 2010, of 2010: despite an 18% increase in the quantity of sludge. > 1. Reduce consumption of primary energy by 20% > 2. Generate 13% of green electricity > 3. Reduce transportation by 20% 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT The efforts we make to reduce our energy consumption Recovery of raw materials not only have a financial impact but also help to reduce our ecological footprint. For the first time in 2015, an estimate The domestic waste water arriving at the waste water was made of the CO2 emissions of our business based on treatment plants contains a variety of substances that three scopes or sources. could be re-used following efficient recovery. For instance, human urine is rich in the mineral phosphorus, global natural reserves of which are gradually being exhausted. In 2013 and 2014, Aquafin carried out tests by adding > Scope 1: direct discharge, for which Aquafin itself magnesium chloride to the sewage sludge to cause the is responsible phosphates to precipitate as struvite, or phosphorus > Scope 2: indirect emissions from purchased crystals. At the beginning of June 2015, Aquafin received a electricity raw materials certificate from OVAM so that the struvite won could also be used as fertiliser. > Scope 3: all other indirect emissions from sources beyond the control of Aquafin Using a test set-up with a fine screen during the mechanical treatment stage, Aquafin is trying to recover cellulose which flows into the plant from toilet paper. At a later stage, we can investigate further how and under Sources Tonne CO2-eq what conditions the cellulose can be used as a raw Scope 1 material. Known applications include the production of Natural gas 6,820 insulation materials and bioplastic. Heating oil 538 Organic waste is also rich in carbon, another substance Fuel for company vehicles 2,312 which we may be able to recover and convert into biocoal. CH4 emission(1) 48,026 Biocoal can be used in industry, agriculture or environmental N2O emission(1) 75,811 technology. Scope 2 Electricity 40,610 The waste water treated in Aquafin’s plants is of excellent Scope 3 quality and can be discharged into a watercourse. It is also Fuel for transportation of sludge 2,535 suitable for replacing expensive drinking water under certain circumstances. After a little pre-treatment, for Use of chemicals 9,566 example, it makes excellent process or cooling water for industry. Provided that it is thoroughly treated, waste water can also be further upgraded to any desired quality, (1) Flat rate based on loads processed even to drinking water. This is what happens in Koksijde, where drinking water company IWVA takes treated waste water from the treatment plant and turns it into drinking water. A meat-processing company, whose water treatment is handled by our subsidiary Aquaplus, processes the treated waste water on site into drinking water used for meat processing. The excellent and consistent quantity of the treated waste water has a major impact on the taste and quality of the company’s products. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 11 WWTP AS RECYCLING PLANT Domestic waste water Treated waste water to the watercourse Waste water treatment plants Delivery to drinking water production ↘ Basis for drinking water Production of ↘ Ultrapure water sludge granules ↘ Cement industry Phosphorus recovery ↘ Fertilizers C Carbon recovery ↘ Biocoal Cellulose recovery ↘ Bioplastics Production of electricity ↘ Insulation materials 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Anti-corruption Code of Conduct for service providers > Principle 10: Businesses should work against The company is obviously fully in control of compliance corruption in all its forms, including extortion with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact as far as and bribery. Aquafin itself is concerned. Since we also expect serviceproviders with which we work to apply these principles, we incorporate a Code of Conduct into each set of Corruption, extortion and bribery are prohibited under specifications. This contains the basic requirements Belgian law, which we respect at Aquafin. to be fulfilled by service-providers with respect to their responsibility to stakeholders and the environment. The internal auditor, external auditor and the financial Aquafin reserves the right to request a self assessment or regulator for the Flemish Region all supervise the company. to carry out checks at any time. The Code of Conduct The internal auditor carries out quality audits on the comprises the following rules: procedures followed within the company. Ernst & Young Assurance Services have been appointed as external auditors of the financial statements. The financial regulator for > 1. Compliance with the law the Flemish Region checks the invoices falling under the Management Agreement with the Flemish Region. > 2. Ban on corruption and bribery > 3. Respect for employees’ basic human rights Aquafin has produced a supplement to the terms of employment on the subject of conflicts of interest. > 4. Ban on child labour The principles contained in this supplement, which > 5. Employees’ health and safety employees must follow, have been tightened up in 2015. > 6. Protection of the environment > 7. Endeavour to ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct within their own supply chain and non-discrimination in the selection and treatment of their own suppliers Aquafin’s Corporate Governance Charter is available at www.aquafin.be. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 13 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Clean watercourses for successive generations and a living environment in harmony with water. Aquafin NV Dijkstraat 8 2630 Aartselaar 03 450 45 11 www.aquafin.be info@aquafin.be ondernemingsnummer: 440.691.388 Publisher: Luc Bossyns, Managing Director Aquafin NV, Dijkstraat 8, 2630 Aartselaar.
