UN GLOBAL COMPAC T Communication on Progress 2015 / 2016 1 table of contents Statement of continued support 3 Our Code of Conduct 4 Human rights 5 Labor 7 Environment 11 Anti-Corruption 14 2 Statement of Continued support Though we are only barely half way through the year, 2016 has already been eventful; important milestones have been passed and we are excited about the thought of what the future holds for Skagerak. This year we have celebrated the company’s 40th anniversary, and this milestone was the perfect time to announce that our Danish brand would change its name to Skagerak; the same name it is already known by in the rest of the world. We feel that this name is the perfect symbol of our brand; ever changing but true to its values, and thereby recognizable in all parts of the world. Even though a 40th anniversary and change of name are important to us, it is in between such milestones that one finds the heart of the company, amongst the busy work life and everyday activities. In all of our business operations we strive to make mindful decisions in favor of the environment, people and future generations. And therefore, we continue to support the work and ambitions of the UN Global Compact. Yours sincerly, Jesper Panduro CEO 3 Our Code of Conduct Contributing to Skagerak’s everyday work with responsible business is its Code of Conduct (CoC), which aims to ensure efficient and responsible production at all levels. The CoC is an agreement between Skagerak and its suppliers and consists of a multitude of requirements to be met by the suppliers, their employees and sub-suppliers. The ten universally accepted principles provided by the UN Global Compact are embedded within the code. Of all elements of the code, six points are handled with zero tolerance. These are: no forced labor, no child labor, dignified treatment of employees, avoidance of highly dangerous working conditions, initiation of the reduction of pollution of air, water and soil, and abidance by international humanitarian conventions. If Skagerak has reason to believe that a supplier is committing such violations, the business relationship will be terminated immediately. However, as the aim of the code partly is to help suppliers improve social and environmental standards, other cases of non-compliance are approached by creating an individual plan in cooperation with the supplier in order to bring things up to standard and achieve compliance with the provisions of the code. 4 Human Rights Aim Action And results Skagerak supports internationally Skagerak’s operations are bound by Skagerak has never been complicit in any proclaimed human rights and it is Danish as well as international legislation, human rights violations and will continue company policy to ensure that none of wherefore human rights are respected at to make an effort in regard to avoiding its operations are complicit in regard to all times and at all levels. In order to ensure such violations. Moreover the company will human rights violations. that this is followed through throughout continue to speak in favor of a right and the entire supply chain, matters concerning equal treatment of all human beings. The company not only backs away from human rights are included within the CoC and disapproves of positions and actions and any violations hereof are as a fact not in compliance with the Universal handled with zero tolerance. Declaration of Human Rights, whenever possible it will also make an effort in Whenever possible Skagerak makes use regard to changing the unsatisfactory of only FSC®-certified wood1. An FSC® circumstances in question. forest does not only have to take the environment into consideration, but also all the people who are in any way affected by the operations related to the execution of forestry in the given forest. As such, by making use of FSC®-certified wood, Skagerak supports others in their work with right and just conditions for all people. 1 Skagerak’s FSC® certification number: RA-COC-000903, licence number: FSC®-C004462. 5 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in ­human rights abuses — We respect and value any human being and their rights as such. Thus we stand by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we aim to do our part in terms of setting an example. / Jesper Panduro, CEO 6 LABOR Aim Action Skagerak respects and speaks in favor Skagerak meets local standards and policy on how the company should work of all rights according to Danish and industry norms and takes further steps by with its suppliers and how to handle international legislation, and its aim is using its CoC as an agreement between potential disputes between the company to sustain a healthy and safe working itself and its suppliers. The CoC consists and its suppliers. As such it should be environment at all levels of the supply of a multitude of requirements to be easier to take action, when action is chain. The company is constantly met by the suppliers in order to ensure required and thus the purpose is to ensure working towards lowering the number efficient and responsible production and responsible business at all levels. of non-conformance reports with a total further social and responsible behavior in number of zero cases of non-compliance general. Skagerak has furthermore embarked on being the ultimate goal. further development of the procedure on To make sure that the suppliers meet how suppliers conduct self-assessments. the requirements of the code they are The purpose is to find ways to motivate being audited at regular intervals and the suppliers to conduct self-assessments are furthermore required to perform more frequently, which in the end should self-assessments. Audit procedures are be a motivational factor for detecting and performed by independent, local auditors correcting any cases of non-compliance. recommended by NEPCon or Rainforest Alliance. NEPCon and/or Skagerak itself furthermore follow up on the suppliers’ self-assessments to ensure appropriate compliance. At the moment Skagerak is rewriting the procedure for how the company should handle business operations involving suppliers. Part of the aim of the rewritten procedure is to have a clear standard 7 LABOR And results As is evident from figures 1 and 2, this Skagerak takes these matters very year has seen an increase in the number seriously, and will continue to work in of non-conformance reports, which is of close collaboration with each supplier course unfortunate. However, this is not in order to bring things up to standard. merely an indication of unsatisfactory However, if compliance with the performance, there are circumstances requirements of the code is continuously influencing these results. Skagerak has just not satisfactory, Skagerak will hold started cooperating with a new supplier back new business until improvements that has yet to undergo the same learning are recorded. Is the supplier still, curve as some of the other suppliers. despite continuous guidance provided Other factors such as changes in local by Skagerak, unwilling to rectify the policies have too created obstacles situation Skagerak sees no option but to outside the reach of Skagerak, which terminate the cooperation. This has been have had a negative influence on the the case recently when Skagerak had to suppliers’ ability to fully comply to the terminate the cooperation with one of its CoC, thus resulting in a rise in cases of suppliers due to this supplier’s lack of CSR non-compliance. But also the fact that the acceptance. bar for what constitutes a safe and healthy working environment is continuously raised, means that inconsistencies are likely to appear at first. Skagerak is of course aware of this and the company is doing its best to make these occurrences the exception and not the rule. 8 LABOR CASES OF NON-CONFORMANCE 120 Total, None Conformance reports, (NCR). All deviations from the CoC are 100 catalogued and described as Non-Conformance Reports (NCRs), here 80 one distinguishes between minor and major NCRs, depending on their level of 60 Serie1 seriousness. 40 20 0 Total Total Total Total Total Total mn mn mn mn mn mn MJ MJ MJ MJ MJ MJ 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fig. 1: Total non-conformance reports Detailed Non Conformance reports (NCR) 30 25 20 2011 15 2012 2013 2014 10 2016 5 0 Total minor Major Total minor Major Total minor Major Total minor Major Total minor Major Total minor Major Fig. 2: Detailed non-conformance reports 9 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in r­ espect of employment and occupation — It is important to us that our suppliers maintain a safe working environment and treat their employees with the respect and dignity they all deserve. / Sanne Rubæk, Partner and Supply Chain Manager 10 environment Aim Action In general, Skagerak wishes to lower The company supports institutions to become FSC® -certified. As a result, its strain on the environment by being promoting environmentally friendly Skagerak has successfully influenced three mindful of how resources are being operations. In particular, the Forest suppliers to attain an FSC® certification procured, handled, transported and Stewardship Council plays an important during the past year. disposed of. part in Skagerak’s business operations, It is furthermore a goal for the company as wood is often used in the production Skagerak is continuously investigating to only use FSC® -certified wood by year of its products. Forestry conducted opportunities for further improvements 2020. This means that all wood used in the according to the standards set by the in regard to waste water. The company is production of any of Skagerak’s products FSC® is both responsible and sustainable; thus exploring its options for substituting is to be FSC® -certified. the environment is protected, as is forest some of its raw materials for alternatives wildlife, vegetation and people who work producing a lesser amount of waste there. water. Skagerak is furthermore looking into whether there are any processes It can be difficult to obtain FSC® -certified or applications which can be changed wood of the high quality required by in order to avoid the need for water Skagerak, which is why changing its supply treatment altogether. to all FSC® -certified wood is a process that takes time. At the moment, Skagerak is in search of new suppliers of certified high quality wood. The company is thus looking for suppliers already certified but is also investigating opportunities for influencing non-certified suppliers to take the necessary precautionary measures 11 environment And results Once again a year has passed and 80% Skagerak is one step closer to the goal of using only FSC® -certified wood. As 70% shown by figure 3, since 2013 the rise has been steady and now FSC® -certified wood 60% 2010-2011 constitutes nearly half of the overall wood 50% supply. 2011-2012 40% 2012-2013 The search for improvements in regard to waste water has led to a new design 30% 2013-2014 collection that uses a stain which does not 2014-2015 produce any waste water whatsoever. This 20% is a very promising development, which 2015-2016 10% may lead to further design collections using the same method in order to protect 0% the environment. FSC Wood None FSC wood Fig. 3: FSC® wood 12 Principle 7: Businesses should support a ­precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies — We should all be mindful of the planet and its resources and stand united in the quest to preserve natural resources and protect the environment. / Hans Lindekilde, Quality Manager 13 anti-corruption Aim Action And results At all times, Skagerak will back away from Skagerak has its roots in Denmark, one of Skagerak is in no way involved in any form and speak against corruption in all its the countries in the world with the lowest of corruptive activities and distances itself forms. By setting an example, Skagerak level of corruption, hence corruption is from such behavior. The company finds it wish to urge anybody to do the same in in no way part of the business culture important to acknowledge the prevalence order to establish a business environment in general nor is it in any way part of of corruption, as debating the issue may where anti-corruption is the norm, no how Skagerak chooses to conduct its be the best way to start the fight against matter which country is in question. business operations. Skagerak will never it. demonstrate any form of corruptive In this way Skagerak promotes an behavior in order to better its own environment where business can take situation nor is it willing to receive any place under honest, fair and safe form of bribery or succumb to others’ conditions for all parts. attempts to exert corruption. Skagerak’s efforts have resulted in Skagerak would like for its suppliers to some of the suppliers incorporating an include an anti-corruption clause within anti-corruption clause in their business their respective business policies. Thus policies – this is a vital step in the right Skagerak is doing whatever possible direction towards preventing corruption. to encourage such actions towards preventing corruption. 14 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery — Corruption is one of those subjects that are almost taboo, but I believe that the more we discuss the issue the more awareness we can create about the fact that a solution is needed. / Hans Lindekilde, Quality Manager 15
