Creating a Beautiful life 2015 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 2015 AMOREPACIFIC Group Creating a Beautiful Life Sustainability Report 70 Years of Journey Brand Portfolio 06 2015 Highlight Materiality Analysis 42 Beautiful Journey over the Last 70 Years 16 Global Growth 44 Key Performances from 2015 18 Leading Innovation and Digitalization in Beauty 49 1 3 Towards a More Beautiful Future 19 Sustainable Products and Value-Based Consumption 55 Mutual Growth with partners 59 Social Contribution and Local Community Engagement 64 Corporate Overview CEO Message 24 Sustainability AMOREPACIFIC 70 AP WAY 26 innisfree 99 Performance Corporate Vision 27 ETUDE 103 2 4 Sustainability Management System 28 eSpoir 105 Worldwide Business 30 AMOS professional 107 Financial Performance 32 AESTURA 110 Governance Structure 35 O'sulloc farm 112 Risk Management 37 Ethical Management 39 Appendix Independent Assurance Report 115 Verification Statement GHG Inventory 117 GRI G4 Index 119 5 About This Report 123 2 3 1 Beauty Making the World More Beautiful 70 Years of Journey Our 70 years of history is a history of Korea’s cosmetic industry. Since its establishment in 1945, the AMOREPACIFIC group Brand Portfolio is a global leader presenting a new beauty paradigm of our time Beautiful Journey over the Last 70 Years through continuous commitment to innovation and focus on Key Performances from 2015 Towards a More Beautiful Future research and development. AMOREPACIFIC Group’s each brand is the fruit of our endless innovations and commitment to sharing more beautiful values with our customers and stakeholders. We are continuing our efforts to transform the world through beauty. 1. 70 Years of Journey Brand Portfolio Holistic Beauty from Asian Wisdom We have carried out a global brand strategy, engaging in earnest with customers around the world. Inspired by Asian philosophy which values harmony and balance of body and mind, Sulwhasoo AMOREPACIFIC brands are increasingly recognized as representative of Asian beauty and are derived blends time-honored Asian medicinal herbs and modern technology to offer holistic skincare. Based from its time-honored Asian wisdom and philosophy. upon scientific research on skin aging processes combined with rare and indigenous natural herbal ingredients, we offer ultimate skin solutions that treat the skin from deep inside. Our products comfort your body and mind through relaxing scents and rich texture, and optimize skin care effects through Asian beauty rituals. Experience holistic beauty drawn from Asian wisdom with Sulwhasoo. www.sulwhasoo.co.kr 6 7 1. 70 Years of Journey Unleash the Sparkling Beauty in You Presenting Blooming Beauty of Flowers to You! LANEIGE pursues sparkling beauty. Beyond clear, radiant, and glowing skin, we also seek to unleash Through advanced research on flowers in search of the root of true beauty, Mamonde re-invents that dazzling charm within you. The key behind lively and beautiful skin that can defy time is none beauty from the amazing power and energy that derives from flowers. Blooming beauty of flowers other than “moisture.” Transforming water, the source of life, into dynamic moisture energy are integrated into all of our products. As a leading Global Masstige Brand with strong presence in LANEIGE is the key to clear, supple skin. As the premium beauty brand for young women, we seek to China and ASEAN countries, our products deliver beauty to customers around the world. give beautiful transformation not only to your skin but also to your life. www.mamonde.co.kr www.laneige.com 8 9 1. 70 Years of Journey Natural Benefit from Jeju, Innisfree Fun Makeup Experience Bringing a Princess Fantasy into Reality innisfree ‘an island that relaxes the skin’ is a naturalist brand committed to providing our As the first specialized makeup brand in Korea, ETUDE is committed to helping women discover customers with healthy beauty inspired by Jeju Island’s pristine and innocent nature. As a leading their own inner beauty by offering a magical experience of becoming alluring princesses. Honoring eco-friendly green cosmetic brand, we are pursuing a beautiful dream delivering natural wellness perky and adventurous women who enjoy new challenges and are unafraid of changes for a happier and optimum skin. and brighter life, ETUDE has been spreading a fun makeup culture and Korean beauty make-up brand through Asia. www.innisfree.co.kr www.etude.co.kr 10 11 1. 70 Years of Journey Exceptional beauty from Seoul Sprout energy for the prime moments of skin vitality Beauty evolves. HERA is an icon for the confident, attractive, and sophisticated Combining two words, prime and era, Primera vitalizes the skin by maximizing woman who seeks challenge and change and actively expresses her beauty through its nourishment through sprout energy and realizes new possibilities, vibrant passion. As a beauty messenger creating and leading the Asian trend, she opportunities, and hopes by delivering positive energy in an environment and spreads the beauty and values of Korean women to the world. community where we co-exist. www.hera.co.kr www.primera.co.kr Leading the way to beautiful skin through BIO SCIENCE Inner Beauty Solutions for Your Healthy and Beautiful Look IOPE, an advanced BIOSCIENCE skincare, combines the most effective ingredients Based upon scientific research and analysis of contemporary lifestyles on body with leading, cutting-edge biotechnology. Skincare concerns are carefully identified and mind, VITALBEAUTIE brings a better quality in life tailed to individual and targeted through powerful and scientifically-proven skincare solutions, lifestyles. We offer holistic solutions to improve your beauty and health by achieving a more visibly youthful-looking skin complexion. analyzing diet, nutrition, and exercise patterns. www.iope.co.kr www.vitalbeautie.com Global Premium Haircare Brand Made of Oriental Herbal Science Artisan Beauty Brand that delivers the mystery of botanicals found by the discerning eyes of Asians with Phyto-Fluidics™ RYO is a premium hair care brand that successfully delivers the value of real results by incorporating fundamental care to your hair and scalp through the carefully The flagship brand of AMOREPACIFIC Corp. Representing the company’s selected herbal ingredients and the oriental principles that originate from Korea. history and philosophy in beauty, Amorepacific specializes in antiaging skin care products which provide fast action through carefully selected Asian botanicals and advanced delivery technology. www.ryohair.com www.brandamorepacific.com 12 13 1. 70 Years of Journey French High Perfumery Alluring Perfume Brand A Hair Care and Styling Brand Natural Body Care Brand House Inspired by Emotion Completing Your Beauty Leading Hair Trends Pleasing the Senses www.annickgoutal.com www.lolitalempicka.co.kr www.miseenscene.com www.happybath.com Traditional and Natural Professional Premium Body Care Oral care with a formulation Cosmetics from Korean Makeup Brand Based on Korean perfect for your teeth! Nature and Mother’s Wisdom Herbal Therapy www.hanyul.co.kr www.espoir.com www.illi.co.kr www.median433.co.kr Fast Beauty Icon! An emotional fragrance The Elegant Lifestyle Hair Professional A reasonable and sensational brand for men seeking and Inner Healing Offered Salon Brand beauty brand reflecting the new sensations by the Aroma of Jeju Tea hottest trends ARITAUM www.aritaum.com www.odysseymen.com www.osulloc.com www.amosprofessional.com Prestige Marine Brand True changes in the skin Prestige beauty device brand Medical beauty cosmetics Conveying Sincerity of changing skin care routine leveraging extensive pristine and vibrant vitality dermatology research and of marine being technologies www.lirikos.co.kr www.verite.co.kr www.makeonbeauty.co.kr www.aestura.com 14 15 1. 70 Years of Journey Beautiful Journey of 70 Years Searching for Spring Water Looking for the Road to Beauty Writing the History of Success Preparing for Innovation Changing Us By Opening Us Growing Together with Customers For a Great Future Which Never Goes Dry Founding of Pacific Chemical 1945 Becoming the world’s first cosmetic Announcement of the Group’s Management 70 Years of Beauty Creation company with its own tea farm 1979 Philosophy Service to Mankind, Respect for Humanity and Future Creation 1992 Publication of Korea’s First Monthly Beauty Magazine ‘Hwajanggye’ 1958 Launch of Korea’s First Makeup Campaign Oh, My Love 1971 Establishment of the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation 2000 Declaration of Our Calling ㆍAPWAY 2006ㆍ2008 Great Opening of Korea’s First Establishment of the Pacific Scholarship Registration in the UN Global Compact Beauty Counseling Center 1961 and Cultural Foundation 1973 (UNGC) 2007 Establishment of Opening of the Museum of Total Commitment Initiative the Industry’s First Research Lab 1954 Cosmetics History 1979 (Quality, Service, Environment) 1993 Announcement of the AMOREPACIFIC Completion of the Factory Launch of a New Slogan Beautifying Humanity, Group’s Sustainable Management Construction in Yeongdeungpo Beautifying Society 1974 Installing of Opening of the Pacific Museum of Tea 1981 Commitment 2009 Asia’s First Air Exchanger Spoon 1958 (Korea’s Largest Automated Establishment of the Pacific R&D Center 1978 Good to Great Cosmetic Manufacturing Facility) 1962 Establishment of Incorporation into the Dow Jones the Pacific Welfare Foundation 1982 Sustainability Index(DJSI) World 2010 Opening of O’sulloc Museum 2001 From Mother’s Kitchen to the World’s Completion of AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Campus 2012 Opening of Our Tokyo Branch 1971 Completion of Daejun Factory 1980 Acquisition of French Beauty Brand ANNICK GOUTAL 2011 Opening of Our New York Branch 1972 Our Founder (Mr. Sung-hwan Suh)’s Visit to Opening of the French Subsidiary 1990 Launch of Lolita Lempicka 1997 Global the European Cosmetic Markets 1960 Opening of the China Branch Office 1992 Opening of Opening of Amore Korea’s First to Export Cosmetic Products the China Shanghai Subsidiary 2000 No.1, a beauty center 1984 Opening of Beauty Campus Oscar Cosmetics 1964 Completion of Shanghai Factory 2002 in Shanghai, China 2014 Designated as the Official Product of the 1986 Seoul Asian Olympics 1985 Local to Global Designated as the Official Product of the 1988 Seoul Olympics 1987 Development of Makeup Simulation System 1987 Launch of AMOREPACIFIC’s First Launch of Mamonde Brand 1991 Launch of IOPE Air Cushion 2008 Independent Brand Melody Cream 1948 Launch of LANEIGE Brand 1994 Opening of ARITAUM 2008 Launch of ETUDE·HERA Brand 1995 Launch of IOPE Brand 1996 Brand Company Launch of Launch of the Korea’s First Launch of the World’s First Launch of IOPE Retinol 2500 1997 the World’s First ABC Ginseng Cream 1966 Luxury Medicinal Herbal Cosmetic Product Green Tea Cosmetic Product 1973 Launch of Sulwhasoo Brand 1997 Jinsaengsammi Miro (Maze in English) 1989 Beginning of AMORE Brand / Launch of Korea’s First Plant Based Product Launch of AmorePacific 2002 Introduction of Door-To-Door Opening of the R&D Centre MIZIUM ‘ABC Pomade’ 1951 Sales system 1964 (Combination of Beauty and Museum) 2010 Product to Brand Company 1945~ 1990~ 16 17 1. 70 Years of Journey Key Performances from 2015 Towards a More Beautiful Future In an effort to present a more beautiful future to our customers and stakeholders, the group has delivered major accomplishments every year. AMOREPACIFIC Group invested significant resources and energies to become a leading, sustainable company remembered for many generations. Celebrating our 70th anniversary throughout the year, we ended 2015 with meaningful accomplishments. Below are the key accomplishments In addition to continued implementation of our robust long-term strategy, we engaged a range of stakeholders to co-create a more beautiful and and awards we enjoyed in 2015. sustainable future. Throughout 2015, the group undertook a range of activities to celebrate our 70th Anniversary, and two of our signature events Dialogue for the Future with Media Professionals and A Forum for a More Beautiful Future played a particularly important role in seeking the views of our stakeholders. These events brought experts and media representatives together to explore new ideas that we can improve upon for a 70 5,660 36,000 1,500 16.1% more sustainable and beautiful future. years billion KRW billion KRW million people 70 Years of History 2015 Sales Market Capitalization Customers Operating 70th Anniversary To celebrate the 70th anniversary, we brought over 160 journalists and media representatives from or Market Cap1) around the world Profit Margin Korea and abroad together to introduce our company’s 2020 Vision and Strategy, designed to help us 1) As of December 31, 2015 Press Conference pursue our ambition to become a great global brand company as the Asian beauty creator. Major Performance in 2015 Customer Environment2) Employees & Partners Social Contribution Good Product Good for Planet Good Relationship Good Citizenship Key Discussion Points Sustainable Products Energy Consumption Employee Engagement Social Contributions Expenses6) 1 Announcing AMOREPACIFIC’s 2020 Vision – Great Global Brand Company 681 products 0.498 TOE 3)/100mil. KRW 82 points 18.654 billion KRW ▼ 5% ▼ 25% ▲ 4% ▼ 18% The event presented the group’s 2020 vision to become a great, global-brand company, sharing the wisdom of Asian beauty embedded in our products and services. Volume of empty bottles Ratio of R&D Expenditures to Sales Greenhouse Gas Emission4) Accidents Rate colllected through GEENCYCLE Campaign With our five champion global brands, we achieved 1.93% 1.363 tons of CO2/100mil. KRW 0.038% 250 ton Target Met in Sales and Operating Profits KRW 12 billion in sales and a 15% year-over-year increase in profit. Furthermore, over 50% of our growth comes from our overseas business operations. 0.15%p ▼ 22% -0.005%p ▲ 5% Number of Patients Participated in Number of Patents Water Consumption Ratio of Women in the Management5) Make-Up Your Life Campaign6) In countries where our products are already introduced, a focus will be on enhancing our brand power. In Vietnam, Focusing on business activities 783 11.010 17.2% 1,048 Indonesia, and the Philippines, our major efforts will be on cases tons /100mil. KRW patients in global megacities expanding our market shares in key megacities. Through with over 10 million people increased business activities in Canada, we will work on ▲ 5% ▼ 22% -2.3%p ▼ 26% strengthening our brand awareness and expanding our Beautiful Journey of 70 Years 2) The above environment impact assessment excludes our operations in France, Jangwon (renamed as O’sulloc farm), Pacific Package | Rate of increase of decrease market shares in the North American market. 3) Tonne of Oil Equivalent (TOE): a unit of energy defined as the amount of energy released by burning one tonne of crude oil. from the previous year By expanding investment in R&D, we focused on 4) CO2 emission calculation methods are based upon the IPCC 2006 guideline ▲N% Increased Emphasis strengthening our distinctive brand value with innovative 5) Criteria for female senior leadership were updated in July 2015. As a result of title and seniority changes, female senior leadership includes only on R&D Capability products and services that cannot easily copy. those who hold positions more senior than team leaders. Previously, female senior leadership counted manager-level leaders. 6) Social contribution activities decreased as a result of MERS pandemic in 2015 2 Major Awards and Recognitions Sharing AMOREPACIFIC Group’s commitment to becoming a leading socially responsible and sustainable company Korea’s Most Listed in the Dow Jones Consistently Listed in Designation as one of the Top 30 East Asian Winner of Gold Tower Order creating our own unique beauty through non-compromising, top-quality products Loved Company Sustainability Index World FTSE4GOOD Index climate change response carbon Enterprises of Industrial Service Merit taking the lead on corporate citizenship activities Presidential Award for 6 Consecutive Years management sector winnersand (Korea International Trade excellent company in essential Associations and Ministry of and offering a great workplace, fostering collaboration and innovation. ※ Based on the award and incorporation statuses of AMOREPACIFIC consumer goods by CDP Korea Trade, Industry and Energy) 18 19 1. 70 Years of Journey Forum for a More On November 19, 2015, we convened the Forum for a More Beautiful Future with the theme of 2015 Communication Since 2011, we have been engaging in “strategic Communication with stakeholders” to integrate their Beautiful Future beautiful change transforming the world. We invited experts representing topics including consumer with Stakeholders various viewpoints into our core business activities. We have been convening one or two workshops per year advocacy, environmental sustainability, and social issues, and explored key ideas that will help the with experts from the field for stakeholder consultation, and in 2015, our workshop, attended by leaders group become a sustainable company and bring long-term value creation. from NGOs and academia, focused on “Safe Cosmetics Development and Transparent Communications”. Theme Development of Safe Products Attendees and Transparent Communications Jae-cheon Ryu(KIST professor), Ja-hye Kim(President of Consumers Korea), Jung-hwa Kang(President of Consumers Union of Korea), Soyoung Lee-Ahn (Policy Director of Korean Women’s Environmental Network), Yun-mi Jo(Co-President of Green Date September 14, 2015 Consumer Network), and Myung-kyu Lee (Vice President, Korea Cosmetic Association) Key Discussion Points Strengthening Given its significant impacts on society as a global brand, the AMOREPACIFIC's priority Customer Safety or should be to integrate a stronger safety process throughout all corporate activities to Developing further enhance consumer trust. Safe product standards must be based on customer Safe Cosmetics demand and should be vetted through third-party verification to enhance credibility. Public disclosure should focus on consumers’ easy access and understanding of the Transparent communication information. Towards this, smartphone access and online-based customized information on cosmetic information sharing mechanisms can be further strengthened. Integrating social and environmental concerns into safety processes will contribute to building a strong brand. Attendees Facilitator Participants Eun Namkung, Consumer field Yun-mi Cho, Co-representative of Green Consumer Professor, Myung-ji Network in Korea University Environment field San-ha Kim, Director of Biodiversity Foundation Communications By establishing effective communication channels for dialogue with various stakeholders related Social field Eon-oh Lee, Head of the Right Business management Lab with Stakeholders to corporate activities, we continued our efforts to improve communications. Based upon our Busienss Strategy field Yong-hu Park, Perspective Designer communication with stakeholders, the group analyzed the latest issues that various stakeholders Key Discussion Points cared about and set out key priority issues we would focus on to advance our corporate sustainability activities. These issues have been fully integrated into a range of corporate activities. Consumers Environment enhancing a value-based harmonious co-existence consumption and of nature and industry Target Communications Channel Notable Opinions Activities in Response empowering consumers ㆍCustomer consultation service satisfaction ㆍReinforce customer services ㆍImproved customer complaints and shared cases surveys and CGAP ㆍReinforce product safety through CGAP exhibiltion Customers a More Beautiful Future ㆍBeauty-Sumer activities ㆍExpand the sustainable products ㆍEstablished a technology roadmap and executed ㆍCorporate and brand websites and Social Networks relating tasks to develop sustainable products with the theme of beautiful change transforming the world ㆍEmployee satisfaction surveys ㆍSpread a positive corporate culture ㆍConducted the Gratitude Campaign Employees ㆍRegular labor-management consultation meetings ㆍProvide more opportunities for the build-up of ㆍPromoted the Career Market ㆍAMOREPACIFIC People(In-house online community) employees’ individual competency ㆍReinforced the SHE management ㆍStrengthen SHE management Society Business Strategy ㆍGeneral assembly for win-win relationships ㆍReinforce management support ㆍCollaboration research projects with partners conditions for beautiful and “Connecting the Dots, Business (for each business channel) ㆍCreate a culture that encourages mutual ㆍSupports financial aid for partners sustainable companies Changing Perspectives” Partners ㆍSeminars on win-win practices communication and active participation ㆍOperating regular communication channel ㆍOnline purchasing portal ㆍCorporate and brand social responsibility activities ㆍAssist women in gaining healthy beauty ㆍConducted the “makeup your life” Campaign Local ㆍSocial contribution portal ㆍAssist low-income women in entering ㆍConducted the Pink Ribbon Campaign Communities ㆍCultural Mecenat activities the workforce ㆍSupported the Heemang store Consumers In response to the growing number of value-based consumers, there is a need for a company-wide bold vision ㆍProvide support to the vulnerable population and strategies that put much more emphasis on enhanced transparency and accountability as a global brand. ㆍVisit relevant government agencies for meetings ㆍManufacture and sell safe, high-quality products ㆍMonitored and observed the relevant laws and regulations ㆍKorea Cosmetic Association (KCA) activities in compliance with regulations ㆍSuggested ideas for improvement through Environment Governments Human beauty is not mutually exclusive with the natural state of the ecosystem, and the group must continue its effort to ㆍProvide cooperation and support for regulatory the committee activities of relevant organizations preserve nature. improvement for industrial development ㆍSupported government policy research ㆍCommunication with external stakeholders ㆍProvide accurate information and encourage ㆍBuilt an assessment process for developing new product Society As harmony and co-existence are increasingly becoming a key business paradigm, corporate sustainability must be based External (academic and consumer organizations) sustainable consumption upon the vision of happiness and satisfaction for all members of society, and the company needs courage to pursue this vision. Experts ㆍForum for a More Beautiful Future ㆍTogether with customers, environment, and society, pursuing authentic beauty Based upon a deep understanding of the company’s core value and its surrounding business environments, there needs Business Strategy ㆍShared the mid and long-term business directions to be an effort to connect the dots amidst changing contexts. Instead of focusing on benchmarking, an emphasis should be on ㆍGeneral Shareholders meeting ㆍPresent management performance results and “future-marking” to lead innovation and new trends. ㆍIR Analyst Day business outlook ㆍProvided performance results and IR data Shareholders ㆍHeld the Analyst Day event ㆍExpand corporate access ㆍAttended global conferences 20 21 Towards the Vision of 2 a Great Global Brand Company Enriching the Quality of Life through Beauty Corporate Overview Over the past 70 years, AMOREPACIFIC Group has pursued an ambitious, bold vision to transform CEO Message the world through beauty. Reflecting Asian wisdom AP WAY Corporate Vision and philosophy about nature and human beings, Sustainability Management System our products have successfully attracted Asian women. Worldwide Business Now, we are moving onto the wider global stage to meet Financial Performance Governance Structure customers all around the world. As a Great Global Brand Risk Management company, we thrive on being a trusted beauty creator, Ethical Management enriching the fullness of life and expanding the endless potential that beauty creates in our lives. 2. Corporate Overview CEO Message First, we are implementing rigorous strategies designed to reduce our social and environmental footprint throughout the entire lifecycle of our products, from research and development to the end-user stage. As beauty maestros, we will continue to maximize the customers’ value and experience by continuing to launch highly competitive, innovative products reflecting the diverse preferences of our customers around the world, 70 Years of a journey to transform and we will offer differentiated shopping experiences through digital innovation and mobile applications. the world through beauty. Watch us. Second, in line with our commitment to protecting the planet, we are undertaking a range of activities to preserve nature and reduce the Our global ambition has just begun. environmental effects of our corporate activities. Specifically, in response to global environmental priorities such as climate change and water scarcity, we will emphasize reducing our greenhouse-gas emissions, optimizing water use, and systematically improving our environmental safety measures. To contribute to biodiversity, we will engage in activities to restore rare, indigenous plant species. Third, we are further strengthening our win-win partnership with employees and business partners from the start to the end of our supply chain. We have heightened our education and training standards to foster global talent and enhance the global professional competencies of our employees and management. We have rolled out programs to help create a great global company that respects work-life balance. In addition, to AMOREPACIFIC Group has been pursuing the path of beauty for the last 70 years to respond to customers’ high expectations of our products and ensure win-win growth with our business partners, we have expanded financial and educational support and have prepared a foundation upon services. Answering our vocation to be “Asian beauty creators”, we have made every effort to transform the world through beauty by sharing with which to promote open communication and active participation. customers and stakeholders those unique beauty products that our company is best at creating. In 2015, despite a global economic slowdown and an outbreak of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) which affected social and Fourth, as responsible corporate citizens, we are supporting various programs that enrich the lives of women and community groups. In particular, corporate activities in Korea, we continued to emphasize innovation, retail sales, and global expansion. As a result, we were able to celebrate our our corporate social-responsibility activities focused on women, natural ecosystems, and culture aim to integrate our emphasis on healthy beauty 70th anniversary closer than ever to reaching our dream of becoming a great global brand company. AMOREPACIFIC Group has journeyed with creating shared values with businesses and society worldwide. through a pond, a stream, and a river and is now at the confluence, from which we will set sail upon the great ocean. Our great journey across the ocean cannot be made alone and done hastily. Rather, we shall travel hand-in-hand with others to endure and complete our far-reaching journey. Finally, as global citizens, we support the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact regarding human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, and we are putting every effort into fully integrating these principles into our corporate strategies and operations. That is why we are committed to fulfilling our responsibilities as an ethical corporate citizen. Throughout the year, AMOREPACIFIC Group has Our sustainable business practices reflect our commitment and grand vision to bring about a happier today and a more beautiful tomorrow for undertaken the following activities for our employees, customers, stakeholders, the environment, and society. our customers and stakeholders. We have just begun the 70th year of our journey to transform the world through beauty. We thank you all for showing your support during our journey, and we count on your continued interest and engagement. April, 2016 Kyung-bae Suh, Chairman & CEO of AMOREPACIFIC Group 24 25 2. Corporate Overview AP WAY Corporate Vision Vision 2020 In 2013, we set forth our Vision 2020 of becoming a 'Great Global Brand Company' and three strategic AP WAY is the overarching principles of our corporate ethics, Being a Great directions towards the vision. Based on the three directions, we dedicate our efforts to rise as a global embracing our ambitious vision of changing the world with beauty. Global Brand Company company that changes th world into a more beautiful and healthier place. Accordingly, to create a platform for sustainable growth, AMOREPACIFIC Group is consistantly trying to develop its future The AP WAY consists of our company’s vocation, core values, and credo. growth engines through global expansion, technological innovation and development of products that satisfy customer needs. We also wish to be considered a company who is fully committed to serving its Our Vocation The ultimate goal of AMOREPACIFIC Group is to create a ‘True Beauty’ that embraces a perfect corporate social responsibility by minimizing the environmental impact and engaging in stakeholderharmony of inner and outer beauty, thereby accomplishing our humanity's everlasting dream of living a centered management practices. beautiful and healthy life. Our Values AMOREPACIFIC Group take five 'core values' as the standards of righteous behaviors and ethical decision-making. I’m not the only one who is right. GR E AT GL O B A L Openness Others are just as right as I am. · Good to 'Great Company' · 50% contribution to total sales · Leading global beauty company by overseas sales As we begin 2016, · Achieving ‘qualitative growth’ · Expansion into emerging markets we are currently drawing a mid-term · Reinforced global HR competency roadmap of our Vision 2020 journey, Integrity I am willing to treat anything with a genuine heart, which will help us become the number V ISIO N as if it were mine or my family’s. one Asian beauty care company 2020 by 2020 by following three branding and channeling strategies below. Innovation I change myself by opening up myself. B R A N D C O M PA N Y · Transforming into brand company · Nurturing of the top five global champion brands · Brand innovation from customers’ I will always stay close to our customers, Proximity perspective both mentally and physically. Challenge I strive to fight against my status quo. GREAT GLOBAL BRAND Supporting key innovation drivers that will significantly affect Focusing global champion brand portfolios overall company growth, and establishing the foundation for on premium and masstige markets qualitative growth by innovating a profit-management structure Our Credo Our credo is the song that we sing together as we live by our vocation and walk the way with our Focusing on expanding our business activities Creating high value in traditional marketing channels values. Trough our credo, we determine ‘Why’ we work, ‘What’ we work for and, ‘How’ we work. We from a domestic market to global markets and accelerating new channels Innovating an overall cost structure by optimizing the sing our credo altogether to encourage each other that we, as the Asian Beauty Creator, can change the profit-management system, especially cost, selling Becoming the largest channel by 2020 through an evolved Omni and administrative costs, and investment customer experience and accelerated global digital growth world with beauty. 26 27 2. Corporate Overview Strategic directions Sustainability Management System Good Product Good for Planet Good Relationship Good Citizenship Sustainable Business AMOREPACIFIC group seeks to create a beautiful world in which nature, people, and businesses Customer Environment Employees & Partners Social Contribution Practices Vision and Strategy co-exist in harmony. Through our sustainability-management activities under the four strategic ㆍReinforcing product safety ㆍMinimizing environmental impact ㆍPursuing HR development and ㆍFulfilling social responsibility as a directions, customers, environment, employees and business partners, and social contribution, we ㆍCreating growth opportunities throughout the entire value chain balance between work and corporate citizen through strategic aim to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities and achieve business growth at the same time. Each through sustainable research to improve economic and ecological personal life social contribution activities year, we identify and implement new activities and related targets in each priority area and disclose and innovation efficiency(eco-efficiency) ㆍEstablishing fair and long-term our performance results publicly in a transparent manner. In 2015, we implemented 26 corporate partnerships sustainability-management activities while strengthening our sustainable business practices through Major activities in 2015 organic collaboration among all departments involved. This report AMOREPACIFIC Group Corporate Sustainability Report attempts to provide reliable information to all stakeholders interested in Enhancement of corporate Reinforcement of SHE Reinforcement of the corporate-sustainability activities of our company and affiliates. Through these efforts, we capacity to produce Creating shared value management external partnerships communicate our corporate-sustainability values to a range of stakeholders. sustainable products ㆍEstablished sustainable technology ㆍEstablished SHE1) systems ㆍReinforced win-win ㆍRe-established the corporate social roadmap at production plants and relationships with production contribution system ㆍDeveloped sustainable packaging non-manufacturing establishments and business partners ㆍSet the direction for the social contribution strategies of the brands 1) SHE : Safe, Health, Environment Sustainable Management The Sustainability Management Committee, which is our top decision-making body, is responsible Committee Organizational for strategic decisions on sustainability management and for reviewing our key activities. In 2015, the Customer Structure committee convened three meetings. As part of efforts to enhance the effectiveness of sustainability management, the committee measured the performance of the initiatives under each strategic area using an evaluation index. Executives received monetary rewards according to the performance results. CEO Beauty for Good ㆍComprised of the executives of AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Management Asian Beauty Creator, ㆍFinal decision-makers in regard to sustainability Committee management issues changing the world with beauty Social Contribution Environment ㆍSustainability Management Coordinator Sustainability ㆍEstablishes sustainability management strategies Management Team and discover potential projects Working Group Sustainable Technology, Mutual Growth, SHE Social Contribution Eco-friendly Consumption Beautiful Purchase ㆍOperation of working groups: Sustainable Technology, Eco-friendly Consumption, Employees & Partners SHE, Mutual Growth,Beautiful Purchase, and Social Contribution ㆍImplement sustainability management and derive projects for each job position 28 29 2. Corporate Overview Changing the World Founded in 1945 as Pacific Chemical Company, AMOREPACIFIC Group, together with its subsidiary with Beauty companies -AMOREPACIFIC, innisfree, ETUDE, AMOS professional, AESTURA, O'sulloc farm and etc. are sincerely commited to spreading the value of Asian Beauty worldwide through our diverse global brand portfolio of beauty products. The company aspires to be a leading global beauty brand that Worldwide Business contributes to the beauty and health of our customers worldwide by promoting the value of natural beauty derived from the traditional Asian philosphy and wisdom. Employees (Number of Persons) History of Global Expansion by Brand Sales (Billion KRW) Korea 6,549 employees 4,441.1 bil. KRW in sales 2002 Hong Kong 2003 China Europe 206 employees 2004 Hong Kong U.S. Singapore 50.5 bil. KRW in sales Norh America 77 employees Canada New Zealand 48.5 bil. KRW in sales 2005 Vietnam China 2006 Taiwan Malaysia China 7,786 employees 2007 Thailand Thailand 765.8 bil. KRW in sales 2008 Brunei Indonesia Malaysia 2009 Vietnam 1,809 employees 2010 U.S. Philippines Myanmar Other Asian countries Taiwan Philippines 355.4 bil. KRW in sales 2011 China Japan Brunei 2012 Taiwan China Singapore Singapore Hong Kong Thailand ㆍNumber of employees at China office incl. 2013 Malaysia Indonesia Thailand Hong Kong China indirectly hired employees Vietnam India ㆍThe sales figures are based on the consolidated Indonesia Singapore financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC Group 2014 Taiwan Malaysia 1) JANGWON was renamed on March 7, 2016 as O'sullc farm 2015 Thailand 30 31 2. Corporate Overview AmorePacific AMOREPACIFIC Group Domestic Sales 1) Luxury Businesses (door-to-door sales, department stores, travel retail) Sulwhasoo and HERA increased brand visibility and appeal through product upgrades and improved Financial Performance 4,441.1 bil. KRW digital-marketing content. Also, brand competitiveness increased as a result of new products in male cosmetics and lip products. Primera and VB (VITALBEAUTIE) generated new customer demand by ▲14.4% launching innovative items in the baby-product and health-food categories, respectively. The door-toyear-over-year growth door channel continued its growth as a result of products meeting customer needs, systematic service Key Financial In 2015, the Korean economy experienced some difficulties resulting from a decrease in consumer through smart-phone applications, and enhanced beauty-counselor capacity. In department stores, we Performance Figures spending caused by an outbreak of MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome). Nonetheless, thanks to Percentage of AMOREPACIFIC Group’s strengthened our competitiveness through offering differentiated brand experiences through highly our differentiated products and services, we are pleased to report solid growth in 2015. We recorded Domestic Sales attentive service. For travel retail, in the third quarter, we experienced a slight decrease in growth 5,661.2 billion KRW in sales (20.1 percent year-over-year growth) and 913.6 billion KRW in operating rates due to the MERS outbreak, but then experienced strong recovery later in the year on the back of profits (38.6 percent year-over-year growth). Our domestic business continued its growth with increased number of foreign tourists visited Korea. We also expanded our travel retail business in other stronger brand equity and channel competitiveness. Travel retail channel negatively affected by the outbreak of MERS was recovered later in the year as a result of increased spending of foreign tourists 78.4% countries to set a foundation for sustained growth. AMOREPACIFIC GROUP SALES visiting Korea, and we achieved qualitative growth in door-to-door sales as a result of an emphasis 2) Premium Businesses (ARITAUM, digital, discount stores) 5,661.2 bil. KRW on innovation and counseling capacity building. Our overseas sales portion grew to 21.6 percent as a result of a strengthened brand portfolio and increased customer access. We are pleased with our strong IOPE opened a cushion pop-up store, offering our customers the opportunity to experience various cushion products. LANEIGE reinforced its young-premium image by collaborating with a fashion performance especially in China and other Asian markets. ▲20.1% brand while Mamonde enhanced its brand identity through SNS communication and its flower-garden year-over-year growth campaign. ARITAUM expanded O2O service through mobile platforms and offered a new shopping AMOREPACIFIC Group (Unit: billion KRW)1) experience that is highly convenient for customers through the Omni channel pilot store. The digital AMOREPACIFIC GROUP Sales Operating profit Net profit OPERATING PROFITS 56,612 channel provided a foundation for qualitative growth. In home shopping, we strove to increase brand 47,119 competitiveness by increasing the number of categories of products. In e-commerce, we focused on 913.6 bil. KRW 38,954 systematic improvement to strengthen transparency of distribution orders, diversification of online sales platforms and functionality enhancement 9,136 ▲38.6% 6,591 4,974 6,739 year-over-year growth 4,698 3) Personal Care Products and Green Tea (Mass Cosmetic & O'sulloc) Businesses 3,550 Our mass cosmetic business maintained solid growth in sales of functional products across all AMOREPACIFIC SALES categories, ranging from hair and body care to oral care. We diversified our channel portfolio by 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 4,766.7 bil. KRW AMOREPACIFIC (Unit: billion KRW)2) launching exclusive products for convenience stores, travel retail, and wholesale markets, resulting in increased revenue portion from these new channels. By increasing premium products and widening sales channels we enhanced our brand awareness and strengthened our product leadership. ▲23.0% Sales Operating profit Net profit We withdrew our green tea products from all hypermarket distribution channels. Instead, we focused year-over-year growth 47,667 on positioning O'sulloc as a premium product by enhancing brand experience and expanding high38,740 AMOREPACIFIC OPERATING PROFITS value product lines. We are particularly pleased with our achievement in winning first, second, and 31,004 7,729 third places in the 2015 North American Tea Championship’s Pan Fried Tea category, which enabled us 772.9 bil. KRW 3,698 5,638 2,674 3,851 5,848 to spread the excellence in quality of Korean teas. ▲37.1% innisfree year-over-year growth 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 innisfree accomplished strong sales growth based on differentiated brand power. In addition to existing Domestic Business Activities In 2015, despite an economic downturn and decreased customer spending, the luxury and premium popular line products, successful launches of new products including Jeju Mineral Line and Ginger Oil cosmetic market experienced increased demand and sales growth in both skincare and makeup Line have led to stable sales growth and increased market share in domestic brand stores. In China products. In addition, door-to-door segment regained strength and department stores recovered from and other Asian markets, innisfree experienced increased brand awareness, which has led to growth in the negative growth trend. With customers of all ages wanting to enjoy diverse brands and experience exports and travel retail sales. 1) Calculated based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC Group. purchasing through various channels, differentiated branding and having diversified sales channels became even more important. As we have successfully adapted to market trends, our domestic business 2) Calculated based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC. recorded 4,411 billion KRW in sales, which represents 14.4 percent year-over-year growth. 32 33 2. Corporate Overview ETUDE To increase brand attraction, ETUDE has expanded investment in store renovations, major product-line upgrades and digital communications. To strengthen brand competitiveness, we reorganized existing Governance Structure distribution channels, which led to a decrease in stores, and as a result sales and profits decreased. eSpoir Transparent To ensure a transparent governance structure and concentrate our core capacity in the fields of beauty and health, we are After being spun off and becoming an independent affiliate, eSpoir focused on positioning itself as a Governance Structure operating a deliberative corporate-governance structure in our holding company and a responsible management system professional makeup brand. By opening new stores, it increased customer access, and it undertook a for each business. Based on this system, we continually reinforce our competency and expertise of beauty and healthcare range of activities through digital media communications to increase brand awareness. As a result, it businesses which include cosmetics, personal care and healthcare products. In addition, we enhance our corporate value by experienced solid growth accompanied by improved profit. promoting our stock value and dispersing management risks through improvement of our corporate-governance structure, thereby continually increasing stakeholder benefit. AESTURA Since AESTURA sold its pharmaceutical business unit, it has concentrated on its medical beauty Board of Directors To ensure efficient management, the AMOREPACIFIC Group Board of Directors (BOD) deliberates on key management businesses to position it as a specialized medical beauty company. The increased sales of its main issues. In 2015, a total of 6 Board meetings were convened. Public announcements made through the Financial Supervisory products such as CLEVIEL and ARTEFILL and ATOBARRIER helped the company grow. Service and the Korea Exchange informed stakeholders of the important decisions made at these meetings. Overseas Business We diversified our brand portfolio by enhancing five global champion brands and introducing our next BOD Composition The BOD has authority as the top decision-making body for our organization. As of the end of March 2016, the BOD Performance global brands and strengthened marketing activities. As a result, we experienced solid growth, which and Authority comprises of 6 registered members, including 3 executive directors and 3 non-executive directors (NEDs). Each director on the Board is obligated to faithfully exercise their duties and fulfill their responsibilities as a good manager based on the resulted in overseas sales of 1,220.1 billion KRW, which represents 47.2 percent year-over-year growth. Commercial Act of Korea and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, striving to promote the interests of shareholders Asian Markets and other stakeholders. Each of the executive and NEDs was nominated by the Board from among those with abundant In China, we experienced strong profitable growth. In particular, innisfree and Sulwhasoo delivered strong store expertise and experience in their respective fields and was approved by the shareholders at a general shareholders’ meeting sales growth, thanks to the increased demand for its hit products. Through differentiated marketing contents, before appointment as a director. The Board guarantees the independence of NEDs, which allows active presentation of LANEIGE positioned itself firmly as a leading K-beauty brand and continued its growth trend. Mamonde opinions during all Board meeting discussions, so as to contribute to the decision-making process. improved brand awareness through store renewal and expanded commercial advertising and increased its store productivity. IOPE and RYO made a significant effort to enter the premium cosmetic market and hair-care AMOREPACIFIC Group product market, respectively. In other Asian countries, our brands experienced strong growth. innisfree opened Board of Directors As of March 2016 new stores in existing ASEAN markets, and to strengthen its brand awareness, it opened its first store in Thailand. Domestic Treasury stock Category Name Position/Affiliation Major responsibility In Japan, as a result of reorganizing a distribution channel, we experienced a decrease in sales. However, we individuals 6.3% AMOREPACIFIC Group’s Overseas Sales paved the way for qualitative growth with increased sales of ETUDE through online and existing stores. Executive directors Kyung-bae Suh Dong-hyun Bae CEO, Chairman of BOD President Supervision of management Supervision of management 2.9% 1,220.1 bil. KRW Seung-hwan Kim Executive Vice President Strategies Domestic North America and Europe Markets NonDong-youb Shin Professor of Business Overall business management institutions Major Shareholders In the U.S., as a result of increased sales in all distribution channels, we achieved high sales and executive Administration,Yonsei University 16.3% As the end of directors Woo-young Lee Former president Overall business management December 2015 Major shareholders ▲47.2% improved profitability. Through increased awareness as a luxury brand, AMOREPACIFIC launched a Ok-sub Lee of PACIFIC PHARMA Vice President of Bioland Co., Ltd Overall business management Foreigners and affiliate persons year-over-year growth store in Bloomingdale’s. ARITAUM shops continually grew, by increasing sales of major brands and 14.7% 59.9% successfully launching new products. LANEIGE achieved solid qualitative growth by expanding its Percentage of AMOREPACIFIC Group’s AMOREPACIFIC distribution channels and entering new market. In France, overall sales decreased as a result of the Overseas Sales Board of Directors As of March 2016 weakened domestic market and Euro exchange rate. Category Name Position/Affiliation Major responsibility Executive Kyung-bae Suh CEO, Chairman of BOD Supervision of management AMOREPACIFIC Group Global Sales by Region (Unit: billion KRW)1) directors Sang-bae Shim President Supervision of management Domestic Treasury stock Sang-mok Lee Executive Vice President Supervision of China Asia(excl. China) Europe North America individuals 0.1% 21.6% management support 7,658 3.0% NonEon-oh Lee President of Proper Audit Committee member executive ManagementResearch Institute Domestic institutions 3,554 directors Eun Namkung Professor of Environment Audit Committee member Major Shareholders 4,649 and Energy Engineering, 19.0% 2,651 Myongji University As the end of 3,365 December 2015 Major shareholders Seong-su Kim Professor of Business Overall business management Foreigners and affiliate persons Administration, 1,053 742 640 Seoul National University 33.4% 44.5% 1) Calculated based on the consolidated financial 505 349 485 235 Dong-won Park Former ambassador to Paraguay Overall business management statements of AMOREPACIFIC Group. Young-ho Eom Professor of Business Audit Committee member 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Administration, Yonsei University 34 35 2. Corporate Overview Top Management Risk Management 1 Establishing a Comprehensive AMOREPACIFIC Group established an effective risk-management system designed to promptly to and Preemptive Risk Mitigation respond to various kinds of changes in management environment casued by unexpected economic and Management System or political circumstances as well as expansion of global business and increasing complexity within the organization. The Risk-Management Committee, primarily comprising the members of top management, sets out mitigation strategies to manage key risks effectively. Group risks are managed 2 by subcommittees for each type of risk and project, and their statuses are monitored regularly. Risk Management Organizational Structure CEO 3 Risk Management Committee Risk Management Secretariat 4 Sub-Committees for Key Issues Key Issue Task Force Issue Related Strategies China Risk Quality Control Committee Global Intellectual Property Violation 5 SHE Sub-Committee From left 1 Kyung-bae Suh Chairman & CEO, AMOREPACIFIC Group Mutual Growth Sub-Committee Dong-hyun Bae President, AMOREPACIFIC Group Sang-bae Shim President, AMOREPACIFIC Young-chul Son Auditor General, AMOREPACIFIC Group Risk Classification Process After analyzing internal and external business environments that affect our business activities, the 2 Jae-cheon Yoo Executive Vice President, Luxury BU, AMOREPACIFIC Young-soo Kim Executive Vice President Premium BU, AMOREPACIFIC company categorized 94 major risks by their importance and severity. In particular, the top 14 risks, Chan-hoi Kim Executive Vice President Mass BU, AMOREPACIFIC which fall into 6 categories, are being mitigated and monitored by the group’s Risk-Management Jae-wan Shim Executive Vice President, New Growth BU, AMOREPACIFIC Committee. 3 Min-jeon Rhee Executive Vice President, Marketing Strategies Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Byeong-do Kang Executive Vice President, SCM Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Sang-hoon Han Sang-mok Lee Executive Vice President, R&D Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Executive Vice President Corporate Support Unit, AMOREPACIFIC 1 2 3 4 Preliminary Prioritizing 4 Seung-hwan Kim Executive Vice President, Strategy Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Group Identifying Risks 2nd Risk Assessment 1st Risk Assessment Company-Wide Risks Hyung-kwon Jung Executive Vice President, HR Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Group Jung-ho Kim Executive Vice President, PR Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Group Sae-hong Ahn CEO of innisfree ㆍGroup Management Policies Company-Wide Risk Assessing Risks based upon Company-Wide Risks are ㆍExternal and Internal Identifications probability, impacts, and finalized and prioritized for 5 Guem-joo Kwon CEO of ETUDE Issues and Trends response capabilities monitoring and implementation Ji-youn Lee CEO of eSpoir Dong-hee Hwang Woon-sup Lim CEO of AMOS Professional CEO of AESTURA 94 14 6 Jin-ho Lee CEO of O'sulloc farm 36 37 2. Corporate Overview Key Activities for Risk Mitigation Ethical Management Category Context & Impact Key Risk Mitigation/Management Activities 2015 Since announcement of the Ethical Management Policy in 2003, the group has continuously Ethical Management maintained ethical practices to deliver on its promises and promote ethical corporate culture 1 ㆍDifficulties in responding to rapid changes of economic, social and regulartory circumstances in China Activities throughout the corporate ecosystem. Our corporate ethics are based on honesty, one of the five core ㆍRegular monitoring of relevant risks by CRMC China Risks ㆍQuarterly Chinese Intelligence Session to rapidly values of the AP WAY. As the code of conduct for all group members, the AP Way provides intellectual respond to changing contexts and behavioral guidance on our journey of beauty. Campaigns and Education We have undertaken a range of campaigns and educational activities, outlined below, to ensure that and Training management practices throughout the company are ethical. 2 ㆍIncreased public attention to the company, partly due to the recent surge in the company's share value ㆍStrengthening crisis communication strategies, PR Risks including proactive monitoring and timely responses No Gift Giving, No Gift ㆍOfficial communication to staff, management, business partners, and suppliers ㆍIncreased PR scope due to the compnay's fast business growth ㆍCommittees focusing on various topics both in Korea ㆍHigher risk for the spread of negative news due to the rise of Receiving Campaign ㆍReturn of gifts sent by external stakeholders or donation to charity groups and overseas markets in relation to PR activities SNS channels ㆍRegular sharing of examples of unethical management to team leaders and middle manager Ethical Management ㆍRegular newsletters focused on preventing sexual harassment and preventing/avoiding Newsletters conflicts of interest 3 ㆍControversy related to certain products’ expiration date ㆍReview of absolute quality control and product ㆍ1,100 employees in AMOREPACIFIC China took the course in Chinese management standards Integrity Product Management ㆍIncreased awareness of harmful ingredients ㆍTimely response mechanism to respond to any issues ㆍSharing ethical dilemmas based upon real-life, practical examples to improve our ability Online Education Program: Risks such as phthalates and increased interest related to product quality control, including raw to respond to challenging situations AP Ethics Expedition, in paraben-free products materials, products, and packaging ㆍ4,300 staff and employees received training, including 1,100 staff and management in Season 3 Chinese branches (in progress for Chinese contents). ㆍAMOREPACIFIC Ethical Management Education offered to new employees and existing 4 ㆍIncreasing fake products and unauthorized use of labels and brand images in the global market are damaging ㆍIntellectual Property Risk Mitigation Strategies Employees Training staff members twice a year in key overseas markets including China Intellectual Property the image of the Group ㆍMonitoring the circulation/distribution of fake Violation Risks products in collaboration with IP organizations both in Korea and overseas markets Employee Ethics Pledge All employees are required to sign an ethics pledge online annually as part of our efforts to raise awareness of ethics based on our value of honesty. Beginning in 2014, employees of our offices in China, Hong Kong, and the U.S. joined this effort. We aim to abide by local laws and social norms and ㆍConduct a rigorous SHE audit of our Chinese operation 5 ㆍIncreased importance of managing SHE standards in overseas operation/manufacturing sites sites, and implementing recommendations to fulfill our social responsibilities while contributing to creating a beautiful and healthy society. Global SHE Risks ㆍImprove the group’s emergency response strategies, as a result of expanded global activities including public health crisis and terrorism Business Partners Our company convened a workshop in December 2015 on ethical management using design content ㆍSHE Committee to proactively monitor Ethical Management provided by business partners. In this workshop, we shared our ethical code of conduct and case studies and and respond related risks learned about challenges that small companies face when implementing ethical-management practices. Ethics-Management Website Since 2014, we have a website (ethics.amorepacific.com) dedicated to ethical management, which 6 ㆍMutually beneficial win-win growth through partnerships ㆍVoluntary compliance with fair business activities offers guidance on ethical dilemmas. In addition, through a mobile homepage and hotlines, we provide and undertaking activities supporting mutual growth ethics.amorepacific.com Mutual Growth Risks ㆍPrevention of unfair business activities an easy, confidential way for our employees, business partners, and stakeholders to raise concerns and ㆍRegular communications and internal training with sales partners report wrongdoing. Business Staff, 2015 Ethical Management Suppliers Customers Others Total Partners Management Report Statistics 11 9 9 7 8 44 (Number of Reported Case) 38 39 3 Faster Alone but, Further Together Let's Work Together to move further Toward a Sustainable Tomorrow 2015 Highlight AMOREPACIFIC Group never wants to starts this journey alone. We want all of our customers, employees and partners to be Materiality Analysis involved in this journey so that we can go further altogether. Global Growth We are committed to building a sustainable society with all of Leading Innovation and Digitalization in Beauty Sustainable Products and Value Based Consumption our partners. That is why we identified key material issues based Mutual Growth with partners on stakeholder interest. AMOREPACIFIC Group selected 5 material Social Contribution and Local Community Engagement issues affecting sustainability management based on their business impacts and our stakeholders’ interest. We will undertake multi-faceted management activities focusing on theses 5 material issues, including Global Growth, Leading Innovation and Digitalization in Beauty, Sustainable Products and Value-Based Consumption, Mutual Growth with partners, Social Contribution and Local Community Engagement. 3. 2015 Highlight Results of the Materiality Analysis HIGH 1 2 Business impact 4 Materiality Analysis 3 5 18 11 28 21 19 Materiality Analysis 26 9 8 1 Process Selection of external and internal issue pools 23 29 Collecting issues related to sustainability 14 10 management on top of the existing issues, 13 22 17 Selection of external across all the affiliates of AMOREPACIFIC 12 27 and internal issue pools Group 25 6 24 20 16 7 15 2 Benchmarking companies in the same industry Media analysis Analyzing the sustainability management Articles regarding the sustainability management reports and related practices of the industry’s Level of stakeholders’ interest HIGH practices of AMOREPACIFIC Group were retrieved leading companies Analysis through media research and classified into their of external issues respective categories. Analysis of global guidelines Issues Five Material Issues Analyzing GRI G4(international guideline for sustainability reports), ISO 26000 and the inquiries 1 Digital Era Response and R&D Innovation 3 of external evaluation institutions(DJSI, etc.) Analysis of internal sustainability 2 Global Growth management strategies 3 Mutual Growth with Partners Analyzing the agendas discussed at major management 4 Development of Sustainable Products meetings, CEO Messages, issues introduced at the Analysis 5 Mutual Growth with Local Communities Sustainability Management Committee meetings of internal issues 6 Transparency of Corporate Governance 2 1 4 and internal strategic issues 7 Ethical Management Global Growth Leading Innovation and Sustainable Products and 8 Risk Management Digitalization in Beauty Value-Based Consumption 4 9 Expansion of Communication Customers, Employees, Business Partners, Customers, Employees, Customers, Employees, Local Communities, Priority ranking with Stakeholders Local Communities, and Shareholders Business Partners, Shareholders Governments, and Experts Ranking priorities among 29 issues according 10 Full Integration of Sustainable to the level of stakeholders’ interest and their Management throughout Companies potential business impact Priority ranking 11 Brand Management 12 Green Marketing (Green Communication) 13 Sustainable Water Stewardship 3 5 5 14 Sustainable Packaging Innovation 15 Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Mutual Growth with Partners Social Contribution and Priority Local Community Engagement 16 Enhancing SHE Management Selecting five material issues Selection based on the results 17 Protecting Biodiversity Business partners, customers Customers, Local Communities of Material Issues 18 Customer Satisfaction Activities 19 Human Capital Development 20 Labour and Management Relations 21 Work-Life Balance 22 Protection of Privacy Information 23 Alternative Methods to Animal Testing 24 Human Rights Management We selected key materiality issues based on stakeholder interests and business impacts, and we reported our 25 Employees Diversity After identifying 29 issues based upon our internal materiality analysis process, we ranked each of 26 Expansion of Corporate Culture – AP Culture progress against these criteria. We are undertaking a 5-step process to identify highly relevant material issues, them according to their impacts on our business and interest of our stakeholders. In this report, we 27 Economic Value Creation including issue identification, external business trends analysis, internal business trends analysis, prioritizations, decided to focus on the following five themes more in depth: Global Growth, Leading Innovation and 28 Expansion of Sustainable Consumption and selecting priority topics that are most materially relevant to our businesses. The outcomes of this exercise are 29 Responsible Marketing Digitalization in Beauty, Sustainable Products and Value-Based Consumption, Mutual Growth with integrated into all of our business activities and shared internally and externally. partners, Social Contribution and Local Community Engagement. 42 43 3. 2015 Highlight Our Approach AMOREPACIFIC Group is leading the Asian cosmetics market by introducing its unique and ingenious Accelerating Global Growth products that embrace the beauty of Asia. Our goal is to step up our presence beyond the Asia and Through 5 Global Champion Brands become a global beauty company. Our 2020 Vision calls us to share the values of Asian beauty internationally and become a global brand that helps transform the world through Our Strategy beauty. Our 5 champion brands Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree, and ETUDE spearhead our global ambition and drive our qualitative AMOREPACIFIC Group announced our vision of “Great Global Brand Company” in 2013, growth. and shared our ambition of becoming the No. 1 cosmetic company in Asia and ranking in the top 4 in the world by 2020. To fulfil our vision, we are actively introducing diverse Sulwhasoo Sulwhasoo achieved a notable growth in both domestic and overseas markets including duty-free brands and innovative products, and expanding our presence in new markets. channels, largely thanks to product upgrade for its signature products such as ‘First Care Activating Serum EX’ and ‘Timetresure EX’ Line and, the ‘Perfecting Cushion Brightening’ which was newly launched this year. We opened more shops in our major overseas markets, including our 100th Our Achievements global store in the capital city of Singapore which was also our first free-standing store in ASEAN ㆍSulhwasoo, 1 trillion KRW in sales region. Through more efforts to emphasize its brand identity in product design and commercial ㆍLANEIGE, now purchasable at Sephora in Canada advertisements, Sulwhasoo recorded a sales of 1 trillion KRW for the first time in Korea as a single ㆍMamonde, increase of sales by 12 per cent in the Chinese markets compared to the previous year cosmetic brand. ㆍinnisfree, branches out into Thailand ㆍETUDE, opens the first road shop in Japan Sulwhasoo Total Global Sales 1,000 billion KRW Sulwhasoo sales in overseas markets ▲ 130% Our Plan Sales of First Care Activating Serum EX a signature product 158.8 billion KRW | ▲ 43% We endeavor to continue strengthening our foothold in the global market, and become a global leading cosmetic company with overseas sales contributing more than 50 % of our total sales volume by 2020. 1 Global Growth 100th Global Flagship Store in Singapore 44 45 3. 2015 Highlight LANEIGE LANEIGE achieved a steady sales growth thanks to the expansion of retail distribution channels, entry innisfree innisfree continues to grow by leaps and bounds thanks to strong demand from overseas markets and into new markets and product upgrade for its signature products like ‘Water Sleeping Mask’ and sales increase in duty-free channels. The continued popularity of its signature products and successful lipsticks. This year, LANEIGE began offering its products in Canada through 57 SEPHORA stores across launch of new items, such as ‘Jeju Sparkling Mineral’ line and ‘Ginger Oil’ line, have significantly improved the country. Meanwhile in China, it was the third best-selling brand on the ‘Single's Day’ with a record the innisfree’s brand power. In order to position the brand as the world’s No 1. naturalism-oriented online sales of 9.25 KRW. After successfully launching our innovative “Two-Tone Lip Bar,” 72,000 cosmetic brand, innisfree has made a lot of efforts to expand its business in global markets. For example, were sold for a total of 11 billion KRW in sales. From July to September in 2015, through our 2-month we opened 3 stores in the largest retail areas of Thailand the largest ASEAN market for health and “LANEIGE Beauty Roadshow,” we shared our products with customers in 7 cities from 4 countries. beauty care products. In Shanghai, we opened the largest brand flagship store “innisfree Flagship Store in Shanghai”, and our growth in China has been steady since we introduced our brand in China in 2012. LANEIGE sales in overseas markets ▲ 16% LANEIGE Two-Tone Lip Bar Sales 11.0 billion KRW | 720,000 products innisfree sales in overseas markets ▲ 143% Opening of the largest innisfree flagship store in Shanghai Beauty Road Show innisfree flagship store Shanghai Mamonde Marking a 12% year-on-year sales increase while sales per store also increased thanks to reorganization ETUDE ETUDE is constantly expanding its business focused on opening more shops in major shopping districts of retail. During our 10th year in China, we exceeded our sales target of 2.6 billion KRW on ‘Single’s of Asian countries. On, Nov, 2015, ETUDE opened its first western provincial flagship store in Chengu Day’ and achieved 3 billion KRW in sales. To firmly establish our identity as a flower-based cosmetic City’s Chunxi area in China and increased online customer contact points to improve distribution brand, we showcased a Mamonde garden at the 2015 K-Beauty Show in China and hosted a number of coverage in the country. As a result, we witnessed a notable growth, with 29.6 billion KRW in sales different events, including BB Cushion and beauty classes. a 174% increase from the previous year. In August 2015, we opened our first road shop in Harajuku Takeshita Street, a fashion and beauty center of Japan. Instead of focusing on shopping mall sales, we Mamonde Sales in China ▲ 12% | 153.3 billion KRW planned to increase brand awareness by meeting customers through road shops. ETUDE sales in overseas markets ▲ 27% Opening of the First Road Shop in Harajuku District, Tokyo 2015 K-beauty show in China ‘Mamode Garden’ ETUDE Flagship Store 46 47 Our Approach Establishing Digital technology is affecting many aspects of cosmetic industry by improving customers experience to be more comfortable and convenient. By offering differentiated service and experience to our Next Global Brands customers through the latest digital technologies, we want to become a digital leader of the beauty industry. AMOREPACIFIC Group focused on expanding the overseas business activities of “next generation global champion brands” such as IOPE, HERA, RYO, VB (VITALBEAUTIE) to continue our successful momentum toward global growth. Especially, we have undertaken a range of activities to Our Strategy strengthening the brand awareness of IOPE, HERA, and RYO in the global markets. We are expanding digital communication channels and online customer services which enable our customers to try our products virtually to assist their shopping experience. To meet customers’ IOPE On 5 May 2015, at Beijing Today Art Museum, IOPE held an official opening-day press conference and announced the “Genius Forum,” consisting of Chinese and Korean researchers focusing on Asian new needs, we are enhancing singularity-focused innovative products and their sales strategies. women’s skin conditions. Beginning with our first global store in the Hankwang Department Store in Beijing on 12 June 2015, we opened 10 locations in department stores throughout China until March Our Achievements 2016. Super Vital Cream (16 billion KRW in sales) and Retinol (8.5 billion KRW in sales) contributed ㆍLANEIGE, Beauty Mirror App: 93,897 downloads significantly to the growth of anti-aging cosmetic products in Korea. We reinforced our leadership in ㆍOpening of ARITAUM “Omni” Stores the cushion make-up market by enhancing onand off-line marketing and customer contact points, ㆍAir Cushion Sales (cumulative figure until 2015) 80,000,000 (products) including the release of a digital Air Cushion commercial and opening the world’s first “Cushion PopㆍPioneering a new growth category through Primera Baby Sun Cushion Up Store”. ㆍHERA Squeeze Mascara Named as Gold Winner of the DuPont Awards for Packaging Innovation Our Plan AMOREPACIFIC Group will strengthen our global e-commerce competitiveness using “omni-channel” marketing, combining online services with off-line benefits, and innovating digital and mobile communications through tech-infused gadgets. IOPE's China Launch Event HERA HERA began its global venture with the opening of its first pop-up store in Hong Kong the largest cosmetic market in Asia. We piloted pop-up stores in 4 DFS locations Hong Kong’s largest duty-free shop managed 2 by LVMH. Tracking these achievements, we developed an entry strategy for the Chinese market. RYO RYO diversified a distribution channel in China and Taiwan, which resulted in the increase of stores Leading Innovation and featuring RYO, and enhanced our product lines focusing on scalp and hair loss prevention. Through Digitalization in Beauty enhanced consumer communications, our brand awareness in China has increased. For example, our Weishin followers quickly increased to 26,000 as of January 2016, and “CECI China” ranked Jayang Yunmo as the most preferred shampoo in the nation. Global Mega City AMOREPACIFIC Group plans to expand our market shares in global mega cities with over 10 million Expansion citizens. Specifically, we will focus on Asian mega cities populated by strong middle and upper class customers with significant purchasing power. For example, we will focus on enhancing our brand awareness in Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand, and we will increase customer touch points and marketing in Vietnam, Indonesia, and the Philippines. Building on existing efforts in the U.S. market, our company will focus on growth in Canada. We will also introduce our products in new markets, focusing on Middle Eastern markets in 2016 and emphasizing Central and South America in 2017. 48 49 3. 2015 Highlight ARITAUM Omni Store ARITAUM devoted its efforts to providing an enjoyable shopping experience and reinforcing its retail Digital Beauty Experience Zone capacity by diversifying product types and improving customer service. ARITAUM is an experiencefor Customers based “omni” beauty space that combines off-line’s show-looming with on-line’s web-looming experience. It offers fun and enjoyable experiences even before visiting stores. For example, when Digital Leadership omni store entering a shop, a store window spotlights a customer through a blind effect by censoring his or her Stores offering unique shopping experience movements. It offers discount coupons through interactive games, such as pop-up word bubbles in the where customers can search and purchase ARITAUM app. Through the make-up mirror service station in the ARITAUM store, we offer various To better communicate with customers in the era of e-commerce, AMOREPACIFIC Group is building up its competitiveness around “omni-channel” products through various onand off-line make-up suggestions based on customers’ skin-tones. When placing a recommended product before marketing, combining online services with off-line benefits, and innovating digital and mobile communications through tech-infused gadgets. platforms. the make-up mirror, customers receive specific instructions on how to use the item and can read its online reviews. At the skincare/men’s bar, we are offering information on basic skin care products for men, and explaining how to apply these products. Through the photo booth, we are offering a fun LANEIGE Launches LANEIGE launched a mobile application named Beauty Mirror, which enables users to test various experience of taking photos while shopping. There are 2 ARITAUM stores in Seoul. Virtual Make-Up Application make-ups on their virtual faces projected through the cameras in smartphones and tables. This Beauty Mirror mirroring technology ia able to sense even a subtle facial movement and offers a virtual look as natural as a the user's real face. A virtual face with make-up can be viewed through a 3D screen. Furthermore, if a customer prefers a certain make-up look, the app applies it virtually on the customer’s face, recommending additional make-up colors and patterns. It also connects to various SNS sites so customers can share with their friends and networks. Since its August 2015 launch, users have downloaded the app 93,897 times as of January 2016. 93,897 times Number of Beauty Mirror Application Downloads Beauty Mirror ARITAUM omni store, men’s bar Digital Platform Service In response to increasing tourists visiting its stores, ARITAUM started to offer them digital payment and for Foreign Tourists digital guide services. By using Alipay and Tenpay, foreign customers can pay for products in Korean ARITAUM stores. Alipay and Tenpay use the latest online payment technology, which allows foreign tourists to shop with their own currency. It also offered the digital issuance of the tax refund certificates Internet of Things (IOT) based to foreign tourists visiting Korea in 2015. Furthermore, by using their smartphones, customers can Digital Platform Service learn about various products in 3 to 4 languages (Korean, Chinese, Japanese, and English) by scanning QR codes or interacting with the NFC installed in stores. ARITAUM features cutting-edge system ㆍEMobile Payment System infrastructure throughout the store, enabling sales associates to showcase our products in a visually (Alipay / Tenpay) ㆍMobile Digital Guide Service appealing way. (4 languages) Use of Beauty Mirror App Choose Face, Eyes, or Lips located Compare Before and After Make-Up Moving to a Shopping Site on the bottom of the application Taking a photo of your face from the angle After choosing one of the categories face, Press the ‘finish’ button after the make-up, You can save your after make-up look and that works best through the app. Without eyes, or lips, applying full make-up by you can compare your look before and share with your friends and networks a photo, through a camera mode, one can using LANEIGE products after the make-up through the SNS, and visit the shopping site experience a live make-up. to purchase the products you experienced. 50 51 3. 2015 Highlight HERA Cushion Eyeliner Singularity-Focused Overview of Each Brand’s Signature Cushion Products Innovative Products We focused on improving our brand value through innovative singularity products that cannot be easily replicated. As a global brand, the group launched innovative products reflecting our customers’ needs internationally. 33 million 80 million 148 cases 15 cases products products Air Cushion Sales Air Cushion Sales Patent Applications Patent Registration (2015 only) (cumulative figure until 2015) Face Cushion innisfree Based Products LANEIGE Longwear Cushion Cushion Highlighter Make-up Culture and Expansion of Cushion Products BB Cushion Non-stop Innovation Cushion is an innovative make-up product that offers an all-in-one make-up solution that contains UV Mist Cushion sun protection, base foundation and skincare function presented in a form of a specially designed Air Cushion sponge soaked in liquid-type formula. Since the launch of IOPE Air Cushion in 2008, AMOREPACIFIC Group offered a wide range of cushion compacts which transformed the cosmetic culture globally. The group opened the Asian Beauty Lab and Cushion Lab (C-Lab) to conduct in-depth research on Asian customers’ skin conditions to respond more effectively to global customer needs. Due to differentiated ingredients and functionalities, the cushion compacts introduced through the group’s 13 brands IOPE Air Cushion, LANEIGE BB Cushion, HERA UV Mist Cushion, AmorePacific Treatment CC Cushion, and Sulwhasoo Perfecting Cushion are overwhelmingly popular around the world. In June 2015, AMOREPACIFIC Group signed a MOU with Christian Dior for a collaboration and research partnership ETUDE RYO to enhance its popularity in global markets. Cushion Concealer Hair Cushion IOPE Cushion Blusher New Growth Category Through the Cushion Compact Primera’s Baby Sun Cushion is an innovative sunblock product for infants and toddlers that is gaining popularity in the rapidly growing infant cosmetic market. Existing sunblock products for infants and toddlers require constant application and are inconvenient. To overcome these issues, the Baby Sun Cushion makes sunblock easier to use, even for young children. Since its launch in May, over 200,000 Baby Sun Cushions were sold as of December 31, 2015. C-LAB 52 53 HERA Squeeze Mascara With traditional mascara tubes, high viscosity mascara tends to accumulate along the inner wall, Named as Gold Winner of where it is unreachable or dries out easily. The squeezable mascara tube allows users to soften and Our Approach the DuPont Awards for reposition the remaining mascara, transferring it to the applicator with a light squeeze of the tube. Global beauty industry is accelerating its effort to minimize its social and environmental Packaging Innovation This enables the delivery of a consistent amount of mascara every time, so users will get the same great footprint by integrating sustainability thinking into a full life cycle of cosmetic products – from raw experience with each application. The enhanced functionalities of the squeezable mascara tube help materials, sourcing, product development, and customer use, to recycle and waste management. dramatically reduce the amount of unusable mascara remaining in the tube and extend the mascara’s As a global cosmetic leader, AMOREPACIFIC Group takes full consideration of corporate sustainability shelf life while providing a unique tactile sensation. Squeezable Mascara was named Gold Winner of into our product development and business activities to benefit our customers, environment, and society, the DuPont Awards for Packaging Innovation in May 2015. and invites our customers to join our efforts in this regard. Problem With traditional mascara tubes, about 30 to 50 % of mascara is unreachable or dries out. Our Strategy Since 2011, AMOREPACIFIC Group has been developing sustainable products under the three principles of Hint ‘reinforcing product safety for customers’, ‘minimizing environmental impact’ and ‘harmonious coexistence Squeezable Ice Cream Tube Container with the local communities’. We are also engaging in various efforts to promote sustainable consumption in the market. Idea Application Exterior application of squeezable, non-toxic silicon Our Achievements Interior an aluminum laminated inner pouch ㆍDevelopment of new Rose of Sharon species and Launch of rose of Sharon Moisture Cermide intense cream ㆍRelease of “Mamonde Cover Powder Cushion Peach Flower Edition” Effect Consumer can use contents evenly and consistently after using 3 months a collaborative project in support of female war victims Squeeze Mascara ㆍMissing You Campaign featuring endangered animals ㆍTotal 681 sustainable products listed under “AMOREPACIFIC promise” Breakthrough Innovation of LENEIGE “Two-Tone Lip Bar” is a breakthrough innovative product developed through the out-of-theLipsticks Two Tone Lip Bar box thinking. Coming in a rectangular plastic tube with a click-on cap and a push-up lever, this lip bar with two colors offers more precise application and creates natural gradient effects. This trendy product Our Plan allows a natural gradient look, as if a professional make-up artist had applied it, and is easy enough for We are committed to strengthening environmental, social and customer sustainability of our products beginners to use. Launched in March 2015 as LANEIGE’s single product for the first time, this product throughout the product life cycle, and aim to expand the development of sustainable products. line achieved 11 billion KRW, and is spearheading a K-beauty market through the launching of new 3 two-tone lip bar and two-tone shadow bar. Sustainable Products and Rectangular Plastic Tube more precise application Value-Based Consumption Two Tone Color natural gradient effects NEW Two Tone Lip Bar Research efforts on Scalp area AMOREPACIFIC Group’s research on “a manufacturing technology to produce ginsenoside concentrated receives a NET New Technology ginseng extracts to prevent hair loss” is recognised as New Excellent Technology by the Korean Ministry Certificate of Agriculture and Food. Our research expanded the research horizon on hair loss as a result of its in depth understanding on extracting ginsenocide that is known for highly effective to improve hair loss. In addition to its notable effect on hair loss, ginseng based technology ensures product safety. This technology will be applied to produce “RYO hwa yoon bio ginseng essence” first. 54 55 3. 2015 Highlight Hibiscus flower-based Cosmetics and Development of Products Development of new species of Hibiscus flower delivering Social Values Since 2013, AMOREPACIFIC Group has researched the efficacy of Hibiscus flower on skin to develop Beauty products produced in We made an effort to offer products that are good for our customers and society and communicate new product lines and promote this Korean national flower. While studying the energy of Hibiscus brand collaboration to Honor our values. In July 2015, Mamonde launched “Cover Powder Cushion Peach Flower edition” in flower that can mange to blossom even during hot sweltering days, we discovered a special “female war victims” Survivors collaboration with “Marymond” a Korean social enterprise focused on honoring the survivors of moisturizing ingredient from the tree’s bark that can be very effective for skin as well. In October sexual exploitation by the Japanese military during World War II through a pressed flower artwork 2015, we launched new Moisture Ceramide intense cream, which contains the moisturizing ingredient placed on various beauty products. This collaboration was part of the company’s commitment to extracted from the Hibiscus flowers. restoring the dignity and honor of these surviving elders. Part of the sales proceeds were donated to the In addition, the AMOREPACIFIC Group signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Chollipo Butterfly Fund for women victimized by global wars and conflicts. On 8 March 2016, the company also Arboretum, which has researched Hibiscus flowers for years. With a joint research agreement with engaged in a second collaboration with Marymond in honor of International Women’s Day. the Chollipo Arboretum, we developed a new species with a stronger moisturizing ingredient. We are currently in the process of registering this new species, and we will multiply it in 2016. In February 2016, we donated a portion of profits from the Hibiscus Moisture Ceramide intense cream to restore and protect yellow rose of Hibiscus, which is native to Korea. Yellow rose of Hibiscus is nearly extinct Mamonde Moisture Cermide intense cream and is designated an indigenous plant requiring special protection. We plan to contribute to advancing the biodiversity of Hibiscus through our research on the flower’s properties, the development of new products containing Hibiscus ingredient, and the restoration of endangered flower species. Mamonde Marymond Collaboration Product Missing You Campaign with ETUDE has initiated a “Missing You Campaign” to protect endangered animals since 2010. It is a Endangered Animal illustrations project to remember and protect endangered wild animals by reminding people of those creatures and donating a portion of profits to their protection associations. In 2015, ETUDE launched products in collaboration with Sungshil Hwarang’s Endangered Graphic Archive designed with 4 endangered animals (Emperor Penguin, Sand Dune Cat, Ferret, Bridled Nail-tail Wallaby) listed in IUCN’s Red List. Save Cushion product covers showcase 4 endangered animals in highly appealing designs, raising awareness of these endangered species. We plan to expand our collaboration in 2016. Selecting 4 Endangered Species Included in IUCN’s RED List Emperor Penguin Sand Dune Cat Ferret Bridled Nail-tail Wallaby Rose of Hibiscus New Species 56 57 Our Approach Sustainable Products With increased risk of global supply chain, there is an increased interest in sustainable supply chain management, and greater expectation to mitigate such risks through sustainable and responsible (AMOREPACIFIC Promise) practices. In this regard, we are focusing to fulfill our ethical principle of co-existence and co-prosperity, and seek to achieve harmonious development in the corporate ecosystem. Since 2011, AMOREPACIGIFC group has developed sustainable products under the name “AMOREPACIFIC Promise” with the aim to promote sustainable consumption. Based on the 3 principles of “reinforcing Our Strategy product safety for customers,” “minimizing environmental impact,” and “harmonious coexistence with In order to build strong partnerships, we are implementing a win-win relationship strategy by the local communities,” the sustainable products of AMOREPACIFIC Promise are divided into 3 categories: customer-friendly products, environmentally-friendly products, and socially-friendly products. Products engaging in activities that support growth and to promote communication and participation of are given “Sustainable Product” certifications only when they meet strict guidelines, which are equivalent our partners through our fair trade culture. We are providing a great deal of assistance ranging to external certification standards. The certification criteria for each of the sustainable product types were from finance to education and training in order to support our partners’ growth. first established in 2011 and have continually been revised according to domestic and international law 2015 Sustainable Products Types amendments and regulations as well as expert opinions. The number of sustainable products has increased Our Achievements and Featured Products steadily every year, and in 2015, 681 total types of AMOREPACIFIC Promise-certified products are on sale. ㆍEvaluated as 'Good' grade by the 'Mutual Growth Index' Customer-friendly products Environmentally-friendly products ㆍ11 Benifit Sharing Projects with partners ㆍFinancial assistance to business partners 24.5 billion KRW Safety Products Organic products Carbon footprint Recycled products Refillable and replaceable products products ㆍNumber of participants in the National Human Resources Institute’s Consortium-sponsored Inspire confidence in our Products that received product’s safety Ecocert or external Products that received the Products with packaging Products that are refillable Trainings: 1,275 Organic certification certified carbon footprint made from recycled materials or packaged in replaceable labeling from the Korea containers ㆍLaunch of “Heal me and Love me” an emotional support and stress management program for Environmental Industry & Technology Institute (KEITI) beauty partners LANEIGE primera HAPPY BATH innisfree primera Balancing Emulsion Organience Cure Grapefruit Essence Super Volcanic Macadamia Hydrating Light Eye Cream Pore Clay Mask Shampoo Our Plan We plan to engage in diverse cooperation activities with the aim to create an ecosystem where we can harmoniously co-exist with our partners and firmly establish the foundation necessary for our mutual growth. 4 Mutual Growth with partners Socially-Friendly Products Beautiful Fair Trade Universal design Social contribution products products products AMOREPACIFIC Promise Products that use raw Products created in consideration Products developed with materials purchased through of the needs and convenience of emphasis on social contribution ㆍBenefiting Our Customers a win-win relationship with socially underprivileged, such as in the planning stage local communities people with physical disabilities ㆍMinimizing Our Impacts on Environment ㆍPursuing Harmony with Local Communities HANYUL mise-en-scène HERA Rice Essential Damage Care Creamy Stick Blusher Skin Softner Shampoo Pink Ribbon Edition Sustainable Products 681in total 58 59 3. 2015 Highlight Notable Example of an Benifit Sharing Project Specific Project Problem Solutions Expected Outcome Outcomes Mutual Growth Partnership Strategy Development of 'AP UR Limited production capacity Change of packaging Twofold increase in Financial support to Cream' through joint project resulted in an increase in production method productivity and 20% encourage the development with Gumi A Tech Solution Co.Ltd production cost of AP UR Cream. (from cutting manufacturing reduction in cost of molding technology to injection molding process) AMOREPACIFIC Group is constantly endeavoring to attain mutual growth with our suppliers by assisting with the enhancement of competitiveness, based upon a culture of fair transaction, as well as establishing an ethos of communication. We offer a range of support, from finance to education, and encourage the participation of our suppliers’ stakeholders. Extending Financial Assistance With our 20 billion KRW win-win cooperation fund, and 4 billion KRW mutual-growth fund in Main Activities for Mutual Growth Financial Support collaboration with Industry Bank Korea (IBK), we are offering loans to our suppliers at impressively low 24.5 billion KRW interest rates. In 2015, together with the Foundation for Large companies and SMEs collaboration, Support for Management Support AMOREPACIFIC Group signed the MOU on investment for mutual growth, and invested 500 million Growth High Performing Business Partners : 245 million KRW KRW to enhance our suppliers’ capacity. To extend our financial assistance to the secondand third-tier Benifit Sharing Projects with partners : 11 Cases suppliers, we introduced a mutually beneficial payment system to facilitate cash-flow and promote the Joint Patent Application : 41 Cases mutual growth of all our partners throughout the value chain. Educational Support HRD Consortium Educational Support 142 partners, 1,275 participants, Co-existence and Co-prosperity WIN-WIN Seminar/General Assembly Supporting Training Infrastructure for Suppliers and 32 courses Visit to 2nd Tier Suppliers and Enhanced Evaluated as 'Excellent' grade by the 'Mutual Growth Index(2014)' Communication Sales Portal AMOREPACIFIC has been selected to operate the National Human Resources Development Consortium Career Fair Participation Support Project, which is organized by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and the Human Resources 10 companies Benifit Sharing Projects with partners Development Service of Korea. In 2015, AMOREPACIFIC operated 32 training courses attended by 1,275 11 Cases staff working in 142 suppliers out of 234. Total Financial Support for Mutual Growth 24.5 billion KRW Educational Support to Business Partners Educational Better Support 1,275 participants Communication Joint Patent 41 Cases Sustainable Management Audit Partners 92 partner firms Consortium Learning Center Support for Suppliers’ AMOREPACIFIC Group offers support programs, not as a philanthropic activity, but as a partnership that aims Establishing a Sustainability AMOREPACIFIC has laid out the criteria and standards for the sustainability assessment of its suppliers, Sustainable Growth to encourage our suppliers’ sustainable growth. These provisions include capacity building for increased sales, Assessment Framework for in order to reinforce the robustness of the corporate ecosystem. Over three months beginning from financial assistance, technologies and protection, and human resources management and recruitment support. Suppliers & Strengthening October 2015, AMOREPACIFIC Group supported the improvement of sustainable management Monitoring & Review practices of 92 suppliers in the areas of safety, environment, and ethics by interviewing focal points, Incentive-Based Partnership and Protection of conducting surveys, and undertaking site visits. We shared notable examples and offered consulting Technological Innovation/Intellectual Properties services. The outcomes were incorporated into the rate of suppliers. We offered incentives for In May 2015, we introduced an incentive-based partnership mechanism to develop innovative outstanding suppliers, and provided solutions and support to those that were lacking in capabilities. technologies and products in collaboration with suppliers. Partners who are engaged in joint innovation tasks with AMOREPACIFIC are rewarded with additional incentives. Throughout 2015, we undertook Feedback Progress Interview Survey Site Assessment Areas for Monitoring 11 such projects, and produced the outcomes amounting to 220 million KRW. We conducted research Improvement & Incentive and Review alongside suppliers to enhance their technology, and we also offered 23 million KRW to the total of 41 Safety/Environment/Ethical Management outstanding cases and are actively protecting suppliers’ technological know-how. 60 61 3. 2015 Highlight Value-Based Service Education AMOREPACIFIC Group promoted a company-wide value-based service education. Value-based service is designed to implement a tailored customer service that will meet customer needs based upon a deeper understanding of high-quality customer service, rather than merely repeating scripted customer service activities. AMOREPACIFIC Group has a range of diverse customer service touchpoints, as we Good Jobs Strategy for Beauty Partners have various distribution channels, including road shops, and brand shops in department stores. As we understand different customer service strategies and engagement mechanisms based upon service value, each beauty partner understands what it means to offer service from customers’ perspective. In an effort to provide a quality workplace for beauty partners who provide customer service, AMOREPACIFIC Group is implementing a “Beauty In particular, by focusing on customers’ perspectives, this training allows our sales associates to Partner Good Jobs Strategy” together with manpower suppliers who work with beauty partners. The strategy focused on improving compensation, understand how customers are moving around in stores and what emotions they are experiencing as benefits and entitlements, and great work environments to provide strong incentive and motivation to beauty partners. they do so. Based upon deeper understanding of customers’ priorities and varying emotions, beauty partners can better engage with customers. This training also continuously innovates to avoid merely offering technical rules on value-based service. Rather, it focuses on how these trainings can help beauty partners integrate a customer service mindset. Systematic Education for AMOREPACIFIC Group is offering a three-stage educational system to strengthen the professionalism Beauty Partners and capacity of beauty partners who are at the forefront of engaging our customers. For newcomers, we have courses focusing on the culture and values of our company, and for more experienced ones, there are courses that can help them obtain certificates. It is composed of a professional certificate and a master certificate, and an advanced course which allows one to obtain a national certification. For professionalism, there are nine courses including make-up and nail care, as well as professional hair care including the scalp. Master course is for internal certificate exam and the certificates of counselling master, nail care master, make-up master and Inner beauty master have been recognized by the Industry Human Resource Committee of Korea. Beauty partners above the managerial level can participate in AMOREPACIFIC Group Beauty University(APBU), which has been established with Value-Based Service Education Ehwa Womans University’s Life Long Career Education Center. 60 beauty partner leaders participated in the 5th APBU Senior Level Course Ehwa AMOREPACIFIC Academy, which began in October 2015 and lasted eight weeks; they took courses on female leadership, coaching, and communication, and Beauty Partner We are making an effort to proactively respond to emotional demands of our sales associates at work humanity courses on culture and art, innovation trends, and image making. Mind Care Program and strengthen health and safety in our store. In 2015, AMOREPACIFIC Group collaborated with Ehwa Womans University to run “Heal me, Love me” to respond to emotional labor. This project is led by Professor Hyunju Kim of Ehwa Womans University Medical Center, and consists of ten other experts. The aim is to identify the level of intensity of beauty partners’ stress; we offered three modules Seniority-Based Tailored Beauty Partners Educational Courses Entry-Level APBU Beginning Course including resilience of mind, sustainable education, and management capacity building. We will continue to focus on addressing the emotional well-being of our partners and develop a mechanism that can support them in stores. Middle Management 9 Certificate Courses Heal me, Love me program Sustainable Management Recovery & Resilience Educational Activities Capacity Building APBU Senior Level Course, Senior Managers Courses for Supplier Companies’ managers Development of Supervisor Beauty partners Stress Internal Training Capacity Building Guidelines and Store-Level Safety Management Courses for Mind Care and Health Manuals Successful applicants of 2,087 internal certification in 2015 678 people(2015) 2013-2015 cumulative figure 62 63 3. 2015 Highlight Our Approach AMOREPACIFIC Group believes that only a company with genuine love for local people and society can offer a true co-prosperity model and earn the supports of local communities. Beautiful Culture Sharing AMOREPACIFIC Group continues to expand our corporate social responsibility contributions to deliver values to local communities. We have contributed to promoting high quality traditional Korean tea culture by following our Founder’s vision of restoring Korea’s unique tea Our Strategy culture. AMOREPACIFIC Group wants to be remembered as a firm promoting the culture of beauty, and supports a range of cultural activities to share culture and emotion with local communities. AMOREPACIFIC Group operates our business activities based upon a mutual win-win growth strategy. Especially, we want to contribute to strengthening local economy while preserving nature and local culture of Jeju and other local communities which we have special ties for many years. Sharing Culture and Emotion APMAP is a relay exhibition project of contemporary art that travels across the different AMOREPACIFIC Our Achievements Public Art Project APMAP workplaces in Korea. Since its first exhibition in Beauty Campus Osan. it has been held in various ㆍThird “APMAP” Public Art Exhibition 2015 Yongin Researcher’s Way (AmorePacific Museum of Art Project) regions of the country and from 2017 to 2020, it will be moved to Jeju. The third exhibition of ㆍConvening of the 9th Culture and Traditional Tales Exhibition APMAP titled researcher’s way takes place in the outdoor spaces of the AMOREPACIFIC R&D Center Mythology Once upon a time the story of Crape myrtle in Yongin. The artists who explore the beauty of sense and cognition have been invited to participate ㆍJeju Creative Economy Innovation 2nd Center Opening as researchers. Under the theme of “Technology towards New Beauty,” sixteen artist teams created ㆍinnisfree Foundation establishment & financial support worthy of 10 billion artworks to show both the research processes and outcomes. The viewers are invited to walk between the works and contemplate the artists’ questions and concepts, starting the meditative journey. AMOREPACIFIC Group will continue to promote the development of contemporary installment arts, Our Plan and invigorates local art scenes around Korea. Based upon our philosophy of beautiful mutual growth, we seek to enhance the sustainable shared values by promoting local economy as a member of local communities. Social Contribution and Local Community Engagement 5 5 APMAP 2015 yongin – researcher’s way 64 65 3. 2015 Highlight Bringing Traditional Sulwha Cultural Exhibition is a culture-based activity of innisfree Foundation for In October 2015, innisfree established the innisfree Moeum Foundation to fulfil our commitment to Storytelling and Contemporary Sulwhasoo that aims to globally promote. Its 9th Series in 2015 Culture, Nature, and People respecting humans and loving nature. The foundation aims to preserve uniquness of Jeju, which makes Cultures Together was based upon a famous Korean tale “crape myrtle”, and the island be like itself, focusing on supoorting various local culture activities(Culture), creating shared <Sulwha Cultural Exhibition> exhibits various art pieces centered around the 11 themes of values of sustainability and nature preservation(Natural Ecology), and nurturing human resources for tranquil daily lives, young man and woman’s encounters, fight the future of Jeju's local society(Human Being). innisfree is planning to make a donation of 10 billion with dragons, a woman waiting and experiencing death. These KRW for 5 years to pursue a win-win growth on Jeju Island. art pieces reinterpreted traditional tales, and demonstrate what contemporary arts can offer to attract young generations. Culture Natural Ecology Human being Meanwhile, all proceeds from sales of cultural products of the exhibition were donated to support major intangible cultural Sustainable Value Creation 100 billion KRW Supporting Jeju’s Various Explore and support young assets as well as spotlight young artists. Going forward, and Nature’s Ecological Value Cultural Activities talents who will lead Jeju’s future Sulwhasoo will continue to forge a global brand across the world, Preservation Culture and Traditional Tales's Poster and promote the value of traditional wisdom contained in the philosophy of Asian culture. innisfree Foundation donation O'sulloc Tea Culture “O'sulloc” has launched an “O'sulloc Tea Culture Therapy” program, which is specifically designed Making Jeju Most Authentically Jeju-like Therapy Program to support people with disabilities in Jeju Island. This program consists of four themes: therapy for people with disabilities, therapy for their family members, promoting communication between ablebodied people and those with disabilities, and a special program for our tea field workers. Through this Nature Conservation Protecting Gotjawal program, O'sulloc aims to promote its unique tea culture, but also to increase welfare programs for Activities for Jeju innisfree signed an agreement with the Gotjawal Trust of Jeju in May 2012 for the purpose of people with disabilities as a social responsibility. protecting Gotjawal, one of the most valuable forests in Jeju which always provides us with benefits and inspiration. After 2012, innisfree has been donating a part of sales profits from products of 'Forest 426 million KRW for Men' line. The donations have been used to purchase privatized lands to be converted into public properties, as a means to prevent indiscriminate development by individual owners. Gotjwal Foundation Contribution (since 2012) Protecting Jeju Ecosystem and Employees Volunteer Program, Jeju Green Expedition Mutual Growth with Local Communities 651 employees innisfree has been undertaking Green Expeditions to Jeju, wherein our employees participate in protecting Jeju Island alongside local residents. Under the theme of “Help, Save and Find Our Jeju”, the Number of Participants Engaged in sixth Green Expedition in 2015 encompassed voluntary activities (Help Jeju) and natural preservation In 1979, our late founder Mr. Sung-Hwan Suh started to cultivate the non-arable lands in the DoSoon area southwest of Jeju Hallah Mountain Jeju Green Expedition(since 2010) activities (Save Jeju), and showcased hidden cultural sites (Find Jeju). Our employees helped farms in into green tea fields. Since then, we have been working closely with communities in Jeju Island. As AMOREPACIFIC Group offers a range Jeju Island where there were shortage of workers, engaged in a green life style campaign to protect Jeju of products that make use of Jeju’s pristine ingredients, we are making continued efforts to grow alongside our partner farms by signing a Island’s natural ecosystem, and explored unique cultural spaces. Building on our past experience, we partnership agreement focusing on fair and sustainable pricing. In addition, we are leveraging Jeju's unique culture and natural ecosystem to help will continue to expand our activities for Jeju as a major brand, offering products sourced from natural this UNESCO world natural heritage island become a major hub for new value creation. ingredients grown on this virginal island. Opening of the 2nd Jeju Creative AMOREPACIFIC Group opened the 2nd Jeju Center for Creative Economy Innovation (CCEI), officially Economy Innovation Center to kicking off Jeju Island’s Integrated Creation of Work-Leisure-Culture project. The 2nd Jeju CCEI Promote Economic Growth in Jeju specializes in the fostering of the beauty industry by offering full support of our R&D, PR, and marketing specialists. Specifically, the CCEI aims to strengthen cosmetic R&D capability of Jejubased organizations and promote vibrant small and medium enterprises in the cosmetic industry. The center will also develop high-quality tourism content that integrates K-beauty, culture, and experience to drive the growth of the senary (sixth-level) industry and at the same time, build a creative R&D base to increase the value of resources that are unique to Jeju Island and revive the local economy. AMOREPACIFIC Group will continue our commitment to growing together with local communities in Jeju. Jeju Green Expedition 66 67 4 AMOREPACIFIC Group seeks to fulfill our customers and achieve happiness in society. Sustainability Performance AMOREPACIFIC Group is committed to creating a beautiful world where nature, people, and business coexist AMOREPACIFIC in harmony through sustainable business practices. Innovation for Customers That is why we follow our vocation to fulfill our customers and Harmony with Nature Harmonious Growth achieve happiness in society while also preserving the unspoiled Sharing for Society beauty of nature. We implement sustainable business innisfree practices within our sphere of influence to share the value ETUDE eSpoir of beauty and create the sustainable future everyone wants. AMOS professional We will continue our journey to turn a seed into trees AESTURA O'sulloc farm and forests. Toward this purpose, we are offering our utmost efforts to create a brighter future. Number of Innovation for Customers Sustainable Products 340 460 489 2013 2014 2015 Corporate Overview Since its establishment in 1945, AMOREPACIFIC has been pursuing our vocation as an Asian beauty Number of Patents Domestic creator by promoting the essence of Asian beauty. We opened Korea’s first cosmetic research and 306 286 Applications development center, and have produced innovative products combining Asian natural ingredients (in Korea) and latest cosmetic and dermatological technology. As part of our global strategy, we opened our 296 230 Overseas 262 Applications operations in China and France, and customers around the world are enjoying our products. 210 Domestic 120 112 97 Registrations (in Korea) Customers 96 80 Overseas 57 Registrations 2013 2014 2015 Key Sustainable Good Product Number of Published With our customers as our top priority, we are committed to delivering Business Practices Academic Papers1) 64 innovative products of the highest quality that can provide customers with 47 (cases) 37 pleasant experiences and touch their hearts. In an effort to promote sustainable consumption, we have placed an emphasis on environmental and social considerations throughout our entire business processes, ranging from the 2013 2014 2015 Customers Good Product sourcing of raw materials to product disposal. R&D Expenditure Ratio of R&D expenditure (million KRW) 83,167 97,108 108,506 to sales (%) We pursue a healthy coexistence with human beings and environment. We fully recognize global environmental issues climate change and resource scarcity 2.68 2.51 and are undertaking a range of activities to minimize our environmental 2.28 footprint and protect biodiversity. Environment 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Good for Planet Resolution of customer AMOREPACIFIC believes that the growth of our employees and external complaints resolved business partners are fundamental to our growth. We also believe that our (%) success must be shared with our employees and external business partners. Through communication and collaboration with our employees and business 98.4 98.1 98.1 partners, we are striving to create a bigger and more beautiful future together. Employees, Partners 2013 2014 2015 Good Relationship Average consultation AMOREPACIFIC is undertaking a range of strategic philanthropic activities to satisfaction rate 2013 92.8 fulfill our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Achieving significant societal (points) 2014 93.6 change is not a mere wish, but a promise and a firm commitment to our 2015 78.92) customers and to society. Through our continued social contribution and philanthropic activities focused on women, nature, the ecosystem, and culture, Corporate Social Responsibilities 1) Based upon the figure registered in office intra-net as of February 2016 Good Citizenship we hope to contribute to creating a healthy and beautiful world. 2) Reason for reduced customer satisfaction previously, our survey compared our service with others in the industry. As of 2015, our survey focuses on our service quality without comparing with industry peers. 70 71 4. Sustainability Performance Development of We are developing sustainable packaging based on four strategies of Reduce, Recycle, Reuse, and Sustainable Packaging Renewable, with the goal of 25% reduction of package use per product until 2020. Enhancing the Quality of Sustainable Products Reduce Resource-Efficient ㆍPackage Volume and Weight Reduction Design ㆍMinimize Coating and Coloring Use of Recycled ㆍUse of Post-Consumer Recycled Plastic Establishment of We launched the 2020 Sustainable Technology Roadmap in three areas customer safety, Recycle Materials ㆍUse of Recycled Papers a Sustainable Technology environment, and society to enhance the technological capabilities needed to develop sustainable Roadmap products; priorities for implementation are set annually based upon the importance of the specific Promotion of technologies needed to be obtained in each area. Reuse Package Reuse ㆍExpanding Refill Product Lines In 2015, we identified indicators to take into consideration when enhancing the sustainability of our products in the areas of customer safety, environment, and society. In relation to advancing customer Use of Renewable ㆍUse of Plant-Based Plastics safety, we focused on activities that minimized any potential harmful impacts of our product. In terms Renewable Materials ㆍUse of secondary product of Plants of the environment, we undertook activities that would minimize our environmental footprint and reduce our energy usage throughout our product development cycle from production of raw materials to consumption. As for improving society, we integrated activities that contributed to strengthening Pilot Program to Reduce the Packaging Volume local communities and championing the vulnerable. In 2013, our company participated in the pilot program to reduce the packaging volume of product In 2016, we will focus on identifying more robust performance indicators and assessments of containers after signing the “Agreement of Voluntary Participation in the Pilot Program to Reduce sustainability to integrate them into our product life cycle in a systematic way. Cosmetic Product Container Packaging” with the Korean Ministry of Environment. As a result, by 2014, we reduced the packaging volume for a total of three products. After the conclusion of the pilot Evaluation Criteria to Enhance Product Sustainability Program, we voluntarily undertook additional efforts to reduce packaging, including an approximately 14% reduction of HERA Signia Serum’s packaging volume. In 2016, we will participate in the second Pilot Program to continue reducing cosmetic packing volume. Customer Safety Environment Society HERA Signia Serum 14% HERA Signia Serum’s Packaging Volume Reduction Focusing on minimizing environmental Strengthening local community One-Touch Cap Volume Reduction Enhancing customer safety and trust impact and energy reduction contributions and emphasis on socially We saved resources required for packaging by reducing the volume of Happy Bath Soapberry Cleansing vulnerable groups Form’s one-touch cap by 30%, from 14.6 g to 10.2g. 30% Research on Animal As we fully recognize the importance of alternative methods for animal testing, AMOREPACIFIC has Alternative Testing Methods been conducting a variety of research projects on alternative methods for animal testing since we participated in the project on this subject of Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare in 1997. Based on continuous research, we voluntarily discontinued animal testing for cosmetic materials and products from 2008. From 2013, we have publicly declared our commitment on this topic and prohibited The Volume of HAPPY BATH Soapberry Cleansing Form’s One-Touch Cap animal testing for cosmetics except unavoidable situations that animal testing is required by local governments and their laws. Currently, we have been developed alternatives to animal testing for skin irritation, skin sensitization, photo-toxicity, absorption toxicity, ocular irritation, vaginal mucous membrane irritation, oral mucous 14.6g 10.2g membrane irritation, and endocrine disruption are being used to assess the safety of raw materials and products prior to clinical test. In 2015, we received an award from the Korean Society for Alternative to HAPPY BATH Soapberry Cleansing Form Animal Experiments (KSAAE) for our work in this area. Original Volume Volume after Using Innovative Packaging 72 73 4. Sustainability Performance R&D Innovation Customer Satisfaction Activities Product Development Our research confirmed that environmental pollutants and stress accelerate the skin aging process, and Customer Complaints Customer Gift for AMOREPACIFIC(CGAP) is our own unique customer complaints management activity Responding to Environmental based upon these results, AMOREPACIFIC developed technologies to prevent the aging of the skin and Management Activity CGAP program, designed to collect and respond to customer complaints speedily. To remind ourselves that Pollutants improve skin conditions for contemporary urban women. small concerns raised by our customers are gifts to us, we aim to offer solutions to address customer feedback. In 2015, we acted in response to all 52 cases reported through the CGAP. Research confirmed that stress hormone “Cortisol” causes skin irritation. Investigation of Cortisol's 1 ㆍCortisol leads into the over production of cytokine a property known to cause irritation and infection inside of skin. Effect on Skin Infection Notable Examples of Action in response to CGAP ㆍIn response to pollutants accumulated on the surface of skins, immune system reacts abnormally and causes skin irritation. Process Change of Instruction on How to Consume VITALBEAUTIE Liver Prime ㆍOur clinical research confirmed that dust destroys skin cell walls, thus causing irritation, aging, and discoloring. By accepting and reflecting on feedback from elderly customers, we clarified instructions on how to use our products. After defining some of the urban life environment risk factors, such as high stress and environmental pollutants, as “Urban Aging™” 2 Development of factors that accelerate the speed of aging, we developed “Bio-Reno 3™” which delays the skin aging process. Bio-Reno 3™ ㆍBio-Reno 3 ™ controls the release of cytokine, and applied this ingredient to IOPE “Urban Aging ™ Corrector” products. ㆍ 권장 섭취량 및 섭취방법 : 성인 1일 1회, 1회 1정, 1캡슐 ㆍ 권장 섭취량 및 섭취방법 : 성인 하루에 한번 1정(흰색정 을 물과 함께 드십시오. 제), 1캡슐(붉은색 연질캡슐) 총 2알을 물과 함께 한번에 We focused on the extract and materialization of 6-gingerol from Jeju ginger oil, for the innisfree Ginger Oil Line. ㆍ 섭취시 주의사항 : 임신, 수유 중 또는 질병으로 치료 중이 ㆍ 섭취하십시오. 3 Discovery and 신분 및 어린이는 본 제품의 섭취 전에 전문가와 상담하시 섭취시 주의사항 : 임신, 수유 중 또는 질병으로 치료 중이 6-gingerol stops skin cell destruction as a result of environmental pollutants, and possesses anti-inflammatory and 기 바랍니다. 알레르기 유발물질이 함유되어 있으므로, 특 신분 및 어린이는 본 제품의 섭취 전에 전문가와 상담하시 Materialization of 6-gingerol 이체질, 알레르기 질환을 가지신 분은 원료를 확인 후 섭 기 바랍니다. 알레르기 유발물질이 함유되어 있으므로, 특 antioxidant properties. 취하시기 바랍니다. 알레르기 반응이 나타나는 경우에는 이체질, 알레르기 질환을 가지신 분은 원료를 확인 후 섭취 섭취를 중단 하십시오. 설사, 위통, 복부팽만 등의 위장관 하시기 바랍니다. 알레르기 반응이 나타나는 경우에는 섭 4 Materialization of Galangin Application of Galangin, a property known to strengthen skin cell wall function and restore damaged skin. 계 장애가 나타나는 경우에는 섭취에 주의하시기 바랍니 다. 취를 중단 하십시오. 설사, 위통, 복부팽만 등의 위장관계 장애가 나타나는 경우에는 섭취에 주의하시기 바랍니다. Before After 5 Development of Cleansing ㆍDevelopment of cosmetic products containing ion properties smaller than a pore to remove particulate matters adhere to the inside of pores Products ㆍImproved effectiveness of our cleansing products 2015 CGAP VOC Exhibition CGAP VOC Exhibition is an annual in-company exhibition in which our employees discuss all the key Open Innovation AMOREPACIFIC undertook joint research with various research institutions, both in Korea and around feedback from customers we collected throughout the year, and explore ideas to improve our products the world, in order to strengthen our R&D capabilities and utilize our partner research institute’s and service. In 2015, our eighth CGAP VOC focused on how we can offer more attractive and valuable infrastructure to optimize the application of our joint knowledge and technology. products and service to our customers within the SNS space. The theme of the eighth exhibition is “#cu stomers#voice#letushashtag.” We prioritized the top three most notable and common themes in the Joint Research for Medical Herb CGAP VOC Exhibition feedback, made an effort to address these concerns, and are monitoring the related progress. A notable case is a joint research project on medicinal herbs that we have collaborated on since 2012. This research explores the new functions and properties of ginseng and bean our “heritage” raw materials with a view to securing beauty content at an early stage, and building credibility and differentiation of herbal-based cosmetic products in global markets. Together with experts from the University of Minnesota, Cornell University, the Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry in Germany, Reinforced Customer Counseling Service Seoul National University, and Kyunghee University, we convened a symposium sharing our joint research. Furthermore, in 2015, we published an academic paper Our customer counseling team strives to offer better quality products and services to and to engage in summarizing our research outcomes in the last three years. conversations with our customers. In 2015, taking into consideration our customers’ lifestyles, we have Bio-Seletinoid™ Symposium-Master Key for Anti-Aging extended our counseling time to 9 pm to provide additional convenience to those with busy schedules. We convened the “Bio-Seletinoid™ Symposium Master Key for Anti-Aging” with experts around the world to discuss our innovative research on Bio-Seletinoid™, at In addition, our counselors are being evaluated nine times (from the previous three times) per year the AMOREPACIFIC Technology Institute on August 17, 2015. This anti-aging property is being developed by our company to tackle skin-aging issues that concern our to professionalize individual counselors’ capabilities and capacity, leading to enhanced counseling customers around the world. At this symposium, we shared the research outcomes with experts, and presented the effect of Bio-Seletinoid™ as anti-aging solutions. capacity. Key issues raised by customers are being conveyed to related departments on a weekly basis; The symposium features presentations on the latest trends in the treatment of skin aging, research into skin aging and pigmentation, and a talk about the innovative they then offer solutions promptly to improve the quality of our products and services. We redefined anti-aging ingredient Bio-Seletinoid™, which was developed with the most advanced molecule modeling technology and bioactive delivery technology. There was our customer counseling team’s role as a customer advocate. also a presentation on the effects of Bio-Seletinoid™ in improving the skin, as well as discussion about the effective delivery of bioactive ingredients. Bio-SeletinoidTM is a new anti-aging ingredient specifically designed to act on the anti-aging receptors in the skin to treat skin aging effects that appear in sequentially many different ways. It has also been tested by the Korea Ministry of Food and Drug Safety for its anti-wrinkle and whitening functions. This symposium provided an opportunity for future collaboration with external organizations to advance anti-aging technology by leveraging Bio-Seletinoid™. 74 75 4. Sustainability Performance Voice of Customers Management Overview Average consultation satisfaction Resolution of customer complaints Customer Information Protection Revision of Membership System in Compliance With rate(points)1) resolved(%) The Individual Information Data Storage Time Limit Regulation Phone 2013 209,681 To comply with the Korean Information and Technology Regulation revision on August 18, 2015, we 2014 delete or separate from the main database the information of customers who have not engaged with 186,076 us for more than one year. If any customer who has not engaged with us in more than one year wants 2015 to re-engage, they must go through a simple verification process to bring their data back to the main 173,920 server. For any customers who have not engaged with us for more than three years, all their personal data are permanently removed from our database. Internet 2013 16,826 2014 Seminar on Third Party Use of Personal Information and Security Measures 8,557 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 We visited all 67 of the third-party partner companies AMOREPACIFIC commissioned to have access 2015 8,582 92.8 93.6 78.9 98.4 98.1 98.1 to certain personal data of our customers and employees, to conduct research and site inspection to ensure that all the entrusted data are properly and safely handled. In addition to offering solutions to 1) Reason for reduced customer satisfaction previously, our survey compared our service with others in the problems, we also held a second Seminar on Partner Company Information Safety Measures to share industry. As of 2015, our survey focuses on our service quality without comparing with industry peers. the lessons learned. Opening of a AMOREPACIFIC launched an open innovation website for consumers named “Beauty-Sumer” (“beauty” Customer Information File Cleansing from Our Stores Point of Sale “Beauty-Sumer” Site + “consumer”)2) in an effort to reflect customer feedback in our products and service. All AMOREPACIFIC We make a regular site visit to all of our stores to delete and provide additional security to customer members can actively engage in a beauty-sumer site. Beginning with 300 pilot participants in 2014, information to ensure that such data are not being stored in our point of sale system. We also offer we reached out to 5,800 consumers as a result of the website launch. Beauty-sumers participate in trainings to our beauty partners about customer data protection, and are making a systematic effort various surveys needed to develop ideas, from product concepts to packaging design, and over 1,500 to prevent the exposure of our customers’ private information under any circumstances, including the beauty-sumers participated in 109 surveys. In particular, we made a concerted effort in outreach to attack by viruses or malware. male beauty-sumers, who are traditionally underrepresented, and also offered a platform for young beauty-sumers to reflect their feedback. Going forward, we will firmly establish a beauty-sumer site as Monitoring of Customer Information Abuse a premier consumer participatory innovation channel by attracting all ages of consumers. Based upon the previous scenarios, we regularly monitor access and detect any suspicious patterns that can lead to the abuse and misuse of customer information. Any violation will receive a warning, 2) www.beautysumer.com and we take immediate action to prevent any unfortunate situations. We are committed to protecting individual customers’ privacy at any cost, based upon our principle of not using any customer Life-Long Customer Campaign AMOREPACIFIC has undertaken a “life-long customer campaign” to deepen our relationships with information for anything other than the intended purpose. clients and enhance their brand loyalty. Through engagement marketing, we are communicating with our customers to build positive affinity to our brand. In 2015, building upon our big data, we are improving the quality of indicators measuring our brand marketing activities’ impacts on our customers. Furthermore, to prevent loss of customers proactively, we have a “customer departure prediction campaign.” To establish and strengthen our global CRM(customer relationship management) system, we have upgraded a global membership mechanism, and developed a data infrastructure. Engagement marketing communicating with our customers to build positive affinity to our brand Customer departure to prevent loss of customers proactively prediction campaign Global membership to establish and strengthen our global CRM system mechanism 76 77 4. Sustainability Performance Harmony with Nature Domestic1) Greenhouse Gas Emissions2) 3) 2013 1.006 31,178 Total, tons of CO2 Response to Climate Change 2014 0.771 29,880 Basic Unit, 2015 0.660 31,454 tCO2/100 million KRW AMOREPACIFIC is implementing various strategies designed to mitigate climate change that results from corporate activity minimizing Energy Greenhouse Gas(GHG) emission. We strived to meet our goal of reducing GHG emissions by 30% per unit of sales by 2020 compared to 2010. In Consumption 2013 0.122 10,179 4) Total, TOE this regard, we made consistent efforts to optimize the direct and indirect use of energy during the production and distribution processes major 2014 0.118 9,957 Basic unit, TOE/tons GHG emission activities and as a result, we met our target in 2014, six years ahead of schedule. We will nevertheless continue to take action to 2015 0.129 10,219 of production reduce GHG emission. Response to Climate Change Water 340,661 Transportation & Consumption 2013 4.086 Purchase & Production Use Disposal Environment Total, Tons Distribution 2014 4.268 358,916 Basic unit, tons/tons ㆍIncrease Energy Efficiency 2015 4.606 364,145 of production ㆍPromotion of eco-driving ㆍDeveloping Low-Carbon ㆍUse of Renewable Energy ㆍEmpty Cosmetic Bottle ㆍPursuit of joint exports with Products Deploy Green ㆍSupport Business Partners’ Low Recycling and Reuse 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 other companies Lifestyle Campaign Carbon Production Mechanism Wastewater Basic unit, tons/tons Good for Planet discharge 185,796 221,092 219,571 Total, tons of production 2.284 2.629 2.806 Non-recycled Basic unit, tons/tons waste amount 1,034 549 551 Total, tons of production 0.012 5) 0.007 0.007 Reduction of GHG Emissions AMOREPACIFIC is implementing activities designed to optimize the energy efficiency of our production Basic unit, kg/tons at Production Sites and Offices and distribution sites. In 2015, through 92 specific activities (including the improved energy efficiency, COD generation 7,502 8,735 10,415 Total, kg of production 0.092 0.104 0.133 high-efficiency lighting, and insulation), we achieved the reduction of 329 tCO2 and 960 billion KRW. 1) The domestic environmental management performance was assessed based on the 3 domestic production sites: Beauty Campus Osan, Mass Cosmetic and Sulloc Tea Production Sites We share a notable energy reduction case through our internal cross-functional task force on climate 2) Scope of GHG emission: SCM (production & logistics), R&D Unit, headquarters and regional offices and business locations, etc change. 3) 2014 GHG emission was modified based upon the assessment made by the third party (DNV) 4) Tonne of Oil Equivalent (TOE): Energy measurement unit based upon oil use 5) We modified the figure after finding errors in our 2014 report Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Overseas(China)6) 2015 Greenhouse Gas Emissions7) 2013 0.895 1,189 Total, tons of CO2 2014 4.188 5,436 2015 2.041 5,643 Basic Unit, tCO2/tons of production 329 tons of CO 2 960 million KRW GHG Emission Reduction Cost Saving Effect Energy Consumption 2013 0.241 320 Total, TOE Improving Energy Efficiency 2014 1.301 1,689 Basic unit, TOE/tons On an annual basis, we undertake activities to optimize the energy use of certain machines that are 2015 0.650 1,797 of production high in energy consumption (such as improving the fuel efficiency of boilers and air conditioning inverters). In our Mass Cosmetic Production sites, we installed Low NOx burners1) in boilers to improve Water fuel efficiency by 10% and reduce the emission of NOx, which causes air pollution. Consumption 2013 9.668 12,850 Total, tons 2014 71.403 92,680 2015 24.002 66,350 Basic unit, tons/tons of production Improved Energy Use Efficiency ▲ 10% 6) The global environmental management performance was assessed solely based on the AMOREPACIFIC China. The increased environmental 1) Low NOx Burners performance index since 2014 resulted from the completion of the Beauty Campus Shanghai and the operation of new facilities in 2014 Natural gas burners with improved energy efficiency and lower emissions of nitrous oxides. 7) The GHG emissions were assessed based upon the figure recommended by the Cap and Trade pilot program of the city of Shanghai 78 79 4. Sustainability Performance Expanded Use of High Efficiency Lighting (LED) We are installing LEDs high efficiency lighting to reduce energy use from lighting in our production sites. Particularly in our Beauty Campus Osan, we strive to replace all lighting with LEDs by 2020. In 2015, we installed LED lighting in packing rooms, offices, corridors, and well-being areas, and improved the quality of light by 30% while reducing the use of energy by 40%. Water Stewardship Improved Illumination ▲ 30% In response to global water shortage, we are undertaking efforts to reduce water consumption throughout our production cycle. With the goal to Reduction of Energy Use ▼ 40% reduce our water use by 30% per unit of production by 2020 compared to 2010, AMOREPACIFIC has consistently put effort into reducing water use. Insulation We installed insulation film in our Beauty Campus Osan to preserve heat and cool air by blocking Reduce Recycle Reuse Water Use Efficiency Expanding Recycle Expanding Reuse external heat and UV light, and prevented heat loss totaling 9 degrees Celsius. ㆍOptimization of Water Use ㆍExpanded use of Recycled ㆍRainwater Use Reducing Heat Loss 9℃ ㆍMinimizing Water Loss water after the primary ㆍReuse of Post-Ionization treatment Concentrated Water Reduction of GHG In December 2014, in partnership with the Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, Optimizing Water Use Through consistent monitoring of water use and effectiveness of equipments in our facilities, we are Emissions during Transport we committed to a voluntary pact to monitor transport related GHG emission, and embarked on the taking proactive steps to optimize water consumption. In our Beauty Campus Osan, when we use an air necessary changes. All of our distribution trucks and vehicles had Digital Tacho Graph(DTS) to monitor compressor, brine chiller, and cold-water chillers, our cooling tower is being utilized. During this time, speeding and abrupt use of brakes and accelerators, and to encourage eco-driving to our drivers. In water transferred to the cooling system are often overflowed. So we installed pipes, tanks, and pumps addition, we monitor the location and condition of our vehicles to provide the ecologically relevant to redirect overflowing water into a storage tank, and reduced water loss. In addition, to optimize driving information to our drivers. As a result, we have improved the cost of vehicle fuel use by 0.7% overall water use occurred during the cooling process in cosmetic production tanks, we installed the from the previous year, and reduced diesel consumption by 6,652 liters compared to the previous year. monitoring machine and checked the amount of water that is necessary to cool the seal. We also replaced broken valves to reduce water consumption and the amount of wastewater. Fuel Efficiency (Km/L) Water Recycle and Reuse We are reducting the amount of wastewater through recycling and reuse. In our beauty campus Osan, we have rainwater tanks, which can store 1,400 tons of water, and high-quality water purification processors. In 2015, we reused 32,059 tons of rainwater for gardening, daily activities, cooling, and cleaning activities, and improved facilities to add more rain harvesting tanks to increase the use of rainwater. In Mass Cosmetic Production Sites, we reused byproduct waste when producing ion water as 9.41 9.47 solvents and cooling water, and saved up to 22,000 tons of water. 9.20 8.90 32,059 ton/year 22,000 ton/year 2012 2013 2014 2015 Use of Rain Water (Beauty Campus Osan) Re-use of water (Mass Cosmetic Production Sites) 80 81 Domestic Overseas(china) Harmonious Growth 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Employee engagement Conservation of Biodiversity 81.0 78.0 81.0 89.0 88.0 92.0 Biodiversity is fundamental to healthy human life. However, the loss of biodiversity is alarming, and its loss is happening 1,000 times faster than the natural condition. As AMOREPACIFIC’s core business activities use large amounts of biological resources, we have been undertaking a range of Ratio of female to male employees activities to preserve biodiversity and to share the profits gained through our activities. 64.0 65.3 65.9 76.0 75.6 75.8 Primera’s “Love the Earth” Primera’s core brand-value centers on the energy of plants and their resilient life-force. Primera Campaign engaged in various activities to support wetlands, where earth-energy is focused. Our “Love the Earth Employees, Festival,” which began in 2012, focused on the preservation of wetlands in 2015. We invited Director Partners Percentage of females Primera Friends emphasizing Jae-Chun Choe of the National Institute of Ecology as part of Primera Friends at our conference to raise in management1) the importance of biodiversity at “Love the Earth Festival Talk Concert” awareness about the wetlands’ importance in ecosystems, and donated some of the profits of Primera’s Alpine Berry Watery Cream products to Wetland Preservation Projects, run by the Korean Biodiversity 18.1 20.1 18.5 46.6 45.0 51.6 Foundation. In October 2015, together with the journal F.OUND, we developed an art installation Good project together with up-and-coming artists to share the beauty of wetlands with the general public Relationship and our customers. This art project was exhibited in Underwood Social Club in Seoul for two weeks. 2013 2014 2015 Employee retention rate 80.80 61.80 87.00 after maternity leave (%)2) Publication of <Beyond Flower> AMOREPACIFIC published <Beyond Flower>, a book of native Korean plants used as cosmetic Accident rate (%)3) Domestic 0.04 0 0 Korean Native Plant Book ingredients with 100 miniature drawings of flowers indigenous to Korea. This illustrated compendium Overseas 0.11 0.10 0.16 of native Korean plants reveals AMOREPACIFIC’s deep affection for plants that has been passed down Frequency Domestic 0.22 0 0 since the company’s founding. As such, the book is designed to record, preserve, and spread the value 4) rate of injury (%) of native Korean plants as widely as possible. AMOREPACIFIC Museum of Art undertook a miniatureOverseas 0.56 0.52 0.82 painting project in association with Song Hoon, the first-generation Korean miniaturist. After Education & training Training Hours (H) 82.8 71.4 81.1 travelling all over the country to seek out medicinal plants indigenous to Korea, he completed 100 hours per person Total Training Cost (10,000 KRW) 57 65 109 paintings, and in February 2015, his works were published as an illustrated book. Each painting depicts the plants’ detailed structures and shapes with a sense of harmony between scientific objectivity and artistic subjectivity that photos seldom deliver. These paintings aim to deliver information about plants <Beyond Flower> native to Korea in the most efficient fashion. Amount of Mutual Growth fund 2013 200 in operation 2014 239 Response to AMOREPACIFIC formed a cross-functional team(CFT) in response to the Nagoya Protocol1) which (100mil KRW) the Nagoya Protocol entered into force in October 2014 in an effort to proactively engage with its implementation; this CFT 2015 245 meets monthly about the changed international legal environment on biodiversity and intellectual property regarding biological resources. In 2015, to share the profits gained through genetic resources Number of Number of Business Partners Number of Participants equitably and fairly, as a preparatory step, we confirmed the origin and cultivation sites of all biological Participants in Business Partner 2014 182 2014 1337 resources that our company utilizes. In response, we developed various scenarios that stem from Capacity Building 2015 234 2015 1275 profit-sharing and monitoring international political and economic contexts in this regard. We will Program undertake a joint research on the value of biological resources, and we are committed to supporting the establishment of a biodiversity collaboration ecosystem. 1) We re-calculated the 2013 and 2014 figure as a result of female management ration standard change in our operations in China we excluded non-executive positions 1) The Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization 2) Workplace Return Rate after Parental Leave: (2014 Parental leave returnees who maintain their contracts in 2015 / 2014 parental leave returnees ) * 100 to the Convention on Biological Diversity is an international agreement that aims to share the benefits arising from the utilization 3) Accident Rate = (Number of Accidents / Number of Workers on Yearly Average) * 100 of genetic resources in a fair and equitable way. It entered into force on 12 October 2014. 4) Accident Yield Rate = (Number of Accidents / Number of Working Hours) * 1,000,000 82 83 4. Sustainability Performance Strong Human Capital AMOREPACIFIC is implementing human capital development strategies based on the four key concepts Development vision, innovation, global reach, and leadership so as to foster conscientious and action-oriented Asian beauty creators. Growing together with Employees Continuous internalization of the AP WAY Vision Dissemination of corporate values (AP WAY) in order to firmly embed them in our employees’ work. Fostering differentiated specialists Potential Innovation Establishment and implementation of a human capital development Capacity system focused on corporate functional specialists and beauty experts. Rapid implementation of global strategies AMOREPACIFIC Employees Great Global Development of a system that spreads corporate values to the Brand Company Global overseas offices to enhance company-wide management capacity as Respect well as to foster designated leaders at each overseas office. Mutual Trust for Cultural Establishment of a leadership program for all AMOREPACIFIC Difference employees and management Leadership The implementation of step-by-step job training programs to prepare leaders who can achieve personal and professional growth Human Resources Development AMOREPACIFIC is committed to creating a corporate culture of mutual trust, of respect for the diverse based on our core values. and Management Strategies backgrounds and cultural differences among employees, and in which individual potential can be fully Development of Global Talent realized. By establishing and implementing human resources management strategies tailored to the AMOREPACIFIC is up-scaling our global talent development programs to recruit and nurture globallyglobal business environment, AMOREPACIFIC is striving toward its vision of becoming a great global minded talents with global competencies in order to expand our overseas operations as well as to brand company. pioneer new markets. First, AMOREPACIFIC is offering the Global Internship Program to recruit talented individuals from Sustainable and Outcome-Focused Human Capital Management System diverse countries with global competency who can understand the diverse preferences of our customers In 2015, AMOREPACIFIC introduced a new human capital management system that focused on Hyecho Project worldwide. In 2015, our interns consisted of students from 10 countries who were studying in Korea. outcomes. This new system includes policies on employee job titles, promotion, performance These students experienced a range of corporate functions through the internship and training management, and compensation. The revised policy on job titles recognizes an employee’s change programs at the Korean headquarters of AMOREPACIFIC. of function and expanded responsibilities that come with a promotion while it strengthens a flat Secondly, we are running the Hyecho Project, which is a talent development program named after organizational culture. In order to increase their objectivity and credibility, the revised performance Hyecho, a Korean Buddhist monk who was the first global citizen in Korean history. The project aims management policies emphasize the accountability of managers. These policies make it clear how the to develop our employees into global leaders by providing them with overseas work opportunities outcomes of performance management determine an employee’s promotion and compensation in to conduct market research, develop insights into new markets, and share their findings with others order to induce longer-term successful outcomes. To balance organizational growth and individual at headquarters. In 2015, participants were given an opportunity to explore business environments performance as well as to retain highly talented individuals, our compensation package is now highly and to conduct market research in countries that we have yet to enter. In the markets where we have competitive. Revised policies on job titles, promotion, and compensation will take effect at the start of already begun our operations, employees were assigned to undertake projects in the overseas offices 2015, and a new performance management policy will be introduced in 2016. Before implementing that aimed at providing them with an understanding of global markets. They also shared headquarter these changes, we will hold a session with all our employees, and we will provide training for managers management values with the overseas offices. In 2015, AMOREPACIFIC Hyecho participants were sent to familiarize them with the new performance management system. to 20 overseas offices, including those in new cities in South America and the Middle East where we are considering expanding in the next few years. Workplace Diversity and the Prevention of Discrimination AMOREPACIFIC provides equal opportunities to all its employees according to their competencies and Leadership Capacity Building Program qualifications in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Code of Ethics. Fair evaluations and rewards are AMOREPACIFIC has developed a leadership capacity building model that reflects our company’s given based on job performance, while discrimination in the processes of recruitment, job assignment, vocation, culture, business strategies, and our CEO’s philosophy and have been implementing this promotion, etc. based on gender, place of birth, educational background, disability, or nationality is throughout our corporations, both in Korea and overseas. The model asks senior managers to identify strictly forbidden. Moreover, in compliance with our employment policy, collective agreements, and the their leadership levels and to work towards their key objectives, which they establish themselves. We Labor Standards Act, we strictly forbid child and forced labor. In 2015, 21 disabled people and 66 war offer a diverse range of strategies, such as one-to-one feedback and a capacity development guide to veterans were employed by our company. support the activities of leaders. 84 85 4. Sustainability Performance Increase Safety and health Strengthening the Global Safety, Health, and Environment (SHE) Management System Public Health Activities for Employees AMOREPACIFIC considers employees’ safety and health as one of the top management priorities. 1) Health Fund & Stop Smoking Fund In order for employees and management to work in a safe and pleasant environment, we have AMOREPACIFIC, which pursues health and beauty, operates a health fund and a stop smoking fund upgraded SHE policies and related operational procedures, and re-established our response system to to increase the well-being of our employees. In collaboration with Seoul Joongu Public Health Clinic, accidents and other emergencies. In addition, we have enhanced employees’ awareness about these for eight months a health fund was offered for employees who might need to reduce weight and changes through education and continued communication in order to disseminate our safety culture body fat, and a stop smoking fund was provided to employees who wished to quit smoking. After throughout the company. offering a focused health service via email and text messages, out of 108 health fund participants, 33 (30.5%) were successful, and out of 63 stop smoking fund participants, 27 (42.8%) achieved the Safe Working Environment for Employees desired outcome. For those who were diagnosed with metabolic syndrome during the 2015 annual 1) Establishing an “AP SOS” (Accident Response) System health checkup, we provided a three-month Meta Green product to help them reduce body fat and lose As our areas of business expanded, the risk of safety accidents increased. AMOREPACIFIC is responding weight. effectively and rapidly to safety accidents and any other related matters through the “AP SOS” system. AP SOS is a comprehensive company-wide accident management system which allows employees to 2) Standing Work Program to Prevent Musculoskeletal Disorders report any accidents immediately to HQ focal points through the application installed in their personal We undertook a pilot “standing work program” for 20 participants in order to promote a healthy smartphones. In addition to detecting and reporting workplace risks in a conveniently simple manner, workplace, conduct research on office-worker musculoskeletal disorders prevention, and pre-test the this system contributes to reducing miscommunication during emergencies. relevant office furniture before moving into a new HQ building. This program, which ran from June to October 2015, examined these participants both prior to their participation in the standing work and afterward to understand their musculoskeletal health and reflect their opinions on these work programs. We are planning to offer VARIDESKS to 200 employees who could potentially get sick as a Standing Work result of musculoskeletal disorders. AP SOS 3) Investment in Health Monitoring Equipment To understand our employees’ health and support their continued management, we installed body-fat monitors. We are offering a membership service to our employees to do a continuous monitoring and ask for counselling to take proactive measures based upon a change of body fat. AP SOS System Individual Smartphone Application Headquarters Focal Point Ensuring Great Workplace Smart Work Program 2) Establishing an Event Safety Management System AMOREPACIFIC is implementing a “Smart Work” program to help our employees focus on their work AMOREPACIFIC annually organizes over 300 small and large events, including the Pink Ribbon in a creative way. Through flexible time and space management, we are spreading the idea of effective Marathon and the Counsellor Conference. To ensure the safety of our employees and all those who time management, which also induces creative ideas, increasing the value to customers. are participating in our events, we established a company-wide event safety management system. Specifically, we developed a checklist which helps employees and event volunteers review all the 1) Flexible Working Hours mandatory safety procedures when managing an event. This checklist provides event organizers with a We introduced a flexible working hour system (named “ABC Working Time”) in 2011 to increase method to conduct a three-step review procedure in accordance with relevant safety regulations prior convenience to our employees. We provide employees with an opportunity to choose their office to the event, and clarifies how to respond when any accidents occur during the event. hours beginning at 7 am in order to support them if they choose to undertake personal development activities, such as language training, graduate school, family related issues, and other personal Company-Wide Emergency Monitor Room during the MERS Outbreak development. In 2015, MERS spread in Korea, which resulted in the death of many South Koreans. Given its serious implications for our employees, we operated a company-wide emergency monitor room to ensure the Allowing Time for Self Development safety of our employees and guarantee an effective response. We shared all related MERS response instructions, and established ongoing monitoring mechanisms at each worksite, including heatABC Working Time (Language Courses, Study to Obtain Professional Certificates, Going to Graduate Schools) sensing camera at the entrance of each worksite and regular disinfection of worksites. In addition, am. 7 ~ 10 280,000 individual masks, 5,393 hand sanitizers, and 6,517 bottles of immunity-boosting vitamins Choose one’s official arrival time Parental Time were distributed throughout the company. In addition, we offered a total of 288 paid family leave days based upon an hourly framework (Child Care) to 119 employees whose children’s schools and kindergarten closed during the MERS outbreak. 86 87 4. Sustainability Performance 2) Flexible Working Space Win-Win relationships with Labor-Management Council We have introduced a flexible working space program for sales staff who have numerous external client labor-management AMOREPACIFIC takes pride in the fact that there have been no conflicts or disputes between the labor meetings, to reduce unnecessary travel time, increase work efficiency, and foster a field-based work. union and management for the past 24 years. As of the end of 2015, the number of employees in the Each unit is involved in the flexible working space program on a voluntary basis, and we are offering a labor union was 2,222, with 41.7% of the employees holding memberships, and employees are free range of support programs, such as mandatory field work and directly going to external meetings, to to join or leave the labor union at any time. A collective agreement is concluded once every two years, embed a flexible working space program. and it is applicable to all of the employees. There is a labor-management council operating at each production site, and every quarter, they consult on the matters necessary to promote employee health 3) Big Think Time and welfare, resolve their difficulties, and ensure a harmonious balance between career and family We are operating a voluntary “Big Think Time” to offer management staff time to focus on company life. The management in each business sector and the executives of the labor union meet regularly for vision and develop strategies of leadership without interruptions. To maximize this 30-min Big Think bilateral communication. Also, the leaders from the field are invited to the meetings to present their Time, we provide reminders through smartphones and intranet, and will continue support to ensure opinions. that the big think time becomes a widespread feature in our corporate culture. 4) Implementing Field-Focused Work for Sales Staff AMOREPACIFIC is maintaining sales staff’s field work at about 50% to ensure that we identify critical issues at an early stage and respond to these at key customer touch points. Furthermore, we redefine “field” for our management by including customers, stores, business partners, stakeholders, and local communities, and asking them to engage in field work about 30% of their time. Work-Life Balance Happy Vacation is a self-initiated vacation culture where AMOREPACIFIC employees can maintain work-life balance and increase work efficiency through an adequate restoration period. In 2015, we Collective Bargaining Signing Ceremony introduced an “annual vacation plan registration system” where individual employees can plan their vacation days. All employees register their vacation days at the beginning of year, and to ensure that Monitoring of Labor Regulations and Human Rights Education all can enjoy these days without extra pressure, the automatic email system makes an announcement AMOREPACIFIC strictly adheres to the domestic and international laws and regulations on labor to staff members and their supervisors a few weeks in advance. We strive to balance work and life by practices such as protection of mothers and senior laborers and prohibition of child labor and forced encouraging flexible annual leave use. labor. Compliance with the provisions is monitored by the relevant departments in good faith. Also, ongoing education programs are provided to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. In 2015, the education program for sexual harassment prevention was designated as a required course for every Various Annual Leave Policies individual, and it was provided on the e-Learning platform. For those who faced difficulties in using the Extra day-off when there is one “non-holiday” day between e-Learning program, such as employees at department store and production lines, related videos were “Sandwich” Holidays two national holidays screened and printed materials were distributed during the monthly sales training and safety training Additional Leave around sessions, respectively. In November 2015, we included an additional online education on sexual Two days before and after key major national holidays National Holidays harassment during our regular company-wide meeting. Happy Vacation + in addition to 5 paid summer holidays, we encourage additional (previously known as Summer 5 days paid leave (total 2 weeks) Vacation) We encourage our employees to use up to 4 days, of paid leave Relevant Labour Principles Prevention of Sexual End of Year Holiday Harassment at Workplace around Christmas time Working Mother Protection Online Course Use of leave around family related events (i.e., wedding, birthdays, Family Leave Protection of Working Minors Separate Course for Field Workers funerals), and special occasions (graduation, children’s vacation) No Child Labour Additional Course for All Employees No Forced Labour Personal Development Leave Use of annual leave to pursue personal development plans 88 89 4. Sustainability Performance Promoting Mutual Growth Mutual Growth Agreement with Authorized and Franchise Stores Culture To promote mutual growth between authorized and franchise stores, we signed an agreement with the Mutual Growth Committee. According to this agreement, both parties will fully comply with the Korean Growth with Business Partner Fair Trade Commission’s recommendations in relation to authorized dealers and franchise stores, and regularly monitor the agreement. Furthermore, the Mutual Growth Committee will establish a subcommittee called a “franchise store mutual growth committee” to monitor and review the agreement, and meet regularly to share best practices. Establishing Communication Procurement Portal Site Renewal and Effective Engagement We updated our comprehensive purchase portal in an effort to manage and monitor our business with Business Partners partners, standardize procurement activities, and enhance close communication. We are committed Strengthening Support to Counselors In 2013, we launched the “Door-to-Door Sales Mutual Growth Council,” consisting of 14 members to creating a strategic and effective environment for procurement and purchase with our business of AMOREPACIFIC and 15 store owners operating door-to-door sales, in order to explore various partners. sales policies to improve the income of AMOREPACIFIC counsellors who are at the forefront of sales distribution channel. This Council discusses the system and strategies for 2016 in order to overcome SCM Partners – Mutual Growth General Assembly low-growth periods, and identifies specific policies that can support the 2020 Door-to-Door Division’s We convened two meetings a year to meet with the management of our business partners in an vision “Good Job 250”(which aims to ensure on average 2.5 million KRW per month by each attempt to enhance communication. AMOREPACIFIC hosts the Mutual Growth with SCM Partners counsellor). General Assembly at the start of every year and the Win-Win Seminar at the end of every year. At the The Counsellor Support Group is a self-organizing group established to improve the welfare of Mutual Growth General Assembly held in February 2015, AMOREPACIFIC shared its management counsellors and increase their pride in their work, and use the membership fees and corporate strategies and direction of its operations for the year 2015, in addition to presenting the cooperative sponsorship for financial aid to cover their medical expenses, children’s tuition, and funeral costs. measures to achieve the 2015 objectives in the five fields of packaging, raw materials, ODM, “Door-to-Door” Turtleship Project is designed to offer strategies to recognize stores with the best sales production and logistics, and discussing the difficulties faced by the suppliers. At the Win-Win Seminar and share the lessons learned, and the first trial ended with success in 2014. In 2015, we managed a in December 2015, the 2015 performance records were reviewed, and the direction of operations for program named “self-motivated and continuously learning store owners” to promote best door-tothe year 2015 was discussed. We also provided 230 million KRW to 12 of the best performing business door sales practices. partners to support their productivity improvement and system optimization. Financial Contributions to 17 High Performing Business Partners 245 million KRW Indirect Purchase and In response to the changed business environment and increased societal emphasis on mutual its partner's Mutual Growth growth with merchandise partners, our Merchandise Support Division established a mid-long term roadmap for mutual growth. In 2015, we developed a concrete plan for four key strategic directions Visit to Second-Tier Suppliers to strengthen mutual growth with our partners, and these strategies include mutual growth program To discuss mutual growth strategies, our SCM unit representative visited Nara Industry our second quality improvement, purchase governance enhancement, establishment of fair trade, and increased tier supplier. After visiting this supplier, AMOREPACIFIC management and five CEOs of five second tier communication with partners. supplier companies held a meeting to discuss challenges faced by second tier suppliers and ways to Indirect Purchase Mutual approach such challenges. Growth Four Key Strategies Visit to Second-Tier Suppliers Mutual Growth Support Program ㆍUse of the Company’s Social Welfare Shops by and Financial Assistance to Suppliers’ Employees In collaboration with domestic and overseas organizations, we have been providing a range of Mutual Growth Program’s 1 ㆍImproving Payment Process of Our Subsidiaries’ Suppliers programs designed to support the growth of our suppliers, contractors, consultants, and business Quality Improvement ㆍEducational Opportunities through Partnerships with the National Human Resources partners. At the IBK-sponsored Good Business recruitment expo, we set up a joint section with an Development Consortium “AMOREPACIFIC Booth” together with our business partners, to offer an opportunity to recruit people to those of our suppliers which experience difficulty in acquiring highly talented individuals. 2 Strengthening Sales Governance ㆍMonitor Procurement Policies on Subcontracting (i.e., promotional materials and printing materials) At this expo, our 10 business partners interviewed about 120 applicants. We have also sponsored the ㆍDetailed Internal Audit and Review on Ten Key Purchase Processes, Such As Contracts, Order, Establishment of participation of our high-performing business partners in the Thai Cosmetic Exhibition from November 3 Fair Trade System and Payment. 3-5 2015. Specifically, we provided 65 million KRW to support all the costs, including application fees, booth setup, and interior costs, and six business partners engaged in 145 export-related business deals ㆍThird Mutual Growth Business Forum in the First Half of 2015 Strengthening Communications that are worth USD $980K. 4 with Suppliers ㆍDeveloping and Strengthening a New Sales Portal System through Continued Communications with Suppliers 90 91 4. Sustainability Performance Social contribution and Amount of Expenditure (mil KRW) Ratio Compared to Sharing for Society 1) Sales (%) 0.5 philanthropic expenses 0.3 0.3 2) 10,356 20,921 15,842 2013 2014 2015 Our Approaches to Ratio Compared to Pre-tax Profits (%) 2.8 3.9 Corporate Social Responsibility 2.0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Social Contributions Vision and Strategy Makeup Your Life Number of Recipients Number of Volunteers Campaign 1,380 595 2013 1,424 575 2014 1,048 492 2015 Corporate Social Pink Ribbon Campaign Financial assistance for surgery Number of Responsibilities and treatment Marathon 23,852 2013 Participants 13,900 2014 319 284 261 21,231 2015 Women Natural Ecosystem Number of Health Good Citizenship Class Participants 25,193 2013 21,435 2014 Supporting Women’s Health, Welfare, Social contributions program focused on 2013 2014 2015 29,440 2015 and Cultural Activities natural ecosystem (environment) Heemang Store Program Number of Stores (cumulative) 262 202 231 Realizing Healthy Beauty of Women and Their Family as a Responsible Corporate Citizen 2013 2014 2015 Recycled Empty Bottles (Tons) 238 250 Culture 176 2013 2014 2015 Sharing activities of employees, operation of non-for-profit public foundation, brand CSR, Sharing Activities for Number of Participants Average Volunteered Hours and partnerships with external organisations Employees 10.8 10.7 2013 3,516 2014 3,060 7.0 2015 3,062 2013 2014 2015 Public Foundation AMOREPACIFIC Foundation AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation Korean Breast Cancer Foundation (mil KRW) (mil KRW) (mil KRW) Expenses 526 537 486 530 490 565 1,110 1,919 2,409 Social Contributions, Vision, AMOREPACIFIC is committed to our vocation to social contribution, aiming to “encourage the health and Strategies and beauty of women and their families as a responsible corporate citizen.” In an effort to fulfill significant societal change, our social contribution activities center around three areas: women, natural 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ecosystems (environment), and culture. In addition to offering a number of programs related to these three themes, the organization undertakes a range of philanthropic activities such as employee 1, 2) social contributions and makeup your life campaign includes the ones undertaken in China volunteering, corporate foundation, and partnerships with other organizations. 92 93 4. Sustainability Performance Free Preventative Breast Cancer Screening Service 15 Years of Pink Ribbon Campaign with Key Figures Participants in Pink Ribbon 28,000 recipients Love Marathon Key Social Contribution Activities 275,000 individuals Financial support to surgery and post-surgery treatment of breast cancer patients with low incomes Makeup Your Life Campaign Beginning in 2008, our “Makeup Your Life” campaign is designed to support female cancer patients Pink Ribbon Campaign 865 cases Total Participants (cumulative figure) using make-up and skincare advice and hair-styling. This campaign focuses on helping these patients overcome various psychological challenges during their treatment and recovery by discovering their Approximately 2.3 billion KRW inner beauty and fostering positive self-esteem. In 2015, the 6th year of this campaign, 22 programs 503,000 individuals Financial Support to Breast Health were offered through hospitals in which 422 AMOREPACIFIC counsellors engaged with 808 cancer Related Academic Research makeup your patients. For those who were unable to visit the hospitals, we also offered visitation service to 17 Life patients for one-on-one sessions. Our program includes an array of educational programs, including a Participants 135 cases tea ceremony, flower-applied crafts, and make-up coloring techniques that can help relieve stress and get in touch with patients’ inner and external beauty. taking health courses 1.5 billion KRW 200,000 individuals Number of Female Cancer Patients Who Participated in a Campaign 808 Heemang Store Heemang (meaning “Hope” in English) Store is a start-up assistance program designed to support low-income single-mother households. This program is financed by the “JANGWON Sung-whan Suh’s Beautiful World Fund” of the Beautiful Foundation as a result of the will of former chairman, Sungwhan Suh. The Fund provides single mothers with a microcredit of 40 million KRW without request of any insurance and helps them to start their own business. Return payments are deposited into the Heemang Seed Asset to be used for other low-income single mothers to start a business. In this way, the Heemang Store promotes and circulates the value of sharing and goodness in our society. In July 2004, the first Beautiful World Fund Heemang Store, Mijeyeon, was opened, and up until 2015, a total of 262 stores were opened. Number of Heemang Stores (Cumulative Figure) Repayment Rate of Heemang Store Loans 81% 1) Store Continuity Rate (1.5 times higher than average small business owners) 79% Makeup Your Life 262 stores Average income of store owners (2.5 times increase) 2.52 million KRW 1) Survival Duration is approximately 3 years Pink Ribbon Campaign AMOREPACIFIC founded the Korean Breast Health Foundation, a not-for-profit foundation, in 2000, and has since promoted the “Pink Ribbon Campaign” to raise awareness of breast health, including GREENCYCLE Campaign AMOREPACIFIC Group undertook a range of activities to improve the quality of public participation self-checkups, through public participation. This campaign, which began in 2001, has attracted in our signature environment campaign (Green Cycle), which began as a recycling program of empty cosmetic bottles. First, we sought creative ways to recycle the collected containers. Especially, we 503,000 people over the past 15 years. In 2015, which marks the 15th anniversary of the “Pink Ribbon increased our efforts to design a cosmetic container out of recycled bottles, which we experimented Campaign,” we launched a year-long “Pink Ribbon, Always” campaign to reach out to more people with first in 2013. We selected IOPE Bio Essence containers and used them as raw materials to make about the importance of breast health. A signature program of this campaign is the “Pink Ribbon Love new cosmetic containers after the crushing and cleansing processes. Since we began this activity in Marathon,” which began in 2001, attracting over 275,000 people and raising 2.9 billion KRW for the 2013, a total of about 4.5 tons of empty containers have been recycled. We also made empty bottle GREENCYCLE work of the Korean Breast Cancer Foundation over the last 15 years. In addition, we offer a “Pink Tour” recycling more accessible to the general public through a short animation film featuring an empty education focusing on breast-health information and cancer-prevention knowledge, run a citizenbottle which explains about the recycling process, outcomes and need to creatively recycle resources. In 2015, we participated in the annual urban greening campaign of the Seoul Metropolitan Government, ambassador “Pink Generation” program, and arrange a “Pink Ribbon Choir Contest” to bring breast entitled “Seoul in Blossom,” and convened an experience-oriented workshop called “Useless, but cancer survivors together with others through music. Useful.” featuring empty bottles in partnership with Osan Cultural Foundation. In addition, our program featured a sculpture made out of cushion containers at the Seoul Lantern Festival in an effort to change people’s perceptions of empty cosmetic containers. 94 95 4. Sustainability Performance GREENCYCLE Campaign Collected Bottles(cumulative figure) 254t 431t 669t 920t Global Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Global Expansion of AMOREPACIFIC has been undertaking the “Makeup Your Life Campaign,” a campaign helping female “Makeup Your Life cancer patients to regain their confidence and beauty through make-up and beauty consulting, in Campaign” China since 2011. In its early days, the campaign was limited to Shanghai, but in 2015 it was expanded to Beijing, Chengdu, and Guangzhou. In 2015, our Vietnam subsidiary began this same campaign. We engaged approximately 90 cancer patients, offering make-up services and teaching them skin-care Participated in Seoul Blooming Flowers know-how, and giving them the chance to participate in a talk-show together with oncologists. as part of GREENCYCLE Campaign 2012 2013 2014 2015 Employees Sharing Activities AMOREPACIFIC encourages its employees to engage in various sharing activities and to spread Support to Cancer Patients through China’s Makeup Your Life Campaign (2015) 240 the value of sharing to exert positive influences on society as a whole. The sharing activities of Sharing Activities Program AMOREPACIFIC include Beautiful Sharing activity, Beautiful Saturday (donation of goods), small change donation (less than 1,000 KRW donations), matching gifts, Beautiful Sharing Activity (goods equivalent ㆍBeautiful Sharing to 30 billion KRW). These sharing activities are performed based on the voluntary participation of AMOREPACIFIC China’s Donation AMOREPACIFIC China donated the completed building of Xinmin Elementary School to Ludian ㆍBeautiful Saturday employees. Furthermore, employees perform talent-sharing activities in places where their talents to Elementary Schools in County, Yunnan Province, China through CNY 2 million APC in contributions following a devastating (In-Kind Products Donation) ㆍSalary Sharing are needed aside from simple volunteering activities. The Sharing Activity Management Department Earthquake-Stricken Areas earthquake. This elementary school building was named “AMORE Building,” and it provides an (Salary Portion Donation) supports the employees’ volunteer participation. We also have the sharing mileage system, which educational space for students. In addition, we donated school supplies to low-income students. ㆍMatching Gift rewards employees’ sharing activity performance, and the matching gift system, in which an equal ㆍBeautiful Products Sharing AMOREPACIFIC has taken an active part in social services and relief activities for victims of large natural amount of the money donated by employees is also donated by AMOREPACIFIC. Meanwhile, the disasters over the years and, as a result, has contributed to local communities in China. AMOREPACIFIC sharing activity program is based on a different theme every month so that participants do not feel made donations for the reconstruction of earthquake-hit areas: Wenchuan County in 2008, Yushu bored with the same activity. Prefecture in 2010, Ya'an in 2013, and Ludian County in 2014. Additionally, we donated 568 backpacks to students residing in Guizhou. Strategic Philanthropic Social Beautiful Sharing Contribution Activities For our “2015 Beautiful Sharing” project, we donated household goods, cosmetics, and green tea of the AMOREPACIFIC brand worth a total of 3 billion KRW to the Community Chest of Korea. Our inkind donation program aims to improve the lives of low-income families and individuals; it began in 2008 2010 2013 2014 2003 primarily as our own unique corporate philanthropic activity with the name of “Sharing Love Donations Wenchuan Yushu Ya’an Ludian and Sharing Goods”. Since 2009, in collaboration with the Community Chest of Korea, we have been donating our branded products to over 3,000 social-welfare organizations on an annual basis. 30 billion KRW Cosmetics, Green tea, and other daily products donations to the Community Chest of Korea Every year approximately Signing Ceremony to Donate the Funding to Community Chest of Korea Public Art Project AMOREPACIFIC held its third series of AMOREPACIFIC Museum of Art projects (APMAP) “2015 Yongin Researcher’s Way” to promote public art. Held at AMOREPACIFIC Technology Institute, 16 teams of contemporary artists and architects whose projects centered on the beauty of sense and knowledge showcased a range of art products (sculpture, interactive media, and architecture) under the theme of “technology for new beauty.” APMAP is our company’s public art exhibition series, which began in 2013 in our Beauty Campus Osan. Until 2016, we will tour around the country, and from AMORE Building 2017 to 2020, we will showcase art exhibitions in Jeju to capture its unique natural environment. 96 97 Corporate Foundations and Major Philanthropic Activities AMOREPACIFIC established and continues to perform various activities with three corporate foundations (AMOREPACIFIC Foundation, About the Company innisfree, the naturalism brand launched in 2000, is dedicated to spreading healthy beauty with the AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation, and Korean Breast Cancer Foundation) other than social contribution activities directly performed by the natural energy from the pristine island of Jeju. innisfree consistently seeks and research to keep the five corporation. Each foundation supports in-depth social contribution activities in the fields of academic culture research and women’s health and promises that are using natural ingredients, good consumption practices, eco-friendly campaign, green welfare. design, clean and natural customer’s experiences. Further, Innisfree is becoming better sustainable brand by delivering value adding activities for customers and society. AMOREPACIFIC Foundation Established in 1973, AMOREPACIFIC Foundation supports various domestic and overseas research activities about Asian beauty, women, and culture in an effort to promote and disseminate knowledge. We have supported research projects related to the theme of women and culture which have led to the Key Corporate Green Promise Promises for Our Customers and Nature AMOREPACIFIC Foundation Activities publication of 14 peer-reviewed articles in domestic and overseas academic journals, including those Sustainability Activities Every year, innisfree announces the Green Promise performance indicators, then reports our progress ㆍSupport to research projects listed in Thomson Reuter’s Social Science Citation Index. By sponsoring writing activities focused on against each target and communicates them with our stakeholders. We are committed to fulfilling our focused on women and culture promises and doing our utmost to share the benefits of nature with our customers and grow together Asian beauty, we published two books under the “Asian Beauty Series” (Heavenly Beauty on Earth by ㆍLaunch of Asia’s Beauty volume 1 Heejung Kang & Immortal Story of Beauty by Kangha Yoo) to share philosophical insights on beauty with society. and volume 2 ㆍHumanity Seminar Series “Beauty” with the general public. The Foundation supports continuing education courses on beauty by inviting a Green Promise 2015 performance Program range of leading experts on fashion, music, art, and food. We are expanding the depth of our program ㆍCitizen Columnists Focused on and enlarging public participation through programs such as “citizen columnists” and “university SHARE GREEN Asian Beauty which I discovered ㆍCollege Journalist Beauty Editor journalists” and “beauty editors”. 600 ton Program Sharing a Greener World with our CO2 emission Customers reduction 5,405 trees Through this recycling campaign Pine Tree of empty bottles, we promise to reduce Planting Effect 180 tons of CO2. (Eco-Friendly Campaign) (From August 2009 to December 2015) HONEST GREEN Humanity Seminar Series – “Beauty Program” Presenting Honest Green Products to our Customers AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation The AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation focuses on supporting the self-reliance of women who need social care. In 2015, the Foundation consolidated its various programs such as HAPPY BATH Happy We promise to source more than 70% of our ingredients from natural materials. 78.2% (Natural Ingredients) (Excluding makeup products, A total of 2015) Smile and ARITAUM into a signature project (“women’s space and culture improvement”) to become more holistic. The Foundation made contributions to promoting women’s convenience and improving the quality of their lives by renovating a total of 11 poorly furnished female facilities of a non-profit women’s organization. EXPERIENCE GREEN Korean Breast Cancer Established in 2000, the Korean Breast Cancer Foundation is carrying out various social projects related Helping our customers experience the value of a greener world 1.76 billion KRW Foundation to breast health, including the Pink Ribbon Campaign, breast-health education, medical support for breast-cancer patients from low-income households, and financial support for academic research. In We promise to donate more than 1% of our yearly profits to nature conservation 2015, to mark the foundation’s 15th anniversary, we organized a special hiking in which recovering and communities so our customers can (A total of 2015) cancer patients and medical professionals participated. We will continue to promote the beautiful experience a green life. (Social Investment) and healthy lives of women as a social hub of breast health, raising awareness of breast cancer and supporting its treatment. 98 99 4. Sustainability Performance Promoting Green Habits to our Customers and Stakeholders Preserving Nature 1) Eco-Handkerchief Campaign 1) innisfree Forest Campaign The Eco-Handkerchief Campaign is a major environmental effort that has been conducted by innisfree To preserve forests a source of human life and repository of the ecosystem we began a “forest since 2010, encouraging the habit of using a handkerchief instead of tissues. With the slogan of “use campaign.” As part of this effort, we are undertaking activities designed to protect “Gotjawal” (Jeju’s a hankie, save the Earth,” this campaign conveys the message that using a handkerchief saves trees, signature forest), and to support the planting of trees in inner Mongolia, which experienced intense Jeju’s Spring Time with Jeju’s Summer Time protects forests, and strives to reduce global warming. desertification. Yellow Citrus Flower with Sparking White Green Tea Flower Every year, innisfree presents a handkerchief with a new design. In 2015, Eco-Handkerchief included illustrations of the four seasons of Jeju Island and shares its unspoiled beauty. We also extended this Sponsorship for the Gotjawal Trust of Jeju effort to Shanghai, China by opening an Eco-Handkerchief Gallery to promote an eco-friendly green life innisfree signed an agreement with the Gotjawal Trust of Jeju in May 2012 for the purposes of to our overseas customers. We will continue to communicate with our consumers with a new design protecting Gotjawal in Jeju, where the natural ecosystem has slowly been destroyed, and has been each year, along with an idea to help them integrate a small habit in their own lives that will protect donating a part of the proceeds from the sales of “Forest for Men” product lines every year. The the Earth through handkerchiefs. donation was used to purchase the privatized lands in Gotjawal to be turned into public properties, as a Jeju’s Autumn Time Jeju’s Winter Time with Coloring Leaves with Blooming means to prevent indiscriminate development by individual owners. in Hallah Mountain Camellia 2) Play Green Campaign Million Tree Project-Preventing Desertification of Inner Mongolia The three-phase Play Green Campaign promotes a more fun and exciting way to practice a green Roots and Shoots, a non-governmental organization, is conducting the Million Tree Project for the lifestyle, so as to make it less daunting for the general public. In the first phase, customers use the purpose of preventing desertification in China’s Inner Mongolia. Since 2013, our company has been Play Green platform on the innisfree app to upload photos of them practicing the green lifestyle, and donating trees to this project (total 40,000 trees). In 2015, our employees participated in planting inspiring others to follow. When they post pictures or receive “likes” from other users, they gain green trees to showcase our commitment to this important agenda. We will continue our efforts to ensure points, which they can use to participate in the Play Green Class or the innisfree Play Green Festival. that forest is able to maintain its beauty and unique value to nature. The second phase is the Play Green Class, with small-scale eco classes held monthly at the Jeju House store in Samcheong-dong in Seoul. The third phase is the innisfree Play Green Festival, where the Play Green members can have a great time and receive further inspiration to engage in green practices. The 2) Green Bicycle Campaign festival, held for the second time this year, provides a chance for the members to appreciate nature and We are expanding our green life promotion activities beyond Korea. On September 19, 2015, we enjoy fun activities at the same time. organized a green bicycle tour in Beijing to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions through Going forward, we will launch a global Play Green application for customers around the world to the widespread use of bicycles, with the slogan of “low carbon transportation, ride a bike, save my participate in the Play Green campaign, and hold a Play Green festival in major cities abroad. city.” We initiated this campaign in an effort to improve the environmental quality in major cities, where we often meet our customers. 100 volunteers who love the innisfree brand participated in this first green bicycle campaign. In eight innisfree stores in Beijing, these volunteers rode bicycles and 3) Green Christmas Campaign engaged citizens about the low carbon lifestyle, including a petition collecting signatures in support of innisfree’s Green Christmas Campaign, which kicked off in 2010, celebrated its sixth year in 2015. a low-carbon lifestyles. The green bicycle tour aims to improve urban life by promoting an eco-friendly This campaign aims to establish “sharing” Christmas culture rather than just enjoying extravagant lifestyle, and reflects the brand philosophy of our company. Going forward, every quarter, we will festive celebrations. Not only can people enjoy themselves by participating in the campaign, but their undertake this campaign in major cities in China to share the value of green living as well as to position participation also makes the world warmer for those who are in need. Under the slogan, “Make, Enjoy us as a brand spearheading environmental protection. and Share,” innisfree presented a DIY kit about the pleasure of creating something and the warmth of sharing. In 2015, with the main concept of sharing happiness and bringing our hearts together, we presented a DIY play-block kit and a portion of its proceeds was donated to the Save the Children, Win-Win Growth with Partners and Employees which led the “protect the playground campaign” that supported building safe playgrounds for children 1) Dream Store Encouraging Green-earths Visions in remote rural areas. The Dream Store Program provides a chance for the “Green-earths” sales associates working at our In addition, this campaign was carried out simultaneously in six countries, including Korea, China, innisfree stores to own and operate their own innisfree stores. This is an employee development Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Singapore. innisfree will expand the Green Christmas Campaign as program that not only provides store ownership opportunities, but also creates a platform to realize a global activity to share our Christmas culture with customers and stakeholders across Asia. the dream of Green-earths. The Dream Store Program also allows innisfree to seek measures to achieve mutual growth with our sales associates. Participants in this program were selected through threemonth long battle missions, including business analysis of other stores, an “infinite growth” project, a “store maximum growth” project, and a final presentation. The first Dream Store was opened in 2014, and the goal is to operate 21 stores by 2020. Green Christmas DIY Block Kit 100 101 2) Distribution of Well-Being Kits for Green-earths Associates innisfree believes that the fulfillment of our Green-earths associates will lead to customer satisfaction. Accordingly, in order to ensure the health of the Green-earths, who must work on their feet all day on the front lines, innisfree has been providing our sales associates with a Well-Being Kit since 2013. The kit comprises diverse trendy well-being products, such as a cooling leg massage gel, and foot and leg relaxing patches which help ease physical and mental fatigue. About the Company ETUDE is a makeup brand helping women fulfill their sweet imagination of becoming more beautiful Well-Being Kits for Green-earths Associates and having a magical day. With the launch of ETUDE house in 2005, we promote the fun and easy Cooling Leg Massage Gel Foot-Leg Relaxing Patch Stretching Footrest makeup culture, and offer trendy products infused with ETUDE’s lovely aesthetics. It is enjoying tremendous popularity as the top K-Beauty makeup brand not just in Korea, but all over Asia including China, Japan and Singapore. 3) Making a Happy Workplace for Employees through the Wish Day In an effort to promote exchange and cooperation among the different teams, as well as to integrate corporate social responsibility activities more firmly to our operations, innisfree designated a Wish Launching We introduced ETUDE’s new vision of “a global brand company promoting a fun makeup culture and Day for employees. This program was designed to promote collaboration and strengthen relationships ETUDE’s New Vision creating trends through sweet imagination,” and developed a strategy to achieve this vision. among employees from different teams through voluntary activities. Increased collaboration has enhanced efficiency, and joint social responsibility activities renew the employees’ sense of mission. Expanding in Global Markets With an ambitious vision of becoming a global number one naturalist brand, we have devoted great ㆍBecoming a highly efforts to increasing innisfree’s shares in global markets. In May 2015, we entered the Thai market, attractive brand loved by customers in their 20s the largest health and beauty market in ASEAN region. In addition to opening our first flagship store ㆍProfit-focused qualitative growth in Siam, the largest retail area in Thailand, we launched our second shop in Megabangna, the biggest 2020 Objectives ㆍGlobal expansion shopping mall in the ASEAN region. Siam is particularly popular with customers in their 20s and 30s, which are the key target consumers of innisfree, and has a great reputation as a tourist site for foreigners visiting Thailand. Our Siam store has many features, including two vertical gardens which reflect our brand identity, a perfume zone, and a DIY soap experience zone, and presents our unique Launching of ETUDE’S brand to Thai customers. Our second store in Megabangna is 190 sq m, including a diffuser zone 2020 VISION and seed serum column decoration that are fun and interesting, attracting young and trendy Thai We aspire to become customers to our brand. In November 2015, we opened our third store, building on the success of the a global brand company first two. promoting a fun makeup culture Brand Core and creating trends ETUDE Spirit through sweet imagination ㆍSweet Dream ㆍGet Insight ㆍFun Innovation ㆍNew Ways innisfree Thailand Store ㆍMove Fast ㆍGo together 102 103 Customer Sales associate “Sweeties” who are at the forefront of meeting customers are presenting fun experience Satisfaction Activities to our consumers, and we have offered differentiated service. In August 2015, we developed a service training reflecting ETUDE core values, and have started providing a new customer service education to managers of our partner companies since December 2015. Since 2008, ETUDE has been running a semi-annual Beauti-zen Program, fostering marketers among university students and identifying the latest trends and customer needs at the same time. During the six-month program period, they get to participate in the brand promotion planning and execution About the Company eSpoir aspires to become a professional make-up brand which offers a transformative experience to processes by trying out the newly developed products and creating beauty contents. customers who want to make a bold change and find their new look. We are always trying to convey fostering future marketers among university students the value of our products more effectively by combining unique colors, textures, and shades with the Beauti-zen artistic skills of professional make-up artists. We strive to fulfill the vision of a professional make-up offering an opportunity to participate the brand promotion planning and execution processes brand that leads Asian cosmetics culture by creating an innovative organizational ethos that is not afraid of failure, and strengthening our global capabilities. Brand Philosophy Power of Transformation All women want to be able to change their look anytime they want to express their feelings and emotions in a bold and powerful way. Identifying the most appropriate color pallet and texture to express oneself naturally, and finding the perfect look this is the motto of eSpoir make-up. Power of Transformation Beauti-zen Beauty Camp Color Palette Texture Look Reinforced Communication ETUDE conducts a wide range of win-win relationship management activities in order to promote Natural and Healthy-Looking Color Palette Working for You! Perfect Look All Women Want with and Support for communication with and provide reinforced practical support for the franchise owners. In the first Texture Franchise Owners half of 2015, we held a workshop with franchise owners to enhance communication, and since June 2015, we have engaged with these owners on a monthly basis through meetings. Furthermore, to strengthen real-time communications, we utilized SNS channels as effective communication tools to Reinforced Field Communication respond to the voice of customers. Second, we are operating a program called “dream team” to provide Workshop with Franchise practical support to the owners of small and low-growth franchise stores. The dream team identifies Owners focused on the VOC Response Strategy through SNS the programs that need to be addressed, and suggests ideas for improvements, such as store operation know-how and customer service skills with a view to strengthening the sustainability of the franchise. Mutual Growth This program received a highly satisfactory response from franchise owners, and we will strengthen Dream Team Program to support to the dream team’s capabilities to further enhance our partnership with them. In 2015, an exclusive call small and under-performing franchises center for the franchise stores, called the Pink Hotline, was established in order to answer inquiries regarding products and claims as soon as they were received. Reinforced HR Development Our in-house educational program has been reinforced since 2014. For instance, a systematic course was made available for employees wishing to learn Chinese and English. Based upon their skill level, employees are assigned to different classes, and twice a week external instructors offer courses that teach about the language and culture of particular countries. These courses not only help them achieve personal growth and development, they foster talented professionals who can contribute to ETUDE’s expansion in the overseas market. Through our mentoring program, which connects between senior colleagues and new associates, the company assists young professionals to adjust to the work program as well as to learn about other departments’ work. This program received a positive response, as it eSpoir Gangnam Store offers an opportunity to renew their commitments to and initial enthusiasm for their work. 104 105 Customer Satisfaction Development of Signature Products We are working on the “pro-tailor EX line”, which will combine our unique formula and shade system in a signature line representing our brand, while also enhancing our existing make-up lines. In addition, we are upgrading the texture of our signature lip make-up product, Lipstick Nowear, and adding iconic new colors to set the trends. We are also dedicated to reducing our environmental footprint by using less packaging and launching a cushion foundation that can be refilled. About the Company AMOS professional is a specialized hair styling product manufacturer that supplies goods and services Wake Up your Make Up to hair salons. At present, it is in charge of operating two brands: AMOS professional and the premium We have been running a makeover project that brings a wealth of cosmetics experience to our eSpoir Pro Tailor Liquid Foundation EX brand, AYUNCHE. As a leading company in the beauty market, it maintained its No.1 status in sales customers; we listen to their concerns and match them with seasoned artists from a pro studio. among the domestic brands. Customers are chosen through Facebook, which gives them greater power to stay in touch with us. Key Product Development with Hair Designers Corporate Sustainability AMOS professional collaborates with hair designers from product development to launch. Based Activities upon our unique trend development methodology of Research Insight Application (RIA)1) and Hair Professional Market Insight (HMI)2), we propose most cutting-edge trendy styles, and develop products eSpoir Lipstick Nowear incorporating the needs of hair designers. In collaboration with hair designers, we offered the products reflecting the salon’s application process, and developed digital content for a new product manual to enhance the quality of products. Wake Up your Make Up 1) Research Insight Application is a process proposing new hair trends in collaboration with hair designers based upon the trend analysis of politics, society, culture, and lifestyles. 2) Hair Professional Market Insight is a process to obtain insights that will be integrated into product development Make-Up Lesson Program and marketing strategies by engaging hair designers and consumer panelists. eSpoir offers private and group sessions teaching professional make-up skills for those who wish to deepen their knowledge. Private lessons are tailored to the customer’s preferred make-up styles and Hosting of Hair in Trend take place in their local area, whereas group sessions, which happen in the eSpoir Pro Artist Studio, AMOS professional holds the “Hair in Trend”, the largest hair show in Korea, to offer hairstyling give customers the chance to tell their stories. solutions to participants; these are derived from analyzing the mega-trends and current fashion information. In December 2015, at our 11th Hair In Trend with the theme of “Cre.ESCAPE (inspired by creative escape),” we brought 2,500 hair designers together to inspire their creative impulses for Pro TIP innovation, which would help to position our brand as a trend leader in the professional hair product eSpoir offers various content and service to customers through our website. There are daily make-up market. tips, including easy-to-follow manuals, pro make-up videos, recommendations on colors, foundations, and brushes, and a q & a whereby customers can get a response from a professional make-up artist AMOS professional Hair in Trend in 2015 within 24 hours. Win-Win Growth with Our Partners 1) Education Center for Hair Designer Training We have been running an education center to provide training on hairstyling techniques and courses New Collection Everyday Makeup Pro Makeup Video Artist Q & A on rapidly changing hair trends to Korea hair designers. In Korea, there are about 88,000 hair salons, Color Finder Foundation Finder Brush Finder Pro TIP 6 centers of which more than 95% are privately owned shops. Unlike branded hair salon franchises which offer professional training, there are few places that offer training for hair stylists working at the smaller hair www.espoir.com Nationwide Education Centre salons. In 2015, we provided 170 courses at six education centers throughout Korea. In particular, we offer a course on styling techniques proposed by AMOS professional to mainstream our trends through 170 courses the hair stylists that we train. We offer online videos on styling and manuals through our Digital Hair Studio for easy and accessible educational opportunities. We strive to grow together with Korean Total Regular Courses hairstylists through our educational activities. 106 107 4. Sustainability Performance 2) Team amos Program for Hair Designer Training Social Contribution Programs Team amos is a program conducted under the supervision of AMOS professional that aims to train 1) Kids Salon a and enhance the competency of hair designers, and it was in its 11th year of operation in 2015. Hair AMOS professional ran a “Kids Salon a” program where children can learn about hair stylists in a designers who are selected as program participants work on trend proposals for Hair in Trend, and are fun and interactive manner. Together with our partner Salon a, we offered a range of experiential given an opportunity to present their ideas and work. After completing the one-year training program, educational programs ranging from hair cut with a wig, making a fan with dyed hair, and making form participants chosen as “active participants” can either take part in product development or opt to work with shampoo to children aged from 5 to 9 years old. In 2015, a total of 13 Kids Salon a programs as professional instructors at AMOS professional's education center. were offered, and we plan to continue offering this program to increase children’s understanding of hair stylists and their values. 3) Partnership with Hair Studios Salon a Kids Salon a Program AMOS professional names the the partnership hair salons using its products as Salon a and provides Cutting hairs by using wigs Making fans by using dyed hair Making forms with shampoos the support necessary for the salon’s operation. As a supervisor, it provides comprehensive and longterm assistance, distributing salon interior and service manuals and business management consulting 11 stores services. In 2015, 11 new stores including our 26th one in Madoo opened in 2015. AMOS professional supports hairstylists to offer AMOS professional's beauty solutions effectively to their customers through the Salon a program. 4) Shop Owners supporting program “Shop Owner's MBA” Number of new Salon a Stores(2015) AMOS professional offers a management support program called “Shop Owner's MBA program” for authorized dealers. The program is divided into an intermediate course, helping participants gain the skills they need to solve problems in the field, and the advanced course, which teaches the values of Kids Salon a Program, 2015 AMOREPACIFIC Group and management methodology to help the amos salon branches to be operated as a company. Efforts are being made to develop the educational programs and the contents to become 2) Donation to The Beautiful Foundation more systematic as well as to enhance bilateral communication and achieve sustainable win-win Since 2010, AMOS professional has been donating products amounting to approximately 20 million relationships. In 2015, 14 participants completed the course offered four times. KRW and providing educational programs to a non-profit organization called The Beautiful Foundation 14 on a yearly basis. In 2014, an MOU was signed with the foundation in regard to the provision of Number of Storeowners MBA Course Participants hairstyling training programs for female breadwinners of single parent households. Through this, AMOS professional donates hairstyling products, worth about 12 million KRW, and provides training 5) Beauty Master Curriculum to the beauty care shop owners who are single mothers running Heemang stores with support from AMOS professional has been operating the Beauty Master Curriculum, which is a specialized education The Beautiful Foundation. program for Beauty Masters who are on the front lines of sales and marketing. The curriculum consists of nine programs from the ABC 1 program, which must be completed by all of the new Beauty Masters, Number of Heemang Stores owned by Female Breadwinners 17 stores and the Master Coaching Program as the final part of the curriculum. Beauty Masters can gain sales know-how and strengthen their individual competencies through the curriculum. 3) Fostering Star Hair Designers of the Future 9courses As a leading company in the beauty market, AMOS professional is implementing social contribution Number of Certificate Courses programs for aspiring hair designers. Especially, we provided various hair products for perm and Number of Beauty Masters Who Participated in Education Program 480 coloring to those students who are economically struggling. Since 2013, supplies necessary for education and training have been provided twice a year to the Department of Beauty Care at Osan University. In 2015, we extended our support to 11 other universities, including Hallah University and Yongin University. Number of Schools, which received our donation 11 schools 108 109 4. Sustainability Performance Online Academy for growing together with partners Aesthetic products require in-depth familiarity and precise application. We are therefore offering an online academy for doctors to provide the comprehensive experience these professionals need to use our products. Doctors can participate in the training at their convenience, which includes question and answer sessions with other certified health professionals. We began our online academy focused on CLEVIEL, but we expanded to courses on Litense and ArteFill. This is becoming a unique platform to demonstrate precise application technics. By enhancing its contents, we will offer practical assistance About the company AESTURA is a medical beauty brand offering innovative beauty solutions for customers based on that enables doctors to fully understand and accurately apply our products. hospital and clinics channel. AESTURA is growing as medical beauty company creating new beauty domains through developing innovative new products, expanding markets overseas, and growth in SHE esthetic area focusing hospital cosmetics such as ATOBARRIER and REGEDERM and CLEVIEL, a self1) Civic-Government-Military Fire Drill developed product. Annually, AESTURA schedules a drill with the Fire Department to effectively respond to such a disaster and reduce its impacts. In 2015, the annual fire drill took place at the AESTURA Ansung Heath Care site Key Expansion in the Global Market to test in-house firefighting procedure and response capacities. Corporate Sustainability AESTURA is expanding to global markets. In October 2015, CLEVIEL, a high concentration hyaluronic Activities acid filler brand, received a CE1) (Conformité Européenne) approval mark. This is the manufacturer's 2) SHE external audit assessment declaration that the product meets the European Union’s health, safety, environment, and customer In an effort to increase our internal capabilities as well as our site’s safety, we scheduled two external protection standards. In addition to Hong Kong and Japan, we signed a partnership agreement with a audits in 2015. The Korean Association of Safety Technologies and Good Morning Public Health Center Taiwan-based company and have applied for a license to handle and maintain medical equipment. reviewed 112 key safety and health items, completing a comprehensive analysis. To mitigate the risks AESTURA pursued additional expansion as well, including entry into Singaporean and Malaysian identified during the audit, we undertook a range of activities, such as designating a focal point for car markets. AESTURA, our unique medical brand exclusively offering products to clinics and hospitals, also carrier management, changing loose valves that can leak toxic chemical materials, and establishing obtained a license to market in China. This facilitated our expansion into other Asian markets. Through safety balcony pads. CLEVIEL and AESTURA, we have positioned ourselves as a world-class Asian esthetic company. 1) CE(Conformité Européenne) Environmental Management Activities CE Marking on a product is a manufacturer's declaration that the product complies with the essential requirements of In an effort to minimize the environmental footprint of our own production activities and proactively the relevant European health, safety and environmental protection legislation respond to climate change, AESTURA established a comprehensive inventory to monitor and manage greenhouse gas emission caused by energy use, water use, waste water management, and disposal. Reinforced Ethical Management To reduce greenhouse gas emission, we ran a taskforce on energy reduction in 2015 and created an To gain stakeholder trust and support, AESTURA is upgrading its quality and ethical management action plan to optimize energy use by analyzing heating and cooling systems in our sites. We noted systems. In 2014, it introduced the Compliance Program(CP) and established operation organization that a boiler system and functionality are ineffective in analyzing LNG use, and we identified improved and related regulations. By conducting monthly monitoring, we can share the results including the supplementary products that strengthen the efficiency of our operational site’s heat source. This cases that meet compliance requirements. reduced our LNG consumption. Activities to Enhance Customer Satisfaction AESTURA has organized a research and advisory seminar through collaboration with dermatologists Employees Participating in Social Contribution Programs Aiming to fulfill its management philosophy to serve mankind, AESTURA is planning and implementing at major university hospitals in the country over the last four years. In 2015, 38 professors from major social contribution programs in which its employees can participate. In 2015, our corporate university hospital dermatology departments participated in the seminar. Each group conducted an philanthropic activities changed from corporate-centered planning to a decentralized mechanism array of research activities, including studies on various skin diseases, product quality analyses, ideas where individual staff members take the initiative. The department focused on annual planning and for new solutions, and identifying any disease for which medicine is efficacious. We are integrating the supported team leaders across the company, encouraging voluntary corporate philanthropic activities. knowledge gained from these seminars to improve our products and meet customers’ needs. Team leaders received training and encouraged a culture of sharing and voluntarism through this focused campaign. 110 111 4. Sustainability Performance 2) Worksite Safety Shelter O'sulloc farm Considering that our workforce has a sizeable number of older employees, we enhanced our safety training programs suitable for this population. We installed a safety shelter in each tea plantation and processing factory, which our employees can access easily to enjoy an adequate rest. We also purchased a mobile canopy tent to help our employees avoid the heat in summer, and provided water purifiers and air conditioners inside the factories, which get very hot at that time of year. About the company O'sulloc farm is a green tea cultivation, processing, and sales company, which was founded in 1974 3) Establishment of Scissor Lift with the aim of popularizing the traditional tea culture and creating beauty with plants grown in To ensure the maximum level of safety for our employees working at height, such as repairing tasks for healthy soil. With tea harvested from organic plantations in Jeju Island and Gangjin, O'sulloc farm is green tea frost preventing facilities, we installed a scissor lift in compliance with safety requirements. entering into the high quality tea market on a global scale. GHG Emission Reduction Activities O'sulloc farm aims to minimize the environmental impact of its production activities and to respond to Key Consulting Service to Partner Farms Corporate Sustainability O'sulloc farm provides technical advice and offers support to Korean ginseng farms regarding organic climate change. In 2015, the company inspected the old tea processing facilities using thermal imaging Activities methods. In spring 2015, we extended our consulting service to eight farms in Pochun, Paju, and cameras, and identified key areas for improvement. As a result, we were able to save 20% of the energy Hwachun on ginseng farm seeding and water treatment of ginsengs during shipment. In the summer, in these facilities. In 2016, we plan to inspect all of our worksites to reduce GHG and optimize the use we liaised with 14 farms in Ansung, Geosan, Soonchang, and Goksung on the management for heat of water, heat, and energy. difficulties for plants and adequate temperature in vinyl greenhouses. Developing Together with Local Communities Consulting activities of management for ginseng farm seeding and O'sulloc farm builds mutually beneficial relationships with farms in Jeju Island which have experienced Spring water treatment during shipment a shortage in their workforce, through various activities. In 2015, our employees volunteered Consulting activities of management for heat difficulties for plants and adequate to support the harvesting work of five citrus orchards near our worksite. In addition, as part of a Summer temperature in vinyl greenhouse partnership agreement we signed with local firefighting departments across the Jeju Islands, we upgraded our water tank system to allow use of our reservoir against fires, as our site possesses the largest amount of ground-water holes in Jeju Island. By sharing our water resources, we are pleased to contribute to the development of the farms and local communities around our tea plantations. Supporting to local citrus orchards Sharing groundwater with local firefighters Strengthening Safety, Health, and the Environment 1) Workplace SHE Assessment Our employees’ safety is one of our top priorities. In 2015, we conducted an analysis of the safety levels of our work sites. Staff received training in an external program, worked closely with managers, and conducted internal self-assessments. We identified 864 potential hazards, including falling and amputation, and made action plans to address the 93 items found to be the most significant risk factors. 112 113 5. Appendix Independent Assurance Report 5 To the management of AMOREPACIFIC Group At request of AMOREPACIFIC Group (the “Company”)’, we have reviewed the information presented in the 2015 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The management of the Company is responsible for preparing the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement on the Report and to provide opinions on it based on our review. Procedures We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance performed engagement as defined by AA1000AS(2008). We performed the following procedures to form our conclusion on the Report: ㆍ Reviewed the Company’s stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment process. ㆍ Reviewed media sources addressing sustainability issues during the Reporting period that are relevant to the Company. ㆍ Searched the media coverage of the Company’s sustainability issues during the applicable reporting period. Appendix ㆍ Analyzed latest sustainability reports published by industry peers. ㆍ Interviewed a selection of people in charge to understand the current status of sustainability performance and the Reporting process during the Reporting period. Independent Assurance Report ㆍ Reviewed selected data regarding the Company’s sustainability performance, supporting evidence Verification Statement GHG Inventory for assertions, and information from corporate-wide systems. ㆍ Reviewed The Company’s process for collecting and consolidating sustainability performance data. GRI G4 Index ㆍ Reviewed whether financial performance data has been extracted properly from the Company’s About This Report audited financial statements. Level of assurance We undertook a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000. The nature, timing and the extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the limited assurance of ISAE 3000 is in accordance with the moderate level as defined by AA1000AS(2008). The limitations of We excluded GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions in our limited assurance engagement. And, we did not review our review environmental and social performance data prior to 2012. However, we reviewed financial performance data based on the Company’s 2015 audited financial statements. Our conclusions The result of our review is outlined below. Inclusivity Has the Company engaged with stakeholders across the business to develop and implement its approach to sustainability? ㆍ We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from the stakeholder engagement process outlined in the Report. ㆍ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company has not applied the inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. 115 5. Appendix Materiality Has the Company provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance? ㆍ We are not aware of any material aspects concerning the Company’s sustainability performance VERIFICATION STATEMENT which have been excluded from the Report. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INVENTORY ㆍ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s management AMOREPACIFIC NO. AS_ PRJC-541213-2016-CCS-KOR has not applied its processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report. Introduction D N V G L B u s i n e s s A s s u r a n c e K o r e a L t d . ( “ D N V G L ” ) w a s c o m m i s s i o n e d b y A M O R E PA C I F I C Responsiveness Corporation(“AMOREPACIFIC”) to verify the AMOREPACIFIC’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar Has the Company responded to the stakeholder concerns? year 2015 (“the report”) based upon a reasonable level of assurance. AMOREPACIFIC is responsible for the ㆍ We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that the Company preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol: 2004 and has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported. the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of AMOREPACIFIC only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims Completeness and accuracy of performance information any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance How complete and accurate is the economic, social, and environmental performance data in the Report? statement. ㆍ We are not aware of any that have been excluded from the economic, social, and environmental performance data. Scope of Assurance The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions) and Energy ㆍ Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data relating indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions) from AMOREPACIFIC boundary of the report; to the above topics has not been collated properly from the Company’s reporting processes. ㆍ Organizational boundary for reporting: HQ/Sale offices, Sites (Osan, Daejeon and Jincheon), How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report? Distribution centers (Gangbuk, Gwangju, Gimcheon, Daejeon, Busan, Suwon, Incheon, Jincheon and Osan), ㆍ We are not aware of any misstatements of information or explanation used to support statements R&D/HRD, Local Business unit (Gwangju, Daegu, Daejwon and Busan) and claims on the Company’s sustainability activities presented in the Report. Verification The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from 4th March through 25th March 2016 and performed Observations Without prejudice to our conclusions presented above, we believe the following matters require attention in Approach in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and and areas order to improve the Company’s sustainability reporting. performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us ㆍ The Company’s reporting scope is not limited to domestic operations but is gradually with sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable verification opinion with 5% materiality level, concerning the for improvement expanding towards China worksites, where the Company’s main overseas operations are located. completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part Therefore, in order to maintain data consistency, the Company must focus on establishing of the verification process: a consistent company-wide standard for calculating and collecting overseas data. ㆍ We have reviewed and verified the AMOREPACIFIC’s GHG inventory Report(Excel based) ㆍ The Company must establish both mid-term and long-term goals for its sustainability performances ㆍ We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data and clearly disclose its progress. Moreover, if the Company chooses to report actual performance against the objectives, it must collect and report it in a consistent manner so that stakeholders Conclusions Based on the above verification core elements, it is DNV GL opinion that the data and the information reported can easily identify the annual trend of the Company’s performances. in the GHG assertion are free of errors, omissions and misrepresentations providing a fair and balanced ㆍ To better respond to stakeholders who are increasingly interested in how the Company manages quantification, in compliance to the above reported verification criteria. The GHG Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC the environmental dimensions, the Company must manage its internal indicators at a strict level. for the year 2015 were confirmed as below; The Company must also establish a consolidated management system so that it may disclose Greenhouse Gas Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC from Yr 2015 Unit: ton CO2 equivalent. the relevant data with high credibility. Direct emissions (Scope 1) Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Total emissions Independence We comply with the Ethical Standard issued by IFAC (International Federation of Accountants). 6,277 25,177 31,454 Our assurance The assurance engagement was performed by the engagement team with a long history of experience and expertise in sustainability area. ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different team from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 Jin-Sug Suh 25th March 2016 Sang-Rey Chang In-Kyoon Ahn Regional Managing Partner Lead Verifier Country Manager EY Han Young DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd Seoul, Korea This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (25th March 2016). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which April 2016 may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 116 117 5. Appendix VERIFICATION STATEMENT GRI G4 Index GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INVENTORY AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI NO. AS_ PRJC-541213-2016-CCS-KOR GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page 1. General Standard Disclosure Introduction DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”) was commissioned by AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI Corporation(“AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI”) to verify the AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 24-25 Report for the calendar year 2015 (“the report”) based upon a reasonable level of assurance. AMOREPACIFIC analysis (incl. strategy relates to sustainability, impacts of the activities in relation to the stakeholders) SHANGHAI is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/ Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization 6.3.10, 31 profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6.4.1-6.4.5, 6-15 WBCSD GHG protocol: 2004 and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6.8.5, 30-31 this work is to the management of AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI only and in accordance with terms of reference G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 7.8 30-31 agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 35 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers 30-34 beneficiaries) Scope of Assurance The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions) and Energy G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 30-31 indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions) from AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI boundary of the report; G4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 30-31 ㆍ Organizational boundary for reporting: AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 89 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 60-63, 90-91 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership 30-31, 35 Verification The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from 4th March through 30th March 2016 and performed or its supply chain Approach in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 111 performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us organization with sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable verification opinion with 5% materiality level, concerning the G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 18 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) UNGC, KBCSD of the verification process: Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 5.2, 123 Identified material G4-17 ㆍ We have reviewed and verified the AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI ’s GHG inventory Report(Excel based) aspects and subsidiaries, and joint ventures (List all entities in the consolidated financial statements) 7.3.2-7.3.4 ㆍ We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data boundaries G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries and explain how the Reporting 42-43 Principles has been implemented G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 43 Conclusions Based on the above verification core elements, it is DNV GL opinion that the data and the information reported G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization: Whether the Aspect is material within the 42-43 in the GHG assertion are free of errors, omissions and misrepresentations providing a fair and balanced organization; The list of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is or is not material; quantification, in compliance to the above reported verification criteria. The GHG Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC Specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization SHANGHAI for the year 2015 were confirmed as below; G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization: Whether the Aspect is material outside the 42-43 organization; The list of entities for which the Aspect is material, relate to geographical location; Greenhouse Gas Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI from Yr 2015 Unit: ton CO2 equivalent. Specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 18, 78, 83 Direct emissions (Scope 1) Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Total emissions Stakeholder G4-24 The list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 5.3 19-21 engagement G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 19-21 978 4,665 5,643 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 42 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 42 ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 7.5.3, 7.6.2 123 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 123 30th March 2016 Sang-Rey Chang In-Kyoon Ahn G4-30 Reporting cycle 123 Lead Verifier Country Manager G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 123 DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 119-122 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 115-116 This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (25th March 2016). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 28-29 may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC is subsequently brought to our attention. body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. social impacts. 118 119 5. Appendix GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as 7.7.5, 4.4, 6.6.3 39 Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 6.5.4, 6.6.6 80 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2 79-81 Supplier DMA Disclosure on management approach 59 environmental G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 61 GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page assessment and actions taken 3) 2. Specific Standard Disclosure Economic Social Labor practices and decent work Economic DMA Disclosure on management approach 44 Performance G4-EC1 5.3 Employment G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 6.4.4,6.8.7 86-89 Direct economic value generated and distributed 32-34, 44-48 employees, by significant locations of operation G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities 78-82, 111, 113 due to climate change G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 83 DMA Disclosure on management approach 84 Occupational G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health 6.4.6 89 Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at 6.3.7, 6.3.10, Health and Safety and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 1) significant locations of operation 6.4.3-6.4.4 programs 6.8.1-6.8.2 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 6.4.6, 6.8.8 18, 83 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations 6.4.3, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 2) and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender G4-EC6 of operation 6.8.5, 6.8.7 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 86 Disclosure on management approach 64 Training and DMA Disclosure on management approach 84 Indirect Economic DMA Impacts 6.3.9, 6.8.1-6.8.2, Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 83 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 64-67, 92-98 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 6.4.7, 6.8.5 62-63, 85 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.3.9, 6.6.6-6.6.7, 64-67, 92-98 6.7.8, 6.8.1-6.8.2, G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 6.4.7 84 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 by gender and by employee category Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 66 Diversity and DMA Disclosure on management approach 84 Practices 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.7 Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 18, 36, 83-84 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of 6.3.10, 6.4.3 diversity Environmental Supplier DMA Disclosure on management approach 59 Materials DMA Disclosure on management approach 55 Assessment for G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 61 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materialsPercentage of materials 6.5.4 Labor Practices and actions taken 7.3.1 4) 58, 73, 95 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 18, 77-80 Labor Practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 6.3.6 39 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4 18, 78 Grievance grievance mechanisms Mechanisms G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4-5 18, 78 Water DMA Disclosure on management approach 81 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 18, 78, 81 Human Rights G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 81 Investment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning 6.3.5 89 Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 6.5.6 56, 82 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of high biodiversity value outside protected areas employees trained G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in 6.5.6 56, 82 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 84 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.3.10, 6.4.3 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 56, 66, 82 Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 89 Emissions DMA Disclosure on management approach 79 Association and and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to 6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.4.5, G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.5 18, 78 Collective support these rights 6.6.6 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.5 18, 78 Bargaining G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5.5 18, 78 Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 89 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 18, 78-80 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.6.6, Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3-4 78 6.8.4 Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 89 78 DMA Compulsory Labor compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or 6.3.10, 6.6.6 Products and Disclosure on management approach 55 Services 6.5.3, 5.4, 6.5.5, compulsory labor G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 55-58, 71-73 6.7.5 Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 89 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 95 procedures that are relevant to operations 1) AMOREPACIFIC Group’s entry-level wages are higher than the local minimum wage in every location according to the internal policies; however, the exact wages cannot be disclosed. 3),4) Regular evaluations are performed on the suppliers, and those who fail to meet the criteria are requested to implement improvement measures. Those disregarding 2) 95.5 % of Upper Management in Chinese Subsidiary Locally Recruited Chinese this request are excluded from the list of suppliers. 120 121 GRI G4 No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA G4-HR11 Disclosure on management approach Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and 6.3.3-6.3.6 59 61 2015 actions taken 5) AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 6.3.6 39 formal grievance mechanisms Purpose This report was created to disclose AMOREPACIFIC Group’s sustainability management activities Society to stakeholders and to collect various opinions to reflect them in management. The scope of the Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach 64 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 64-67, 94-98, 101, AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report, which has been issued annually since 2009, was expanded in G4-SO1 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.3, assessments, and development programs 6.8 109, 113 2015 to be issued as AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report with the aim to communicate with Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.3, 6.6.6 39 a broader audience. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.3 39 Supplier DMA Disclosure on management approach 59 Assessment for Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 61 Impacts on Society G4-SO10 Scope This report provides information on the sustainability management activities and performances actions taken 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6) 7.3.1 of AMOREPACIFIC Group’s affiliates, which include AMOREPACIFIC, innisfree, ETUDE, AMOS Grievance G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 39 professional, AESTURA and O'sulloc farm. In the case of AMOREPACIFIC, the domestic production Mechanisms for formal grievance mechanisms 6.8.1-6.8.2 sites and offices (headquarters in Seoul, R&D Center, HR Development Center, Regional BU, and Impacts on Society production sites for beauty care, mass cosmetics and steamed green tea products) were mainly under review, while the performances of the overseas subsidiaries were included in only some of the cases. Product Responsibility Customer Health DMA Disclosure on management approach 55 and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 6.7.1-6.7.2, 58 Period Covered This report covers AMOREPACIFIC Group’s activities from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. impacts are assessed for improvement 6.7.4-6.7.5, 6.8.8 Data from 2013 and 2014 were included for comparative purposes. Information obtained until Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for 6.7.1-6.7.5, 6.7.9 58 Service Labeling product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and March 2016 was reflected in some of the data. service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 3.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 71,76 Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.7 77 Report In order to enhance the accuracy and reliability of the report, the content was verified by an G4-PR8 losses of customer data Verification independent verification institution, EY Han Young. 5),6) Regular evaluations are performed on the suppliers, and those who fail to meet the criteria are requested to implement improvement measures. Those disregarding this request are excluded from the list of suppliers. Standards The 2015 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Followed G4 Core Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the main agenda of ISO 26000 and the internal report preparation standards. Date of publication 2016. 04. 22 Publisher Kyung-bae Suh Publishing organization AMOREPACIFIC Group Production Sustainability Management Team, Growth Support Divison, AMOREPACIFIC Design vergum Signature Tower, 100 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 04542 Tel +82. 2. 709. 5406 Fax +82. 2. 709. 4109 E-mail csr@amorepacific.com 122 123
