SUSTAINING SHARED VALUE 1 2 3 BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 LIST OF TABLES Table 01 Our Commitments and Outcomes 10 Table 13 Employee Composition by Age Group and 53 Table 02 Basis for Internal and External Stakeholder Selection 12 Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 03 Examples of Bank Audi's Membership in 17 Table 14 Composition of Governance Body Committees 53 Industry Associations by Gender and Age Group at Bank Audi Table 04 Transaction E&S Risk Statistics 23 Table 15 Employee Distribution by Contract Type and 54 Table 05 Anti-corruption Related Training 24 Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 06 Bank Audi's Indirect Economic Impact 30 Table 16 New Employee Hires at Bank Audi Group 54 Table 07 Surveys Conducted to Measure Customer 32 Lebanon Satisfaction as per our Quality Program Table 17 Return to Work Rates after Parental Leave, by 56 Specifications Gender, at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 08 Summary of the Rewards Program Outcomes 40 Table 18 Paper Recycling between 2012 and 2015 63 since 2012 Table 19 Total Weight of Waste by Type 63 Table 09 Comparison of Employee Volunteerism: 2013, 44 Table 20 Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emissions 65 2014 and 2015 between 2012 and 2015 Table 10 Summary of Employee Training Hours 51 Table 21 Concordance Table Summarising GRI G4 70 Table 11 Employee Development Programs and 51 Indicators, UNGC Principles and ISO 26000 Number of Participating Employees Subjects as Observed by Bank Audi Table 12 Employee Composition by Gender and Employee 53 Table 22 Awards for Bank Audi Group Lebanon in 2015 74 Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon TABLE OF LIST OF LIST OF CONTENTS APPENDICES FIGURES Welcome 4 Appendix 01 Highlights of Code of Ethics and Conduct 76 Figure 01 Our CSR Milestones 9 Figure 08 A Spectrum of Community 46 Introduction 8 Appendix 02 Bank Audi’s CSR Policy 76 Figure 02 Process of Defining Material Aspects 14 Development Initiatives Our Materiality Process 12 Appendix 03 Sampling of Bank Audi's Brands, 77 and Boundaries Figure 09 Investing In Employee Training A Continuing 50 Our Updated CSR Strategy for 2015 16 Products and Services Figure 03 Our Materiality Process in Summary 15 Top Priority Creating Value through Partnerships 17 Appendix 04 Initiatives Endorsed by Bank Audi 77 Figure 04 Materiality Matrix and Main Issues 15 Figure 10 Bank Audi's Employee Sponsorship Grants 52 Appendix 05 Financial Literacy across our Products 78 of Priority Concern for 2015 Figure 11 Workforce Composition with Respect to 54 Corporate Governance 20 and Services Figure 05 Bank Audi’s CSR Pillars and Material Aspects 16 Gender in 2015 Economic Development 26 for 2015 Figure 12 Number of Trees Saved since 2012 64 Community Development 36 Figure 06 CSR at a Glance at End 2015 18 Figure 13 Total GHG Emissions per Year for Bank Audi 65 Human Development 48 Figure 07 Our Multi-Faceted Corporate 22 Figure 14 Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources 65 Environmental Protection 60 Governance Foundations Figure 15 Emissions per Sources in 2015 (%) 66 Supplementary Information 68 Reporting and Ratings 70 Internal Audit 75 Appendices 76 4 5 WELCOME BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 WELCOME Accordingly, in 2015, we worked on strengthening our prosperity of our customers and communities, and we remain Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS). firmly committed to our mission of contributing to a sustainable We also tried to amplify our direct and indirect economic future for all our stakeholders over the coming years. spillovers, particularly in the domains of product responsibility and product portfolio, not only through remodelling our In closing, we take great pride in expressing our gratitude to our Statement of the Chairman digital banking offerings and solutions, but working in parallel employees who represent the driving force that helped move to make our services accessible to the more vulnerable and Bank Audi forward to the point where it stands today. and the Chief Executive Officer disadvantaged communities. Sincerely, In the Community Development domain, we have further extended our humanitarian and social initiatives, and built new Our nation’s economy is witnessing a slow recovery, with commitment to working with and investing in our communities. partnerships with the local community, with a particular focus unemployment and poverty remaining stubbornly high. Our Corporate and Social Responsibility activities extend to five on nurturing our employee volunteerism and engagement. Raymond W. Audi As a leading financial institution in Lebanon, Bank Audi core pillars: Corporate Governance, Economic Development, On the environmental side, we pushed ahead with the initiatives Chairman and General Manager plays an important role in ensuring financial stability and Human Development, Community Development and we have in place to minimise our negative environmental driving growth and sustainable solutions. This is achieved by Environmental Protection. In 2015, we have further bolstered externalities, in line with the precautionary principle. providing needed capital for business investments, diversifying and reinforced our engagements under these five pillars in ways risks, and introducing innovative financial solutions. We are that will maximise positive spillovers to our stakeholders and to It is very heartening to see our progress in the CSR domain, confident that our corporate purpose is invariably balanced the larger community. and we consider it to be vitally important that we continue to and sustained through our commitment to our social mission work with internal and external stakeholders to ensure that Samir N. Hanna and our social objectives. As disclosed in the enclosed report, key achievements for this our business practices excel in sustainability and have a positive Group Chief Executive Officer year include further strengthening our materiality process by impact on the communities around us. In this report, you In fact, beyond the robust banking model that is at the heart holding dedicated stakeholder engagement sessions to gauge will read about the different facets of our involvement with of our business performance, Bank Audi has a long-standing the priorities of our internal and external stakeholders. the community. In 2015, we made progress in ensuring the 6 7 WELCOME BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Message of the Head of CSR The 2015 CSR Report genuinely depicts how we view and Acknowledging the cultural and social specificities of our region live “Responsibility”. It is the fifth CSR Report, marking the 5th and applying high standards of ethics and integrity, we maintain anniversary of the CSR Unit at Bank Audi. wide parameters to include a scope of partners. Evolving in this journey we have mapped for ourselves, guided We value the diversity of our employees, promote equal by our long-standing core values, we have centred our CSR in opportunity, support their talents and offer an attractive work the inclusion of our stakeholders. To this end, we have engaged environment that provides the best possible work-life balance. them through a special yearly Stakeholders’ Panel, a ritual meant In keeping with our corporate culture, our employees actively to enrich our impact and understanding of the community needs. partake in a vast number of community projects which add value This helped us connect in an open dialogue with a wide range and enrich their lives. This is how we combine our performance of stakeholders – from employees and customers to community culture with a culture of responsibility, and it is these factors representatives, and even other financial institutions – in order that render our institution an employer of choice and keep our to foster understanding on topics of mutual interest. The issues tenure at a minimum. Current CSR Committee Members identified during this special session alongside tailored surveys, miscellaneous events’ feedback and interactions with our key These actions during 2015 prompted the refinement of our Mr. Marc Audi General Manager – Country Manager Lebanon stakeholders, help us gage our materiality context for significant CSR strategy from a philanthropic lens, while sharing true Mr. Farid Lahoud Group Corporate Secretary matters. These issues are continuously assessed and contribute to value. Together with the ten members of our CSR Committee Mrs. Ghina Dandan Network Manager – Corporate Banking refining our CSR strategy. In turn, we prioritise them according to representing the various departments of our institution, and led Mr. Jean Traboulsi Head of Marketing & Communications feedback measured, and hence monitor and report our progress by our General Manager, our long-term objective is to encourage Mr. Youssef Nizam Chief Investment Officer – Audi Private Bank sal against forward-looking commitments across five areas. more players to engage in social responsibility, thus ensuring a Mrs. Maya Younis Corporate Credit Manager – Group Credit better future for generations to come. We are cognisant that our Mrs. Aziza Noujaim Head of Customer Acceptance & FI AML Relations Unit Informed by these conversations, we have refined our material success in spreading further awareness on the uptake of CSR will Mr. Jad Ibrahim Head of Internal Communication aspects to support SMEs, empower start-ups, encourage financial continue to expand through communication. Mr. Mohamad Chamseddine Human Capital Manager literacy, engage in vocational outreach, and enhance our corporate Mrs. Hasmig Khoury Head of Corporate Social Responsibility volunteerism. Through our economic success and competitive Responsibly, presence, we create value for our stakeholders at large. We also advocate a sustainable future for our community by upholding Hasmig G. Khoury Consultant to the CSR Committee stringent environmental and social norms. Aiming to continuously Head of CSR improve our environmental protection, we seek to use resources Dr. Dima Jamali Professor of Management – Kamal Shair Endowed Chair in Responsible Leadership efficiently and utilise environmentally friendly technologies. American University of Beirut (AUB) 8 9 INTRODUCTION BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 INTRODUCTION Figure 1: Our CSR Milestones Founded in Lebanon in 1830, Bank Audi has sustained its solid growth, building a strong legacy of excellence in banking. strategy, CSR has been embedded across various aspects of our retail and banking operations since 2010 through different 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 The Bank is headquartered in Lebanon, yet has successfully milestones including the setting up of a stand alone CSR Unit, Committing to the GRI G4 Guidelines Core GRI G4 Guidelines Core Adoption of CSR policy Establishment of Formation expanded to 11 other countries located across the Near East, the establishment of a CSR Committee and a formal CSR policy UN Global Compact CSR Committee of CSR Unit North Africa, the GCC and Europe, namely Switzerland, in 2012, the piloting of ISO 26000 Guidance in 2012, as well Environmental and Social Five CSR pillars Crafting a CSR strategy France, Jordan, Syria, Egypt, Sudan, the Kingdom of Saudi as the delineation and further extension of our CSR strategy in Founding member in the UNGC Management System (ESMS) National Steering Committee Further institutionalisation ISO 26000 piloting Arabia (KSA), Qatar, Monaco, Turkey and the United Arab 2013, revolving around five core pillars: Corporate Governance, GRI Organisational Emirates (UAE). Bank Audi is a joint-stock company (“société Economic Development, Community Development, Human Further stakeholder inclusiveness Stakeholder (OS) Four CSR pillars anonyme libanaise”) with a diversified shareholder base that Development and Environmental Protection. In 2015, we took further steps to strengthen our involvement under each of Further Volunteer Program encompasses founding shareholders, large regional investors, international institutional investors, as well as executives these pillars and to steer forward by further integrating CSR and employees. The Bank offers a full range of products and at the heart of our business, demonstrating our unwavering most cherished guiding values pertaining to transparency and the discussion that follows will not only be engaging, but will services in Commercial and Corporate Banking, Retail and commitment to conduct our business ethically and responsibly. civic engagement. This report is thus intended to delineate the also help capture our manifold positive impacts on people, Personal Banking, Private Banking, Investment Banking, and Our approach to sustainability is therefore guided by the active steps we have taken to integrate sustainability in our society and the environment during 2015. Islamic Banking within a wide range of industries including spirit and principles of continuous improvement, and is business using our resources efficiently and responsibly, and manufacturing, trading, contracting, real estate development, invariably grounded in a tactful balance between the triple respecting the precautionary principle in terms of minimising We have determined the content and structure of our CSR Report hotels, food and beverage, education, media services, health bottom line “Ps” of Profit (economic), People (social) and risks to our stakeholders, the environment and society at large. based on international standards and frameworks including the and social services, and retailing among others. Planet (environmental). This has translated into a continuous ISO 26000 guidance, the UN Global Compact (UNGC), and learning and improvement journey, and important changes The current annual CSR Report, for the reporting period the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In this respect, we were Bank Audi, a leader among Lebanese banking groups, to our business model and patterns of resource use that are covering 2015, is Bank Audi’s fifth edition and sits along the fortunate to be the first bank in Lebanon to benefit from piloting has further reinforced its position among the top 20 Arab more restorative and inclusive. Those patterns seek to make Bank’s 2015 Annual Report, with the most recent previous ISO 26000 and integrating its guidance in the various aspects of banks. Main development pillars for the Group are Lebanon, us a more sustainable business which contributes in a positive report being the 2014 CSR Report that was published in our strategy and year on year reporting. Our report also addresses Egypt, Turkey and the Private Banking business line, which, way to making a difference in relation to economic, social September 2014. The Report will flesh out the most relevant the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact of which we are together, represent more than 90% of assets and earnings. and environmental issues that are important in our particular advances for this year, within the context of our expanded a proud recent official signatory (May 2015). Our 2015 report Our outstanding performance stems from a comprehensive context and community. materiality exercise, and our comprehensive and integrated is also prepared “in accordance” with GRI G4 Guidelines and range of financial services and a diversified market presence CSR strategy revolving around the five pillars including the Financial Services Sector Disclosures, as a core application which represent the backbone of our sustained growth Key achievements for this year include strengthening our Corporate Governance, Economic Development, Community level, which implies that we report on practically every indicator in spite of an overall challenging operating environment. materiality process by continuing to work with internal and Development, Human Development and Environmental that falls within the scope of any material issue for the Bank, and The Bank’s recent results faithfully reflect how sustainable external stakeholders to ensure that our business practices Protection. As this is our fifth CSR report, some information that we provide a useful guide at the end of this report, which strategies translate into long-term financial value. In 2015, are inspired and guided by the core tenets of sustainability of great significance that was highlighted in previous reports can serve as a roadmap to the reader (Concordance Table). We the strong strategic orientations set by Management proved, and have a positive spillover effect on our employees, clients may be featured again, while information deemed redundant are proud, in this regard, to be the first institution in Lebanon once again, to reinvigorate the Group’s readiness to seize and communities. An example of our extensive stakeholder or unnecessary was omitted to preserve the fluidity and to adopt G4 Guidelines and stand by GRI’s vision of responsible opportunities for the development of activities and expansion engagement initiatives for this year includes the dedicated coherence of the Report as a whole. We are confident that management and transparent reporting. while ensuring long-term added value to all stakeholders. stakeholder panel that was held on December 2, 2015, where we Our Executive Management remains determined to further probed our various stakeholders on the most relevant, pressing advance environmental and social goals and sustain the and material CSR issues from their respective vantage points. financial and business achievements that contribute to socioThe compiled and useful feedback helped us further improve economic growth and financial stability. In the future, we will what we do in the domain of CSR. Our stakeholder engagement continue to aspire towards remaining leaders in sustainability process is invariably guided by the core values of the Bank, and to balance the healthy financial growth and returns to namely Transparency, Civic Role, Human Capital, Innovation, shareholders with equal commitment, drive and added value Heritage and Quality, and is anchored in broader stakeholder to stakeholders, and to society at large. engagement principles pertaining to stakeholder inclusiveness. Our reporting is guided by the values of relevance, accuracy, Accordingly, this year, we continued to bolster our Corporate timeliness, comparability, reliability, clarity and completeness. While non-exhaustive, Table 1 provides a snapshot of some of monitoring and implementation policies and processes in the field Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy and advance our mission All these principles ensure that our approach to CSR reporting our key achievements and outcomes in 2015, in the context of CSR, but also sheds the light on our continuous improvement of being leaders in sustainability in the Lebanese context is organic and advancing dynamically to meet the changing of our constantly evolving CSR strategy and in relation to each ethos and unwavering commitment to continue going the extra and beyond. As a central principle of the Bank’s operating expectations surrounding us, and that we remain true to our pillar. This not only highlights our assiduous strategic planning, mile in institutionalising CSR and making significant progress. 10 11 Introduction BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Table 1: Our Commitments and Outcomes PILLAR WE PLANNED WE ACHIEVED IN 2013 WE ACHIEVED IN 2014 WE ACHIEVED IN 2015 Further institutionalise CSR at the heart Implemented an Environmental and Social Management 179 employees attended an ESMS training in 2015 of the business System (ESMS) which guides our approach for evaluating the environmental and social (E&S) risks Total of 616.5 training hours on ESMS Corporate Governance Improve our financial performance Total revenue amounted to USD 640.5 million Total revenue increased to USD 689.6 million Total revenue increased to USD 836.1 million Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated debt amounted to Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated debt reached Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated debt USD 2.90 billion USD 3.64 billion reached USD 3.775 billion Increase total number of operations Total number of operations reached 98,205,129 Total number of operations increased to 117,599,198 Total number of operations increased to 131,205,788 Increase our employee base Number of employees was 2,890 Number of employees increased to 2,989 Number of employees increased to 3,130 Economic Development Increase branches equipped with ramps Percentage of branches equipped with ramps was 71% Percentage of branches equipped with ramps increased to 75% Percentage of branches equipped with ramps increased to 78% Increase branches in remote areas Percentage of branches in remote areas was 14% Percentage of branches in remote areas increased to 15% Percentage of branches in remote areas increased to 17.3% Increase ATMs located in remote areas Percentage of ATMs located in remote areas was 15% Percentage of ATMs located in remote areas increased to 17% Percentage of ATMs located in remote areas increased to 19% Increase support to health-related causes Support to health-related causes amounted to USD 520,000 Support to health-related causes increased to USD 557,000 Support to health-related causes increased to USD 618,792 Enlighten children about donation Value of points collected was USD 20,000, benefiting 12 NGOs Value of points collected increased to USD 59,000, benefiting Value of points collected increased to USD 94,000, 18 NGOs benefiting 18 NGOs Provide support to culture-related causes Support to culture-related causes amounted to USD 530,000 Support to culture-related causes increased to USD 1,470,000 Support to culture-related causes reached USD 1,300,000 Community Development Improve our employee Volunteer Program Number of employee volunteers was 23 upon initiation of program Number of employee volunteers increased to 150 Number of employee volunteers increased to 228 Number of beneficiaries was 284 Number of beneficiaries increased to 829 Number of beneficiaries increased to 3,617 Employee training Total number of employees trained was 2,080 Total number of employees trained increased to 2,345 Total number of employees trained amounted to 2,230 Increase programs aimed at supporting Number of programs aimed at supporting employee Number of programs aimed at supporting employee careers Number of programs aimed at supporting employee employee careers careers was 22 increased to 24 careers increased to 26 Human Increase value of employee benefit Value of benefits and wellness programs offered to employees Value of benefits and wellness programs offered to employees Value of benefits and wellness programs offered to employees Development expenditures and wellness programs amounted to USD 18,469,000 increased to USD 19,358,000 increased to USD 20,634,341 Promote products and services designed to Monetary value dedicated to products and services designed Monetary value dedicated to products and services designed Monetary value dedicated to products and services designed deliver a specific environmental benefit to deliver a specific environmental benefit amounted to to deliver a specific environmental benefit increased to to deliver a specific environmental benefit amounted to USD 30,464,100 USD 52,433,458 USD 26,493,246 Increase paper recycling and save trees Paper recycling was 83 tons and the number of trees saved Paper recycling increased to 104 tons, thus increasing Paper recycling increased to 147 tons, thus increasing was 1,414 the number of trees saved to 1,763 the number of trees saved to 2,495 Participate in plastic recycling Recycled plastic was 130 kg Recycled plastic increased to 157 kg Recycled plastic reached 150 kg Environmental Development Reduce total greenhouse gas emissions Previously reduced GHG emissions from 22,199.80 tCO2 Reduced GHG emissions to 21,065.60 tCO2 (5% decrease Reduced GHG emissions to 21,738.20 tCO2 (2.1% decrease to reach 21,309.90 tCO2 over 2 years) over 3 years) Instil environmental awareness on both Conducted internal and external environmental workshops Engaged internal and external stakeholders in environmental internal and external levels initiatives 12 13 OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 OUR MATERIALITY Based on this definition, we have engaged a range of Additionally, we also consulted with key strategy setting stakeholders in our materiality process for this year, capitalising officials and Bank Audi shareholders who have directed our on different tools and communication processes as revealed attention to the continued importance of core governancein Table 2. Both sets of stakeholders are important from the related issues, including extensive due diligence, compliance Bank’s perspective, and this feedback was in fact instrumental and risk management processes, ethical conduct, antiPROCESS in helping us define and refine our CSR strategy and pin down corruption efforts, as well as further strengthening policies and our most salient and material issues for 2015, as well as the processes relating to social and environmental risk assessment relevant aspect boundaries. and protecting the sanctity of human rights. This feedback is very much consistent with what we obtained last year. Stakeholder Stakeholders Included and Channels Used Issues Identified Groups Basis of Selection Our goal in this report is to address and reveal our progress in provided by GRI: “Stakeholders are entities or individuals that relation to important issues that our stakeholders care most can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the EXTERNAL about and to provide information in an accurate, transparent organisation’s activities, products and services, and whose Suppliers Providers of services and raw materials with whom the Meetings Building further awareness on CSR and accessible way vis-à-vis various aspects of our social actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the Bank has a mutual-benefit relationship. We are keen S takeholder both internally and externally engagement. Similar to 2014, we continue to take active steps organisation to successfully implement its strategies and achieve on maintaining a close working relationship with key engagement panel Financial literacy & microfinance suppliers across different industries and we recognise to enhance our materiality process by further bolstering and its objectives.” Job creation that our suppliers are also invariably affected by the enhancing our internal and external engagement processes. Bank’s operations and policies, especially with regards Vocational training In fact, we take pride in being an institution that engages in to quality and integrity standards. Soliciting the BDL for health and safety regulations such as loans’ regulations open and constructive dialogue with its stakeholders and Clients Critical stakeholders for the Bank, who sustain its Tailored surveys for fair competition pays systematic attention to their feedback in refining its CSR continued vibrancy and vitality. They are at the Meetings heart of the decision-making process in terms of Energy efficiency collaborations strategy. This meticulous materiality exercise formed the basis Stakeholder operations, products issuance and services, and engagement panel Building the capacity of NGOs and for defining our report’s content for 2015. are the ones who benefit most from the Bank’s offering them guidance services. They contribute financially by endorsing Competition for NGOs Building on the principle of stakeholder inclusiveness, we have the Bank and making use of its offerings. Guest-Speaker Program expanded our engagement process and seek substantive and NGOs The most enduring partners of the Bank in the field Meetings Wheelchair Program meaningful input from a variety of stakeholders. The identification of CSR, symbolising the channels through which Stakeholder Eco-friendly car loan and engagement of these ensure that our materiality process is as we contribute to the community and sustain our engagement panel Drug awareness scaling of social impact and our spillover effect. Various events Earth Hour holistic as possible. We define stakeholders using the definition Engaging our stakeholders. They are chosen based on the congruence and Volunteer Program Reverse vending for IT compatibility of their mission and strategies with Environmental loans Table 2: Basis for Internal and External Stakeholder Selection the Bank’s values and social orientation. Regulatory The official institutions that frame the regulatory Meetings Stakeholder Stakeholders Included and Channels Used Issues Identified bodies and boundaries of the Bank’s legal operations. They Stakeholder Groups Basis of Selection industry-related are affected by the Bank’s operations and manifold engagement panel associations economic contributions. They also influence the Workshops way we frame our decision-making in relation to INTERNAL key aspects of our operations, including CSR. Employees The largest number of beneficiaries who uphold e-newsletters Promoting Green Tech start-ups Competitors Competing banks and financial institutions which Meetings and reflect the Bank’s image as they are the front Tailored surveys Securing an insurance program for Bank are also collaborators in setting the operational, Stakeholder liners in contact with external stakeholders. They Internal Audi employees to protect their retirement social, environmental and competitive standards. engagement panel also contribute to the decision-making process by communication Taking care of parents who can’t afford We also value our competitors in terms of helping Workshops being the major reporters of information. their children’s tuitions promote and advance CSR in Lebanon. Equipping the Bank properly to cater for Management One of the Bank’s key pillars which includes Monthly meetings Community and Local community stakeholders in various locations Events the needs of physically disabled employees decision-makers who set the overall strategic Workshops civil society where our Bank operates. We identify our (special WCs, etc.) direction of the Bank and monitor its implementation. Stakeholder well-being as closely tied to that of the community Having every manager at the Bank mentor They are also the constituency accountable for engagement panel around us and we seek to improve our external repercussions of the Bank’s contributions. university students looking for a job environment through various programs, events, Encouraging diversity at the Senior activities and philanthropy. Shareholders Investors who have a clear stake in the business Annual meetings Management level and are important strategic financial contributors Stakeholder Furthering a corporate Volunteer Program Media Various media groups and channels that transmit e-newsletters with commitments that ensure the financial engagement panel Expanding collaboration with partners information and with which the Bank liaises to Interviews health and viability of our business. Annual reports empowering the youth communicate various aspects of its activities, including Events Including CSR in the Talent Assessment CSR. Through the media, we stay in touch with the Newspapers Centre (TAC) passport various external stakeholders around us and convey Delegating CSR champions at branches and share our identity, programs and activities. Jury members Diverse stakeholders were selected to choose the Events best 3 initiatives proposed by university students in the university awareness competition. 14 15 OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Beyond identification of core material issues and aspect issues identified will serve as the basis for the Bank’s Generic Figure 3: Our Materiality Process in Summary boundaries, Bank Audi’s CSR Committee then engaged in Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) in 2015. a process of assessment and prioritisation to revisit all the feedback and focus on mapping the issues raised to the GRI Emphasis in the 2015 CSR Report has thus been given to G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The entire materiality those aspects that were divided in three categories: very high ENGAGING process is depicted in the flow chart (Figures 2 & 3). Moreover, importance, high importance, and medium importance by our WITH PRIORITY INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS this process has led to the materiality matrix (Figure 4) and is internal and external stakeholders. We have excluded from the • e-newsletters further mapped to the five pillars which serve as a basis for our Report aspects that were considered non-material, given their • Surveys reporting. The material aspects were in turn shared with Bank lower importance and/or their inapplicability to Bank Audi’s • Internal communication • Meetings, workshops and roundtables RELEVANT TOPICS Audi’s Executive Committee and Senior Management, including operating context. Considering that the materiality process Employment practices, diversity and equal opportunity, heads of Credit and Commercial Banking, Risk Management, was restricted to Bank Audi Lebanon, these material aspects ENGAGING WITH PRIORITY training, education and talent development, economic EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS contribution, extensive due diligence, risk management Communications and Human Resources, and validated against are relevant for all Lebanese subsidiaries, and the scope of processes, ethical conduct, compliance, anti-corruptionefforts, scope, aspect boundaries and time. With the active involvement the Report and aspect boundaries are primarily focused on Stakeholder engagement panel included customers, suppliers, competitors, as well as promoting awareness and gradually institutionalising of Mr. Marc Audi, General Manager – Country Manager Bank Audi Group Lebanon entity (Bank Audi sal and its governmental regulator, NGOs policies and processes relating to human rights issues and social and CSR experts, and and environmental risk assessment. Lebanon, the CSR Committee confirmed that the material Lebanon-based subsidiaries). employees. MATERIALITY MATRIX Product portfolio, indirect economic impacts, reaching out • Identification of Bank Audi’s material to disadvantaged youth and a wider range of NGOs as pillars • Identification  of Bank Audi’s material part of the community responsibility, building further aspects and boundaries awareness in relation to CSR, extending awareness across the supply chain including to customers PRIORITISATION and suppliers, enhancing market presence AND VALIDATION and environmental protection. • Analysis of feedback • Mapping to GRI G4 guidelines Figure 2: Process of Defining Material Aspects and Boundaries Figure 4: Materiality Matrix and Main Issues of Priority Concern for 2015 01 02 HIGH External human development Environmental and Social Management System IDENTIFICATION OF Product portfolio CRITICAL ASPECTS Indirect economic impacts Anti-corruption Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness PRIORITISATION Economic contribution Principle of Sustainability Context OF ASPECTS Local community support Procurement practices Local community collaboration  ssessing relevant topics A Principle of Materiality Ethical conduct Progressive labour practices Identifying relevant aspects Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness Emissions Assessing internal impact Impact investment Product responsibility of aspects Local community development  valuating and prioritising E Environmental loans Assessing external relevant aspects and topics Training, education and talent development impact of aspects Assessing materiality of topics to stakeholders Water Energy consumption Market presence Compliance Importance to Stakeholders 04 Human rights Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity MEDIUM Effluents and waste Materials REVIEW Supplier environmental assessment P  rinciple of Stakeholder Corporate 01 Anti-competitive behaviour Inclusiveness Governance Principle of Sustainability VALIDATION OF ASPECTS Economic Context Child labour Development Principle of Completeness Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness Community  eviewing material R Public policy Development aspects of the Report Validating the material Human aspects identified Development Supplier assessment for impacts on society Environmental LOW MEDIUM HIGH Development Signiﬁcance to Bank Audi 16 17 OUR UPDATED CSR STRATEGY FOR 2015 BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 OUR UPDATED CSR CREATING VALUE STRATEGY FOR 2015 THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS Our 2015 CSR strategy further reflected Bank Audi’s the sections that follow. Taken together, they represent a Recognising that our resources are limited, it is hard to to maintain long-term relationships with our partners to create commitment to responsible business performance as we consolidation of the areas where we believe we can make accomplish significant impact alone. The complexity of the sustainable positive value for society, we seek partners that share continued to address priority thematic areas revolving around the most difference. They are at the heart of the CSR strategy issues of the regional context calls for joint action to achieve our vision and values. Hence, we maintain our commitment our five core pillars: Corporate Governance, Economic of Bank Audi for 2015, which is fundamental to how we sustainable results. At Bank Audi, we believe that by developing to the philosophy of Collaborative Value Creation (CVC) and Development, Human Development, Community Development conduct our business as a premier banking institution. They strategic partnerships, we can maximise the impact of our CSR the realisation that partnerships invariably produce enduring and Environmental Protection. All five pillars are interconnected, also provide a platform for sustaining our leadership in CSR initiatives and achieve sustainable goals. Indeed, Bank Audi benefits that accrue to organisations, individuals, and society. mutually reinforcing and reflecting priorities that are embedded by helping us foster a sustainable ecosystem around us, has formed partnerships with a wide range of global and We intend to continue to leverage the power of networks in our day-to-day business. within the scope of a delimited set of core material areas local organisations which include multilateral organisations, and partnerships, and the coming together of perceptions of intervention. Throughout the Report, we highlight the governmental bodies, academia and NGOs, among others. of value to tackle common social issues of relevance to our These pillars, as illustrated in Figure 5 with corresponding points of progress under each of the five pillars, as well as the Such cross-sector collaboration helps us harness experience, business and our community, and that fall within the scope of material aspects, will be fleshed out with greater detail in material impacts identified. know-how and resources to extend the reach and scope of our strategy. Beyond our partnerships, we are also members our CSR programs, thus creating shared value. Since we aim in various multi-stakeholder platforms and alliances (Table 3). Figure 5: Bank Audi’s CSR Pillars and Material Aspects for 2015 Table 3: Examples of Bank Audi's Membership in Industry Associations Corporate Economic Community Human Environmental Governance Development Development Development Protection Association des Banques du Liban (ABL) Positions held : 1.Board of Directors: Dr. Freddie Baz (secretary) 2. Committee for Compliance and Fighting Money Laundering: chaired by Mr. Chahdan Jebeyli, Esq. 3. Legal Committee: chaired by Dr. Georges Achi 4. Research Studies Committee: Dr. Marwan Barakat (rapporteur) 5. Investment Banks and Capital Markets Committee 6. Committee for Organisation, Standardisation and Information Technology 7. Communication Committee Ethical conduct Product portfolio Local community Progressive labour practices Emissions 8. Corporate Governance Committee: Mr. Farid Lahoud (rapporteur) Compliance Economic contribution development Diversity, inclusion and Effluents 9. Human Resources and Social Committee Anti-corruption Indirect economic impacts Local community equal opportunity and waste 10. Banking Terms and Conditions Committee Human rights Procurement practices support Training, education and Energy consumption 11. Islamic Banking Committee Environmental and Social Market presence Local community talent development Environmental 12. Risk Committee Management System Product responsibility collaboration External human development loans 18 19 CSR AT A GLANCE AT END 2015 BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Figure 6: CSR at a Glance at End 2015 CORPORATE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) 1.81% 72 USD 71% USD 4.6 million 26 million Further mainstreaming of Lebanon’s GDP products of successfully Human Rights trained employees Collaborative Value Creation (CVC) 3,130 74 total contributions to in environmental loans Further engaging stakeholders employees services our community USD Complying with local and international standards USD 214 USD 2.8 million “Grow Green” 600,000 in employee training 130 million and best practices ATMs for our employees Improving paper recycling by 75 300% on health ISO 26000 in taxes when accounting for income tax, municipal taxes, VAT, etc. branches USD USD since inception UN Global Compact 2.5 million 8.9 million Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) SEA Reducing GHG emissions by 2.1% award in educational programs Gold Community on humanitarian and social issues for Innovation & Technology Our Core Values 93% USD 325,144 Reducing 1.33 million Transparency beneficiaries paper consumption by 18.5% customer satisfaction Human Capital on culture Training and development Heritage Contributing to economic growth and revitalisation USD Performance appraisal Quality Spreading environmental Creating new jobs and Talent management awareness in the community 115,000 Civic Role employment opportunities on sports Diversity, inclusion and equal Further mainstreaming paperless Innovation Enabling small businesses opportunity banking to thrive Accountability Commitment Allowing local economies to prosper 1 million beneficiaries Educational aid in community Spreading CSR awareness Online banking Measuring carbon footprint Bank of the Year Developing financial literacy Volunteer Program: 3,617 228 (The Banker Magazine 2015) Enhancing responsible lending Best Bank in Lebanon (Global Finance 2015) Increasing digitalisation beneficiaries volunteers 20 21 Corporate Governance 22 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 CORPORATE and recommendations, or even impose conditions in conjunction with the transaction. This may be done formally through loan Reviews are evaluated, and follow-up actions (if any) are formally noted. GOVERNANCE documentation. Such actions are presented either during the Credit Approval for new transactions and renewals of existing In 2015, 388 transactions (Table 4) met the requirement for E&S facilities, or during annual credit reviews in which E&S Risk Risk Review and were subsequently approved. Table 4: Transaction E&S Risk Statistics E&S Risk Categorisation* Number of Reviews Our Corporate Governance practices and policies are at the more broadly, of our stakeholders as well. Thus, we continued heart of our business model and provide the accountability to be committed, in 2015, to a strong Corporate Governance A 23 and transparency we consistently aspire to uphold across foundation, with rigorous checks and balances we have put B 85 various facets of our operations. We are convinced that good in place to ensure that the principles of integrity that are C 280 governance leads to better decisions and making informed embedded in our strong compliance culture are infused into all Total 388 choices that are in the best interest of our shareholders, and our business practices. *An environmental and social risk categorisation is assigned to a transaction, based on the understood magnitude of E&S impacts/risks associated with the client’s sector and the specific transaction. Transactions are assigned a category A, B or C, in descending order of environmental and social sensitivity. Bank Audi follows the IFC The Board of Directors Figure 7: Our Multi-Faceted Corporate Governance Foundations definitions for E&S risk categorisations, namely: Our Board of Directors continues to give a significant CATEGORY A: projects expected to have significant adverse social and/or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. consideration to the Bank’s Governance practices and plays an CATEGORY B: projects expected to have limited adverse social and/or environmental impacts that can be readily addressed through mitigation measures. active and engaged role in keeping abreast of key developments CATEGORY C: projects expected to have minimal or no adverse impacts. and ensuring sound governance. Bank Audi is governed by a Audit and Internal Risk ETHICAL CONDUCT AND COMPLIANCE Board of Directors consisting of 10 members elected by the Control Management General Assembly of shareholders for a term of 3 years (our detailed Corporate Governance structure and guidelines are accessible on the Bank’s website at www.bankaudi.com.lb). Human CORPORATE Ethical Proper conduct and compliance with laws are fundamental in place are important to sustain the soundness and integrity of Rights GOVERNANCE Conduct aspects of our governance. To this end, our Code of Ethics and our financial system, and to maintain the cherished trust of our Conduct provides the foundational bedrock for all aspects of employees and customers. In this respect, we recently embraced ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ethical behaviour within the Bank (Appendix 1). Our Code of BDL Circular 134 (came into effect as of October 2015) which AntiEthics and Conduct upholds the principle of non-discrimination emphasises the importance of transparency, one of Bank Audi’s Corruption Compliance and maintaining a violence-free and harassment-free workplace. guiding core values. Circular 134 focuses on the customer’s MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ESMS) Our compliance culture and processes are also reinforced every rights and duties, as an example, to provide feedback, be it year, in line with the organisation’s broader strategic goals. The positive or negative. While we collected customer feedback on most common compliance risks we face have to do with data a regular basis in 2015, we integrated new contact channels, privacy and corruption, and we manage those risks very closely. incorporating complaints and suggestions drop boxes and We believe that having an insight into how our clients perform Banking activities. Our ESMS contains a set of commitments, an The stringent requirements, restrictions and guidelines we have forms in our 75 branches across Lebanon. with regards to environmental and social issues should play an internal process, and a dedicated team of ESMS officers to provide integral part in our customer due diligence process. We realise that oversight and support to the E&S Risk Reviews associated with HUMAN RIGHTS a failure to manage these risks can impact on client operations, Corporate and Commercial Banking transactions. They ensure and hence their credit worthiness. It can also negatively affect the that specific review criteria are applied to transactions in order to communities and environments in which we operate. determine whether an E&S Risk Review is required, and if so, the level of diligence that should be applied. As reported in our 2014 CSR Report, our Group Risk Committee In 2015, we continued to bolster human rights processes has taken active steps towards further institutionalising CSR During the course of the E&S Risk Reviews, the Bank’s teams, and mainstream human rights issues further at the heart at the heart of the business through the recent adoption of supported by the Group ESMS Office, may engage with clients of the Bank’s governance. Besides the fact that the respect the International Finance Corporation (IFC) framework for the and work with them to help identify and implement measures to of human rights is explicitly included in the Bank’s Code of assessment of environmental and social risks and impacts. address these risks and impacts, thereby helping enhance their Ethics and Conduct, we continued building awareness and Hence, starting 2014, Bank Audi adopted and implemented an operational performance. Through this engagement process, our conducting regular trainings around human rights issues. 238 Human Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) which goal is to work with the client to develop solutions and action new hired employees attended, during the induction session, a Rights guides our approach for evaluating the environmental and plans aimed at addressing specific issues. In some cases, we presentation on human rights, translating into 119 total hours social (E&S) risks associated with our Corporate and Commercial may require clients to commit to implementing certain actions of coverage of human rights topics. Introducing the UNGC ten principles. 24 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We recognise the rights of each employee and the diversity of an introductory session on the “United Nations Global Compact opinion represented by the communities we employ and serve. (UNGC)” on November 25, 2015. The session, which targeted In general, 47% of Bank Audi employees attended training hours Senior Management representatives, shed the light on the on human rights. Seeking to further involve our employees in UNGC ten principles, including human rights. 115 Relationship all facets of responsible engagement, and given that we are a Managers and ESMS officers attended this session which was signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since facilitated by Professor Dima Jamali, UNGC Lebanon Network May 2015, the CSR Unit, in collaboration with the Human Representative. Dr. Jamali explained the relevance of this commitment Resources (HR) department – Training & Development, organised in regard to our Environmental & Social Management System. ANTI-CORRUPTION Another important pillar of our governance is our continued level. We also strive to comply with the international standards commitment to fight corruption in all its forms. Our Code of Ethics and best practices set by the international organisations and and Conduct makes our commitment to anti-corruption efforts recommendations placed by major global correspondent banks. clear, but we continue to enrich our policies and procedures every The Central Bank’s 2012 Circular 126 stipulates that we should year in this respect. For example, in 2015, we made more effort be fully informed of the laws and regulations governing our to strengthen our various controls over operational, compliance, correspondents abroad, and deal with the latter in conformity anti-money laundering and regulatory measures. Our Group’s with the laws, regulations, procedures, sanctions and restrictions Anti-Money Laundering & Combating the Financing of Terrorism adopted by international legal organisations or by the sovereign policy (AML/CFT) meets the principles and requirements set out authorities in the correspondents’ home countries. In line with these in the AML/CFT laws and regulations of the various jurisdictions efforts, we have also significantly increased the communication where the Group operates – these are of course mandatory at local and training on anti-corruption aspects, as shown in Table 5. Table 5: Anti-corruption Related Training Anti-corruption Total Employees Percentage Related Training Eligible for Training Employees 1,009 2,511 40% Middle Management 276 584 47% Senior Management 12 35 34% Total employees 1,297 3,130 40% In 2015 As we pursue innovation and enlarge the scope for customer 179 choice, we continue to enforce stringent governance employees attended trainings on standards, in such a way as to ensure that the Bank grows environmental topics/issues. in a balanced and sustainable manner. Our governance is grounded in a system of policies, regulations, processes, checks 616.5 and balances that makes us confident to deliver the highest training hours were spent on levels of quality and accountability to clients, shareholders environmental topics/issues. and stakeholders at large. In this respect, we are proud that the measures we have taken in relation to bolstering our 238 Corporate Governance foundation pillar have contributed to newly hired employees attended, earning us the international recognition of “Bank of the Year during the induction session, in 2015” by The Banker Magazine and “Best Bank in Lebanon a presentation on human rights, translating into in 2015” from Global Finance (Table 22). These honours 119 total hours of coverage of human rights topics. reflect our undisputed commitment to act with courageous integrity and to continue to earn the respect and confidence 1,297 of our international and external stakeholders. Our Corporate employees received training on Governance foundation provides the baseline standard of anti-corruption related topics. behaviour across all our operations. 26 27 Economic Development 28 29 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT clients, including structured products (lending and non-lending). Clients will be served by our network all over the country starting under the Central Bank’s Initiative, with USD 80 million of funds eligible to be directly or indirectly invested in financing local mid-2016. innovative and promising businesses, of which USD 40 million have been committed to date. Value creation for stakeholders and shareholders is intimately and indirect impacts on the Lebanese economy, whether through We are also contributing to the reshape of the start-up intertwined and mutually reinforcing. Our future financial success creating new jobs and employment opportunities, enabling small landscape in Lebanon with a very important involvement in Bank Audi also contributes to the understanding and the will also be determined by how we tackle environmental and businesses to thrive, or helping our local economy to prosper. the ecosystem through various initiatives. In this context, Bank assessment of domestic economic performances through a social challenges. As one of the largest financial institutions in By creating manifold economic opportunities, providing access Audi is a major contributor to the initiative launched by the wide range of economic and sector reports considered a key Lebanon, our ability to magnify our social impact is based upon to finance and innovation, and adapting to the needs of the Central Bank of Lebanon under Circular 331, which consists reference source on the Lebanese economy and the Lebanese leveraging the full power of our company to work with different marketplace and the local economy, we have strengthened various in creating financing opportunities for local start-ups to retain markets. Its research department, which just closed its 25th year, stakeholders on constructing stronger communities and a more aspects of our economic involvement in 2015 and amplified the inward competencies and enhance economic and social growth is widely quoted by international and regional institutions and stable economy. We are also aware that we have major direct positive spillovers we have on different stakeholders. in Lebanon. Bank Audi Group is the largest provider of capital agencies covering Lebanon. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS In 2015, assets for operations booked in Lebanon increased from provided loans with low interest rates for an amount exceeding Moreover, in 2015, Bank Audi maintained its support to the Bader well as the Lebanon For Entrepreneurs (LFE) initiative. Speed@BDD USD 24.5 billion at end-December 2014 to USD 25.8 billion USD 49 million. Many of our indirect economic programs Young Entrepreneurs Program. This program comprises three key is a cutting-edge start-up accelerator that was launched in August at end-December 2015, amounting to USD 30.7 billion specifically target small and medium enterprises (SMEs) which components revolving around education (workshops) for young 2015, filling a crucial need in the ecosystem to provide support for when accounting for fiduciary deposits and assets under constitute a key player in the local economic ecosystem and a entrepreneurs, creating networking opportunities, and connecting idea-stage tech start-ups by allocating significant cash and in-kind management. By end-December 2015, we were able to secure backbone of economic health in Lebanon. In this context, we with potential investors. In 2015, Bader cofounded Speed@BDD, services to new entrepreneurs. Speed@BDD aims to attract and USD 836.1 million in total operating income, with total operating have continued to offer Kafalat loans to SMEs operating in alongside venture capital funds MEVP/Impact and Berytech, as nurture the next top tech companies in the MENA region. expenses at USD 394.5 million and total shareholders’ equity Lebanon, with innovative start-ups or environmentally efficient and subordinated debt at USD 3.775 billion. This reflects a total initiatives in energy intensive sectors (e.g. industry, agriculture, number of transactions of 52,309,613, a total of 72 products, tourism, crafts and technology). 66 SMEs were supported and a total of 74 services. through these loans (reaching 460 beneficiaries) which Winners of the Bader’s Start-up Challenge have low interest rates, with a total value of USD 11 million We comply with national and international regulatory and tax in 2015. The Bank’s SANAD Fund for MSME (SANAD) loans 1st Prize LifeLab 2nd Prize Modeo Systems policies. For instance, we paid USD 64 million in income taxes were also contracted by 163 micro and very small beneficiaries LifeLab is a design lab and workshop dedicated to designing and Modeo Systems is a new modular furniture design experience. It’s on the Bank’s profits for 2015, and withheld USD 18 million for a total amount of USD 15,417,695. Additionally, the building automated, climate controlled, vertical hydroponic farms. about creating your own furniture using modular parts: imagine in personal income taxes from employees’ salaries which we number of new clients at end 2015 compared to end 2014 Coupled with their own 3,000 m² model farm and armed with you can build furniture just like playing Lego. The experience starts forwarded to the Ministry of Finance in 2015. We generated represented 14% of our total portfolio. Founded in August reliable distribution channels and facilitation partners, LifeLab will by designing your own models using our mobile app or download employment for 3,310 employees and contributed to the 2011, SANAD provides medium and long-term debt and equity custom-design, build and operate farms of all sizes for clients across predefined ones, modify them to fit your needs and budget, then broader economy through the payment of USD 130 million in financing to commercial banks, microfinance institutions Lebanon (and later the MENA area) and sell the farm’s produce order them with a click of a button to get them delivered to your taxes. Between employees’ salaries (roughly USD 101 million) and (MFIs) and other financial institutions in the Middle East and through their distribution partners. By empowering their farmers to door in lightweight boxes. Finally, you can assemble/disassemble social security contributions (roughly USD 14.4 million), our total North Africa (MENA), with the intent of strengthening micro, produce up to 10 times more crops from the same area of land with them very easily without complex tools. contributions amounted to 1.81% of Lebanon’s GDP in 2015. small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), as well as local predictable, higher quality produce to rival imported goods, LifeLab financial markets. During 2015, we also jointly worked with can operate a highly profitable business and simultaneously boost On a parallel note, we stimulate entrepreneurship and job the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to create a new export-quality Lebanese food crop production. creation through various tailored initiatives. In 2015, we business line covering all needs related to micro and small 30 31 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Aiming to help the youth develop technical skills to comply with the demands of the current job market, Bader co-founded Caring for Customers Super Mommy Workshop SE Factory, an intensive coding boot camp which trains young On Labour Day, a special gesture was made to 73 low-income In line with the CSR strategy’s Economic Development pillar and programmers to become professional software engineers. customers by randomly selecting and crediting their Personal Bank Audi’s commitment to spread financial literacy, the CSR Unit Additionally, in collaboration with the World Bank, Bader Loan account with their monthly instalment. This initiative, which hosted, on February 5, 2015, “Super Mommy”, a community Young Entrepreneurs Program organised a Start-up Challenge cost USD 12,600, involved various departments and showed that connects, educates and supports women of all ages and allowing young entrepreneurs with innovative ideas to initiate our customers that we stand by them in hard times and that we backgrounds, and inspires them to give back to their communities acknowledge their labour. through mentorship, networking and volunteerism. 12 female their entrepreneurial journey with the mentorship of dedicated social entrepreneurs who are launching their own start-ups were experts. Two winning start-ups got the opportunity to attend a given financial, accounting and managerial guidance. one-week study tour in the UK and to participate in the London Technology Week. Supporting the Bader Young Entrepreneurs Program. Building awareness on financial and economic issues was also on 2015, USD 490,000 were allocated to support these events and MICROFINANCE the agenda in 2015, through taking part in and/or sponsoring associations, all of which have positive spillover effects on the core banking conferences in the country, as well as various Lebanese economy through promoting knowledge and building banking and youth empowerment associations. An example of a more robust financial sector. that is the sponsoring of Al Bank Wal Mustathmer’s Conference, the Union of Arab Banks’ Congress, the 2015 US Commercial We maintain various other indirect economic impacts, through Another example of our effort to strengthen the Lebanese income-generating projects. Beneficiaries are fishermen, farmers, Guide and World Fair Trade, ArabNet Beirut, First Protocol’s infrastructure investments within and outside the Bank, as economy is our extensive approach to support entrepreneurs small entrepreneurs, women and the youth from the most Socio-Economic Awards, Al Iktissad Wal Aamal’s conference, illustrated in Table 6. and small businesses in remote and disadvantaged areas impoverished areas in Lebanon. In 2015, our contribution and the Lebanese International Finance Executives (LIFE). In through microfinance loans, in close collaboration with various had a growing visible impact, affecting the lives of over 477 NGOs and non-profits that share our goals. In this respect, we beneficiaries compared to 327 beneficiaries in 2014. sustained our support to the Association for the Development Table 6: Bank Audi's Indirect Economic Impact of Rural Capacities (ADR) by contributing to its microfinance Association Maak (NGO) also benefited from our support: loans programs which are extended to the underprivileged at micro-financing granted to 42 families, compared to 22 families Project Description Cost Investment significantly reduced interest rates. ADR is a Lebanese non-profit in 2014, covering various economic sectors including farming, organisation established in 1998 with a mission to empower cattle and agriculture, tailoring, snacks, beauty services, and Zaidanieh Branch December 2015 saw the opening of a new lounge USD 1,300,000 Commercial and integrate marginalised people through sustainable even scholarships (school and university), which went hand in branch granting high-end customers in a relatively economic and social development by facilitating access to hand with extending moral, technical and spiritual support to the remote area access to financial services. financial training, tools and services, and by supporting various beneficiary households. Tabaris Branch September 2015 marked the relocation to a new USD 970,000 Commercial branch with the new corporate identity highlighted. Marjeyoun Branch August 2015 marked a new landmark for Bank Audi: a stand alone branch in the Marjeyoun area that offers individuals and businesses access to a wide USD 1,160,000 Commercial PRODUCT PORTFOLIO assortment of products and services. Furn El-Shebbak Branch Relocation to a new branch highlighting the new USD 1,100,000 Commercial With the rapid advances in technology, customer behaviour is bills online, including public service monthly payments. Through corporate identity. witnessing rapid shifts, creating new customer demands and this service, landline phone and Internet subscribers in Lebanon Jezzine Garden The municipal public garden needed a retention wall. USD 43,350 Pro-bono expectations. In 2015, Bank Audi continued to innovate with can settle their monthly local and international bills remotely An ATM was also included in this rural area. products and services that are in line with the latest trends in through the Internet, simply by using their credit and debit cards Kfour Data Centre Construction of a new data recovery centre. USD 2,342,650 Infrastructure technology creating a cashless society. In collaboration with the (MasterCard and Visa) issued by local and international banks Ministry of Telecommunications, we took the first steps towards in Lebanon or abroad. The new e-Payment system has been Dar Assayad Training Centre Internal fit-out works of a leased building to host an USD 554,726 Infrastructure HR Training Centre. implementing a new e-Government and e-Payment system in operational since June 2014 and constitutes a first important step Lebanon, a first-of-its-kind service that facilitates the settlement of towards implementing e-Government and e-Payment systems at 32 33 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY the public administration level, thus simplifying life for everyone, conferencing with banking advisors. NOVO’s main features including the population’s disadvantaged and rural segments. and competitive edge are enhanced by extended banking The total number of e-Payment transactions increased 87.57% hours which give customers the opportunity to process their since inception, and the total volume increased by 130.52% operations swiftly and conveniently. Besides, with the advent over a period of 18 months. of digital technology, we are looking to implement 24/7 One of Bank Audi’s main concerns has been to support In line with the Central Bank of Lebanon’s requirements self-service areas in all our newly opened branches, in addition the Lebanese currency and economy. Among the initiatives and to better serve the purpose of ensuring transparency Our “audimobile” application was Lebanon’s most downloaded to offering a variety of digital banking solutions in our existing conceived to achieve this goal was the “Loubnani” card and raising client awareness, Bank Audi also introduced in financial app in 2015, with over 10,000 daily interactions, branches, such as self-service and e-sections. These services which was designed to empower the Lebanese Lira and 2015 key fact statements (KFS) to include full details of the making it a convenient way to bank since 2010. will enable customers to complete their banking transactions limit the “dollarization” effect on the Lebanese economy. Bank’s range of products and services. These KFSs aim at anytime of day and without any assistance, and will ultimately In 2015, we worked on enhancing its “Mizat Loubnani” clearing all possible questions that a client might have on Moreover and as part of its strategy set since 2011 to promote reduce waiting times at counters and unnecessary delays. program, mostly by adding new merchants to the discount any product/service they are looking to purchase from the Bank. the “Tap2Pay” NFC Series of Contactless Payments in Lebanon network. This allowed our cardholders to benefit from and the region, Bank Audi introduced, in 2015, a wide range All these efforts have translated in terms of increased special discounts and benefits at various outlets including Moreover, in trying to cater to different needs, we have adapted of wearable devices that were added to the Tap2Pay family, customer satisfaction and loyalty. It is therefore not surprising restaurants, bars, clothing shops, sports clubs, festivals some of our facilities and servicing methods to disadvantaged thus offering a large variety of contactless payment methods that around 93% of our customers are satisfied with our and cinemas, with up to 15% cash back, a concrete or handicapped people. Accordingly, our Branch Network such as cards, mobiles, stickers, watches or bracelets. This NFC products and services. Table 7 summarises key findings from promotion of the “Let the Lira Have its Say!” slogan. While Management is in the process of adding ramps to branches and Series of Contactless Payments is intended to expose customers these surveys. the “Loubnani” card represented 15% of the total card ATMs. In 2015, 58 branches (78%) and 84% of our ATMs are to the most innovative and secure payment methods and help portfolio in 2015, current figures show that we have more accessible to the disabled. This is also in line with feedback from them shift their mindset away from cash to less risky and more As an additional gauge of satisfaction, Bank Audi recently than 27,000 cards in circulation and a total spending volume our stakeholders to focus more on core CSR issues and make convenient ways to handle payments. introduced “Happy or Not” devices in its multiple branches. close to USD 300 million since inception in 2010. banking more accessible to disadvantaged communities. With the simple push of a button, the customer can Over the past years, significant efforts were made to render our express his/her level of satisfaction regarding the quality MARKET PRESENCE products accessible and convenient to all customers through of our service. Besides helping the Bank improve service enhanced services including ATMs, ITMs and NOVO branches levels, customer satisfaction and customer loyalty, these which are all easily accessible. We were indeed the first bank devices also encourage and motivate branch employees to launch the NOVO interactive branches, a new evolution to maintain and surpass their objectives, clearly improving in the field of electronic banking, featuring online video performance levels. In an effort to increase our market penetration and accessibility of our services to all, we have been adding ATMs in various locations, in such a way as to accommodate customer needs Table 7: Surveys Conducted to Measure Customer Satisfaction as per our Quality Program Specifications in different geographical areas. In this context, 4 new ATMs were added in rural areas during 2015, totalling 41 (19%) Surveying Tool Percentage Satisfaction Percentage Satisfaction out of 214 ATMs currently located in rural areas. These (2014) (2015) off-premises ATMs are not part of any specific branch, but are placed within building compounds, restaurant areas, Phone survey (on daily basis to assess customer satisfaction) 95% 97.38% malls and other populated venues. It is also worth noting that In-branch survey (on daily basis via the “Happy or Not” tool) 83% 87.70% 17.3% of Bank Audi’s branches (13 branches out of 75) are located in remote areas. In 2015, considerable effort was invested in educating and training merchants, as well as in modernising the local Appreciating 25 Years of Customer Loyalty infrastructure, by providing them with contactless readers. So far, Bank Audi successfully installed more than 3,500 Point of Sale Since 2013, twenty-five years of loyalty is appreciated at Bank Audi where we reward customers who opened an account with us 25 (POS) machines. Since contactless payments are the worldwide years ago. This year, we showed our gratitude to 372 customers. trend, it is a priority for Bank Audi to create the most awareness and achieve substantial implementation in the local market. Making our products accessible and convenient to all customers. 34 35 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPLY CHAIN AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES We manage our daily operations and supply chain in such a way commitment includes easy access to financial services, responsible as to minimise environmental impact, reduce inefficiency and investment and lending practices, as well as adequate and enhance sustainable practices. The three vital partners of our value up-to-date information. In this respect, we have taken active chain are our customers, our suppliers, and multilateral institutions. steps during 2015 to pass on economic, social and environmental We aim to promote sustainability throughout our value chain responsibility to our customers, insisting that they behave by collaborating with these different players to improve their responsibly and adhere to commonly accepted principles of environmental and social performance. sustainable business conduct. As discussed in our Corporate Governance pillar, we have made consistent efforts to integrate Our suppliers include contractors, printing services, facilities the principles of responsible financing in our credit policies by suppliers, service suppliers, caterers and hospitality suppliers, developing an extensive environmental and social risk screening academics, consultants, legal service providers, website process for Bank Audi Group. We also endeavour to prevent developers, news agencies, as well as marketing and advertising credit facilities from being used in violation of internationally experts. Implementation of our social commitment requirements is recognised standards in the areas of human rights, environment embedded into our internal and external procurement procedures and anti-corruption. that explicitly outline the rules and regulations governing the purchasing process, whereby all purchased goods and services Last but not least, we are engaged with multi-lateral agencies and SPECIAL FEATURE STORY should be acquired in a fair, transparent, competitive, timely and export credit agencies such as the European Investment Bank, efficient manner. Knowing that the suppliers play an important the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, Agence Française role in maintaining our high ethical standards, we aim to create de Développement, among others; we also have a strategic Bank Audi Pioneers Real-time Video Technology in Lebanon mutually beneficial supplier relationships across different industries partnership with the International Finance Corporation, which to achieve environmental, social and governance objectives. Our aims to promote long-term financing to increase, diversify and Bank’s policy also favours ethical and eco-friendly suppliers who, lengthen the funding base for small and medium scale projects in through their business practices, recognise and abide by the specific targeted industries, and in renewable energy and energy Bank Audi has announced that it has chosen interactive conversation, delivering a highly personalised experience. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, fight corruption, and efficiency. Other programs like the Arab Trade Finance Program video technology from NCR Corporation, the global leader Video interaction and teller-assisted transaction processing generally aspire to adopt the ISO 26000 Social Responsibility aim to promote trade between Arab countries, and enhance in consumer transaction technologies, to deliver extended can reduce operating costs by enabling tellers at a remote Standard guidelines as part of their business strategy. Relationships the productivity and competitiveness of Arab producers and teller services to its customers in Lebanon. Bank Audi central location to operate units deployed across multiple with suppliers are managed by our expense managers and exporters. These relationships support the Bank’s growth plans launched its first NCR Interactive Teller (ITM) at its NOVO sites. With Interactive Teller, bank employees connect procurement channels, with various suppliers given equal and the development of key regional subsidiaries and business Palladium branch in Bab Idriss Beirut. Interactive tellers with their customers in a face-to-face, highly personal opportunity to present quotations for provision of goods, services market segments. allow the Bank’s customers to conduct transactions with a engagement – often outside of normal banking hours. and assets necessary for the Bank’s operation and satisfactory to live, remote teller over an ATM. our internal requestors’ specifications. The estimated monetary Acting responsibly necessitates a balance between economic, Bank Audi is taking an innovative approach to better value of payments made to suppliers amounts to over USD 220 environmental and social objectives. We believe that the With NCR Interactive Teller, customers can perform service its customers by giving its branch employees million, purchases from local suppliers accounting for 90% of our responsible business initiatives we implemented in 2015 under banking transactions, manage their accounts, deposit and disruptive technology that caters for deeper customer total procurement budget. the Economic Development pillar are an integral part of our cash cheques, deposit and withdraw cash, pay bills, transfer interactions and allows them to behave as financial CSR strategy and contribute in various ways to sustain and money to a Bank Audi account, and get live assistance consultants rather than spending most of their daily time Our customers are the main drivers of our organisation and we revive the Lebanese economy. As demonstrated here, we through video conferencing with personal tellers. on rudimentary items such as handling cash and cheques, constantly strive to give them the highest priority with respect to were able to finance and support various investments and said NCR Country Manager. our services and banking transactions. Our main role as a bank innovations in 2015, that are likely to spur local economic Customers always expect the best from Bank Audi, which is to facilitate the flow of funds from depositors to investors and growth and revitalisation. In cooperation with our partners, we is why we leverage state-of-the-art technology to optimise The objective is better customer servicing with more borrowers. The borrowers use the different forms of credit to have taken constructive steps to advance entrepreneurship and service quality and customer satisfaction, said Bank Audi convenient banking hours extending over 7 days a week buy goods or invest in businesses. By lending capital responsibly, innovation around us, ultimately connecting small businesses Lebanon's General Manager. until 7:00 pm. At the same time, the efficiency and security we are therefore helping the economy to grow and prosper by with entrepreneurial support mechanisms, incubators and created through the centralisation of tellers serving ITMs converting short-term savings into long-term financing. We also accelerators, and providing them with the physical, material NCR Interactive Teller enables a centrally located teller enable Bank Audi to deploy new branch network strategies want to build responsible customer relationships by adhering to and cognitive competencies needed to cultivate start-ups and to take full remote control of all modules on the device and transform its branch locations into more effective commonly accepted principles of sustainable business conduct. Our businesses that drive growth and innovation. while engaging the customer over two-way real-time video service and sales environments. 36 37 Community Development 38 39 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Our Community Development pillar tackles key social issues in to these direct contributions, we have developed opportunities to the areas of health, humanitarian and social support, culture, connect our customers and employees with social issues, stemming children development, as well as employee volunteerism and sports from our longstanding partnerships with various organisations to activities. Our commitment as a corporate citizen was reinforced enhance our impact and help build stronger local communities. during this reporting period by significant contributions to the Our various efforts in this field demonstrate our commitment to community, amounting to USD 4.6 million, of which: USD 619,000 be a good neighbour and a trusted community partner that can be on health, USD 2.58 million on humanitarian and social issues, counted upon to engage forcefully and wholeheartedly in making USD 1.33 million on culture, and USD 115,000 on sports. In addition a positive difference in the communities around us. LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Blood Donations During 2015 Community Health As part of our continuous effort to spread awareness, raise On the occasion of World Blood Donor Day, Bank Audi welcomed with arms wide open the Donner Sang Compter (DSC) team for a blood drive on June 15, 2015. The event, which was organised in collaboration with the American University of Beirut Medical 466 employees joined hands to collect USD 50,000 covering the full cost of treatment for one sick child. funds, and positively impact our community, we have sustained a Center (AUBMC), aimed at sustaining commitment to the USD 150,000 community. The DSC mascot visited employees at Bank Audi’s number of key partnerships and initiatives in 2015. For example, headquarters, encouraging them to donate. 54 colleagues took we partnered with Heartbeat, in support of their “Heartbeat part in this initiative and 35 units of blood were garnered, which was donated for Box” campaign, one of the largest fundraising initiatives in means 105 lives saved. the treatment of This event served to raise awareness and motivate potential 20 children with congenital heart problems. Lebanon, which was held between February 1 and March 15, blood donors to support the DSC cause and promote a general 2015. During that period, Heartbeat distributed 100,000 boxes culture of openness and giving. all over Lebanon, encouraging children and adults to “Give and >USD 55,000 be a Hero”. Maxime Chaya, a world-recognised hero, Bank Audi’s Corporate Ambassador and Heartbeat’s Ambassador, endorsed in sponsoring the project. The boxes were deposited at Bank Audi branches health-oriented between March 9 and March 13, 2015. The public’s response organisations such as Chronic Care Center and Skoun. was heart-warming and impressive: donations reached a total of USD 150,000, a tremendous success for Heartbeat’s 10th anniversary! These donations will help treat and save the lives In addition to our support of the Lebanese Red Cross, we of several children with congenital heart defects. Additionally participated in various health initiatives, such as those launched by and in keeping with tradition, we sponsored Heartbeat’s 10th Donner Sang Compter and Hôpital Psychiatrique de la Croix. anniversary concert which gave 506 employees the chance to attend two memorable evenings of fun and music while serving a good cause. To date, Heartbeat’s annual concerts have funded We supported various hospitals in Lebanon including Hôtel-Dieu de lifesaving surgery for more than 2,000 affected children. France and St. George Hospital. Partnership with Heartbeat. Celebrating Blood Donor's Day. 51 calls for blood donations were made by our employees to their colleagues and friends as part of a blood donation drive. 40 41 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Humanitarian and Social Initiatives In 2015, we sustained our active engagement in the support of various worthy humanitarian and social initiatives. What follows is a glimpse of our humanitarian and social engagements during the past year: LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT • Committing to various local non-governmental organisations sustainable educational and social services targeting women, Financial Literacy (NGOs) that support disadvantaged people in Lebanon such as youth, children, the elderly and disabled individuals. These gift As a leading financial institution, we believe we are responsible When Bank Audi launched the “Kids Rewards” loyalty program Dar Al Aytam Al Islamiyah, the Lebanese Welfare Association purchases amounted to over USD 275,000. for boosting financial literacy and educational innovation. Young back in 2011, its strategy consisted in educating new generations of the Handicapped, the Sidon Orphan Welfare Society, children aged 5 or 6 commonly start asking questions about and teaching them about life’s values. In 2015, the Bank decided to Sesobel, Al Younbouh and the Lebanese Autism Society. Total • C ommitting to ensure road safety by supporting Roads for money habits and financial transactions. Hence our conviction focus even more on promoting the “Kids Rewards” special option contributions in this area amounted to around USD 110,000. Life, the Talal Kassem Fund for Post-Accident Care. The that financial literacy starts at a young age and our renewed that allows the children to redeem their parents’ accumulated organisation gives emergency physicians, nurses and Red commitment to KidzMondo, initiated in 2013. KidzMondo gives points with a donation instead of a gift for themselves. Thus they • Committing to various local non-governmental organisations Cross volunteers world-class training to help improve road young children the opportunity to familiarise themselves with would be putting the money to a better use and contributing to (NGOs) that support different social causes such as Himaya, victims’ chance of survival in the 60 minutes following the banking basics, among others, in a motivational environment. the community by improving the lives of underprivileged children. an NGO with the mission to promote a global protection crash, a critical period of time called the “Golden Period It is a reproduction of a real city in downtown Beirut, where of innocence in danger; Tamanna, an NGO which aims of Trauma”, where proper care can help save lives or children play adult professional roles in preparation for the real at granting the wishes of children with critical illnesses; reduce disability. world. Bank Audi’s replica branch in KidzMondo aims at teaching MySchoolPulse which brings school to hospitalised children children about the importance of working, earning a living, and undergoing treatment for life-threatening illness; OpenMinds • Encouraging our customers to donate their points to worthy spending wisely. It also introduces children to the world of banking which supports AUBMC’s Special Kids Clinic and in general, causes. Since 2014, more than 1,000 customers donated including cash outs, deposits, savings, and the use of debit cards helping the mentally challenged, disabled and autistic. Total around 2.9 million points (USD 153,000) to support 18 national and ATMs. This is part of a broader sustainability goal for Bank contributions under this area amounted to over USD 100,000. humanitarian associations such as St. Jude, The Lebanese Red Audi, pertaining to increasing financial literacy and extending Cross, SOS, Balsam, Sesobel, Zakkat Fund, Heartbeat, AFDC, across different pillars of our CSR strategy. This year, KidzMondo • Purchasing gifts for celebrations (Fitr and Christmas) from Jouzour Loubnan and Chance. was able to attract more than 300,000 young minds from across organisations such as Ahlouna, IRAP (Institut de Rééducation Lebanon, the Middle East and many international countries. Festive Season at KidzMondo. Audio-Phonétique), Sesobel and Message de Paix to support • Linking our business processes to community development their respective missions pertaining to supporting disabled efforts where our e-Payment and Card Services department children, helping handicapped people and recovering participated in 31 events and raised over USD 990,000 of Aiming to wish happy holidays to our customers and their children aged 4 to 10, Retail Lebanon’s latest activity for 2015 was launched during substance abusers find new job opportunities, and enhancing donations via our GPRS machines deployed at events’ venues. the month of December. The latter were invited to celebrate the festive season at KidzMondo. A total of 220 children attended the event with their parents, to enjoy an engaging afternoon of “fun all the way”! In 2015 e-Gallery Over USD 618,000 Since its opening in 2013, the e-gallery aimed at giving its visitors (mainly school and university students from all over Lebanon) an insight on to support the latest payment technologies. In 2015, the e-gallery witnessed an increase in visits, bearing witness to people’s interest in interacting with health-related causes new payment technologies. The e-gallery mainly serves as an educational venue for the youth, where university students are invited to attend workshops tackling the Over history of plastic money with a highlight on the revolutionary contactless payment techniques. Since its opening, the e-gallery has received USD 1.33 million more than 5,000 guests and 818 students (from 15 universities). to support cultural events Over Bank Audi was the first Lebanese bank to organise a one-week banks, financial institutions, members of the civil society and USD 2.58 million to support various social and humanitarian issues activity targeting high-school students who spent “A Day At Bank Audi” between March 10 and 13, 2015. This initiative falls under the Bank’s Financial Literacy Program for Youth and is part of the communities of active youth worldwide. In light of the above, Bank Audi hosted more than 250 students Global Money Week’s “Save today. Safe tomorrow!”. Global from the Beirut Evangelical School for Girls and Boys, Saints Table 8: Summary of the Rewards Program Outcomes since 2012 Money Week is a worldwide celebration intended to empower the Coeurs Ain Najm, Al Makassed Ali Ben Abi Taleb College, Al next generation of financial actors to be confident, responsible and Makassed Khaled Ben Al Waleed College, Dhour Chweir Public 2012 2013 2014 2015 skilled economic citizens. Every year, entire communities jointly take High School, and Ghobeiry Public High School for Girls. The action to reshape the financial landscape, and give young people students attended presentations on basic banking concepts Number of subscribers 80,000 80,000 145,000 153,100 the tools and inspiration they need to shape their own future. delivered by the joint efforts of colleagues representing the Points donated 399,000 395,000 1.2 million 1.7 million Global Money Week takes place every year during the second Retail, e-Payment Solutions and Card Services, and Compliance Value of points USD 20,000 USD 20,000 USD 59,000 USD 94,000 week of March. It is coordinated by the Child and Youth Finance departments of the Bank. They also toured the Bank’s Bab International (CYFI) Secretariat, but the events themselves are Idriss branch, the e-gallery and the NOVO branch. All students NGOs involved 12 12 18 18 organised by schools, universities, government ministries, central received certificates of participation. 42 43 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Culture Several key cultural initiatives were sponsored by Bank Audi in Bank’s hosting of the annual “Prix Phoenix de la Littérature” which 2015, including the Baalbeck, Jezzine, Jounieh, Beirut Chants, was granted to Lamia Ziadé for her book “Oh Nuit Oh mes Yeux” Beiteddine, Byblos, Zouk Mikael, Batroun and Al Bustan festivals. and to Zeina Abirached for her book “Le Piano Oriental”. Our total Culture was also on the agenda through our sponsoring of the philanthropic contributions in the realm of cultural development in book fair organised by the Antelias Cultural Movement, and the Lebanon alone reached thousands of beneficiaries. Global Money Week “Save today. Safe tomorrow!” Sports Our commitment to sports-related causes remains unchanged because we believe in the importance of sports as part of our Celebrating Couples employees’ and communities’ lives. Around USD 115,000 were therefore allocated to sponsoring sports activities in On Valentine’s Day 2015, we surprised more than 50 couples who were out on a romantic evening, and treated them to their 2015, including marathons, Tripoli Bikeathon and fitness Valentine’s dinner in 6 different restaurants across the city. When challenges, and bringing our support to Lebanese sports teams. the couple ordered their bill and appeared to be paying with a Furthermore, over 400 Bank Audi employees, along with their Bank Audi card, they were offered their dinner courtesy of Bank families and friends, participated in the Beirut International Audi, with all the amorous exchanges of the day. Marathon in support of the Kunhadi Association which will use the funds raised for their “Safe Crossing” project which consists in creating safe passages in front of schools, and helping save kids’ lives while crossing high traffic streets. Our winning employees at the Beirut Corporate Games. Employees participate in a marathon for a cause: Run Fast for Safe Driving . Employees participate in My Schoolpulse for schooling sick children. Celebrating Valentine's Day. Sports Achievements Sports Participations • Basketball Inc. 2015 Tournament: 1st place in Basketball Inc. • Audi Sports Day: various internal tournaments with 350 2015 organised by Sport Evasion. members of staff participating. Celebrating Teachers • Futsal: 1st place in the Inter-banks Futsal Tournament organised • Myschoolpulse Fun Run to support education of children with A new initiative for 2015 was recognising teachers as prominent by the Lebanese Syndicate of Bank Employees. life-threatening illnesses, where 106 employees took part. members of our community. Our branch managers and staff • Table Tennis (Ping Pong): 1st place: Charbel Akl in the Table • Women’s Race with the challenge taken by 22 ladies for visited around 50 schools across Lebanon and met with more Tennis Tournament at Saint Joseph Beit El Kiko Club. the benefit of the National Commission for Lebanese than 6,000 instructors on Teachers’ Day. • Beirut Corporate Games: 1st place winners with 300 employees Women (NCLW). participating. Celebrating Teachers' Day. 44 45 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 LOCAL COMMUNITY COLLABORATION Employee Volunteerism Aiming to complement our corporate philanthropic employees who find it fulfilling and rewarding to commit donations with a human touch, the “Be a Hero for a Day” to these community outreach and volunteerism initiatives. Volunteer Program was initiated in 2013. The program Employees’ involvement is determined by the local context’s encourages employees to engage and give back to their most pressing needs. The NGOs we have partnered with in Ayadina community, and raises their awareness on important social 2015 include Ayadina Association (an organisation based in Association Assabil issues. In 2015, “Be a Hero for a Day” genuinely attested Nabaa and catering to deprived children and old persons), how, together with our employees, we embrace a culture Assabil “Friends of Public Libraries”, the Children’s Cancer of high engagement and responsibility. The Volunteer Center of Lebanon (CCCL), Kibarouna Association (cater to • Handicraft. • Storytelling training, handicraft and various activities. Program has significantly grown since its inception, namely the elderly), SOS Villages d’Enfants (Home for Orphans), in • Inviting and assisting children at KidzMondo. •V  irtual travel with the community children (cultural and traditional as regards to the increasing number of partner NGOs addition to G (a non-governmental organisation specialised • V irtual travel with the community children (cultural and traditional introduction to various countries). and hence beneficiaries, the total volunteered hours, the in green living), Orphan Welfare Society Saida (OWSS) introduction to various countries). • Book donation to public libraries. number of volunteers, and the number of departments and Injaz (a non-profit non-governmental educational • IT support in establishing a computer lab for ease of communication • T reating the elderly of Ayadina to a brunch at Assabil Library, Geitawi and branches involved in the program (Table 9). Such organisation dedicated to educating the youth on work between the Association’s elderly and their relatives abroad. Garden – Ashrafieh, and organising chess, card and backgammon social investment programs have a significant impact on readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy). • Surveying the elderly needs and status. tournaments with 5 prepaid cards awarded to the winners. • Treating the elderly of Ayadina to a brunch at Assabil Library, Geitawi • Establishing a chess club for the youth and children. Garden – Ashrafieh, and organising chess, card and backgammon Table 9: Comparison of Employee Volunteerism: 2013, 2014 and 2015 tournaments with 5 prepaid cards awarded to the winners. 2013 2014 2015 5 NGO partners 6 NGO partners 8 NGO partners 284 beneficiaries 2,788 beneficiaries 3,617 beneficiaries 23 volunteers 150 volunteers 228 volunteers 120 hours 530 hours 580 hours Estimated 10% of departmental and branch 90% of departmental 98% of departmental involvement (4 departments and 1 corporate branch) and branch involvement and branch involvement Injaz SOS Villages d'Enfants Be a Hero for a Day Volunteer Program Examples • Training our volunteers on Injaz’s different programs. • Games and sports afternoons. • D elivering a workshop on leadership at the SOS Beirut premises • Inviting and assisting children at KidzMondo. for the benefit of the youth. • D elivering workshops on leadership and communication skills. • Giving business workshops to intermediate students in Beirut and Tripoli. OWSS CCCL Kibarouna Orphan Welfare Children's Cancer G Association Society Saida Centre of Lebanon • H osting, serving and organising Grand Parents’ Day celebration at •A  n afternoon with 120 children; 52 employees from the Retail the Palais des Congrès. Department delivered workshops about banking in a simplified • In collaboration with the puppet show of Assabil, volunteers • R aising awareness on environmental protection and recycling by • A n evening socialising, serving, dancing and singing with the and fun way, watched a movie and discussed its theme, shared presented a puppet play and various craft activities. hosting the Environment Day at BIEL. elderly at the Kibarouna’s camp. dinner and organised a treasure hunt for the youngest orphans. • Inviting and assisting children at KidzMondo. • Website design. 46 47 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Participants of the CSR university competition. For generations, we have been making a difference in the we operate. Together with our various partners, we were able communities where we live and work. In 2015, we designed to design effective solutions tailored to local community needs, and implemented various programs that further augment our influencing every aspect of the quality of life around us ranging impact in relation to health, humanitarian and social causes from healthcare, to worthy causes, to sports and culture in the local communities around us. Our collaborative efforts through our balanced Community Development portfolio are important in this respect, especially with regard to keeping (Figure 8). We truly believe that these efforts have strengthened us informed of the conditions on the ground through finer both the fabric and the resilience of the community ecosystem grained, deeper information about the local contexts in which around us while enriching our own lives. Figure 8: A Spectrum of Community Development Initiatives Bank Audi's Community Development Employee Volunteerism SPECIAL FEATURE STORY Health Culture CSR University Awareness & Competition Employee health Festivals, exhibitions, Community health art and music Lilian Abou Hamdan, Helena Kfoury and Ghiwa Dandach finance their education, and simultaneously trains them are the CSR heroes for 2014. Launched at end 2014, to become potential employees once they graduate. the “Responsible Youth” CSR University Competition gathered around 50 graduates from various Lebanese Solar Power Tree is the planting of “Bank Audi” branded Children Development Humanitarian/Social universities, with the aim to encourage them to explore trees in public places that are lit by solar panels so as to their creativity and come up with feasible and impactful raise awareness on renewable energy and promote our and Financial Literacy Human Rights CSR projects. green products such as environmental loans. Social aid KidzMondo Social causes In collaboration with an external jury composed of CSR Financial Institutions Innovate for Aging Societies aims Global Money Week experts, five submissions were shortlisted and evaluated at creating a community for the elderly, offering them Spring account Sports by the Bank’s CSR Committee during live presentations. facilities to ensure their welfare. Marathons The top projects were: Through this initiative, we motivated our youth to come Corporate Games Bank Audi Work Study Program whereby the Bank offers up with more initiatives that benefit the community and undergraduate students job opportunities to help them set an example to peers. 48 49 Human Development 50 51 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Table 10: Summary of Employee Training Hours Employee Training Hours Hours (2014) Hours (2015) Average training hours/Employee 29.73 36.18 Cultivating human talent is one of our top priorities at Bank Audi, in our employees’ well-being and skill development within a Average training hours/Male 25.12 32.13 being one of the largest private sector employers in Lebanon culture of continuous motivation and innovation. Our employees and reflecting our unwavering commitment to human capital, feel good about coming to work because this is a place where Average training hours/Female 35.24 41.03 diversity and equal opportunity. We are thus committed to they are supported and appreciated, and where they can Average training hours/Frontline employee 27.04 36.09 investing in the future through supporting human development achieve, excel and grow. Externally, we seek to encourage and at the internal and external levels. Internally, we seek to put our support the youth, and are thus strong advocates of education Average training hours/Middle Manager 44.89 36.68 people first, to consider them our most vital asset, and to invest and youth empowerment. Average training hours/Senior Manager 22.05 34.43 TRAINING, EDUCATION The learning programs implemented aim at assisting employees in upgrading their competence and abilities in areas related to technical skills, as illustrated in Table 11. AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT Table 11: Employee Development Programs and Number of Participating Employees Participating Employees Our human capital being our most important asset, our success quality, retaining talent, and handling external environmental as a bank is contingent on providing accessible and innovative pressures relating to competition and change in work design. This program provides qualified employees with an equal training and development opportunities to our employees in Consequently, we maintained our support to the three-tiered opportunity to assume first line supervisory positions. It order to help them progress in their jobs and continue to be approach to employee development, an approach adopted in Branch Management Program (BMP) is designed to identify, train and develop future branch 52 managers and assistant managers through a 1 to 3-year rewarded for their achievements. These programs are designed 2013 and founded on three inter-related priorities pertaining program exposing them to an intensive learning environment. to cultivate a high quality work environment where employees to training and development, continuous assessment, and feel appreciated and rewarded and, in turn, responsibly drive coaching and mentoring. This is a 30-day executive program delivered over 12 months our business and implement our strategy. and focusing on providing participants with tools to: In 2015, we invested more than USD 2.8 million in employee • Effectively lead and manage people The development of employees is essential to acquire training and development. More than 113,000 training hours Advanced Management Program (AMP) • Embrace and drive change initiatives 43 • Create and deliver customer value the technical and leadership skills needed to operate in a were deployed, covering a bulk of 2,230 employees almost • Gain the confidence to make decisions needed to succeed dynamic environment. By strengthening our employees’ equally split in terms of gender representation and targeting • Be exposed to different functional areas capabilities, we have seen significant improvement in service all levels of employment (Table 10). This program is designed for the Corporate, Commercial Credit Training Program (CTP) and Group Risk departments as a set of intermediate and 33 Figure 9: Investing In Employee Training A Continuing Top Priority advanced credit courses provided by international agencies. 2012 2013 2014 2015 These trainings have led to a ratio of successfully trained Our employee development approach is constantly under employees to total employees of around 71%. In 2015, we review as needs are assessed at multiple levels before 2,345 2,230 further developed our “Bank Audi Corporate Academy” training decisions are made. This assessment covers the Total employees trained 2,080 portfolio of in-house training schemes aimed at nurturing requirements of the organisation, the prerequisites of the 1,956 skills and talent, and creating a culture of performance and tasks involved, and individual level needs. Accordingly, in continuous improvement. Over USD 20,000 were invested in 2015, the plans for training activities and programs were the 2015 edition of the Corporate Academy. 3,966 training based on our annual strategic plan drawing on our mission participants took part in the Bank Audi Training Academy and vision: departmental requests based on meetings with courses that aim to enhance the skills and knowledge of line managers and recommendations provided by them, Total training hours existing branch employees on several banking topics, and to and individual competency-based trainings identified and provide them with the opportunity to advance in their careers. compiled throughout the annual performance management 80,000+ 79,000+ 89,000+ 113,000+ 52 53 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY process. Furthermore, a comprehensive assessment phase USD 812,000 in supporting the development of our One of our core values is fostering a diverse and inclusive work we believe that a workforce with a variety of backgrounds follows the training stage to adequately measure the employees, including advanced university courses, environment. Accordingly, we strive to support diversity in the reflecting our society’s composition is an essential driver to results of any training program. For technical trainings, specialised banking studies and certifications, and executive organisation and ensure equal opportunities to all employees stay competitive. our HR department’s Training and Development unit runs education. We are very much aware that developing without regard to religion, gender or nationality. For example, post-course tests to ensure knowledge transfer; and for soft employees will reflect positively on their motivation and in terms of gender composition of our workforce, the skills trainings, feedback is collected through evaluation performance, particularly when these employees apply percentage of our female employee representation reached reports and continuous follow-up. what they have learned in their current jobs. In 2015, roughly 45.5% of total employees in 2015 (1,424 female 116 employees were certified in “Lebanese Financial employees vs. 1,706 male employees). While initiatives to 2015 also witnessed continued efforts to invest in our Regulations”. Furthermore, 43 employees benefited from support women in managerial positions continue to thrive, employees’ higher education attainment. We invested over the Bank’s sponsorship grants, as detailed in Figure 10. the representation of women in the middle and upper echelons of the Bank and key committees remains on the low side (Table 12). Yet, we seek to alleviate the glass ceiling in all its guises as part of our commitment to diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity. In terms of age groups across different Enriching Employees’ Lives managerial levels, Senior Management positions are mostly occupied by employees who are older, and hence have more Aiming to enrich colleagues’ lives, our Training & Development (T&D) unit held various internal awareness sessions on miscellaneous topics presented by expert colleagues or external speakers, such as: seniority, experience and tenure within the Bank. In general, Bank Audi Corporate Academy. • Lebanon’s Economy and its National Currency: a Fundamental and Empirical Analysis • Social Media • Waste in our Society Table 12: Employee Composition by Gender and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon • Rating and Assessing Financial Institutions • Stress Testing % of Staff % of Middle Managers % of Top Managers • Cyber Security (below Grade 17) (Grade 17 to Grade 21 Inclusively) (Grade 22 and above) • The Basel III Pillar • Risk Infrastructure F M F M F M Bank Audi sal 38.98% 38.63% 9.35% 11.66% 0.38% 1.00% Other Lebanese entities 30.34% 49.08% 4.44% 11.33% 0.00% 4.80% Figure 10: Bank Audi's Employee Sponsorship Grants Table 13: Employee Composition by Age Group and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon % of Staff % of Middle Managers % of Top Managers (below Grade 17) (Grade 17 to Grade 21 Inclusively) (Grade 22 and above) 43 Advanced university studies 2015 Between Between Between 18 employees were sponsored to < 30 > 50 < 30 > 50 < 30 > 50 (Master's degree) of which In pursue their higher education 4 abroad 30-50 30-50 30-50 Bank Audi sal 20.89% 41.71% 15.01% 0.08% 15.78% 5.16% 0.00% 0.50% 0.88% Other Lebanese entities 16.89% 39.51% 23.02% 0.00% 11.96% 3.81% 0.00% 2.08% 2.71% 22 Professional certifications Table 14: Composition of Governance Body Committees by Gender and Age Group at Bank Audi Executive education from (Certificate of Quantitative Finance, CFA-Certified Financial Analyst, 3 Harvard Business School and INSEAD CIA-Certified Internal Audit, Gender (%) Age (%) CMA-Certified Management Accountant, Dip IFR-Diploma in International Financial Reporting, F M < 30 30-50 > 50 FRM-Financial Risk Manager, Board of Directors 20 80 100 Data Scientist) 54 55 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 PROGRESSIVE LABOUR PRACTICES In addition, 84% of Bank Audi Group Lebanon employees are • Total number of employees under Limited Employment Human Resource Planning covered by collective agreements. In 2015, Bank Audi Group Contract (“contrat à durée déterminée” CDD) is 144 of We continuously engage in Human Resource Planning (HRP) as Lebanon hired 320 employees, as illustrated in Table 16. These new which 81 males and 63 females. we strategically plan our growth and various needs. In 2015, hires invariably infuse considerable new blood into the organisation, we made sure to be present in job fairs organised by various and the breakdown is 58% males versus 42% females in 2015. •Total number of employees under Unlimited Employment universities across Lebanon, such as the American University When considering the type of employment contracts given to Contract (“contrat à durée indéterminée” CDI) is 2,986 of of Beirut (AUB), the Lebanese American University (LAU), the our employees, all Bank Audi Group employees have full time which 1,625 males and 1,361 females. University of Balamand, Université Saint-Joseph (USJ), Notre employment divided as follows: Dame University (NDU) and Ecole Supérieure des Affaires (ESA). Furthermore, we offered internships to over 423 university students, amounting to over USD 163,000. Outstanding interns Table 15: Employee Distribution by Contract Type and Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon are flagged in our records for potential recruitment at the Bank. Participation at USJ Job Fair. Total Number Contract of Employees Gender CDD CDI Collective Agreement Compensation and Benefits We implement a clearly defined and documented compensation future academic pursuits. Bank Audi’s Training & Development F M F M F M % Covered % Not Covered strategy which reflects our core values and beliefs, whereby we unit held its annual Profamily celebration on September 14, 2015. Bank Audi sal 2599 1266 1333 39 45 1227 1288 100% 0% seek to offer our hardworking employees fair and highly competitive For the eighth consecutive year, the sons and daughters of fellow remuneration and benefits compared to starting market rates, employees were rewarded for their exceptional results in the Other Lebanese entities 531 158 373 24 36 134 337 67.89% 32.11% specifically at a ratio of 1.48. Hence, salaries and benefits Baccalaureate – Part II, an initiative meant to encourage teenagers Total 3130 1424 1706 63 81 1361 1625 83.95% 16.06% constitute our highest HR costs, exceeding USD 170 million to seek education and unrivalled performance, for ambitious in 2015. We also complement our pay schemes with various careers and a brighter future. In 2015, Bank Audi awarded 17 significant benefits including performance bonuses, medical qualified students. The amounts of prizes granted to the top Table 16: New Employee Hires at Bank Audi Group Lebanon insurance and coverage, paid leaves, life insurance, educational four performers with distinction were respectively as follows: sponsorships, special loans facilities, insurance plans, work USD 20,000, USD 15,000, USD 5,000 and USD 5,000. Total Number of New Hires Total Number of New Hires accident insurance, transportation allowance, family allowance, Total Number of New Hires marriage allowance, child birth allowance, child tuition At Bank Audi, we are aware that top performing employees by Gender by Age allowance, travel allowance, end-of-service indemnities and need to be identified and recognised for their hard work, Between F M < 30 > 50 advantages such as an infirmary, a gymnasium and a music commitment and efforts. We make sure to acknowledge the 30-50 studio. In 2015, for instance, we invested over USD 5.3 million in work of our top performers throughout our branch network Bank Audi sal 223 109 114 131 89 3 support of 940 employees and their children’s tuition fees (around on a monthly and yearly basis. Other Lebanese entities 97 24 73 48 38 11 USD 3,000/child). We also make it a point to maintain competitive and gender-balanced compensation schemes across the Bank. Moreover, in line with our annual end of year tradition, we Total 320 133 187 179 127 14 continue to distribute gifts to our employees. In 2015: In 2015, we also resumed arranging the Profamily celebration, •3 ,462 5g gold units were offered to all Bank Audi employees, a special award program organised by the Bank annually to for an amount of USD 521,000; reward employees’ children for their outstanding academic •3 ,171 10-liter gallons of olive oil were distributed to our Figure 11: Workforce Composition with Respect to Gender in 2015 performance in the Lebanese baccalaureate by sponsoring their employees, for an amount of USD 228,000. In 2015 940 Bank Audi employees were aided with their children’s tuition fees, totalling USD 5.3 million. 54% Male employees 46% Female employees ProFamily educational program awardees. > USD 170 million invested as salaries and benefits, constituting our highest HR cost. 56 57 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Employee Retention We have succeeded in maintaining a very low human capital As part of our determination to retain our employees, we make turnover rate of 5.6% in 2015 in Bank Audi sal. Looking sure that they take the needed time to nurture their newborns closer, we also note that the female turnover rate (2.2%) is and cater to their parental needs. We also provide space for less than that of males (3.3%) in Bank Audi sal. them to resume their work and fulfil their career aspirations. Toastmasters T oastmasters International is a non-profit educational organisation that operates clubs worldwide for the purpose of helping members improve Table 17: Return to Work Rates after Parental Leave, by Gender, at Bank Audi Group Lebanon their communication, public speaking and leadership skills. Toastmasters’ members hone their speaking and leadership skills in a fun and friendly environment through attending meetings in one of the 14,650 clubs in 126 countries worldwide. Total Number Total Number of Employees Bank Audi Toastmasters Club, the first and only corporate club in Lebanon since 2013, provides employees with the chance to improve their Total Number of Employees who Returned to Work communication and leadership skills, and find the courage to change, empowering members to practice on stage with colleagues and guests. of Employees Return to Retention During 2015, a team from the club conducted a half day interactive training session addressing 20 children and adolescents from SOS Village who Returned after Parental Leave Ended who Took Work Rate Rate d’Enfants on communication skills, providing them with hints on professional communication, as well as on how to answer impromptu to Work after and Are still Employed 12 Parental Leave questions, and the importance of body language and vocal variety. Parental Leave Months after their Return Additionally, 5 members of Bank Audi Toastmasters Club competed against other clubs during the annual convention in February 2016. The F M F M F M F M F M winners of these competitions will participate in the regional speech contests against other Toastmasters members in the Middle East. Bank Audi sal 79 61 76 56 76 56 96.2% 91.8% 96.2% 91.8% Other Lebanese entities 1 8 1 8 1 8 100% 100% 100% 100% EXTERNAL HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Employee Wellness Employee Health We continue to promote a strong organisational culture of We continued to implement wellness programs to promote wellness and health which ensures that Bank Audi remains employee health and well-being across the Bank. We are Educational Aid in the Community an employer of choice. Hence, we ventured to relieve our aware that promoting employee health leads to a creative and Externally, human development continued to be an important (around USD 6.4 million in loans to 373 university students). Our employees from work-related stress and encourage them productive workplace with lower absenteeism and turnover rates. priority, particularly with concern to investing in the future external human development efforts extended to support key to maintain a good work-life balance by joining Bank Audi Consequently, at Bank Audi, we strive to maintain a healthy and while empowering and supporting the youth. In 2015, we educational institutions through scholarships and donations, group hikes to various scenic destinations in Lebanon. These supportive working environment. Along these lines, we continue provided educational aid to various schools and universities amounting to USD 746,349. adventures improve our group dynamics, as well as employee to provide internal medical services to our employees through our across Lebanon, as well as student loans at preferential rates bonds and relationships within the Bank. On a similar note, we infirmary located at Bank Audi Plaza, and have encouraged our encourage our employees to engage in sports-related activities employees to undergo free vaccination for common diseases such such as basketball, table tennis, ball-room dancing, sports as the flu. Spreading Awareness on CSR in the Community tournaments, and special celebration concerts. In 2015, more A stakeholder panel we conducted helped us identify the need session on CSR. The winner was awarded an internship at Bank than USD 62,700 were invested in employee wellness programs, to promote CSR and raise awareness on its importance in Audi to help implement their idea. The best three ideas were thus increasing efficiency across all our bank’s departments. Lebanon. Systematic efforts were therefore made in 2015 to granted USD 750, USD 500, and USD 250 respectively. Also, Furthermore, six employee clubs are actively promoting a variety reach out to the youth with regard to building awareness and under our external CSR umbrella, we participated in various of interests: the Community Club; the Green Club; the Music momentum on CSR. A Graduate Student CSR Competition was CSR conferences and lectures to share the Bank’s CSR journey Club featuring Band Audi, Audiyat and MelAudi; the Sports launched, whereby each student had to present a CSR-related with various audiences across universities and at business Club; the Toastmasters Club and the Travel Club. project to Bank Audi after having attended an informative conferences both locally and regionally. Using Social Media to Convey our CSR Impacts: 14 CSR posts on Bank Audi’s homepage and the frequency of their interaction were analyzed in 2015 to attract an aggregated engagement of: • Reach: 543,681 • Likes: 9,438 • Comments: 71 • Shares: 80 Top CSR post with the highest reaction: book donation post. Members of the Toastmasters Club. Proud of our winning team. Bank Audi's MelAudi band. 58 59 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT In 2015 USD 746,349 went towards scholarships and donations, as part of our external human development efforts to support key educational institutions. Committed to be the workplace and employer of choice, and the walls of the Bank to inspire youth and cultivate human talent since this is one of our organisation’s guiding principles, we in its various guises. Our human development efforts empower insist on: an inclusive hiring philosophy, the way we treat our individuals internally and externally by providing them with the people, and the support and opportunities we create for our tools they need to develop their skills, competence, leadership employees to help them “Grow Beyond their Potential”. We are potential, and to ultimately help them achieve their long-term proud to build a workforce that is positively driven and hence career ambitions and aspirations. sustainably more creative and productive. We also reach beyond Georges Audi Auditorium at ESA Some CSR Presentations  L’Ecole Supérieure des Affaires» (ESA) and Bank Audi «  ateriality case study presented at UNGC introductory meeting M by CSR Lebanon inaugurated the Georges W. Audi Auditorium in October 2015. SPECIAL FEATURE STORY AUB MHRM Presentation March 20, 2015 A heartfelt tribute to Georges Audi, “the mentor of great NDU Business Ethics wisdom, the man with remarkable intelligence and modesty, the inspiring guide, the leader, the strategist and the visionary”, Mr. Balamand University Business Ethics IC Visits to Bliss Branch Samir Hanna spoke of the “good governance” which was strongly Executive Panel on CSR April 16, 2015 defended by Georges Audi who is surely behind “the identity and Mr. Marc Audi participated in the Executive Panel on CSR at the the values which constitute the Bank’s foundations.” Olayan School of Business – AUB The construction of the Georges W. Audi Auditorium, a fascinating architectural and technical challenge, is characterised AUB Presentation April 30, 2015 Presentation at AUB on the 2nd NGO conference organised by the February 10 -11, 2015 by its contemporary arrangements and sleek lines. The Community Centre auditorium, which can accommodate up to 400 persons, looks AUB EMBA Class June 17, 2015 Seeking a dual objective, namely creating financial out on the park which students and ESA guests can enjoy for meetings and relaxation. UNGC Launch Panel September 3, 2015 and National awareness and career orientation, Bank Audi Bliss branch Steering Committee Founding Member hosted the kindergarten sections of the International Its high performance acoustics make it the perfect venue for Teach For Lebanon mentoring at the Saida Generation School conferences and round tables gathering speakers from a variety College, on February 10 and 11, 2015 for a “Visit to of backgrounds, as well as major cultural and musical events. CSR Levant Summit 2015 Bank Audi”, as part of a series of initiatives promoting IC's visit to Bank Audi's Bliss branch. Youth Financial Literacy. Bliss branch colleagues and the CSR team welcomed 160 students and guided them Below is an extract of the IC teachers’ feedback: through the premises where employees explained core operations and their role in day-to-day business. They To whom it may concern, were also introduced to the NOVO branch and ATM […] The explanation was clear and the kids were able to machines. Small souvenirs were distributed courtesy of comprehend the concepts tackled in our unit such as the the e-Payment Solutions and Card Services department. function of the Bank as a system, the responsibilities of your On this occasion, IC teachers underlined that it was a members, and how the Bank serves our community. Our very positive experience as they felt their students were students were engaged as they were given the opportunity comfortable, carefully listening and came back to school to ask their questions and were eager to hear your answers. with enriching knowledge about how the Bank works. We hope to repeat this experience next year […]. The kids were also able to understand how Bank Audi serves the community. This initiative supports Bank Audi’s Regards, belief that education of any kind, especially financial, KGI/MS Teachers Georges Audi Auditorium at ESA. UNGC launch panel at AUB. must start at a young age. International College 60 61 Environmental Protection 62 63 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL LOANS PROTECTION Externally, we proceeded with an effective path to promote of environment-friendly modifications from renovated environmental sustainability through our environmental lighting systems to the acquisition of photovoltaic panels, to loans, sponsorships, and for-cause or benefit sponsorships. landscaping implementations applied in private, residential For example, in 2015, we extended over USD 26 million of or commercial buildings. We also extended more than environmental loans subsidised by the Central Bank of Lebanon USD 29,000 in sponsorships to various environmental and at preferential interest rates. These loans cover a spectrum animal rights projects recommended by our different branches. We have forged our way on the path of promoting environmental sustainability by building on the momentum of the past three from the Ministry of the EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Environment in Lebanon for years. This expresses our perception of the importance of being a leading institution in living in a healthy environment and the various initiatives we quantifying our Greenhouse have undertaken to address environmental issues. In 2015, we Gas (GHG) emissions using MEASURING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT advanced our environmental initiatives and were proud to receive, an internationally certified 6,774 for the second year in a row, a certificate of acknowledgement tool with the mark “Built on GHG Protocol”. Solid Waste We sustained our “Grow Green” program which encourages trees saved. employees to recycle solid waste such as used paper, metal, ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 467kg plastic caps and PET bottles, and e-waste, at the workplace and at home, and to dispose of it at the Bank’s three special hubs. An important objective is to inspire our internal and external Collected plastic bottle caps continue to be donated to arcenciel of plastic recycled. stakeholders by spreading environmental awareness and motivating to provide wheelchairs for the disabled, and collected plastic 300% them to protect the environment. Accordingly, we encourage our bottles are donated to l’Association de l’Ecoute. In 2015, we employees to act as good environmental stewards at work and at persisted on tracking the impact of our “Grow Green” program home through various workshops, activities and initiatives: since its inception in 2012, which led to: improvement in paper recycling. • Environmental awareness through internal communications aimed at encouraging employees to recycle and sort their During 2015, we reduced our paper consumption by 18.5% which have the option of printing on both sides were set to waste. Employees were invited to bring their sorted waste from due to the active steps taken in all our branches: all printers print on duplex mode by default. home and drop them in their respective bins. Table 18: Paper Recycling between 2012 and 2015 Table 19: Total Weight of Waste by Type •A  presentation entitled “Waste in our Society” and given by a leading expert in Environmental and Industrial Engineering Year Kilograms of Paper Collected for Recycling Waste Management Kg in 2015 and one of Lebanon’s green entrepreneurs, Ziad Abi Chaker, per Category 2012 51,770 who tackled the current crisis and provided 90 employees with 2013 83,192 Donated e-waste 403 recycling solutions and a projection of what could be done. 2014 103,722 Recycled paper 146,769 • In celebration of Earth hour on March 28, we voluntarily joined 2015 146,769 Recycled plastic 150 the global initiative and turned off the lights in both Plaza and Palladium buildings for a whole hour, with the objective to raise awareness on climate change and protecting the environment. In line with our customer care initiatives and in celebration of Earth Day, we offered 70 randomly selected customers a Bonsai tree as a token Environmental protection and prevention management costs of appreciation for their generous donations to environmental organisations and for their dedication to make planet Earth a better place. amounted to USD 9,340 in 2015. Ziad Abi Chaker Introducing recycling solutions. 64 65 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 In 2015, we reassessed our environmental footprint and (GHG) emissions (in CO2e), particularly those resulting from Figure 13: Total GHG Emissions per Year for Bank Audi implemented ecological projects based on the nature and regular daily operations, and the effluents and waste in all breakdown of our energy consumption, Greenhouse Gas Bank Audi subsidiaries in Lebanon for the year. tCO2e 22,500 4% 2.1% 22,300 22,100 22,199.8 1% Figure 12: Number of Trees Saved since 2012 21,900 21,738.2 21,700 21,309.9 1,102 1,414 1,763 2,495 21,500 21,065.6 21,300 21,100 20,900 20,700 20,500 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Table 20: Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emissions between 2012 and 2015 GHG EMISSIONS 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total GHG emissions 22,199.8 tCO2e 21,309.9 tCO2e 21,065.6 tCO2e 21,738.2 tCO2e In partnership with a certified expert, we conducted a Electricité Du Liban (EDL) and shared generators, and from GHG emissions per employee 8.0 tCO2e 7.7 tCO2e 7.0 tCO2e 6.9 tCO2e comprehensive audit of our carbon footprint by monitoring all selected indirect emission sources; and Scope 3from paper GHG emissions per m2 0.230 tCO2e 0.220 tCO2e 0.218 tCO2e 0.225 tCO2e our premises: branches, offices and warehouses. This process consumption, flights undertaken for work reasons and courier was launched in 2012, hereafter considered as base year, with services. The total GHG emissions from Bank Audi Group a view to comply with the GRI G4 guidelines on environmental Lebanon in 2015 were 21,738.2 tCO2e, equivalent to 6.9 tCO2e impact. We accounted for the total surface area occupied by per employee and 0.225 tCO2e per m2 when accounting for the Figure 14: Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources Bank Audi in Lebanon, as well as the total number of persons employees and total space occupied by the Group’s amenities employed. This organisational boundary was set by the Bank respectively. It is important to note that this number has for two reasons: to conduct the Report using the equity decreased when compared to 2012, the baseline year; all while From liquefied From diesel share concept, and to develop an audit report to be used for acknowledging that the space occupied by our business has petroleum gas (LPG) Scope 1 consumption From refrigerants used for cooking in operational management improvements. increased by 7.86% and employment by 11.40% (Figure 13). in owned used Bank Audi Group generators This increase is mainly due to the expansion of the Bank and to cafeterias Probing into our GHG emissions revealed a significant the increase of emissions in Scope 3. Scope 2 was responsible for improvement trend since 2012. As per our GHG inventory based 72.1% of the total GHG emissions (15,672.4 tCO2e) where the on the GHG-Protocol Corporate Standard, we have reported on GHG emissions from EDL electricity was the main contributor, From electricity From electricity the following seven Greenhouse Gases: carbon dioxide (CO2), accounting for 72.3% of the Scope 2 value. On the other hand, Scope 2 purchased from purchased methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Scope 1 (4,448.1 tCO2e) and Scope 3 accounted for the rest shared generators from EDL perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen of the total GHG emissions (1,617.7 tCO2e), 20.5% and 7.4% trifluoride (NF3). respectively. Flight trips for business purposes constitute the core components of Scope 3 and are responsible for 63.3% Results revealed that GHGs are from several sources grouped (1,024.5 tCO2e) of total indirect emissions in this scope. Courier From air flights Scope 3 taken by From paper From courier into 3 scopes: Scope 1from own generation of power services account for 23.1% (373.8 tCO2e) of total Scope 3 employees for consumption services and refrigerants; Scope 2from purchase of electricity from emissions, and paper consumption constitutes 13.6% (219.4 tCO2e). work reasons 66 67 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Figure 15: Emissions per Sources in 2015 (%) 52% EDL 18% Owned generator 20% Shared generator 2% Courier services 5% Flights 1% Paper 3% Refrigeration With respect to the GHG emissions intensity ratio for Scopes 1, is key in order to quantify and compare emissions accurately. 2 and 3, the study revealed that in 2015, each employee at Bank In addition, we applied the most up-to-date emission factors Audi Group Lebanon was responsible for 6,945.1 kg of CO2e and to ensure the transparent calculation of a reliable footprint. total emissions were 224.9 kg of CO2e per m2. If we compare Because every GHG assessment is different, it was crucial to 2012 to 2015, there is an overall decrease of 2.1% of total modify existing tools in order to come up with accurate results. SPECIAL FEATURE STORY GHG emissions, and an increase in occupied space and in the The calculation of the emission factors and the global warming number of employees. The GHG calculations were performed potential (GWP) rates used is based on GHG-Protocol which using well established tools and methodologies following the uses the IPCC emission factors provided in the IPCC guidelines GHG Protocol developed by the World Resource Institute (WRI, of 2006, the IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995), and 2006b, c). Using an internationally recognised tool allows for the standardisation of the procedures and calculations, which the local emission factor for electricity communicated by the Lebanese Ministry of the Environment. Bank Audi Contributing to Reducing the Nation’s Carbon Footprint through Environmental Loans ENERGY CONSUMPTION Bank Audi contributed to reducing the nation’s carbon footprint through facilitating environmental loans granted In 2013, an initial saving of 158 tCO2 In 2014, an accumulated saving of 2,533 tCO2 by the Central Bank (Circular 236) in coordination with In 2015, an overall saving of 12,771 tCO2 Quantifying the energy consumption within Bank Audi Group the rest was either produced by owned generators (12.5%) or the Lebanese Centre for Energy Conservation (LCEC), as spanned over the years of measurement. Lebanon revealed that the total fuel (Diesel) consumption is purchased from shared generators (14.1%). Sources of conversion observed for 2013, 2014 and 2015. These loans helped 1,402,789.8 litres; total electricity consumption is 23,745.1 MWH factors used are the same as those used in 2013*. various residential, commercial and industrial projects among which 73.4% was purchased directly from EDL, while emerge with reduced carbon emissions. Hence an overall saving of 12,771 tCO2 in carbon footprint due to these loans * CSR Report 2013, Figure 20. using energy efficient, solar or photovoltaic solutions. 68 69 Supplementary Information 70 71 REPORTINGS AND RATINGS BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 REPORTINGS GRI G4 G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender UN Global Compact Principle 6 ISO 26000 Reference P. 53 & 54, AND RATINGS b. R eport the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender Table 12 c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers, and by gender d. Report the total workforce by region and gender e. R eport whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. R  eport any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining Principle 3 P. 54, agreements. Table 15 This Report complies with a number of external reporting GRI G4 Guidelines, as well as with the Financial Services G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. P. 34 guidance and standards. Primary among these is the ISO 26000 Sector Supplement, at a core application level. GRI is an G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s Table 6 Social Responsibility Guidance. In 2012, Bank Audi was internationally recognised voluntary guideline which defines size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. AR1 P. 12 the first banking institution to pilot the ISO 26000 Social principles and indicators that companies can use to report on -C hanges in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, & 17 Responsibility Guidance in Lebanon. Accordingly, the Report the triple bottom line. GRI is currently observed by thousands closings, and expansions. addresses the seven core subjects of responsibility defined of organisations in 90 countries. The Report also complies -C hanges in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations). in the ISO 26000 Standard. It also addresses many of the with the principles defined by the UN Global Compact -C hanges in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships guidelines and indicators set out in the Global Reporting (UNGC), of which we are proud signatories and members of with suppliers, including selection and termination. Initiative (GRI), and is prepared “in accordance” with the Local Network Steering Committee. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by P. 9 the organisation. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or P. 24 other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. Appendix 4 Table 21: Concordance Table Summarising GRI G4 Indicators, UNGC Principles and ISO 26000 Subjects as Observed by Bank Audi G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national Principle 3 P. 17 or international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: Table 3 GRI G4 UN Global ISO Reference Holds a position on the governance body Compact 26000 Participates in projects or committees General Standard Disclosures Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues 7.2. The relationship P. 8 17 Views membership as strategic. of an organisation's Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries characteristics to G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or 5.2. P. 10 social responsibility equivalent documents. 7.3.2. 7.3.4. Strategy and Analysis b. Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance 4.7. P. 4 statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the Report. of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing 6.2. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the Report’s content and the aspect boundaries. P. 13, sustainability. 7.4.2. b. E xplain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining Figure 2 & 3 Organisational Profile the Report’s content. G4-3 Report the name of the organisation. 6.3.10. P. 8 G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining the Report’s content. P. 14, Table 2 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products and services. 6.4.1. 6.4.5. P. 77 G4-20 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organisation. P. 14 6.8.5. Appendix 3 G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organisation. P. 14 7.8. G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, P. 14 G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. P. 8 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names P. 8 and the reasons for such restatements. of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect P. 14 specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the Report. boundaries. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. P. 8 Stakeholder Engagement G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, P. 8 G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 5.3. P. 12, Table 2 and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. P. 12, Table 2 G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation, including: P. 28 G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of P. 12, Table 2 Total number of employees engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the Total number of operations engagements was undertaken specifically as part of the Report’s preparation process. N et sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and P. 12, Table 2 sector organisations) how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. sector organisations) Quantity of products or services provided. 1 AR: Annual Report 72 73 REPORTINGS AND RATINGS BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 GRI G4 UN Global ISO Reference Compact 26000 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 7.5.3. P. 9 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 7.6.2. P. 9 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). P. 9 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Report or its content. P. 73 G4-32 a. Report the “in accordance” option the organisation has chosen. P. 9 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the Report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance, but it is not a GRI G4 UN Global ISO Reference requirement to be “in accordance” with the Guidelines. Compact 26000 G4-33 a. Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking P.64 Category: Social Labour Practices and Decent Work external assurance for the Report. Applicable Employment b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, only for G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Principle 6 6.4.3. P. 54 & 56, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. our carbon footprint gender and region. Table 16 c. Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. assessment G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 6.4.4. P. 55 & 56 d. Report whether the highest governance body or Senior Executives are involved in by contracted employees, by significant locations of operation. 6.8.7. seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. consultant. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 6.4.4. P. 56, Table 17 Governance Training and Education G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest 6.2. P. 22 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 6.4.7. P. 50 & 52, governance body. 7.4.3 AR P. 12 Table 10 7.7.5 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 6.4.7. P. 51, Table 11 Ethics and Integrity employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 6.8.5. G4-56 Describe the organisation's values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour, such Principle 10 4.4. P. 76, Diversity and Equal Opportunity as codes of conduct and ethics. 6.6.3 Appendix 1 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 6.2.3. P. 53, Generic Why the aspect is material, the impacts that make this aspect material, and the evaluation 6. P. 12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 6.3.7. Table 12, 13 DMA of Management approach. 7.3.1. indicators of diversity. 6.3.10. & 14 How the organisation manages the material aspect or its impacts. 7.4.3. 6.4.3. 7.7.3. 7.7.5. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Category: Economic G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by 6.3.7. P. 55 Economic Performance significant locations of operation. 6.3.10. 6.4.3. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 6.8.1. 6.8.2. P. 28, 33, 38, 6.4.4. 6.8.3. 39, 40, 55, 6.8.7. 57 & 63 Category: Social Human Rights 6.8.9. Investment Market Presence G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning Principle 1 6.3.5. P. 24 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of Principle 2 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage. Principle 6 6.3.7. P. 55 employees trained. Principle 4 6.3.10. Principle 6 6.4.3. 6.4.4. 6.8.1. 6.8.2. Category: Social Society Local Communities Indirect Economic Impact G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. P. 32 & 33 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported. 6.3.9. P. 30, 31, 6.8.1. 6.8.2. 43, 44 & 57, G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. P. 33 & 41 6.8.5. Table 6 & 9 Anti-corruption 6.8.7. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. Principle 10 6.6.1. 6.6.2. P. 24, Table 5 6.8.9. Principle 2 6.6.3. Procurement Practices 6.6.6. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. 6.4.3. P. 34 Compliance 6.6.6. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 4.6. P. 23 6.8.1. 6.8.2. non-compliance with laws and regulations. 6.8.7. Category: Social Product Responsibility Category: Environmental Product and Service Labeling Energy G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7.1. 6.7.2. P. 32, Table 7 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. Principle 7 ESMS P. 66, Figure 15 6.7.6. Emissions Principle 8 Principle 9 G4-FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. P. 33, G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 6.5.5. P. 63 & 66 Appendix 5 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). P. 63 & 66 Product Portfolio G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). P. 63 & 66 G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit P. 32, 33, 40 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. P. 63 & 66 for each business line broken down by purpose. & 41, Table 8 Effluents and Waste G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental P. 63 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5.3. P. 63, Table 19 Overall * Principle 5: N/A G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5.1. 6.5.2. P. 63 For information about the Report, please refer to: Bank Audi’s CSR Unit csr@banqueaudi.com Bank Audi Palladium – Bab Idriss; Beirut Lebanon 74 75 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 INTERNAL AUDIT OBJECTIVE AWARDS AND Review and evaluate the development of the Corporate United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles and Social Responsibilities activities Report in line with ISO best practices. 26000 Standards, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI – G4), RECOGNITION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Group Internal Audit conducted a review over Bank Audi’s 2015 • The need to formalise, consistent with the CSR policy, an Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities and report based all encompassing CSR operating procedures that include the In 2015, we were honoured by a variety of organisations for our policies. We are proud to highlight some of the key awards and on the objective outlined above. various processes and sub-processes. innovative banking practices and our progressive employment recognitions received by our Bank in 2015. The Bank is continuously exerting efforts toward enhanced • Further improve the existing process of data collection and Table 22: Awards for Bank Audi Group Lebanon in 2015 CSR business processes. Management continues to further reporting mechanism taking into consideration the effectiveness develop the operating reporting mechanism, which was of controls in place, as well as the accuracy, reliability, traceability, Euromoney Award for Excellence Best Bank in Lebanon voluntarily initiated few years ago, in line with best practices timeliness and quality of the reported CSR information. The Banker Magazine Award Bank of the Year and international standards (e.g. Global Reporting Initiative Banker Middle East Product Awards Best Bank in Lebanon Guidelines (GRI-G4), International Standards (ISO 26000), and •C  ontinue efforts to further boost the reporting mechanism United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles). and shed light on the Bank’s forward looking CSR plans and Global Finance Award Best Bank in Lebanon their expected societal impact. The Asian Banker Strongest Bank in Lebanon We conducted a review of CSR significant activities and Middle East Investor Relations Society Best Company for Investor Relations for the Levant (Lebanon, Syria, processes and performed as well verification procedures on test •C  ontinue efforts to further standardise align and integrate Jordan) basis. Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention CSR activities and processes within the Bank’s decision First Protocol Social Economic Award for the “Innovation and Technology” category to make us believe that the information contained in this report making and business processes. Ministry of the Environment Recognition for reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions has not been fairly presented in all material respect. National Commission for Lebanese Women (NCLW) & the Beirut Gender Parity Prize •C  ontinue efforts to raise awareness and build competency Chamber of Commerce We observed improvements in the CSR internal management for social responsibility, and to engage the Bank employees Euromoney Award for Excellence Audi Private Bank sal: Best Private Bank for Commercial Banking system; nevertheless, certain areas of activities require at various levels toward applying and promoting the Bank’s Capabilities in Lebanon Best Private Bank for Net-Worth-Specific Management’s attention such as: CSR principles. Services – Super Affluent Clients in Lebanon The Banker & Professional Wealth Management Magazine Audi Private Bank sal: Best Private Bank in Lebanon Global Finance Audi Private Bank sal: Best Private Bank in Lebanon Mahmoud Majzoub Head of Group Internal Audit 76 77 APPENDICES BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 APPENDICES Diversity and equal opportunity among all employees Appendix 1: Highlights of the Code of Ethics and Conduct Civic behaviour and sense of belonging Compliance with laws, rules and regulations: It is the Group's objective to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in all localities Promoting healthy ecosystems, social equity and good organisational governance where it does business. Raising ethical issues: All of the Group's representatives, including Directors and employees, are expected to consider compliance with ethical Abide by ISO 26000 Guidelines standards as a vital element of their responsibilities. Guiding Ethical Principles Commitment to honesty, integrity and trustworthiness Alleviate challenges related to human rights as per the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Commitment to fair competition Adherence to local and international standards Fostering a Professional Conduct Appendix 3: Sampling of Bank Audi’s Brands, Products and Services Appendix 4: Initiatives Endorsed by Bank Audi Supporting a Positive Work Environment Violence and harassment free workplace Discrimination free workplace Business Lines Services Examples of Initiatives Endorsed by Bank Audi Alcohol and drug free workplace Smoke free workplace • Personal Banking • Audimobile • Business Banking • PinPay Cultural festivals Acting Responsibly Respect of working hours Use of Group property • Private Banking • ADSL service Use of telephones, internet and email • Calculator Various business forums Personal belongings • Bill domiciliation Political and religious affiliations Multitude of educational institutions and payment Betting and gambling Workplace proper etiquette Accounts • Audi Online Roads For Life: post-accident care Communication with the media and the public • Sight deposit account • Safe deposit box Ensuring Mutual Security Secure workplace • Payroll account • Car Tax Payment Open Mind Fund: community awareness and education, Access to Group premises • Spring account • SMS service and clinical services for families in need Managing Information External activities • Wedding account • E-statement Himaya: child abuse prevention, rehabilitation, Personal relationships • Current account • IAPA Personal finances and social reintegration of victims • Deposit account • Priority Pass Gifts and benefits • Priority Traveler Kunhadi: youth awareness on road safety Being Good Global Citizens Involvement in social responsibility • Insurance Programs Respect of human rights Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL): • Event Club Reporting Concerns Loans • Audi Assist children’s health care Investigations • Home Loan Ayadina Association: help for Administration of the Code Violation of the Code • Car Loan underprivileged children and the elderly Review and amendments of the Code • Personal Loan Loyalty Programs Generic personal loan • Audi Rewards Assabil: public library for the underprivileged Public sector • Travel Rewards SOS: children’s orphan village Appendix 2: Bank Audi’s CSR Policy Teachers’ loan • Kids Rewards Doctors’ loan • Cedar Miles Injaz: motivational and entrepreneurship Proactive, cooperative and collaborative commitment to integrate social and environmental concerns in business • High tech loan • Air Time operations and contribute to the well-being of the society. • University loan • Cash Back Heartbeat: children with heart diseases • Schooling loan • Gift Voucher Orphanage Welfare Society of Saida: care for orphans Integrity and open communication in interacting with internal and external stakeholders G: raising awareness on environmental protection Integrity in business Cards Bancassurance • Debit Card • Aman Al Elm My School Pulse: running for a cause Human development, valuing teamwork and talent rewarding • Credit Card • Aman Al Ghad Beirut International Marathon: running for a cause Role model for socially responsible behaviour in Lebanon • Installment Card • Aman Al Darb • Charge Card • Aman Al Madkhoul Kibarouna: care for the elderly Positive influence on our value chain to abide by socially responsible guidelines • Corporate Card • Aman Al Hayat Minimizing the negative impacts of our activities on the environment • Co-Branded Card • Aman Al Dirassa • Prepaid Card • Aman Al Dar Accountablility for decisions and actions we take • Tap2Pay NFC series of • Hizam Al Aman contactless payments • Smartcare Consciousness and corporate citizenship 78 79 APPENDICES BANK AUDI CSR REPORT 2015 Appendix 5: Financial Literacy across our Products and Services Initiative Target Group Category Goal Subject Area Activity-related Beneficiary Language Information Material Spring Account Youth All youth Practical access to money and special services Promotion Campaigns, sponsorships Youth Arabic/English Online and brochure (18-23 year-olds) Sight Deposit Account All Low income individuals Saving account and additional benefits Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure Schooling Assurance Parents Each age group has its Help parents ensure their children's schooling fees Promotion Parents and Children Arabic Brochures Account own formula Housing Assurance All All Insure house against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures Account Life Assurance All All Insure individuals against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures University Studies Parents Youth Insure university studies fees Promotion Youth Arabic Brochures Insurance Personal Loan All Low-income individuals Assist in spending Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure Transparency All All Inform clients about car loans Informative All Arabic/English Online and brochure Banking Tips Grow My Business All Micro businesses Encourage small businesses Promotion Competition and award winning Businessmen Arabic/English Online and brochure Wedding Account All Newly weds Help newly weds guarantee their future Promotion Newly weds English Online and brochure Housing Loan All Low-income individuals Help individuals buy houses Promotion All Arabic Online and brochure Visa Business Debit Card All Businessmen Help businessmen control their internal spending Promotion Businessmen Arabic/English Online and brochure All you need to know All cardholders All Educate cardholders on the evolving chip technology that was Informative All English Online and brochure about Chip cards introduced to their card to combat the growing levels of fraud All you need to know All cardholders All Educate cardholders on the latest Pay Pass contactless payment Informative All English Online and brochure about PayPass technology, a new feature that makes their purchases much easier since they simply have to tap their card on a secure reader to pay Employee's guide to Employees All Summarize Bank Audi cards split by chip type: Chip & PIN or Comprehensive All English Brochures Chip Cards Chip & Signature 80 81 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS For this report all departments, branches and numerous feedback and helping our continuous improvement. We individuals have made a significant contribution. We would would also like to thank our consultants for their comments like to thank them all, as well as employees and stakeholders and suggestions which have contributed to our efforts to who have participated in the assessment process, providing integrate best practices in this report. The paper used for the print version of this report is from sustainable sources, largely recycled and abides by guidelines for responsible forestry. It is completely biodegradable and recyclable. 82
