Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2015/2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 About this report MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT This report has been assured by DNV GL INTRODUCTION (see Factsheet 32) and is in accordance In 2015, following a series of stakeholder roundtables on our Sustainability Plan, with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This is Coca-Cola Enterprises’ G4 Guidelines at the Core level. The carbon we began including an overview of our six (CCE’s) eleventh annual Corporate most material issues in our annual CRS report, footprint data of our core business operations Responsibility and Sustainability providing an explanation as to why these has also been assured by DNV GL. (CRS) Report, providing a progress particular issues matter to us, and how we The report also serves as our Communication are responding to them. on Progress (COP) for the United Nations update on our Sustainability Plan Global Compact (UNGC). Our Water and replacing CCE’s 2014/2015 These include: Factsheets 19 and 20 serve as our COP-Water, CRS Report. • Wellbeing part of our endorsement of the UNGC CEO • Climate Change Water Mandate. Full disclosure on our progress This report, made up of 32 against the UNGC and CEO Water Mandate • Resource Scarcity factsheets, contains a full year • Water can be found online at www.cokecce.com of data from January 1, 2015 to • Sustainable Sourcing ONLINE December 31, 2015 for our business • Employment and Diversity www.cokecce.com operations covering eight Western For our full Materiality Assessment, Our corporate website includes a CRS please see Factsheet 28. section which further details our initiatives, European territories (Great Britain, our CRS commitments and targets, a full France, Monaco, Belgium, REPORTING BOUNDARIES GRI Index and indices showing our compliance Luxembourg, the Netherlands, AND STANDARDS with the UNGC and its CEO Water Mandate, Norway and Sweden) and our At CCE, we have taken a value chain approach progress updates, details of awards and events, our governance structure and offices in the United States and in considering our most significant impacts. corporate CRS policies. Bulgaria. Also included are To this end, where stated, our value chain Country reports: data goes beyond our own operations. illustrative case studies and For our own operations, unless otherwise Each of CCE’s territories produces a business activities from 2016. indicated, data in this report covers all Coca-Cola system report in conjunction operations (production, sales/distribution, with The Coca-Cola Company, giving local For news on our sustainability information on how CCE’s CRS commitments combined sales/production facilities, initiatives and further resources, administrative offices and fleet) owned or are being brought to life in our communities. see our website www.cokecce.com controlled by CCE, including our administrative These reports can be found online at each offices in the United States and Bulgaria. of the following websites: Our carbon footprint is calculated in Great Britain: accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse www.cokecce.co.uk Gas Protocol and we use an operational France (including Monaco): consolidation approach to determine www.cokecce.fr organizational boundaries. The water use data Belgium and Luxembourg: in this report refers to our production facilities, www.cocacolabelgium.be where we have the greatest operational water The Netherlands: use. All financial data in this report is in US www.coca-colanederland.nl dollars, unless otherwise stated. DEVELOPING COMMITMENTS TOGETHER Norway: www.cceansvar.no Sweden: www.cceansvar.se Well-being The Coca-Cola Company provides many Wellbeing ME sources of Coca-Cola system sustainability Responsible marketing information. In particular, its website, www.coca-colacompany.com, contains Women corporate codes and policies which inform Community CCE’s own approach to CRS. Its 2015/2016 Charitable contributions WE Sustainability Report, which contains a summary of the global Coca-Cola system’s Workplace Human and workplace rights sustainability work, can be downloaded from: www.coca-colacompany.com/sustainability. Water stewardship Water For further information on CCE’s work on Energy and climate change Climate protection Sustainability, please contact us via WORLD www.cokecce.com/contact Sustainable agriculture Sustainable agriculture Sustainable packaging Sustainable packaging and recycling FACTSHEET 01/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 CEO Statement WHAT WE ACHIEVED In August 2015, it was announced that Coca-Cola Enterprises will merge with Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke and Coca-Cola Iberian Partners to DJSI create Coca-Cola European Partners (CCEP), a brand new Coca-Cola bottler Listed as a member of the Dow Jones serving over 300 million consumers across 13 countries in Western Europe. Sustainability World Index for the first time. This merger is expected to take place by the end of Q2 2016. Q: This is Coca-Cola Enterprises’ final report be tackled by one company or industry sector Rethinking Business prior to the establishment of Coca-Cola working alone. Private sector, governmental and Launched a series of stakeholder European Partners – what are you most proud non-governmental organizations will need to roundtables, ‘Rethinking Business’, in of having achieved in sustainability over the work in close partnership to create the changes conjunction with the Financial Times. past decade? that are required. We will continue to work with A. When we started our journey, very few stakeholders as we currently do on issues such as climate change and water stewardship, and RE100 companies, including CCE, had begun to adopt serious sustainability targets. Now – 10 years will seek out new partnerships to continue to Signed up to RE100 – committing to on – we have a well-established Sustainability make progress. source 100 percent of our electricity from Plan; with stretch targets across a wide variety Q. How do you see the beverage industry renewable sources. of social and environmental issues that are addressing the issue of sugar and calories critical to our business. We have also been in diet? able to demonstrate leadership on sustainable Science Based Targets packaging, energy and climate change. We’ve A. The impact of obesity and the role that our products play in our consumers’ diets is one Our 50 percent absolute carbon reduction also signed external commitments, such as of the most critical issues facing our business. target, and our target to reduce the carbon sourcing 100 percent of our electricity from We know that this remains a focus of our footprint of the drink in your hand by a third renewable sources, and setting carbon reduction stakeholders across our territories, and we have been confirmed as being aligned with targets that are aligned to climate science. And recognize our role in being part of the solution. climate science by the Science Based we’re receiving recognition for our achievements. This is why we are working together with The Targets initiative. I’m very proud that CCE was added as a member Coca-Cola Company to reduce the sugar and of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index this calories consumed from our beverages – past year. specifically by reducing our packaging portion Q. What are your expectations for sizes, introducing new lowand no-calorie how Coca-Cola European Partners products, and reformulating some products. For will approach sustainability? example, in 2015, we introduced a reformulated Coca-Cola Life across our territories, which A. I expect that sustainability will remain an reduced its sugar content even further, through essential part of Coca-Cola European Partners’ the increased use of stevia. Additionally, we also strategy. Sustainability is not something which recently announced the launch of Coca-Cola Zero can be seen as separate to business strategy, Sugar, a new and improved sugar-free Coca-Cola or as optional. To build a growing business, which will replace Coca-Cola Zero at the end of we need to ensure that we make long-term, June 2016 in Great Britain. We have also sustainable decisions, which will support our committed to reducing the calories per liter customers, our employees, our shareowners Chairman and CEO, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc., John F. Brock across our portfolio by 10 percent, and to enable and stakeholders. We will draw upon the three million people to become physically active strengths of all three legacy companies. Of by 2020. The combination of these actions and a course, we will need to establish new continued focus on addressing obesity will have sustainability targets, which are aligned with a greater impact on providing an effective and our stakeholder’s expectations. I expect CCEP to sustainable solution to the problem than the continue to focus on water, energy and climate introduction of taxes against a single category, change, wellbeing, sustainable packaging and such as soft drinks.1 sustainable sourcing. I would also expect that All statements and references in this we will continue to measure our sustainability Q. What do you think is next when it comes Report to Coca-Cola European Partners progress and support the principles of the to sustainability? and the proposed merger transaction United Nations Global Compact. A. Increasingly companies have reached a are made with full recognition that Q. How do you expect that the sustainability stage where sustainability is no longer an option. the transaction is subject to regulatory agenda will shape your business strategy In my view, sustainability is crucial for long-term financial success, and I think more companies approvals and other conditions of moving forward, given the pressure that the beverage industry is facing? are beginning to understand this. By investing closing. Until closing of the transaction, in low-carbon technologies or more sustainable each party continues to operate its A. Stakeholder expectations of our business, and packaging, companies can drive greater benefits our sector have significantly increased over the business separately and independently past few years. We know from discussions with and help to manage their risks and costs in the and the parties will not take any short and long term. In the future, companies, our stakeholders in our existing territories that governments, and investors, will need to start steps to implement the transaction they continue to be concerned about issues such working even more closely together in order to until all necessary approvals have as climate change, resource scarcity and obesity. measure and articulate the true value of However, we know that these issues – as well as been obtained. sustainability over the longer term. the new Sustainable Development Goals – cannot FACTSHEET 02/32 1 Please see Factsheet 07 for a more in depth discussion of the recently proposed soft drinks tax in Great Britain. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 OUR 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Wellbeing Reduced the calories per See Factsheets 7–9 liter across our portfolio by 4.5 percent since 2010 and engaged nearly 1,000,000 people in active lifestyle programs. Energy and Achieved a 40 percent See Factsheets 10–14 absolute reduction in the Climate Change carbon footprint of our core business operations against our 2007 baseline. Sustainable Reduced our packaging use See Factsheets 15–17 ratio by 22 percent since 2007. Packaging and Recycling Water Reduced our water use See Factsheets 18–20 ratio to 1.35 per liter of Stewardship product – a reduction of 17 percent since 2007. 2 Sustainable Continued to develop See Factsheets 21–23 pathways for compliance to Sourcing our Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs) for our key agricultural ingredients. Workplace Broadened our diversity See Factsheets 24–26 and inclusion focus to incorporate generations and ethnicity issues, as well as continued progress on improving our gender diversity. Community Reached more than See Factsheet 27 133,900 young people through our education programs, local partnerships and education centers. FACTSHEET 02/32 2 Photography: Copyright Hugh Mehta, WWF-UK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Our Sustainability Plan COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS INTRODUCTION In September 2011, we launched our Sustainability Plan – ‘Deliver for Today, 10% Inspire for Tomorrow’. We set challenging and measurable targets which Reduce the calories per liter by 10 percent represent a significant stretch for our business. across our portfolio by 2020.1, 2 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 3 million Our Sustainability Plan includes three strategic priorities: In 2015, we made significant changes to our Sustainability Plan, responding Enable three million people to be physically to challenges on many important topics active by investing in grassroots programs • Deliver for Today – demonstrating best practice across all of our commitments. including carbon emissions, renewable which support active lifestyles by 2020.1 energy, calories and sustainable sourcing. • Lead the Industry – in areas where we believe we can make the biggest We believe that our commitments and targets 50% difference: – Energy and Climate Change are feasible, but continue to represent a significant stretch for our business. We are Reduction in the absolute carbon footprint determined to meet the targets we have set, of our core business operations by 2020. – Sustainable Packaging and Recycling yet we know that continued investment, • Innovate for the Future – driving new ongoing innovation and strong collaboration opportunities for innovation, thought 40% leadership, collaboration and partnership. will be critical in the years ahead. Coca-Cola Enterprises is expected to merge Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we We are proud of the progress we have with Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke (CCEG) use is recycled PET and/or PET from made and in some areas we have met our and Coca-Cola Iberian Partners (CCIP) to renewable materials by 2020. initial targets ahead of schedule. But we create Coca-Cola European Partners (CCEP), know that we need to go further. We have the world’s largest independent Coca-Cola to evolve our targets, reflecting not just the 40% progress that we’ve made, but also to ensure that we continue to meet our bottler based on revenue, by the end of the second quarter of 2016. As we begin our new Source 40 percent of our energy from journey, we will build upon the legacy of CCE’s stakeholders’ expectations. work on sustainability, and draw upon the renewable or low-carbon sources by 2020. In 2014, we undertook a comprehensive strengths of all three merging companies. We review of our Sustainability Plan. This expect to set new targets, and report against 40% included a review of our progress and a series of discussions with our stakeholders. these on an annual basis. Aspire to have a minimum of 40 percent They challenged us to go further, and of women in both management and we’ve listened. leadership grades by 2025. 100% SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Sustainably source 100 percent of our Our sustainability vision Our strategic priorities key agricultural ingredients by 2020. Deliver for today On our commitments and targets Lead the industry In Energy and Climate Change and Sustainable Packaging and Recycling We will deliver for today, growing a low-carbon, zero-waste business, and inspire and lead change for a Innovate for the future more sustainable tomorrow. Opportunities for innovation, collaboration and partnership FACTSHEET 03/32 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 2 Against a 2010 baseline. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 OUR UPDATED COMMITMENTS: the industry. Below, we have outlined the key focus areas in our updated Sustainability Plan, highlighting in particular where there In 2015, we updated our targets across every one of our commitment has been a change. These updated targets are reported against areas. We believe these targets are feasible, but stretching – and that in this year’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report. we can achieve the majority of them by 2020 through a continued You will find progress against these targets on each of the relevant focus on innovation, investment and collaboration. Our three priorities factsheets, and in our data tables. Our baseline year is 2007 remain the same: Deliver for today, Inspire for tomorrow, and Lead unless otherwise stated. Energy and Climate Change Sustainable Sourcing We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a We will sustainably source 100 percent of our key third by delivering carbon reductions throughout our value chain. agricultural ingredients. Target By Target By Carbon footprint Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your 2020 Key agricultural Sustainably source 100 percent of our key 2020 hand by a third ingredients agricultural ingredients1 Carbon footprint – Grow our business, but reduce the absolute carbon 2020 core business footprint of our core business operations by 50 percent Wellbeing Manufacturing Manufacture every liter of product with 50 percent 2020 less carbon emissions We will play our part to promote wellbeing by reducing calories across our portfolio by 10 percent and enabling three million people to be active. Transportation Deliver a case of product with 30 percent less 2020 carbon emissions Target By Cold drinks Reduce the carbon emissions from our cold 2020 Choice – Reduce calories per liter across our product 2020 equipment drinks equipment by an average of 50 percent calorie reduction portfolio by 10 percent1, 2 Renewable and Source 40 percent of our energy from renewable 2020 Choice – Offer a noor low-calorie alternative whenever Ongoing low-carbon energy or low-carbon sources availability regular soft drinks are available Supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers to reduce Ongoing Choice – Ensure that all soft drinks are available in small Ongoing collaboration carbon emissions across our value chain portion size portion size choices, and increase the availability of small packs Nutritional Ensure clear nutritional labeling on front of pack Ongoing Sustainable Packaging and Recycling information across all our products1 We will support the development of the circular economy, use recycled Responsible Not market any of our products to children under 12 Ongoing and renewable materials and recycle more packaging than we use. marketing and not sell our products in primary schools1 Target By Active lifestyles Enable three million people to be physically active Ongoing by investing in grassroots programs which support Lightweighting Reduce by 25 percent the amount of material 2020 active lifestyles1 we use across all packaging formats Recycled materials Include recycled aluminum, glass and steel Ongoing in respective packaging formats Community PET bottles Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use is recycled 2020 We will make a positive difference in our communities, work with PET and/or PET from renewable materials local partners and support the active involvement of our employees. Recyclability Continue to ensure that 100 percent of our cans Annual Target By and bottles are fully recyclable Social investment Invest 1 percent of our annual pre-tax profit to Annual Support the development of infrastructure and 2025 support charitable and community partners and technology to enable recycling of all other make a positive difference in the communities packaging materials in which we operate Manufacturing Send zero waste to landfill from our own Annual Employee Support the active involvement of our employees Ongoing manufacturing operations volunteering by encouraging them to volunteer Recycling Recycle more packaging than we use, by 2020 Supporting young Support the skills development and learning 2020 championing improvements to collection people needs of 250,000 young people each year schemes and supporting the recycling industry Inspiring Increase packaging recovery rates by using Ongoing consumers our brands to educate and inspire consumers Workplace to recycle more often We will attract, develop and motivate a highly talented and diverse Packaging Support the wider packaging industry to explore Ongoing workforce within a safe and healthy workplace. innovation next-generation packaging1 Target By Employee Encourage participation in our employee 2020 Water wellbeing wellbeing programs so that at least 50 percent of our employees take part We will minimize water impacts in our value chain, establish a water Workplace safety Provide a safe and healthy work environment 2020 sustainable operation and set the standard for water efficiency. with a vision of achieving zero accidents and Target By attaining world-class health and safety status Protect Protect the future sustainability of the water sources 2020 Workplace diversity Attract, develop and motivate a highly talented Ongoing we use and safely return to nature 100 percent of the and diverse workforce wastewater from our manufacturing operations Aspire to have a minimum 40 percent of women 2025 Reduce Reduce the amount of water we use, aiming to 2020 in both management and leadership grades manufacture every liter of product using an average 1.2 liters of water Replenish Return to nature the water used in our beverages, 2020 where it is sourced from areas of water stress by investing in community-based water programs1 Value chain Minimize water impacts in our value chain through 2020 our sustainable sourcing programs FACTSHEET 03/32 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 2 Against a 2010 baseline. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Our Business HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WE DO At CCE, we manufacture and distribute over 40 of the most popular 170 million beverage brands in the world. people served across eight territories in Western Europe. Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) These include Coca-Cola, Coca-Cola Life, Diet customers across our territories, generating is one of the world’s largest independent Coke, Coca-Cola Light, Coca-Cola Zero, Fanta approximately $7 billion in revenue and bottlers of Coca-Cola beverages. and Sprite1 as well as a growing range of $866 million in operating income. We are water, juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, a public company, incorporated and energy drinks and ready-to-drink teas. In headquartered in the United States and 17 manufacturing 2015, we sold approximately 12 billion bottles and cans (or 600 million physical cases) publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the NYSE Euronext in Paris operations through more than one million retail under the symbol, CCE. We operate 17 manufacturing sites in Western Europe. OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO AS SOLD BY VOLUME 40 Energy drinks, sports and functional waters, water, ready-to-drink teas Key Regular sparkling soft drinks 57% beverage brands manufactured Noand low-calorie sparkling 27% and distributed. soft drinks 100 percent juice 1% 12 billion Juice drinks Energy drinks 7% 2% bottles and cans sold. Sports and functional waters 1% Water 4% 11,500 employees 2 Juice drinks Ready-to-drink teas and other 1% employed across our territories. $1 billion in salaries and benefits paid in 2015. Noand lowRegular sparkling soft drinks 100 percent juice calorie sparkling soft drinks 90% of our products, on average, are produced locally. A STRONG PARTNERSHIP The Coca-Cola Company is our primary strategic partner. While beverages owned by The Coca-Cola Company and its affiliates represent more than 90 percent of our volume, we also distribute brands for other franchise partners, including Capri-Sun. 11,500 employees 123,200 employees 8 countries and territories in Western Europe 200+ countries worldwide Business to Business Customer focus: Consumer focus: Bottler, distributor, market execution and Brand ownership, product development innovation, community and customer and innovation, brand marketing brand marketing and advertising FACTSHEET 04/32 1. Coca-Cola, Coke, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Zero Sugar, Coca-Cola Life, Coke Life, Coca-Cola Light, Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and the design of the Coca-Cola Contour Bottle are registered trademarks of The Coca-Cola Company. 2. As quoted in our 2015 10-K. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 OUR OPERATIONS AT A GLANCE Coca-Cola Enterprises Key Statistics 2015 Water We operate in Great Britain, use ratio Manufacturing Carbon footprint (liters to make France, Monaco, Belgium, Territory Employees2, 3 operations (tonnes CO2e)7 1 liter product) Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg 2,350 3 79,380 1.59 Norway and Sweden, have France, Monaco 2,700 5 75,574 1.22 offices in the United States Great Britain5 3,650 6 267,577 1.29 and Bulgaria and employ Netherlands 750 1 78,240 1.72 approximately 11,5003 people. Norway 700 1 5,996 1.32 Sweden 800 1 11,161 1.54 USA 150 0 4,353 n/a Bulgaria 400 0 920 n/a TOTAL 11,500 2 17 523,202 1.35 OUR LOCAL ECONOMIC Norway 1st CONTRIBUTION Our products are made locally, by 1 job at CCE supports local people. Our contribution to Norway was the first 7 others the local economy in 2015 included country to introduce approximately 11,500 2 jobs, $1 billion PlantBottle™ packaging 83% of products are Great Britain on all locally produced made in Norway in salaries and benefits received by products6 our employees, and $1.4 billion in total taxes paid across our territories. 1 job at CCE supports We also invested $168 million across 8 others all of our manufacturing operations, 94% 97% of products are and contributed over $5.5 million to made in Great Britain Sweden our local communities. We are proud of the local nature of 1 job at CCE supports of our products are our business – we’ve been operating 8 others made in Sweden in some of our communities for many 94% of products are generations. Ninety percent of the For every £1 we generate made in Sweden drinks we sell are produced and in Great Britain, we marketed in the country in which they contribute to the local are consumed. Our economic impact economy another £8 where we operate goes far beyond the investment we make in our operations, or the taxes we pay. We have undertaken independent 65.5% In the Netherlands, The Netherlands 1 job at CCE supports evaluations of our socio-economic 65.5 percent of the raw materials we use are 14 others impact in each of the countries where sourced from within we operate.4 Some of the results of the country 85% of products these studies are shown here. One job at CCE in France supports are made in the 12 others Netherlands Belgium and France €1.6 billion Luxembourg Manufacturing and selling €265 million invested of our products adds a total from 2004 – 2015 of €1.6 billion to the Belgian 1 job at CCE supports economy (0.4 percent of 6 others 90% of products total GDP) Key 70% of products are made in France CCE European headquarters are made in Belgium  Country head offices and Luxembourg Manufacturing operations 3. Rounded to nearest 50 employees (country employee figures do not include occasional workers in Norway and Sweden nor Belgian pre-pensioners). 4. Local socio-economic impact assessments were completed in conjunction with Steward Redqueen, and have been published in local markets. 5. Great Britain is our largest market and has carbon-intense electricity. 6. PlantBottle™ packaging is plantPET derived from sugar cane and molasses and has been in use since 2009. 7. Country figures have been rounded and may not total accurately. FACTSHEET 04/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Our Value Chain OUR COMMITMENT We are committed to reducing the impact that our operations have on society and the environment – and we business has across our value chain – from the sourcing aim to do more. We know our biggest impact lies beyond of our ingredients, the production of our products, through our own business operations – therefore, collaborating to their disposal. Over the past ten years, we have worked with our suppliers, customers and other stakeholders is to better understand and reduce the impact that our critical in making a real reduction in our impact. 25% CH A IN 1 89% Y We aim to reduce by 25 percent the P PL of our packaging SU amount of material we use across is recycled. all packaging formats by 2020. Packaging 2 We aim to recycle E Recycling OM more packaging 52% C O 2e CU ST than we use, by championing of the carbon footprint improvements to of our value chain 52% CO e 2 3 We aim to reduce RS A collection schemes comes from our and supporting the ND CO e the carbon us packaging, which Wa footprint of the recycling industry te is also a large r drink in your by 2020.4 contributor to our hand by a third N S UM E R S 99% by 2020 by water footprint. Our impact delivering carbon throughout reductions Customers throughout the the value chain value chain. and 80% consumers Ingredients make up the majority of our water impact 1% and 19 percent of our carbon p ac t impact. Ingredients 19% Our direct im 17% 5% 7% 95% Refrigeration Approximately 95 percent of our products are made from concentrates and Manufacturing Distribution 50% COR NS syrups supplied by our brand EB USINESS OPERATIO We aim to reduce the carbon footprint of our core owners. The rest are finished products that we distribute. business operations by 50 percent by 2020. 100% 18% We buy sugar, juices, mineral We aim to source 100 percent of our value chain carbon footprint, and 1 percent waters and carbon dioxide to of our ingredients sustainably of our value chain water footprint comes from our make our products (lowby 2020. core business operations. We aim to manufacture calorie sweeteners are already every liter of product using an average of 1.2 liters contained in the concentrates). of water by 2020. FACTSHEET 04/32 1 We have modeled emissions for ingredients and packaging using industry average conversion factors linked to our procurement data for each raw material. 2 As a result of carbon footprint methodologies. 3 Based upon multiple water footprinting programs since 2011. See Factsheet 19. 4 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Ten Years of Sustainability OUR TEN-YEAR JOURNEY We have come a long way since 2006, when we journey, the majority of CCE’s operations were based in launched our first CRS Report. We are very proud of the North America. Over the past decade, we have shifted progress that we have made over the past ten years – our operations to be wholly European-based, with only from our initial, early commitments, to our updated our headquarters remaining in the United States. And Sustainability Plan in 2015. Over the past decade, we now, more changes are due to come. This is Coca-Cola have continually adapted our response based upon Enterprises’ final report before we take the next step on feedback from our stakeholders. our journey as part of Coca-Cola European Partners. In We have also evolved our approach based upon our this factsheet, we take a look back at our key milestones changing organization. When we started our sustainability and achievements from the past ten years. 2006 Making public progress • Established internal Corporate • Became signatories to the Responsibility and Sustainability UN Global Compact Advisory Council • Joined UNESDA commitment • Defined a Global Operating to avoid selling our products in Framework for our business, primary schools including Corporate Responsibility • First annual CRS Report published and Sustainability 2008 2007 Commitment 2020 Setting targets • Calculated the carbon footprint • Held our first internal CRS of our core business operations Summit with 120 senior • Calculated the carbon footprint leaders from across CCE of four key brands across 14 different • Agreed five CRS focus areas packaging formats in Great Britain and measurable targets with the Carbon Trust with our stakeholders • Established Commitment 2020 which set out our first measurable sustainability targets 2009 Water footprinting • Calculated the water footprint of a 500ml Coca-Cola produced at our Dongen plant in the Netherlands in 35 liters conjunction with The University of Twente Total water footprint and the Water Footprinting Network of a 500ml regular • Established our Supplier Guiding Coke produced Principles (SGPs) at our Dongen manufacturing • Launched the largest fleet of hybrid operations1 electric trucks in the USA at the time • Added to the Newsweek Green Rankings for the first time – ranked #36 overall, and first in the Beverage Sector FACTSHEET 05/32 1. 2009 water footprinting study in conjuction with The University of Twente and the Water Footprinting Network. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 2010 2011 A new Coca-Cola Enterprises Deliver for today, Inspire for tomorrow • Coca-Cola Enterprises became • Established a new a European operations-based Sustainability Plan organization, incorporating “Deliver for Today, Norway and Sweden Inspire for Tomorrow” • Held our first Supplier • Launched commitment to reduce the Sustainability Summit carbon footprint of the drink in your • Introduced an internal system hand by a third, by 2020 of carbon allowances for each • Launched a Carbon Challenge to of our country business units encourage our suppliers to reduce their carbon emissions • First soft drinks company to receive the Carbon Trust Standard for carbon • Joined Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders First Supplier Sustainability Summit Group on Climate Change 2013 2012 Sustainability Innovation Summit Recycling joint venture • Added Sustainable Agriculture to our list of • L aunched Infineo, a joint commitments – aiming to sustainably source venture with APPE (now 100 percent of our cane and beet sugar by 2020 Plastipak) in France • Hosted our Sustainability Innovation Summit, • T he first company to with The Economist, to drive sustainability solutions receive the Carbon Trust and accelerate the pace of change in sustainability Standard for water • L isted on the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Leadership Index for the first time 2014 Future for Sustainability Summit 2015 An updated plan • Held our ‘Future for Sustainability Summit’ • Updated our Sustainability Plan – with new in conjunction with the Financial Times stretch 2020 targets • Hosted stakeholder interviews and roundtables • B ecame a member of the to gain feedback on our Sustainability Plan Dow Jones Sustainability • Established a partnership with OpenIDEO to World Index (DJSI) for the crowdsource ideas to improve home recycling first time • Launched the ‘Recycle for the Future’ partnership • B ecame a signatory to the RE100 – committing with the University of Exeter to better understand to source 100 percent of our electricity from home recycling behavior renewable sources by 2020 • H osted a series of Executive Roundtables, in conjunction with the Financial Times • Achieved the Carbon Trust Standard triple certification for carbon, water and waste • Placed eighth on the Newsweek Green Rankings • Placed 13th on the Corporate Knights Global 100 list of most sustainable companies FACTSHEET 05/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Innovate for the Future WHAT WE ACHIEVED INTRODUCTION Innovation will be critical if we are to meet the targets set out in our Rethinking Business Sustainability Plan. We know that tackling the sustainability challenges in We launched our series of Executive our value chain will require strong and continued collaboration, and that Roundtables in conjunction with the Financial Times. we will need to accelerate the pace of change. We cannot do this alone and will need to work with stakeholders to develop innovative new solutions to shared problems. Sustainable Manufacturing “ Rethinking Business” Executive Roundtable series Six-month research project held in in conjunction with the Financial Times partnership with Cranfield University. Roundtable 1 Roundtable 2 Roundtable 3 Finance and Sustainability Resource Scarcity Climate Change HOW WE’RE DOING IT Hosted by our CFO, Hosted by our Senior Vice Hosted by our European Nik Jhangiani and run President, Supply Chain, President, Hubert Patricot We are focused on collaborating with in partnership with Ron Lewis, in partnership and run during COP21, others to develop innovative solutions SustainAbility with Forum for the Future in partnership with the which will benefit ourselves, our industry Climate Leaders Group and broader society. June 2015 Oct 2015 Dec 2015 We will do this through: Attendees included: Attendees included: Attendees included: • Thought leadership to explore and develop Carbon Disclosure Project WWF-UK Kellogg’s Europe solutions to new issues and challenges Lafarge Tarmac WRAP UN Global Compact • Collaboration and engagement with Accounting for Sustainability Veolia Circular Economy Institute suppliers, customers and other stakeholders Schroders Forum for the Future EDF to drive innovation and unlock new ideas Share Action Tesco The Prince of Wales’s and opportunities Corporate Leaders Group • Accelerating the pace of change by See here for summary See here for summary See here for summary developing and harnessing innovation report and video report and video report and video and technology THOUGHT LEADERSHIP Collaboration and engagement To achieve our Sustainability Plan “Rethinking Business” commitments we will need to work in close Stakeholder Roundtables collaboration with others – such as our Following two broad stakeholder sustainability stakeholders, customers, and suppliers; summits hosted in 2013 and 2014; we focused as well as with academics and NGOs to our efforts in 2015 on a series of smaller help drive new thinking. Executive Roundtables. The series, called In 2015, we ran a six-month partnership “Rethinking Business”, developed in with Cranfield University, exploring the conjunction with the Financial Times provided current sustainability landscape across the the opportunity for in-depth discussions with supply chain, investigating topics such as key stakeholders on our most material issues. resource security, the circular economy, We know that as the global population sustainable technologies and waste continues to grow and urban transformation management. The research aimed to develop gathers pace, key global development a vision of what the factory of the future could challenges must be addressed to meet look like in Great Britain in 2050, and involved the needs of future generations. Limited 43 experts on manufacturing from industry availability of natural resources, the long-term and academia. The two resulting white impact of climate change and the inevitable papers, were published in June 2015, and strain on public infrastructures and services, April 2016 (see case study). will all have profound implications for society. The “Rethinking Business” series aimed to During 2015, we also increased our answer questions about how businesses partnerships with retailers and held can practically integrate social responsibility campaigns to encourage shoppers to into their core operating strategies; driving recycle across Great Britain, France and profitability and enhancing their corporate Belgium (see Factsheet 17). reputation. See above infographic for more information. FACTSHEET 06/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Sustainable Manufacturing for the Future People Big data Technology Value Collaboration Resilience Five paths to a sustainable future Anticipating Inspiring the the future Providing nutrition Sharing the benefits next generation Joining forces Farm to Personalized Co-creation and Connect classroom Loyalty across full fork data products collaboration to boardroom supply chain Sensors and Localized resourcing Shared IP for Nurture skill and Connect with real time data and production sustainability professionalism consumers Assess and share ‘Smart’ ingredients Big company Communicate ethical Help society adopt resource risks and efficiency leadership and social contribution sustainability We also work closely with our suppliers Accelerating the pace of change to encourage them to improve their own We know that to accelerate the pace of CASE STUDY sustainability performance. Our Supplier change, we will need to increase our use Sustainable Manufacturing Relationship Management (SRM) process of technology, and develop new partnerships for the Future helps us to collaborate with suppliers with stakeholders such as our customers and and provides a management framework suppliers. For example, our $12 million joint In 2015, CCE partnered with Cranfield whereby each supplier is evaluated on venture investment with Plastipak (formerly University to undertake a six-month piece their sustainability performance. For APPE) in a state of the art recycling facility in of research on the future of Sustainable more information, see Factsheet 23. France (Infineo Recycling) has helped us to Manufacturing, resulting in two white papers that provided an insight into what a factory We partner with The Coca-Cola Company create a step-change in recycling and support of the future could look like in Great Britain and our key suppliers, to develop our our commitment to reduce our value chain in 2050. approach to sustainable agriculture, ensuring carbon footprint. The facility produces enough high-quality recycled PET (rPET) to In March 2015, we held a roundtable event that by 2020 the global Coca-Cola system cover our requirements in France, Belgium attended by industry and academia, resulting sources its key agricultural ingredients in an initial white paper around six major sustainably. We are working with our and Luxembourg. Through steps like this themes that the food and drink industry suppliers and third-party organizations like 34 percent of the PET we purchased in 2015 would need to address to accelerate its Rainforest Alliance, the Forest Stewardship was rPET. journey towards sustainability. These six Council (FSC) and the Sustainable Agriculture We have also been investing in new themes – People, Big Data, Technology, Initiative (SAI), to help develop a pathway to technology in our manufacturing facilities, Collaboration, Value, and Resilience – were sustainably sourced ingredients (see to help reduce the amount of energy and investigated further in a second white paper, Factsheet 22). water we use – helping us to reduce the released in March 2016. This research carbon footprint from the manufacturing outlined the five pathways, and the key of our products by 52.9 percent per liter, actions necessary for the manufacturing compared to 2007. We have also been industry to build towards a sustainable investing in new technology in our cooling future. These pathways are outlined in and vending equipment – introducing the more detail in the infographic above. new iCOOL range across our territories, We are playing our part – pledging to investigating gas-free refrigeration, and invest $86.9 million in our operations in introducing even more efficient plug-andGreat Britain in 2016, for new, more efficient play Energy Management Systems (EMS) that lines and equipment. will help reduce our carbon footprint from The full research is available here. refrigeration even further. Our efforts from this year alone helped to reduce our absolute carbon footprint from cold drinks equipment by 41 percent vs 2007. These investments not only help reduce our carbon footprint, but also support our customers’ carbon and energy reduction goals as well. FACTSHEET 06/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Issue sheet: Wellbeing How can we address the issue of obesity? OUR COMMITMENT INTRODUCTION Obesity is a global, complex challenge with a significant cost to both society We will play our part and individuals. to promote wellbeing Worldwide, over 600 million adults and reduce the calories across our portfolio by by reducing calories 42 million children under the age of five were 10 percent per liter by 2020, and have reduced classed as overweight or obese in 2013. In it by 4.5 percent since 2010.1 We have worked across our portfolio by Europe, 50 percent of people are overweight over the years to increase the number of no10 percent and enabling or obese and two-thirds are not meeting recommended levels of physical activity. and low-calorie beverages in every market, and increase the range of portion sizes. We three million people to As a major manufacturer within the food also aim to get three million people physically and beverage industry, we understand the active by 2020, by supporting communitybe active by 2020.1 role that diet, including our products, can have based physical activity programs. We believe on health and wellbeing. We know that diet that actions to reduce the calories across our and calorie intake, including the sugar and portfolio through reformulation, reducing our ISSUE INSIGHTS resulting calories in our products, can have package sizes, promoting lowand no-calorie a big impact on health and wellbeing. We products, and working in partnership with our 10% know that we need to be part of the debate, and part of the solution on this issue. customers, will be more effective in addressing the issue of obesity. The World Health Organization We are committed to playing our part in recommends that added sugars should be Solving a complex global challenge like obesity can’t be done by any one organization reducing obesity – and we cannot do it less than 10 percent of total calorie intake.2 alone. We need to continue to work actively in isolation. It will require multiple stakeholders across industry, government and civil society with our customers, industry, civil society 1.9 billion to work together. Since 2010, we have reduced our total and government to make meaningful progress on this issue. In 2014, more than 1.9 billion adults were calorie footprint across our portfolio by nearly overweight (600 million of these were obese).3 7.5 percent. We also have a commitment to Doubled Worldwide obesity rates have more than doubled since 1980.3 ISSUE SHEET 07/32 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company 2 World Health Organization 3 World Health Organization CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Leendert den Hollander Hervé Gomichon VP and General Manager, Great Britain Quality and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Enterprises Carrefour Group A view from Coca-Cola Enterprises A Customer Viewpoint Obesity is one of the most serious and complex issues facing Since 1997, obesity and its related chronic diseases, have become our society today. I know from my conversations with customers, a major public health issue across many industrialized countries. colleagues and business partners that this issue is high on our In 2012, France – the headquarters of Carrefour – had 6.9 million shared agenda. We have a strategy at CCE in Great Britain called obese people, about 3.3 million more than in 1997. In addition, Inspiring Sustainable Soft Drinks Choices, which aims to inspire there has been a rise in social inequalities in health, diet and change and help us continue to be sustainable in terms of physical activity with obesity being almost three times as consumer buying habits, health and the environment. As we common amongst underprivileged populations versus those seek to grow our business sustainably we are continually looking with higher incomes.3 for ways to help address the concerns of consumers and our At Carrefour, we believe that the simple act of eating should customers. We believe choice and information are fundamental be a pleasure that is accessible to all. We aim to offer all of our for consumers to be able to make the right decisions for them customers, regardless of budget, a varied, balanced and high and their families. quality diet with a wide range of local products, across all the As a business, we have a role to play in addressing obesity. countries where we operate. Across CCE, we have made a commitment to reduce the calories per liter across our portfolio by 10 percent and enable three million people to become physically active by 2020. We also have a commitment to make Great Britain the first country in the At Carrefour, we work with other world where 50 percent of the Coca-Cola we sell will be noor lower-calorie. suppliers, such as CCE, to help our customers make better choices for their tastes and lifestyles. We have a commitment to make Great Britain the first country in the world where 50 percent of We know from multiple studies that customers are often the Coca-Cola we sell will be confused by the complexity of nutritional information available to them in stores and on pack. To help simplify this, we have worked noor lower-calorie. together with other retailers and manufacturers, like CCE, through a multi-disciplinary expert committee, to develop a streamlined information system that will appear on the front of our products. This shared system, called the Simplified Nutritional Labelling System (SENS), uses color-coding to inform customers about their Although a levy on sugared soft drink beverages was recently consumption patterns and frequency. We aim to begin testing the proposed in the United Kingdom, we don’t believe that this tax is system in our stores at the end of 2016, with the support of the the right step to address the issue of obesity, as it singles out a French Ministry of Health and consumer associations. single category – soft drinks – in an attempt to tackle the problem. We are also working together with our partners at CCE to We are not debating the issue – but we are debating this proposed increase customer awareness of calorie balance, and the solution. Based upon the evidence from other countries, we believe importance of having an active lifestyle. In 2016, together with that the tax will do very little, if anything, to reduce sugar and CCE, we introduced a program called “Plaisir et Forme”, which calorie intake. uses a mobile app to help consumers track their daily physical We believe our actions to reformulate our products, innovating activity levels. with new no-sugar products, (such as Coca-Cola Zero Sugar) We believe that by working together with suppliers on programs and driving our sales of no sugar and lower sugar soft drinks (such such as these, we will be able to help our customers make better as glacéau smartwater and Coca-Cola Life), will make a bigger choices for their tastes and lifestyles. difference than the proposed levy. Importantly, we are not acting in isolation – the soft drinks category is the only one that has continued to grow sales in recent years while reducing the amount of sugar consumed. In fact, our category has reduced sugar by almost 14 percent – and our work continues. Since 2010, we have reduced our total calorie footprint by almost 7.5 percent, and by working with our customers, we know we can go even further. ISSUE SHEET 07/32 3. Roche Obepi 2012 study. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Wellbeing: Product Portfolio OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We will reduce calories per liter across our portfolio of beverages by Calorie reduction 10 percent by 2020.1, 2 Reduce calories by 10 percent per liter across our product portfolio by 2020.1, 2 INTRODUCTION We understand the role that diet, including our products, can have on health Nolow-calorie and wellbeing. We believe that all calories count, and are committed to playing Offer a noor low-calorie alternative whenever regular soft drinks are available.3, 4 our part to help address obesity. We are committed to providing a wide choice of products, driving awareness of our noor low-calorie options, and providing clear and transparent information on our products. Portion size Ensure that all soft drinks are available WORKING TO REDUCE CALORIES ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO, ACROSS OUR TERRITORIES in small portion sizes, and increase the availability of small packs. 1 2015 Baseline – Great Britain 2 2012 Baseline – Netherlands 3 2012 Baseline – Belgium 4 Through industry Labeling commitments or voluntary government schemes ed to reduc mit t ing om ca Ensure clear nutritional labeling on ec Great Britain We by ies 5% front-of-pack across all our products.1 ha lor v Netherlands 10% by 20251 Under 12 10% per 100ml by 20202 We will not market any of our products Belgium to children under 12 and will not sell our products in primary schools.1 pe r l i t er by 2020 10% per liter by 20203 CCE’s corporate calorie CCE’s calorie reduction WHAT WE ACHIEVED reduction target targets in our territories4 4.5% reduction in the calories per liter across our product portfolio since 2010. CALORIE COMMITMENTS In 2014, we made a commitment to reduce plant extract and sugar to reduce its calorie and sugar content. In 2016, we introduced a the calories per liter across our portfolio of reformulated recipe, with a higher percentage beverages, across all of our territories, by of stevia plant extract, allowing us to reduce the 59% of our full sugar brands have a noor low-calorie alternative.3, 4 10 percent by 2020.1, 2 As of 2015, we have reduced the calories in our portfolio by percentage of sugar and calories even further, reducing it to 45 percent less than a regular cola.7 4.5 percent per liter since 2010. We have We are committed to ensuring that all of our also reduced the total calories across our 32 regular calorie drinks are available in portion % of the volume of our products portfolio by 7.5 percent since 2010. sizes of 250ml or less – in 2015 nearly 21 percent in our portfolio are noand low-calorie. 3, 5 CHOICE of our regular calorie drinks were available in this size range. We are also working with our Our product portfolio is made up of a wide customers to limit large branded cup sizes used 99% of our products have front-of-pack GDA labeling. variety of products. Our core sparkling brands, such as Coca-Cola, Fanta and Sprite, make up in restaurants, leisure parks and cinemas across our territories. 57 percent of our portfolio. We aim to offer a noor low-calorie alternative every time a regular RESPONSIBLE MARKETING sparkling soft drink is available, with 59 percent Nutrition information HOW WE’RE DOING IT of our full sugar brands having a noor We are committed to providing clear and low-calorie alternative. transparent nutritional labeling on our products, Our strategy includes: We are aiming to expand the range of noand have voluntarily included ingredients and • Choice: provide a wide range of beverage and low-calorie products3 that we offer, and nutrition information on all product labels since choices to fit a balanced lifestyle – including are reformulating our products to reduce their 2003. Since 2007, we have featured Guideline ensuring awareness of our noand lowsugar and calorie content. In 2015, 21% of our Daily Amount (GDA) and joined with UNESDA in calorie options. innovation activities were related to reducing 2013 to feature front-of-pack Reference Intake (RI) • Nutrition information: ensure transparency the calories and sugar in our products.6 labels across all of our products.8 In Great Britain, across all our labeling, marketing and we joined the UK Government’s voluntary, Reformulated products launched in 2015 included sales activities. color-coded, front-of-pack nutrition labeling Fanta Lemon in France, Belgium, the Netherlands • Responsible marketing: never market any and Luxembourg, Dr Pepper in Great Britain and scheme in 2014. We will continue to work with of our products to children under 12. Nestea Lemon and Peach in the Netherlands. UNESDA to monitor compliance with our Coca-Cola Life, which was launched in 2015 existing commitments. across all of our territories, uses a blend of stevia FACTSHEET 08/32 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 4 This includes all CCE’s full sugar brands, excluding waters and 2 Against a 2010 baseline. hot drinks. Our most popular brands (Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite) 3. Noand low-calorie products defined as <40 calories/250ml. all have low-calorie alternatives and together these make up 90 percent of CCE’s volume. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Product portfolio We have made a commitment to reduce the calories per liter across our portfolio Reduce calories per liter across of beverages by 10 percent by 2020.1, 2 We are doing this through a combination our portfolio of beverages by of reformulation and introducing new noand low-calorie products. We are also 10% by 2020 reducing the portion sizes across our portfolio. of our full sugar soft drinks have * 59% a noor low-calorie alternative such as Diet Coke, Coke Zero or Coca-Cola Zero Sugar.3, 4 Progress against target: 32% of the volume of the products in our portfolio are noand low-calorie.3, 5 4.5% reduction in calories per liter since 2010 20.8% of our portfolio is available in small portion sizes of less than 250ml. * Coca-Cola Zero Sugar to be launched in Great Britain in June 2016. We take advice from local and European No marketing to children under 12 We have also signed the UNESDA initiative Scientific Advisory Councils and make no health Since 2009, we have committed to not to ensure that energy drinks are not marketed claims unless these are scientifically proven. market to children under the age of 12. to under-16s. For more information see the Information about our products is available Through UNESDA, we have committed not further reading section. through the websites, care lines and consumer to advertise in printed media, on websites or information centers operated in all the countries Our products and alcohol during broadcast programs specifically aimed We recognize that adult consumers may choose to where we do business. In 2015, there were at children. As a result, we do not advertise or approximately 74,000 calls to our customer drink our products in conjunction with alcohol. We market any of our products directly to children have begun providing guidance to our sales teams satisfaction helpline, of which 19 percent were under 12. Coca-Cola advertising is never shown complaints about product quality.9 We also to ensure that products promoted in association during children’s programing and we do not with alcohol are directed to consumers above the provide extra information about ingredients on undertake promotional activities aimed at pack labels to help consumers make the right legal drinking age, and that materials depict children under 12. We never provide free moderate and responsible drinking, and contain personal choices. For example, our energy samples to children under 12 unless an adult drinks carry a statement indicating that they appropriate responsible drinking statements. or carer is present. are not suitable for children and pregnant and We also promote our drinks as a non-alcoholic breast-feeding women, specific groups for We recognize the growing use of digital and alternative. For the past eight years, we have whom caffeine is not recommended. internet communications by children and worked in conjunction with the THINK! driver support The Coca-Cola Company’s policies for friendly program in Great Britain to offer a free Marketing responsible marketing of our products on the second drink during Christmas when ordering We want to ensure that consumers not only internet and via digital media. Our internet sites a Coca-Cola Zero, Schweppes or Appletiser have the product choice available to them and content are designed for visitors aged 12 product. In 2015, this program was supported in stores, but that our marketing spend and or above, and we use features and elements by approximately 8,000 bars and pubs across guidelines are aligned to the promotion of on our websites that appeal predominantly to the country. the range of drinks that are available. In visitors over the age of 12. Great Britain, we have committed to double As part of a global Coca-Cola policy and FURTHER READING: our media investment in our noand lowthrough UNESDA, we have committed to not More information about our responsible calorie variants of Coca-Cola. The Coca-Cola undertake direct commercial activity in primary marketing guidelines, joint commitments with Company recently launched a 'One Brand' schools unless requested by school authorities The Coca-Cola Company, and through UNESDA global marketing strategy that unites all or parents. We have different policies on the can be found on www.cokecce.com/ of the Coca-Cola brand varieties under a distribution of our products in secondary sustainability/wellbeing single Coca-Cola brand campaign, allowing schools in each of the countries where we These include: consumers to better understand the range operate and aim to: of choices available. The Coca-Cola Company Global Responsible • Ensure that a full range of beverages Marketing Policy Over the past year, we have also established (including waters, juices and lower, noResponsible Marketing Guidelines to and low-calorie products) are available The Coca-Cola Company Global School encourage the sale of noand low-calorie in appropriate portion control sizes. Beverage Guidelines beverages. For example, we aim to make our • Include educational images and messages The Coca-Cola Company Responsible noand low-calorie beverages most prominent on vending machines to promote balanced Marketing Charter, Great Britain in any meal deal or snack promotion, and diets and to respect the commercial-free UNESDA Commitments to Act Responsibly developed guidance for our sales teams on environment of schools. UNESDA Code for Energy Drinks and Shots how to work with our customers to develop • Ensure that those responsible for the final meal and snack promotions that showcase Coca-Cola Great Britain: Choice and Information distribution of our products to schools are healthier food choice options of an appropriate aware of these commitments. portion size. FACTSHEET 08/32 5 Measured using unit cases. 8 In 2016 all Monster-owned energy drinks will 6. Measured at an SKU level including new pack. have the front-of-pack RI label removed. 7 Forty-five percent fewer calories vs full sugared colas 9 Our customer complaints rate per million units in Great Britain. sold (CPMU) was 1.23 in 2015. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Wellbeing: Active Lifestyles OUR TARGET OUR COMMITMENT We will enable three million people to be physically active by investing 3 million in grassroots programs which support active lifestyles by 2020.1 Enable three million people to be physically active by 2020.1 INTRODUCTION We know that physical inactivity is a significant problem across Europe and WHAT WE ACHIEVED we want to play our part in encouraging active lifestyles. For this reason, we’re investing in community-based physical activity programs across our 1 million countries of operation. Nearly one million people engaged in active lifestyle programs in 2015. GROWTH IN PEOPLE ENGAGED IN ACTIVE LIFESTYLE PROGRAMS OVER TIME HOW WE’RE DOING IT To reach our target, we’re investing in grassroots programs that support active lifestyles. TARGET 900,000+ 1 million+ 1 million2 3 million 2013 2014 2015 2020 SUPPORTING ACTIVE LIFESTYLES Special Olympics As part of our commitment to get three million Sponsored by The Coca-Cola Company for people moving by 2020, we’ve developed 37 years, Special Olympics is the world’s long-running partnerships in conjunction biggest sports charity for children and with The Coca-Cola Company to support adults with intellectual disabilities. In 2015, community-based physical activity programs. CCE supported events in Belgium, France, In 2015, our partnerships included: Great Britain and the Netherlands, both financially and by providing volunteers. Olympic Moves Over the past year we worked to engage Started in 2003 by the Coca-Cola system more people at a grassroots level. and the Dutch Olympic Committee, Olympic Moves encourages 13 to 18 year-olds to Sport Vlaanderen and Adeps, Belgium discover and enjoy sports. Active in more CCE provides financial support to two regional than 300 schools, it’s the biggest annual Belgian sports associations, Sport school sports competition in the Netherlands Vlaanderen and Adeps, which are and continues to grow. This year we improved responsible for all aspects of sports the experience for the estimated 100,0002 development from training coaches to competitors by adding regional finals to the developing sports clubs and communal national final held every year at Amsterdam’s sporting functions. Olympic Stadium. Royal Belgian Football Association, In September 2015, Olympic Moves was Belgium introduced in Belgium to replace Mission CCE has supported the Royal Belgian Olympic, the sports program for 12 to 14 Football Association for over 30 years. Half of year-olds. Supported by the Belgian Olympic the sponsorship supports football programs and Interfederal Committee, the program for young people aged 12 and over, with the offers sports competition at schools, regional remaining budget funding sports activities qualifications and a national final. We organized by the Flemish and French sections estimate that more than 117,0003 young of the Association. people were involved during the 2015-2016 school year. FACTSHEET 09/32 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 2 Estimated figures. 3 The 2015/2016 program is currently underway, figures are estimated based upon 2014/2015 participation rates. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Active lifestyle partnerships in 2015 Norway Red Cross Our target is to get Participants: 800 Cityride 3 million people Participants: 7,000 to be physically active by 2020 Sweden Swimming Federation Participants: 41,600 The Netherlands 2015 total participants Special Olympics Olympic Moves Belgium  42,500 Belgium 12,000 Total participants: 117,0002 Jeugdsportfonds France  685,700 France 12,700 Participants: 250 Great Britain 8,000 Great Britain  94,500 The Netherlands 2,000 Norway  7,800 Participants: 34,700 Sweden  41,600 Belgium The Netherlands  119,250 Olympic Moves Total participants: 21,5003 Sport Vlaanderen Participants: 9,000 Great Britain StreetGames France Participants: 14,000+ ParkLives Le Sport Ça Me Dit Participants: 72,500+ Participants: 672,000 L dans la Ville Participants: 1,000 Le Sport Ça Me Dit, France Jeugdsportfonds, Netherlands Swimming Federation, Sweden In France, CCE supports Le Sport Ça Me Dit Under a three-year agreement with In 2013, CCE began a three-year partnership (I Like Sport), which provides simple ways Jeugdsportfonds, we’re enabling teenagers with the Swedish Swimming Federation to for young people to take part in sports and from low-income families to take part in encourage more people to swim. In 2015, games. Under the scheme, which was organized sports. We aim to expand the the program was extended to the Swedish created in 2008 with the Ministry of Sport program to support 40,000 teenagers a Schools Sports Federation, as part of a and the French National Olympic Committee, year by 2016. goal to make swimming part of the school municipalities are provided with equipment curriculum. The program also offers reducedfor six different activities, all packaged in a JOGG, Netherlands rate entry to swimming pools and supports one-meter cube which can be set up quickly Based near our manufacturing operation open water swim-runs as a means of raising in streets, parks and other urban spaces. in Dongen, JOGG (Youngsters of a Healthy funds for Barnensö and WaterAid. In 2015, in The project continues to expand and now Weight) is a community-based initiative co-operation with the food retailer ICA, we operates in 1,400 municipalities. In the coming working with sports organizations, the also began setting up swimming schools for year, it will focus on the ten cities hosting the municipality, schools and local companies underprivileged youngsters. EURO™ 2016 football tournament. to help young people lead healthy lives. L dans la Ville, France Red Cross, Norway CCE has been supporting L dans la Ville We continue to partner with the Norwegian in France since 2014. This NGO, operating Red Cross in the Puls program which since 1998, helps girls aged 12 to 20 in provides physical activities for young people underprivileged areas of Lyon and Paris at four Red Cross Resource Centers in Oslo. to access sports and jobs through weekly Activities include climbing, dancing, football sports sessions, holiday sports camps, and bowling. familiarization with the business world Cityride, Norway and support for young entrepreneurs. Cityride promotes cycling and encourages CASE STUDY people who are normally not physically active ParkLives, Great Britain StreetGames, Great Britain StreetGames is a UK charity that makes to join fun cycling rides. In addition, the In 2014, Coca-Cola Great Britain launched a sport and dance more accessible to young Cityride mobile app encourages people to nationwide, long-term program of fun, free people in disadvantaged communities. monitor their walking, cycling and running, activities in community parks in major cities. We support this program together with which results in donations to charities. Partnerships now exist with local authorities The Coca-Cola Company in Great Britain. in Birmingham, Newcastle, the London It includes coaching, involvement in a range Borough of Newham, Nottingham, of sports activities, and sports festivals. Manchester and Glasgow. Throughout the summer the program offered an estimated 9,000 hours of free, informal sports activities from Tai Chi and rounders to Zumba and table tennis in around 150 parks, with all ages and abilities welcome. FACTSHEET 09/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Issue sheet: Climate Change How can we address the issue of Climate Change? OUR COMMITMENT INTRODUCTION Climate change is one of the most serious and complex challenges We will reduce the facing the world. It is also one of the most significant risks to our business. carbon footprint of At Coca-Cola Enterprises, we believe that urgent action must be taken to tackle climate change. the drink in your hand by a third by delivering Political and scientific consensus indicates Most recently, ahead of the COP21 climate that increased concentrations of carbon negotiations in Paris, we committed to ensure carbon reductions dioxide and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) that our carbon reduction targets are aligned throughout the entire in the atmosphere are leading to gradual rises in global average temperatures. with the needs of climate science. Both our 50 percent absolute carbon reduction target value chain by 2020. These temperature rises are linked to and our value-chain carbon reduction commitment to reduce the ‘carbon footprint changing weather patterns and extreme weather conditions around the world. This of the drink in your hand’ have now been ISSUE INSIGHTS has a knock-on impact on water quality, approved as being science-based targets. water scarcity, and agricultural productivity. We have also committed to sourcing 100 2°C All of this could have a negative impact on our business. Extreme weather conditions percent of our electricity from renewable sources and to publicly report our climate To avoid the most dangerous impacts of could disrupt our manufacturing and performance as part of our mainstream climate change, we need to limit global distribution network; a reduction in water financial reporting. temperature rises to no more than 2°C quality would impact our ability to produce Although there are many risks from climate above pre-industrial levels.1 high-quality beverages; and a reduction in change, we believe that there are also many agricultural output could limit the availability opportunities. Companies can drive economic or increase the cost of the raw materials we Rising levels use in our products. growth and take action to tackle climate change at the same time. The shift towards a The rising levels of greenhouse gases Climate change poses both risks and low-carbon economy can be a driver of green from the burning of fossil fuels and opportunities for the wider business growth and deliver significant long-term land-use changes (such as deforestation) community. The recent Paris Climate Change economic benefits. These include improved are causing a sustained and unequivocal Agreement demonstrated what can be energy security, new jobs in the low-carbon rise in global temperatures.2 achieved if companies, governments, and sector, reduced air pollution and the civil society work together to reduce GHG protection of the biodiversity and ecosystems Net-Zero emissions and tackle climate change. on which we all rely. The Paris Climate Change Agreement We welcome the adoption of the new, aims to limit global warming to universal climate agreement, which is a ‘well below’ 2°C and sets a long-term critical step on the path to solving climate target of net-zero emissions.3 change. To welcome the agreement, we signed The Paris Pledge for Action, pledging our support to ensure that the level of ambition set by the agreement is met or exceeded. We believe that it is in the best interest of the business community to take an active and leading role in deploying low-carbon technologies, increasing energy efficiency and reducing carbon emissions. That is why CCE has strengthened its commitments to reduce the GHG emissions associated with our own business and our value chain. It is also why we continue to support a progressive policy agenda on climate change, renewable energy and carbon reduction. ISSUE SHEET 10/32 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). 3 Paris Climate Change Agreement. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Frédéric Godier Supply Chain Operations Director, Sandrine Dixson-Declève Chaudfontaine, Belgium, Chief Partnership Officer, Coca-Cola Enterprises Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) A view from Coca-Cola Enterprises A view from Sandrine Dixson-Declève Having worked as the Operations Director for two different CCE Climate change presents both risks and opportunities for the manufacturing sites – first in Dunkerque in France, and now in wider business community, but especially for businesses like Chaudfontaine in Belgium, I know that CCE takes its responsibility Coca-Cola Enterprises which aim to be a sustainability leader. to address the issue of climate change seriously. We sell over Given the impact of climate change on CCE’s value chain, and 12 billion cans and bottles across our territories each year – in its influence within the food and beverage sector, a failure to take doing so, we have a responsibility to understand, and act upon the lead on climate change issues would represent a significant our impact on the environment. missed opportunity for CCE. We believe in this, as do the stakeholders, shareholders and It would also ignore the fact that investors increasingly equate customers that trust in our brand, and our company. As members strong environmental leadership with sound business practices of the public become even more aware of the issue of climate and are keen to invest in companies with strong sustainability change, it has become a priority for companies to address their credentials and a track record of sustainability innovation. impacts. If we don’t, we risk both our reputation and our Having worked hard on its own sustainability strategy, I would competitiveness. recommend that CCE should now work to spread the benefit Five percent of our value chain carbon footprint comes from of its experience and advocate for wider change – something manufacturing – and there are many ways we are working it’s already doing, but I would like to see CCE go further. CCE to reduce this. needs to continue to work with its value chain partners and with other sectors to deliver significant carbon reductions and create more champions of change on key topics like renewable energy At Chaudfontaine, on-site and energy efficiency. Using the power of its brands, CCE can also play an investment in renewable energy important role in educating customers and consumers in the will ensure that 15% of the site’s principles of circular economy and the part they can play in conserving natural resources and reducing GHG emissions energy will be renewable. related to packaging. I lead CCE’s manufacturing workgroup for Energy and Renewable Given the impact of climate Energy, which has supported multiple initiatives to reduce our energy consumption and invest in renewable energy across change on CCE’s value chain, and our sites. At Chaudfontaine we have long been capturing the geothermal heat from our natural mineral source water for its influence within the food and energy. We’ve also been investing in solar panels, and are beverage sector, a failure to take planning to install a water turbine in 2016. Together, these initiatives will mean that 15 percent of the site’s energy will the lead on climate change issues come from on-site renewable energy sources. would represent a significant I am proud of the work that we do to reduce the carbon footprint of our core business operations. However, I know that missed opportunity for CCE. our biggest impact comes from outside of our own four walls. We can have an even greater impact when we partner with others. For example, the transportation of our products has In partnership with others in the industry, CCE should also a significant carbon footprint, and there are many ways we can be talking to regulators and policymakers on how to support partner with our customers to improve the efficiency of our companies and sectors which want to take action on transportation and reduce the impact on our environment. I also climate change. believe that we need to go further on recycling, as it presents the One specific challenge relates to recycled plastics – a key material greatest opportunity we have to reduce the carbon footprint of used by CCE in its packaging and one which delivers significant our packaging. We need to work even harder with our packaging carbon reduction when compared with virgin materials. The suppliers to use more recycled and renewable materials and recent fall in the oil price is making recycled PET less economically with governments and regulators to improve the recycling viable, especially when compared to virgin PET. I’d like to see CCE infrastructure in many of our geographies. at the forefront in tackling this challenge and in discussing I’m proud of the work that CCE has done so far, and keen to solutions with industry partners and policymakers. explore new ways we can improve in the future. In doing so, CCE can help to create a vision of what a sustainable future looks like. It’s an exciting prospect and CCE can be instrumental in making it happen. Sandrine Dixson-Declève is the former Director of The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group. ISSUE SHEET 10/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Our Carbon Footprint OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third 1/3 by delivering carbon reductions throughout our value chain by 2020. Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third by 2020. INTRODUCTION Our value chain carbon footprint is made up of six key elements, from the 50% ingredients and packaging in our supply chain, through our core business Grow our business, but reduce the absolute operations (manufacturing, distribution and our cold drinks equipment), to carbon footprint of our core business the recycling of our packaging. operations by 50 percent by 2020. As a result, we have made two carbon reduction commitments. The first – to reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third by 2020 – seeks WHAT WE ACHIEVED to reduce our carbon impact across the value chain. The second, to reduce the absolute carbon footprint of our core business operations by 50 percent by 24% 2020. Both are aligned with climate science, and have been endorsed by the reduction in the carbon footprint of Science Based Targets initiative. the drink in your hand since 2007. Since 2007, we have reduced the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by 24 percent, and have reduced the absolute carbon footprint of our core 40% business operations by 40 percent. We have set further carbon reduction reduction in the absolute carbon footprint targets for each key area of emissions within our operations; and more of our core business operations since 2007. detail about these can be found in Factsheets 12, 13 and 14. 523,202 ESTIMATED CARBON EMISSIONS ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN IN 20153 The carbon footprint of CCE’s core business operations in 2015 was 523,202 metric SUPPLY CHAIN CORE BUSINESS OPERATIONS CONSUMERS tonnes of CO2e.3 1.28 million metric tonnes 523,202 metric tonnes CO2e CO2e estimated1 HOW WE’RE DOING IT Our strategy to reduce the carbon footprint of our business operations focuses on the following: • Measuring and managing our Ingredients Packaging Manufacturing Distribution Refrigeration Recycling carbon footprint • Setting supporting targets and 19% 52% 5% 7% 17% Included in packaging2 developing carbon-reduction roadmaps • Driving innovation, collaboration and technology OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT MEASURING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT In 2015, in line with the WRI/WBCSD CCE’s core business operations include Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, we our manufacturing processes, facilities, fleet, measured the carbon footprint of our core third-party distribution, offices, cold drinks business operations at 523,202 tonnes of equipment, aviation and business travel. CO2e for the period January 1, 2015 through We measure emissions from these December 31, 2015. This was a reduction activities across our entire business in eight of 15 percent from 2014, and a 40 percent Western European territories (Great Britain, reduction from our 2007 baseline.3 These France, Monaco, Belgium, Luxembourg, reductions were largely driven by the revised the Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden) as scope 2 GHG protocol reporting guidelines, well as for our offices in the United States which allow us to more accurately reflect and Bulgaria. Our core business operations the carbon footprint of the electricity we makes up 29 percent of our value chain procure directly. carbon footprint. FACTSHEET 11/32 1 We have modeled emissions for ingredients and packaging 3 Calculated according to a market-based approach. Under using industry average conversion factors linked to our a location-based approach, our total operational carbon procurement data for each raw material. footprint would be 572,309 tonnes CO2e. 2 As a result of carbon packaging footprint methodologies. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 GREENHOUSE GASES (TONNES CO2e) CCE ENERGY SOURCES AND USE – 2015 Total A variety of sources of energy are associated Hydro(SCOPE) Carbon Nitrous Methane fluoro(tonnes Percent of with our core business operations, all of which dioxide (CO2) oxide (N2O) (CH4) carbons CO2e3) footprint contribute to our carbon footprint. Our energy SCOPE 1. Direct emission (e.g. fuel)9 101,931 294 92 226 102,542 20 use in 2015 was as follows: 2a. Indirect emissions (e.g. electricity) 20,961 3 0 0 20,965 4 MWh GJ – market-based approach Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 2b. Indirect emissions (e.g. electricity) 70,068 3 0 0 70,072 – location-based approach Total natural gas used 162,616 585,417 3. Related third-party emissions 399,024 647 24 0 399,695 76 Total LPG used 24,735 89,045 (e.g. from cold drinks equipment) Total light fuel oil used 1,284 4,621 We reduced our carbon footprint by 49,107 tonnes by adopting a market-based approach and actively purchasing Total diesel 242,529 873,103 renewable and low-carbon energy. Following a location-based approach our Scope 2 emissions would be 70,072 tonnes and petrol used of CO2e. Total biofuel used 2,152 7,474 OUR OPERATIONAL CARBON FOOTPRINT 2007-2015 BY EMISSION SOURCE3,4,8 Total direct 433,315 1,559,933 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 energy consumption Operations and commercial sites 196,800 195,110 192,070 190,739 177,684 170,812 160,698 155,432 95,628 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (tonnes CO2e) Total electricity 287,552 1,035,187 Cold drinks equipment 532,434 557,010 512,715 505,017 432,835 411,082 361,944 344,058 311,772 purchased and used (tonnes CO2e) Total heat purchased 15,124 54,445 CCE fleet 50,636 51,033 49,702 48,883 46,603 46,270 37,716 30,727 28,542 and used (tonnes CO2e) Energy used in cold 1,246,152 4,486,147 Third-party distribution 85,888 85,592 94,377 94,794 106,934 99,090 88,958 77,981 77,558 drinks equipment6,7 (tonnes CO2e) Energy from renewable 164,177 591,037 Other (including business travel) 7,597 6,792 9,529 8,518 8,963 9,919 9,936 10,221 9,702 or low-carbon sources5 (tonnes CO2e) Total indirect 1,713,005 6,166,817 Total (‘000 tonnes CO2e) 873,355 895,537 858,393 847,951 773,019 737,173 659,252 618,419 523,202 energy consumption8 4 Please note we do not have PFCs or SF6 emissions. 5 Includes onand off-site solar, geothermal, biomass and combined heat and power (CHP) generation. 6 Refrigerant leaks for CDE equipment are not included in our Scope 3 calculations. 7 This included energy consumed by our cold drinks equipment outside of CCE operations and within customer locations. 8 Due to a number of minor data recalculations including changes to emission factors, we have restated the carbon footprint of our core business operations in 2007 (our baseline year) as well as for subsequent years. 9 Please note that because we use anaerobic wastewater biogas at Wakefield, Great Britain, this generated emissions of 158 tonnes of CO2e in 2015 which are not included under Scope 1 of our footprint in alignment with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol. Under the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas SOURCES OF DATA AND • Energy, fuel and fugitive gas raw data, (GHG) Protocol, we measure our emissions in CALCULATION METHODOLOGIES is collected and converted to carbon three ‘scopes’, except for CO2e emissions from equivalents (CO2e), and multiplied by We use an operational control consolidation biologically sequestered carbon, which is approach to determine organizational publicly available and supplier based reported separately.9 boundaries. Data is consolidated from a greenhouse gas emission factors e.g. for • Scope 1: Direct sources of emissions such number of sources across our business electricity, emission factors used include as the fuel we use for manufacturing and and is analyzed centrally. We use a variety of supplier data, DEFRA 2015 or IEA 2013 our own vehicles plus our process and methodologies to gather our emissions data • Approximately 1 percent of our operational fugitive emissions. and measure each part of our operational carbon footprint is based on estimated • Scope 2: Indirect sources of emissions such as carbon footprint, including: emissions (e.g. leased offices where the purchased electricity we use at our sites. • Energy data: from metered sources, energy invoices are not available) We report against this on both a locationsupplier invoices and estimates (e.g. our MANAGING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT based, and a market-based approach. bottle sorting facility in Norway is estimated At CCE, we manage the reduction of our • Scope 3: Indirect sources associated with on the basis of its floor area in comparison operational and value chain carbon footprint the electricity used by our cold drinks to its main production facility) through our CRS Advisory Council, and and coffee equipment at our customers’ • Refrigerant gas losses from contractors’ specifically our Energy and Climate Change premises, our employee business travel by re-gasing invoices Steering Group. This group is responsible rail and air, emissions related to the supply • CO2 fugitive gases from measuring our for setting our carbon reduction targets, of water and treatment of wastewater, establishing sub-targets for each area under opening and closing stock levels and emissions from waste to landfill and solid our operational control and developing subtracting the quantity of CO2 used in incinerated waste where energy has been carbon reduction programs. In addition, since our products as well as the CO2 used in recovered, and the fuel used by our 2010, we have used a Carbon Allowance effluent wastewater treatment third-party distributors. process under which each business unit sets • Calculations of cold drinks equipment We measure and seek to reduce our Scope 3 annual carbon reduction targets in line with emissions are based on average hourly emissions (those that do not occur at our its business plans. Business unit level carbon supplier energy consumption rates and by business operations but result from our reduction plans are developed, with progress subtracting any savings achieved through business) because they are significantly monitored and reported quarterly. carbon reduction initiatives during the greater than our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. reporting period We use a baseline year of 2007. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are independent of any • Transport fuel calculated according to greenhouse gas trades. This is the first year of actual liters used or kilometers recorded reporting in accordance with the amendment • Supply of water, treatment of wastewater to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and waste management calculated by (Scope 2 Guidance). The carbon footprint using liter and weight (kg) data respectively of our core business operations in 2015 is verified in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol by DNV GL (see Factsheet 32). FACTSHEET 11/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Energy and Renewable Energy OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT By 2020, we will manufacture every liter of product with 50 percent less 50% carbon emissions and source 40 percent of our energy from renewable Manufacture every liter of product with or low-carbon sources. 50 percent less carbon emissions by 2020. INTRODUCTION 40% We are committed towards growing a low-carbon business, and we have set Source 40 percent of our energy rigorous targets for reducing emissions across our value chain. In 2015, we for manufacturing from renewable/ invested $70 million in new production lines and equipment and $7 million in low-carbon sources by 2020. further projects to reduce carbon emissions at our manufacturing operations. We have also made a commitment to source 40 percent of our energy for WHAT WE ACHIEVED manufacturing from renewable or low-carbon sources by 2020, and as part of the Climate Group’s RE100 initiative we have committed to purchase 52.9% 100 percent of our electricity from renewable sources. reduction in the CO2e g/liter of product produced against our 2007 baseline. ENERGY USE RATIO PROGRESS 32.8% Energy consumed (kWh) per 1,000 liters of product 90.83 kWh/1,000 liters, of the energy we used in 2015 came from 2007 renewable/low-carbon energy sources, saving more than 56,962 tonnes of CO2e per year.1 81.87 2012 74.49 kWh/1,000 liters, kWh 88.37 2015 18.2% 2010 81.69 of our electricity came from renewable 2011 77.24 sources in 2015.3 per 1,000 2013 74.14 liters of 2014 product 74.49 energy use ratio (kWh/1,000 liters) in 2015.2 INVESTING IN RENEWABLE District heating 18.42% AND LOW-CARBON ENERGY District heating allows homes and businesses reduction in total energy use versus 2007.3 Our commitment to source 40 percent of our to share a centrally generated source of heat. energy from renewable sources by 2020 will Our manufacturing operations in Norway be achieved in several ways. Firstly, through and Sweden and offices in Bulgaria are linked HOW WE’RE DOING IT our commitment to the Climate Group’s RE100 to systems fueled by biomass, drawing initiative, we have committed to source all our approximately 27 percent of their total Within our manufacturing operations, we aim electricity from renewable sources. 32.8 percent energy use from this source. to improve our energy efficiency and make of the energy we used in 2015 came from Combined heat and power greater use of alternative energy sources. renewable or low-carbon energy sources, Combined heat and power (CHP) systems This involves: saving 56,962 tonnes of CO2e per year. In 2015, can cut carbon emissions by generating • Increasing our use of renewable and 18.2 percent of our purchased electricity came electricity and heat from natural gas. Having low-carbon energy from renewable sources. We plan to switch the installed our first CHP system in Wakefield in • Managing and minimizing the energy majority of the remaining purchased electricity 2014, we are now looking at other opportunities we use to contracts that are from renewable or in Great Britain. • Investing in innovation and technology low-carbon sources. A significant factor in helping us achieve Solar photovoltaic . our ambition has been the opening up of Solar photovoltaic panels on our sites generated the renewable energy market through the more than 300 MWh of electricity in 2015. During changes to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 reporting the year we approved a near-doubling of the requirements. In addition to changing our solar panels at Chaudfontaine and we are energy purchasing strategy, we also continue exploring the possibility of buying electricity to invest in renewable and low-carbon energy from a proposed solar farm alongside our projects at our own manufacturing operations. Wakefield manufacturing operation. FACTSHEET 12/32 1 Year-end data. 3 For manufacturing versus 2007. 2 The calculation includes gas, oil, diesel, LPG, district heating and electricity bought from the national grid. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Innovation and technology LED lighting Our target is to manufacture 742 tonnes CO2e per year We are installing more energy-efficient and intelligent lighting at our every liter of product with manufacturing operations. In 2015, this included installing LED lighting 50% less carbon at our Chaudfontaine manufacturing operations, completing phase 2 of an ongoing LED lighting installation at our Dunkerque facility, and emissions by 2020 starting to implement LED lighting at our manufacturing operations in Jordbro and Wakefield. Air compressors We continue to invest in process innovation and energyefficient technologies in our drive to continually reduce the 530 tonnes CO2e per year energy we use. Our approach is to pilot new developments In 2015, new air compressors were installed in Jordbro. In 2016, we plan to do the same at four manufacturing operations in Morpeth, at one site, and then share best practices. These include: Edmonton, Sidcup, and Wakefield. Each is expected to cut energy 52.9% consumption by 15 to 20 percent. reduction in CO2e g/liter since 2007 Packaging ovens PET bottle base molds 1,139 tonnes CO2e per year 647 tonnes CO2e per year The ovens that heat our shrink film prior to the wrapping process are now being converted from electricity to gas. These have started to be installed in We are continuing a program started in 2013 to reduce the energy needed to blow our PET bottles and have extended the program to 2015 2015 at Milton Keynes, Dongen, and Toulouse with East Kilbride to follow in 2016. We’re also installing doors on our ovens to reduce heat loss when the 10 more sites in 2015. This process involves redesigning the base progress ovens are in standby mode. These oven modifications are being installed of the molds in which our PET bottles are blown so the process at our manufacturing operations at Edmonton, Sidcup, Wakefield, Antwerp, requires less air pressure and therefore less energy. Gent, Clamart, and Marseille. Wind advanced systems which combine production INVESTING IN INNOVATION Plans for a wind turbine at our data with live information on water and AND TECHNOLOGY Chaudfontaine site are currently awaiting energy consumption to help our line operators We are investing in process innovation and local authority approval. to meet consumption targets. Already energy-efficient technologies, in order to installed at our manufacturing operations reduce the energy that we use, some of which Water at Dongen, Dunkerque and Grigny, the CCE’s first water turbine has been approved are outlined in the infographic above. technology is being extended this year to and will be built in 2016 in the river next to the our manufacturing operations at Antwerp. Chaudfontaine plant. It will eventually supply some 3 percent of the site’s electricity or up to We also monitor the energy lost in our 330 megawatt hours (MWh). manufacturing processes when no production is taking place. In 2015, we initiated an MANAGING THE ENERGY WE USE audit of when systems and machinery The use of electricity and gas accounts may be running unnecessarily. In 2016, our for approximately 90 percent of the manufacturing operations will put plans in total energy used in our manufacturing place to reduce these energy losses. and distribution sites. In 2015, our In 2015, CCE was again ranked as one of CASE STUDY manufacturing operations used a total the most energy-efficient bottlers in the of 476,670 MWh of energy, a decrease of Coca-Cola system based on 2014 energy RE100 1.5 percent, including a 2 percent reduction use ratio. Six of our manufacturing operations In December 2015, CCE and more than in production volumes. We have also saved (Antwerp, Gent, Chaudfontaine, Marseille, 50 other companies joined the Climate approximately 6,910 MWh3 of electricity Toulouse, and Dongen) hold the ‘EnergyGroup’s RE100 initiative. In doing so, we through conservation activities. Savers’ certificate awarded jointly by The have committed to sourcing 100 percent of We also monitor energy efficiency by Coca-Cola Company and WWF. Sixteen of our electricity from renewable sources by calculating the energy use ratio, namely how our 17 sites are certified under the ISO 14001 2020. This is a significant commitment – it much energy it takes to produce 1,000 liters environmental management standard and is believed that a private sector switch to of product.1 Our 2015 ratio of 74.49 kWh per all meet the even more rigorous KORE renewables could cut CO2 emissions by 1,000 liters is 0.5 percent more than in 2014 requirement – The Coca-Cola Company’s 15 percent. At CCE, electricity accounts for internal certification linked to quality, 57 percent of all the energy we use, mainly and 18 percent less than our 2007 baseline. environmental and safety performance. Four within our manufacturing operations. Together with our transition to using more of our manufacturing operations (Wakefield, Working through initiatives such as RE100, renewable and low-carbon energy, this has East Kilbride, Dunkerque and Chaudfontaine) we are convinced we can accelerate the pace resulted in an average of 15 grams of CO2e have also achieved the energy management of change and encourage others within our per liter of product made, a 52.9 percent standard, ISO 50001. supply chain to do the same. reduction against our 2007 baseline, exceeding our 2020 target. For the third year in a row in 2015, CCE received the Carbon Trust Standard We use management and monitoring certification for carbon management processes (MES Systems) to help control our across all our manufacturing operations. energy and carbon emissions. These include FACTSHEET 12/32 4 24,876,000 megajoules. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Transportation and Distribution OUR TARGET OUR COMMITMENT We will deliver a case of product with 30 percent less carbon emissions 30% by 2020.1 Deliver a case of product with 30 percent less carbon emissions by 2020.1 INTRODUCTION We drive nearly 100 million kilometers each year to transport our products, WHAT WE ACHIEVED accounting for 7 percent of our value chain carbon footprint. Although it accounts for a small part of our value chain, it is important we continue 29% to find new ways to reduce the distances we drive and find new, less reduction in CO2e per case (138 g/case) carbon-intensive ways of delivering our products. delivered in 2015. REDUCING CARBON EMISSIONS PER CASE DELIVERED 4.3% of the kilometers driven in 2015 used alternative technologies and fuels. 105,061 tonnes 2.5 million 2007 baseline kilometers saved through backhauling 101,271 tonnes initiatives in 2015. 2013 84,155 tonnes $75 million 2014 invested in increased storage capacity 82,681 at our manufacturing operations over the tonnes 2015 past four years. DRIVING LESS our own PET bottle preforms at our Grigny HOW WE’RE DOING IT To reduce our carbon emissions, we aim to and Wakefield facilities, we are able to further make our distribution network as efficient as reduce our transportation carbon footprint. We focus our efforts on three areas: possible. The vast majority of our products are DRIVING GREENER • Driving less: traveling fewer kilometers sold in the country where they are produced, by optimizing our logistics network and are delivered directly to our customers. One other way to reduce emissions is by • Driving greener: working with our suppliers, By working with our customers to deliver our working in close collaboration with our customers and hauliers to avoid empty products from our production sites, rather suppliers and customers, through programs journeys and promote carbon-reduction than from external warehouses, we are known as backhauling and fronthauling, in technologies, fuels and modes of transport order to combine deliveries and collections able to reduce the road kilometers we drive. • Driving the industry: working with so that trucks never have to drive empty. This way of distributing our products has government and industry partners to Fronthauling been made possible through investment in reduce transport emissions our production and storage capacity at our Fronthauling involves working with manufacturing operations. Over the past suppliers to improve the way we receive four years we have invested $75 million in supplies into our manufacturing operations warehouse expansion projects, including (see case study). our most recent project in Oslo in 2015. This In Sweden, fronthauling is well established year we also opened a $41 million can line by rail. In particular, we have made a new at our Grigny manufacturing operation, which agreement with Capri-Sun to transfer will bring production closer to our customers products from Heidelberg, Germany to our in Paris and reduce the kilometers driven by warehouse in Jordbro, Sweden, entirely 715,000 km each year. Through these types by train. of projects we have been able to save 1,897 tonnes of CO2e in 2015. Backhauling We also work with our suppliers to optimize Backhauling combines customer deliveries the way materials are delivered to our with collections to ensure full loads on both factories. Many of our sites are located the outward and return journeys. We currently next to our can suppliers so that they can have backhauling arrangements with 23 be delivered with minimal transportation. customers across our territiories including Similarly, by blowing all of our PET bottles Casino and Carrefour in France, and Tesco on site, and expanding our program to blow in Great Britain. FACTSHEET 13/32 1 From a 2007 baseline. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Reducing emissions from transport Cutting road kilometers and emissions though alternative 2007 baseline: technologies, fuels and 105,061 tonnes CO2e modes of transport. Deliver a case of product with 30% less carbon emissions by 2020 2015 Progress against target: 29% reduction More efficient engines Larger trucks Alternative fuels Alternative vehicles Multi-modal transport The trucks our hauliers use Longer than conventional We continue to trial We aim to use industryWe have delivered more today are 9.6 percent more diesel trucks, the Ecoand introduce vehicles leading low emission than 3,500 loads this way in efficient on average than Combis and ‘road trains’ using bioand vehicles in our car fleet. 2015, saving four million road those used in 2007. we use cut the number dual-fuels saving Hybrid vehicles currently kilometers, and 1,194 tonnes of trips by carrying up 902 tonnes CO2e account for three percent of CO2e per year. We aim to to 38 percent more per year. of our fleet. double the number of annual per journey. trips made by multi-modal transport by 2020. Our fronthauling and backhauling initiatives natural gas (LNG) and liquid biogas (LBG) Transport in Great Britain and the Haga saved approximately 2.5 million road and 25 percent regular diesel.2 Initiative in Sweden. We are also involved kilometers and 2,237 tonnes of CO2e in 2015. In France, we are expanding our program of in a vehicle efficiency study with Heriot-Watt vehicles running on compressed and liquified University’s Centre for Sustainable Road Alternative technologies, fuels Freight in Great Britain. natural gas (CNG/LNG). We are currently and modes of transport operating five vehicles, and aim to run 20 The majority of our deliveries are now by 2020. made by third-party hauliers, but we continue to capture the emissions related Alternative vehicles to this activity as part of our core business The vehicles we offer our employees are operations’ carbon footprint. We work in close chosen for their fuel efficiency. Our company collaboration with these partners to promote car and van fleet now includes 129 hybrid the use of carbon-reducing technologies models and a small number of electric and fuels. In 2015, these alternatives vehicles. We use electric vehicles for deliveries accounted for 4.3 percent of our distribution on short, inner-city routes in Paris and Oslo. kilometers in Europe. EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT Multi-modal transport As engine efficiency improves, our main For transporting raw materials and FRONTHAULING hauliers are moving to the latest EURO VI finished goods over long distances, we Rudy Goossens, Senior Manager, emission standard and plan to ensure that use multi-modal transport whereby trailers Transport all their diesel trucks comply with this new are transported by rail with only short truck journeys at each end of the route. We use this Working together with our customer Colruyt, standard by 2018. method where long-distance travel remains our pallet supplier CHEP, and our haulier We have also been expanding our use of Van Dievel, we have developed a project unavoidable, and we are expanding the use ‘Eco-Combi’ trucks in the Netherlands. These to significantly reduce the road kilometers of this method in France and Great Britain. diesel trucks are longer than a conventional used to transport our pallets to and from truck, and can carry up to 38 percent more DRIVING THE INDUSTRY our manufacturing sites. Previously, three per journey, cutting the number of trips one-way trips, using three different hauliers We work with a number of industry groups required, and reducing our emissions. In were required. They would drive from CCE and stakeholders across our territories to to our customer with pallets, and then CHEP Sweden, we also use larger trucks which benchmark and further our progress on would bring new pallets back to our Antwerp are known as ‘road trains’. low-carbon vehicles and fuels. In advance site. Working together, and using only one Alternative fuels of the 2015 UN Climate Change Conference haulier, we have reduced our trips by 32,668 In Sweden, where 62 percent of our trucks in Paris, CCE was one of the first companies kilometers, saving 80 tonnes of CO2e and run on bio-fuel, we’re testing the use of to sign the FRET 21 Charter, a commitment $26,000 a year. hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO) which is with the French government to reduce CO2 80-90 percent cleaner than diesel, and can emissions in the transport industry. be used in standard diesel engines. We are members of several industry We also operate dual-fuel delivery trucks in initiatives, such as the Belgian Lean & Green Sweden powered by a mix of 75 percent liquid program, the Centre for Sustainable Freight FACTSHEET 13/32 2 Percentage of rapeseed methyl ester (RME) used may vary depending on outdoor temperature. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Cold Drinks Equipment OUR TARGET OUR COMMITMENT We will reduce the carbon emissions from our cold drinks equipment 50% by an average of 50 percent by 2020. Reduce the carbon emissions from our cold drinks equipment by an average INTRODUCTION of 50 percent by 2020.1 CCE has more than 552,500 coolers, vendors and fountain machines on its customers’ premises, and we take responsibility for this equipment, from WHAT WE ACHIEVED its purchase, placement and maintenance, through to end-of-life recycling. Our cold drinks equipment fleet is the third largest source of carbon emissions 41% in our value chain, accounting for 17 percent of the total. In the past six years, reduction in the absolute carbon footprint we have invested more than $50 million in reducing these emissions. Since of our cold drinks equipment since 2007.1 2007, we have cut the carbon impact of our cooling equipment by 41 percent, saving approximately 66,197 MWh of electricity per year. $50.4 million invested in reducing carbon emissions REDUCING EMISSIONS FROM OUR COLD DRINKS EQUIPMENT from our cold drinks equipment since 2010. average CO2e per unit of equipment 468kg reduction in the average CO2e per unit 1,032 kg 699 kg of equipment since 2007. 2007 632 kg 45% 2012 2013 631 kg reduction in the average CO2e per unit of equipment since 2007.1 2014 564 kg2015 100% of all new coolers purchased in 2015 were HFC-free. PURCHASING NEW, MORE made significant progress towards building EFFICIENT EQUIPMENT an HFC-free cooler fleet. In 2015, 100 percent HOW WE’RE DOING IT The new equipment we buy and install in of our new cooler purchases were HFC-free, our customers’ premises has to meet high making our entire cooler fleet 33.8 percent Our cooling equipment strategy has HFC-free. We have just begun the transition standards. We continually work with our three priorities: to HFC-free vendors and fountain machines, suppliers to ensure that we are sourcing the • Purchasing industry leading equipment most energy-efficient equipment available. and will report on our progress in the coming • Fitting existing equipment with energyWe purchase equipment that is on average years. If an HFC-free solution is not available efficient technology 40 percent more energy-efficient than an in the market, we work with our suppliers to equivalent purchased in 2000. All new develop suitable alternatives. • Investing in new cooling technologies equipment comes with LED lighting as Since 2010, we have worked to only purchase standard, and all units over 250 liters come closed-door cooler units, and to phase out with Energy Management Saving (EMS) open-fronted units (OFUs) from our fleet. devices as standard. OFUs that are already in place have been In addition, we work with The Coca-Cola fitted with doors, more efficient lighting and Company to continually review our energy management devices. In 2015, we refrigeration standards, to ensure that started to phase out old OFUs which have customers are able to enjoy our chilled reached the end of their useful lives, replacing products in an energy-efficient way. them with new, energy-efficient equipment. By the end of 2015, we had reduced OFUs We have a policy to only purchase HFC-free across our fleet by 17 percent, a drop of coolers, vendors and fountains, wherever 48 percent against their peak in 2009. possible. Over the past five years we have FACTSHEET 14/32 1 From a 2007 baseline. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Reducing emissions from cold drinks equipment 9,077 More efficient lighting: Replacing fluorescent lights in coolers and vending Our target is to reduce the carbon machines with LED lighting can cut energy consumption by emissions from our cold drinks equipment units fitted with LED up to 80 percent. CCE has led the industry in retrofitting LEDs lighting in 2015 to cold drinks equipment and developing the technology from by an average of wired-in LEDs to easy-fitting ‘tube’ LEDs. As of 2015, 46 percent of the applicable fleet has been fitted with LEDs. 50% by 2020.1 3,261 EMS devices fitted to vendors and coolers We ensure that all new in 2015 equipment is highly energyEnergy-saving devices: efficient while fitting existing Energy-management (EMS) devices recognize when a cooler is equipment with new energynot being opened regularly and respond by shutting off lights efficient technology. In 2015, we and adjusting the temperature, reducing energy consumption purchased 34,000 new coolers, by up to 35 percent. As of 2015, 70 percent of our applicable of which 6,000 were the new cooler fleet, and 46.5 percent of our vendor fleet have been advanced iCOOL range.3 Since fitted with EMS devices. 2009, we have fitted energyreduction devices such as EMS, 1,232 LED lighting, doors and plugPlug-and-play and-play energy timers, giving timers fitted in 2015 our customers an expected Progress energy saving of approximately 66,197 MWh2 per year. 41% reduction Plug-and-Play energy saving timers: ‘Plug-and-play’ timers, originally developed for drinks fountains, can also save energy on coolers and vendors not suited to since 2007 EMS devices, saving energy by up to 30 percent. As of 2015, 1 From a 2007 baseline. 23 percent of the applicable fountain fleet have been fitted 2 238,309 joules. with these devices. 3 Which features energy management technology, LED lighting and electronically commutated (EC) fans and motors. INVESTING IN NEW COOLING Fitting more units with TECHNOLOGIES energy-efficient LED lighting Given the importance of innovation and Since 2010, the number of CCE coolers and technology in meeting our sustainability vendors with LED lighting has risen from just targets, we collaborate with suppliers and under 23,000 to approximately 209,823 (46 other partners to develop solutions that can percent of applicable units). The introduction then be adopted by the wider cold drinks of next-generation High Frequency (HF) LEDs industry. The work is also guided by the means the technology can be fitted to 50,000 needs and preferences of our customers. more items of CCE equipment. This work will begin in 2016. Meanwhile, all new equipment CASE STUDY New technologies investigated in 2015 that we purchase comes with LED lighting included gas-free thermo-electric as standard. Innovation for Alternative refrigeration (see case study). Cooling Technology Fitting energy-saving and energyFITTING EXISTING EQUIPMENT WITH management (EMS) devices. At CCE, we continuously look at new and ENERGY-EFFICIENT TECHNOLOGY We have fitted over 201,000 EMS devices, alternative technologies that are best suited reaching 70 percent of our applicable cooler for the needs of our customers. Currently, Buying new is generally the most energyour cold drinks equipment uses traditional efficient solution when older equipment fleet, and 46.5 percent of our vendor fleet. As gas-based refrigeration. However, a new reaches the end of its useful life. In other this program comes to an end, the focus will technology, called Thermo Electric Cooling cases, it makes environmental and economic switch to a simpler ‘plug-and-play’ energy(TEC), has only one component, no moving sense to refurbish existing equipment. In 2015, saving timer, which can be fitted to an parts and contains no refrigerant gases. 42 percent of all the equipment we placed in additional 30,000 models for which an EMS TEC, which uses semi-conductor materials to the market consisted of refurbished items. solution is not practical or cost-effective. convert electrical energy directly into cooling, During 2015, we continued to make our existing has some clear benefits over traditional Fountain Plug-and-Play Timers coolers and vendors more energy-efficient, refrigeration – it is silent, cannot leak, is very Since 2013, we have fitted 9,446 plug-andcompact and runs at very low voltage. As it either by refurbishing them at one of our five play devices, extending the energy-saving is a new technology, it is not yet as energyservice centers or by retrofitting them with and energy-management program to efficient as using traditional refrigeration, energy-efficient technology on our customers’ 23 percent of our applicable fountain fleet. and is currently only suitable for use in small premises. Developments in 2015 included: When a unit finally reaches the end of its coolers. As a result, we have purchased ten working life, we recycle it under controlled countertop TEC coolers in order to trial their conditions, re-using parts wherever possible, use, and will continue to explore this so that nothing goes to landfill. High technology as it evolves. standards of maintenance and disposal also prevent HFCs leaking from our equipment both during and after its lifetime. FACTSHEET 14/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Issue sheet: Resource Scarcity How can we address the issue of Resource Scarcity? OUR COMMITMENT INTRODUCTION Our planet faces a resource challenge with an increasing population We will support the placing heightened pressure on our finite natural resources. By 2050, development of the the UN predicts that there will be over nine billion people in the world and by 2030 it is estimated that the world will need 30 percent more circular economy, use water, 40 percent more energy and 50 percent more food. recycled and renewable To meet such demand, society needs to find new, renewable sources materials and recycle of raw materials and ensure that those materials which come from finite more packaging than resources can be re-used and recycled. We need a ‘circular economy’ way of thinking. we use. At Coca-Cola Enterprises, we are fully aware has replaced one of the key molecules in of the risks and opportunities that resource PET with a chemically identical material ISSUE INSIGHTS scarcity poses to our business, in particular derived from sugar cane and molasses. for our packaging. The sources of the virgin The resulting material looks, functions and Circular economy materials we use are finite and at increasing recycles like traditional PET but has a lower The adoption of the circular economy risk due to climate change and population carbon footprint. Work is now ongoing with could be worth as much as $700 billion.1 growth. This has an impact on our ability to partners to further advance and scale source these materials, but also on their cost. PlantBottle™ technology. Fluctuating commodity and oil prices can In addition, we aim to use as little packaging 42% also have a significant impact on the cost material as possible. We are committed to of household waste in the EU is recycled.2 of recycled material, often making it more reducing the amount of material we use expensive than virgin material. This is across all of our packaging by 25 percent by currently the case with recycled PET in 2020, and increasing our use of renewable 64.6% many of our markets and is proving to be a challenge for our business. and recycled materials. We aim to ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use is recycled, of packaging waste in the EU is recycled.3 and/or PET from renewable materials by 2020. Ensuring that we have a high quality supply for our packaging materials, at a stable price At the same time, we are supporting the Vision 2050 is critical for the future of our business. wider packaging industry to explore nextgeneration packaging, and engaging in around nine billion people live well, The European Commission recently launched research and educating consumers on ways and within the limits of the planet.4 its ‘Circular Economy Package’, which aims to improve recycling. to “transform Europe into a more competitive resource-efficient economy, aiming to However, more needs to be done. Three Circular economy ‘close the loop’ of the circular economy.” In out of four of our packs are currently recovered for recycling – meaning that 25 The circular economy represents a clear particular, the package proposes a common EU target for recycling 75 percent of packaging percent of our packs are still sent to landfill and proven opportunity for businesses waste by 2030. We support the principles or incinerated. Further steps need to be taken around the world.1 behind the Circular Economy Package and in conjunction with governments to improve believe that regulation can support the recovery and recycling rates, so as to increase transition towards a circular economy. To the availability and quality of recycled do so, we need to think beyond traditional packaging materials. recycling schemes – to ensure that eco-design We aim to play our part in ensuring that principles, recyclability and recovery are consumers know how and where our at the core of our approach to sustainable packages can be recycled, and support the packaging, allowing us to source, recover reprocessing infrastructure so that the old and then re-use the packaging material that bottles can be turned into new bottles. we require. Working together, we can improve this cycle We have already begun to go further. Over to ensure a consistent, high-quality supply of the past few years we have started to look materials for our packaging. for new, renewable sources of PET plastic. In 2009 we introduced PlantBottle™, which ISSUE SHEET 15/32 1 Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 2 Eurostat. 3 Eurostat. 4 World Business Council for Sustainable Development. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 4 Ron Lewis Ben Kellard SVP Supply Chain, Head of Sustainable Business, Coca-Cola Enterprises Forum for the Future A View From Coca-Cola Enterprises A View from Forum for the Future At CCE, we know that our planet faces a resource challenge. The world is facing a significant resource scarcity issue – our We also know that businesses have long been dependent planet is already struggling to meet the needs of seven billion on a plentiful supply of natural resources, and yet our current people. By 2050, the planet will need to meet the needs of consumption patterns are unsustainable. We are very clear that 9.5 billion people; and the resources that will need to meet their our economy cannot continue in its current take-make-dispose needs are limited. These issues are already impacting CCE in model and we need to transform to a circular economy model. many ways – including the sourcing of fresh water to grow sugar We firmly believe there is a chance to transform this crisis of and other raw materials and the availability of petrochemicals resources into a business opportunity. Businesses which can which are made into PET bottles, for example. be truly innovative with the products and services they provide, Coca-Cola Enterprises has already done great work in the areas optimizing the resources they use and encouraging consumers under its own control – for example by introducing PlantBottle™, to do the same, can transform our economy. using lighter packaging or by inspiring consumers to recycle. But to build a circular economy, CCE needs to challenge itself further. The challenge now is to move on from working to optimize what Resource scarcity and climate is under its own control, to helping influence a wider shift towards a circular economy. change are so profoundly This will require CCE to determine where it can have the greatest impact and identify which levers can be pulled to deliver important that no one group can maximum change. address these problems alone –business, government and civil CCE could really make a difference society – including our consumers with a joined-up, systemic – will need to pull together to approach which scales-up existing create the scale of change that best practices and forges links to is needed. other industry initiatives. This shift requires leaders to help initiate, inspire and enable As the head of Supply Chain at CCE, and in my previous role as others to play their role in a constructive way. Not many players Chief Procurement Officer for The Coca-Cola Company, I’ve seen are influential enough to move an entire industry, but CCE, as commodity price volatility and concern over security of supply part of the broader Coca-Cola system, is potentially one that first hand. For example, we depend upon a range of different could. To do this I would encourage CCE to work even more than agricultural ingredients, but our ability to source them could it is already to involve others, using its influence to bring suppliers, be impacted in the future. Sourcing the raw materials for our processors, governments and consumers along with them on packaging can also be challenging – for example we are seeing the journey. an increased focus on the end-to-end sustainability of aluminum CCE could really make a difference with a joined-up, systemic – from the sourcing of bauxite to the recycling of post-consumer approach which scales-up existing best practices and forges material. We must also play close attention to the economics of links to other industry initiatives. investment in sustainability. For instance, given the current price of oil, it would be more cost-efficient for us to purchase PET from Proactive, strategic leadership on the circular economy also virgin sources than to buy recycled PET. Despite this – last year, brings benefits in terms of reputation, more sustainable products, 34 percent of the PET we purchased was recycled PET, and we greater influence on legislation and a general future-proofing of have committed to ensuring that 40 percent of the PET we use the business. I feel CCE is well placed and ready to take on this is recycled and/or from renewable materials by 2020. role and move to the next level. Delivering on our sustainability commitments often comes at a short-term cost to our business – but it is the right thing to do, and helps manage our long-term risk. Resource scarcity and climate change are so profoundly important that no one group can address these problems alone – business, government and civil society – including our consumers – will need to pull together to create the scale of change that is needed. ISSUE SHEET 15/32 4 Photography: Copyright Accenture CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Sustainable Packaging OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT To reduce the environmental impact of our packaging, we support the 25% development of the circular economy, use recycled and renewable materials Reduce by 25 percent the amount of material and recycle more packaging than we use. we use across all packaging formats by 2020. INTRODUCTION Include recycled Packaging is essential to safeguard the quality of our drinks and ensure their aluminum, glass and steel in respective safe delivery to our customers and consumers. On the other hand, packaging packaging formats. can be carbon-intensive to manufacture and accounts for approximately half of the carbon emissions in our value chain. Packaging is often not recycled 40% despite the fact that nearly all of our packaging can be. We are committed to Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we working with others in order to build a circular economy. use is recycled PET (rPET) and/or PET from renewable materials by 2020. CARBON REDUCTION IN OUR PACKAGING 100% 2008-2011 2013 45,107 tonnes Continue to ensure that 100 percent of 2015 10,196 tonnes 5,377 tonnes our cans and bottles are fully recyclable. 2014 2012 9,793 tonnes Support 2007 16,466 tonnes the wider packaging industry to explore next-generation packaging.1 2015 – 86,939 tonnes WHAT WE ACHIEVED CO2e saved through projects since 2007 to lightweight and use recycled 22% and renewable materials reduction in our packaging use ratio (115 g/liter) since 2007. USING LESS MATERIAL 2015 packaging footprint We continually work to innovate and In 2015, we used a total of 348,754 tonnes of material. 130,645 redesign our packaging, so that it becomes lighter, using less material overall. Materials used Tonnes tonnes of recycled material used Increasingly, we’re working to improve the Aluminum 55,470 in our packaging in 2015. design of not only our cans and bottles, Steel 34,869 PET 119,276 but also other packaging types, such as 35.5% Glass 77,386 our closures, labels and film. We have a cross-functional lightweighting workgroup, Other (primary) 17,795 which helps to drive best practices and Secondary packaging 37,971 of the PET we used in 2015 was rPET or PET from renewable materials. increase the speed with which we can Tertiary packaging 5,987 implement projects. Total 348,754 We monitor improvements in our USING RECYCLED AND HOW WE’RE DOING IT packaging carbon footprint by tracking RENEWABLE MATERIALS our packaging use ratio – the average total We continue to evolve our packaging in line weight of packaging per liter of product. A crucial aspect of reducing the carbon with our commitment to reduce the carbon Our 2015 ratio of 115 g/liter is 22 percent less footprint of our packaging is using footprint of the drink in your hand by a third than in 2007 (149.5 g/liter) and 4.4 percent more material from recycled and by 2020. Our strategy for sustainable less than in 2014. renewable sources. In 2015, we used packaging has three priorities: 130,645 tonnes of recycled material in • Using less material our packaging. • Using recycled and renewable materials Recycled materials • Making our packaging recyclable We believe that using recycled material is critical within a circular economy and are committed to increase the amount we use in all our packaging. In 2015, 34% of the PET that we purchased was rPET. FACTSHEET 16/32 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Sustainable packaging Aluminum can lightweighting Aluminum represents the best opportunity to reduce Reduce by 25% our carbon footprint – a small reduction of 0.2 grams in the weight of our cans would reduce our footprint the amount of material used by approximately 2,000 metric tonnes of CO2e. As a result, we are continually looking for ways to reduce in our packaging by 20201 the weight of our cans – currently aiming to bring all of our cans to a weight of 10 grams or below. Savings since 2007: 15,360 tonnes CO2e Our lightweighting initiatives in 2015 reduced the carbon impact of our business Reduced our by 5,377 tonnes of CO2e and avoided the packaging use of 2,466 metric tonnes of materials. use ratio by Film lightweighting 22% We have been working to reduce the weight of the printed and unprinted film which helps to hold our packaging together in transit. Closure lightweighting 2015 savings: 188 tonnes CO2e vs 2007 We are reducing the weight of the closures on our PET bottles by 20 percent across CCE. CO2e savings in 2015: 876 tonnes CO2e PET bottle lightweighting We have been working to reduce the weight of our PET bottles, focusing our efforts in 2015 on our 1.75l bottles, reducing their weight by 1.5g to 40.1g. By 2016, we aim to reduce the weight of a 1.5l bottle by 1g to 39g, and the 1.25 liter bottle by 7g to 33.2g. 1 From a 2007 baseline. 2015 savings: 1,597 tonnes CO2e Aluminum and steel Given the decline in the global oil price to gain Sustainable Forest Management It takes 95 percent less energy to produce over the past year, we face challenges in accreditation under the Forest Stewardship recycled aluminum than virgin aluminum. continuing to source high-quality rPET at a Council (FSC). This is now a requirement in all Increasing the recycled content of our cans competitive price. We remain committed to our new corrugated packaging contracts, and represents our best opportunity to reduce ensuring that 40 percent of the PET we use 100 percent of our suppliers are on track to their carbon footprint. In 2015 we used is from recycled or renewable materials. compliance by 2020. approximately 42 percent recycled aluminum Our investment in partnerships will play We have already made significant progress and 19 percent recycled steel in our cans. In an important role in helping us to achieve on the cardboard we purchase. By the end parallel, we are working with aluminum and our commitments. of 2015, 100 percent of the cardboard we steel producers and can manufacturers to Glass purchased directly, was FSC certified. raise the recycled content in our packaging. We use recycled glass in our bottles and We are working with NGOs, governments, are working with our suppliers and waste MAKING OUR PACKAGING RECYCLABLE industry bodies and local authorities to management companies to increase the To ensure a supply of good-quality recycled encourage consumers to recycle more. We recycled content. Across CCE, we used material and avoid our packaging going to also support recycling campaigns such as approximately 47 percent recycled material landfill, it’s important to design for recyclability Metal Matters, Chaque Canette Compte, in our glass bottles in 2015. from the start. All our cans and our glass and Every Can Counts and numerous in-store plastic bottles can be fully recycled. and online retail campaigns. Renewable material In 2009, we introduced the use of CASE STUDY PET PlantBottle™, which uses PlantPET derived It takes about 60 percent less energy to Closure Lightweighting Project from renewable sources of sugar cane and produce recycled PET (rPET) than virgin plastic, molasses. In 2015, 9.3 percent of our PET As part of our lightweighting strategy, we have making rPET the second greatest opportunity bottles were PlantBottle™, used primarily in recently focused on reducing the weight of our after recycled aluminum and steel to reduce SmartWater in Great Britain and in 500ml closures on our PET bottles from an average of our packaging carbon emissions. We also Coca-Cola PET bottles in Norway and Sweden. 2.5 grams to an average of 2 grams. Although know that only 50 percent of PET bottles are In Norway, The Coca-Cola Company also this may seem a tiny reduction, over the recycled in France and Great Britain. To ensure showcased the first 100 percent PlantBottle™ 12 billion bottles and cans we produce each that we have a continuous high quality supply prototype at the ZERO Emissions Conference year, it can add up to a significant CO2 of rPET, we have a role to play in encouraging in 2015. We will continue to review our use of reduction. Over a two-year, technically increased recycling in our territories. As a PlantPET, and also review the use of other demanding project, multiple teams, including result we have a long-term supply agreement renewable materials. those from our manufacturing operations, and with Evolve Polymers2 in Great Britain and our central support functions, worked together have invested in plastics reprocessing in Sustainably sourced cardboard with our equipment and closure suppliers. France at Infineo Recycling, our joint-venture and corrugated packaging Together, they ensured that despite the with Plastipak.3 Infineo Recycling produces Corrugated packaging contains 98 percent decrease in weight, the closures would enough high quality rPET to cover our recycled material. However, a very small retain their performance, and adapted CCE’s requirements in France, the Netherlands, proportion of virgin fiber is still needed for production lines to manage the smaller, Belgium and Luxembourg. lighter closures. As a result of their efforts, strength and this needs to be carefully we have been able to save 876 metric tonnes sourced. We are working with our suppliers of CO2e in 2015. FACTSHEET 16/32 2 Formerly ECO Plastics. 3 Formerly APPE. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Recycling OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We support the development of the circular economy, use recycled Support and renewable materials and recycle more packaging than we use by the development of infrastructure and championing improvements to collection schemes and supporting the technology to enable recycling of all our packaging materials by 2025. recycling industry. INTRODUCTION Zero Packaging is essential to our business, but is often needlessly thrown away Send zero waste to landfill from our manufacturing operations. and ends up in landfill. CCE supports the circular economy whereby resources are recycled and re-used for as long as possible, feeding back into the Recycle economy and delivering maximum value. more packaging than we use by In 2011, we committed to recycle more packaging than we use by 2020. To 2020 by championing improvements this end, we’re working to promote recycling, ensuring that our packaging is to collection schemes and supporting the recycling industry. recyclable, investing in recycling infrastructure and using our brands to inspire and encourage consumers to recycle more. As more material is recycled the recycled content of our packaging can increase – which reduces our carbon Increase footprint and contributes to the circular economy. packaging recovery rates by using our brands to educate and inspire In 2015, we recycled the equivalent of 89 percent of the packaging we use. consumers to recycle more. This includes material recycled through our joint venture in France and our recycling partnership in Great Britain. WHAT WE ACHIEVED PERCENTAGE OF PACKAGING RECYCLED 89% of our packaging was recycled in 2015. 37.3 million opportunities provided for consumers to 89 % see brand-led recycling/recovery messages in 2015. of our packaging 99.6% recycled in 2015 of our manufacturing waste was recycled and 14 of our 17 manufacturing operations 73 % 84 % 88 % achieved zero waste to landfill in 2015. 2012 2013 2014 2015 EDUCATING AND INSPIRING CONSUMERS if one of the winning ideas – an app which HOW WE’RE DOING IT would provide users with details on how Working with our customers and other stakeholders, we seek to raise awareness, and where packaging could be recycled Our strategy for achieving our recycling change people’s environmental behavior by scanning a product’s barcode – could targets involves: and encourage recycling. be developed further. The project highlighted • Educating and inspiring consumers to some key issues, such as a lack of street-bychange their behavior and recycle more RESEARCH AND INNOVATION street information on recycling at a local level, • Supporting collection and sorting schemes Following our study in 2013 with the University and a lack of product packaging information • Investing in the re-use and reprocessing of Exeter, which researched the recycling within barcodes. We are continuing to work of PET plastic behavior of 20 households in Great Britain with WRAP and other organizations to • Cutting waste to landfill from our own and France, we launched an online recycling understand how we can help consumers manufacturing operations challenge with open innovation platform, recycle more often, and more easily. OpenIDEO. Of the more than 200 ideas submitted, we selected eight winners. In 2015, we worked in conjunction with WRAP to see FACTSHEET 17/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Recycling partnerships with our customers 2015 Increase packaging recovery Asda rates by using our brands to Asda stores in Scotland allowed customers educate and to win instant prizes by answering questions about recycling. They were then entered for a draw to win tickets to The Royal Highland inspire consumers Show, where our ‘Happiness Recycled’ initiative was running to promote recycling. to recycle more Stade de France Through our long-term agreement with The Coca-Cola Company and Stade de France in Paris, we feature prominent recycling Casino messages in the Coca-Cola outlet 2015 Progress at the stadium. We have worked with French retailer Casino since 2013 on a three year partnership to educate shoppers about the life cycle of a plastic bottle. Through in-store recycling Customer 37.3m opportunities for consumers Event Carrefour We continued to work with French retailer, promotions, shoppers had the to see our brand-led Carrefour to sponsor the Carrefour Cup, now chance to win a 3D printer which recycling/recovery messages called National Foot 5, a five-a-side football used plastic bottles as the filament. tournament held in Carrefour car parks. We ran recycling promotions which informed and Franprix encouraged consumers to recycle throughout We worked with French retailer the tournament. Franprix to establish a competition Kinepolis on their Facebook page, which helped to inform consumers We worked with Belgian cinema chain Kinepolis about recycling. as part of a wider recycling activation at their cinemas. We developed a short advertisement which was shown before feature films, showing Festival customers how and where to recycle their bottles and cans. Recycling partnerships Supporting collection Manufacturing waste 20151 Metric Forming recycling partnerships with our and sorting schemes tonnes retail customers is an important part of our To reduce the amount of soft drinks Total waste produced at CCE 28,700 strategy to improve the recycling behavior packaging sent to landfill, we work with manufacturing operations of consumers. During 2015, we ran recycling policymakers, industry partners and Recycling 28,581 partnerships with Carrefour, Casino and national recovery schemes. These include Landfill 119 Franprix in France and Asda in Great Britain Eco-Emballages in France, Fost Plus in Incineration 2,965 as well as with organizations such as the Belgium, Nedvang in the Netherlands, 1  aste data generated from manufacturing operations, and W Belgian cinema chain, Kinepolis, and Returpack and REPA in Sweden, Infinitum waste contractor information. Stade de France in Paris (see infographic). and Rentpack in Norway, and WRAP and DEFRA in Great Britain. We also support Festivals and events the work of The Resource Association, the Public events often generate a large amount plastics waste and resource management of waste, and CCE’s involvement in recycling organization, Recoup, and the aluminum at music festivals can have an immediate packaging recycling organization, Alupro, impact. We also use our expertise with festival in Great Britain. organizers to ensure efficient waste collection schemes to maximize recycling rates. Investing in re-use and reprocessing A month after each event, we carry out To ensure sufficient supplies of recycled research to determine the difference plastic (rPET), we have invested in the EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT we’ve made. In 2015, 50 percent of those collection and reprocessing infrastructure EDUCATION TO BOOST surveyed claimed to have changed their in France and Great Britain. In France, our RECYCLING RATES behavior as a result of our recycling Infineo Recycling joint venture with Plastipak Alexandra Guyon, Education Center activations in Great Britain. (formerly APPE) is now in its third year, and through our investment Plastipak is Manager, Infineo Recycling During 2015, we ran recycling initiatives at able to process an average of 1.5 billion I meet 2,000 people every year at Infineo 15 festivals and events in France, Great Britain PET bottles a year. In Great Britain, rPET is Recycling and talk to them about their and the Netherlands. Among other venues, supplied through a long-term agreement recycling behavior. I believe education is key we took our ‘Happiness Recycled’ campaign with Evolve Polymers (formerly ECO Plastics). to boosting recycling rates, particularly with to the Francofolies music festival and The Royal Highland Show where we joined up young people, who are less likely to recycle Cutting waste to landfill than others. I take visitors through the facility with volunteers from Zero Waste Scotland. We continue to cut the amount of waste so they can see the recycling process in Volunteers at these events are crucial going to landfill from our manufacturing action. I also share material samples with to inform the public about recycling. In operations with the aim of reducing it to our visitors, so that they can touch and feel 2015, 100 CCE employees volunteered at zero. In 2015, 99.6 percent of our waste what the recycled PET is like, before it these events. was recycled and 14 of our 17 plants becomes a new bottle. For visitors who achieved zero waste to landfill. can’t visit Infineo Recycling in person, there is a virtual tour on our website. FACTSHEET 17/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Issue sheet: Water How can we ensure Sustainable Water Use? OUR COMMITMENT INTRODUCTION Water is the lifeblood of our business. It is not only the main ingredient in We will minimize water all of our products, it is also vital to our manufacturing processes and is impacts in our value needed to produce the agricultural ingredients that we use in our products. chain, establish a water Water is also one of the world’s most region of Belgium, which experience a high sustainable operation precious resources. However, in many regions, water sources have been affected level of water stress and challenges related to water quality. In particular, some of the and set the standard by over-exploitation, increasing demand for rivers and streams in areas where sugar beet food products, poor water management (one of our key agricultural ingredients) is for water efficiency. and the impacts of climate change. Resulting grown in Europe are facing a significant level droughts and floods, and changes to the of stress. At a local level, water stress is often freshwater habitats of many species can compounded by over-abstraction, which can ISSUE INSIGHTS also have multiple negative impacts on increase the concentration of pollutants, surrounding societies and economies. lower river levels and damage river habitats 3% Water scarcity and the deterioration of the quality of water sources in our own territories and wildlife. The issue of stressed freshwater sources Only three percent of water on the planet – and across our supply chain – are a is critical for CCE. This is why we adopt a is fresh water, and only about one percent significant issue for Coca-Cola Enterprises. value-chain approach to water stewardship is readily available for human use.1 Even if temporary, a reduction in water quality – working to protect the future sustainability or supply could raise our production costs or of the water sources we rely upon. We strive 1.2 billion lead to capacity constraints, impact deliveries, or affect the growth of the agricultural to be an efficient user of water within our own manufacturing operations by recycling and Around 1.2 billion people, or almost ingredients we use in our products. re-using our water where possible, and by one-fifth of the world’s population, Within our territories in North West Europe, ensuring that we can replenish the water we live in areas of water scarcity.2 use in areas of water stress. there are many areas, including South East England, southern France and the Flanders 17% Just 17 percent of UK rivers meet the EU Water Framework Directive’s definition of reaching ‘good ecological status’.3 ISSUE SHEET 18/32 1 WWF. 2 The United Nations. 3 UK Environment Agency. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Sevan Artinian Supply Chain Operations Director, Nicolas Loz Marseille, France, Corporate Engagement Manager, Coca-Cola Enterprises WWF – France A view from Coca-Cola Enterprises A view from WWF – France Water is critical to our business – it is our most important ingredient. Today, just under a billion people still do not have access to Throughout the seven years that I have worked at CCE, I have seen clean, safe drinking water. Based upon present projections, how important it is to consistently manage water as one of our almost half the world’s population will be living with severe most precious ingredients. water scarcity by 2030. I am currently the Operations Director for CCE’s Marseille Those figures show the scale of the challenge we face. As we manufacturing facility, located in the South of France – an area at WWF seek to address it, we welcome the involvement of the which suffers from water scarcity and water quality issues – private sector. For a company like Coca-Cola Enterprises, whose in particular from drought during the summer. We draw our water success depends on access to clean water, conserving supplies from a high quality water source – the Serre Poncon Lake in the is both a responsibility and an opportunity. By demonstrating French Alps, and have seen how this source has come under good water stewardship, CCE can set an example for the rest pressure at times. We monitor our water quality closely so that of the industry and send a message to governments and other we can adjust our processes to ensure that we put the highest organizations that they, too, need to be taking action. quality product out to our consumers and customers. It’s important for CCE to continue By installing a single new, more to engage and collaborate with efficient bottle washer, we the full range of stakeholders from were able to reduce our water governments and businesses to consumption on the line by half. NGOs and local communities.. We are also focused on using as little water as possible – and in addition to our corporate target to reduce our water use ratio to Having Coca-Cola as a partner also gives us greater leverage 1.2 liters of water per liter of beverage we produce, each of our in achieving our own conservation goals. A case in point is our manufacturing operations also have their own water use target. collaborative project to restore Europe’s largest remaining wetland In 2015, we achieved a water use ratio of 1.21 liters/per liter of in the Camargue – particularly important since more than half the beverage at Marseille, a reduction of nearly 13 percent since 2007. world’s wetlands have disappeared since 1900. We were able to do this by investing in new lines and equipment I’d like to see CCE continue to improve its water stewardship, in our facilities, as well as by sharing best practices across our both in its own operations and along its supply chain. In particular, network of manufacturing operations. For example, by installing it’s important for CCE to continue to engage and collaborate with a new returnable glass bottle (RGB) line, we were able to halve the full range of stakeholders from governments and businesses the amount of water needed to wash our bottles – making it a to NGOs and local communities. best practice across the industry. I am deeply proud that at CCE we work to make make our operations more efficient, create more sustainable products for our consumers, and help protect our local water sources. ISSUE SHEET 18/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Water Stewardship OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We will minimize the amount of water we use in our value chain, establish 100% a water sustainable operation and set the standard for water efficiency. Protect the future sustainability of our water sources and safely return to nature 100 percent INTRODUCTION of the wastewater from our manufacturing operations by 2020. Water is a precious resource, critical to our communities, our ecosystems and the sustainability of our business. It’s the main component of our beverages and essential to our manufacturing processes and agricultural ingredients. 1.2 liters per liter It’s vital we use it as efficiently as possible. Reduce the amount of water we consume so that by 2020 we use an average of 1.2 liters LITERS OF WATER USED TO MAKE ONE LITER OF PRODUCT (LITER/LITER) of water to manufacture every liter of product. WHAT WE ACHIEVED 100% 1.64l/l TARGET of our wastewater was returned to natural 2007 bodies of water in our communities in 2015. 1.48l/l 1.43l/l 2010 1.40l/l 2011 2012 1.36l/l 1.36l/l 1.35l/l 8.24 million m 2013 2014 2015 3 1.20l/l Our total water consumption of 8.24 million 2020 cubic meters in 2015 was 16 percent less than in 2007. 17% reduction since 2007 $543,000 BECOMING MORE WATER-EFFICIENT In 2015, we again achieved the Carbon Trust invested in water-reduction technologies Being water-efficient is key to our water Water Standard and our manufacturing in 2015. operations at Dongen and Chaudfontaine stewardship strategy. In 2015, our total water consumption was 8.24 million cubic retained the gold-level European Water Stewardship Standard. Issued under the 1.35 liters per liter meters (m3), approximately 3 percent less than in 2014. European Water Framework Directive, the Standard recognizes excellence at every stage of water used to make each liter of product We monitor our water efficiency by calculating in 2015. of water management – from the protection our water use ratio – the amount of water we of water sources, through efficient use of need to produce a liter of product. In 2015, we water, to the quality of wastewater we release used 1.35 liters/liter, down 17 percent since into the environment. The standard is granted HOW WE’RE DOING IT 2007, against our 2020 target of 1.2 liters/liter.1 for three years and confirmed each year by a We’re reducing the amount of water While we can’t reduce the amount of water follow-up audit. Plans are in place for other we use by: in our products, we’ve made great strides CCE sites to prepare for the requirements in making our manufacturing and cleaning of the Directive. • Becoming more water-efficient processes more water-efficient. In 2015, we • Treating and returning our wastewater invested $543,000 in process optimization TREATING AND RETURNING • Investing in water-saving technology and water-saving technologies. But now that OUR WASTEWATER these investments have been made, each We have high standards for all water returned further step becomes more challenging. to the environment – compliance with local Future progress will depend increasingly regulations being the minimum requirement on identifying locally led water saving across CCE. We’re committed to continuing to opportunities and sharing best practices ensure that 100 percent of our wastewater is across CCE. safely returned to nature. As part of our drive for improvement, we While most of our manufacturing operations operate company-wide water monitoring. pre-treat wastewater on site and then send Targets are set annually and opportunities it to municipal water treatment plants, our to reduce water use are identified, modeled manufacturing operations at Gent, and reviewed by senior management. Chaudfontaine, Wakefield2 and Marseille FACTSHEET 19/32 1 Data gathered through KORE management (The Coca-Cola 2 Wakefield’s on-site wastewater treatment plant Company internal standards) and ISO 14001 systems. was operational until July 2015. Wastewater from August-December 2015 was treated at municipal facilities. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Water stewardship Water re-use: To purify the water that Manufacture every liter of goes into our drinks, we use product using an average of resin granules which need to be regularly rinsed and 1.2 liters of water regenerated. Increasingly, we’re deploying a system for re-using by 2020 the water from this process. MES monitoring: We have invested $543,000 in water-reduction Manufacturing Execution 1.2 technologies in 2015, saving around 62,000 m3 Systems (MES) linked to our of water. Projects included: production processes can track how much and where water Air rinsers: is being consumed in real When machinery is replaced or new lines are installed, we switch to ionized air liters/liter time and allow operators to take action if targets are 2020 target being exceeded. instead of water for rinsing PET pre-forms and cans before they are blown or filled. Where new air rinsers are not possible, 2015 progress against target: Cleaning optimization: we’re installing more efficient nozzles and recycling the water. 1.35 For product change-over we maximize the use of clean liters/liter air rather than water where possible. Elsewhere cold water Bottle washers: is recovered and re-used. For Some of the heaviest consumers of water on 2007 disinfecting, we increasingly our lines are the machines for washing refillable glass bottles. We’re making major savings by investing in new, more efficient technology. 1.64 use electro chemically activated (ECA) water. liters/liter carry out full wastewater treatment on site. Air rinsers Of our total wastewater volume in 2015 By installing a new air rinser at our Jordbro (2.5 million m3), 1.92 million m3 was treated manufacturing site in Sweden, we will not by municipal wastewater treatment stations only be able to save approximately 8,000 m3 and 580,682 m3 by our own treatment plants.3 of water per year, but will also conserve As we consume less water in our processes, 341 tonnes of CO2e as the new machine will the amount of wastewater needing to be be able to rinse smaller-volume pre-forms treated also reduces. In 2015, our wastewater rather than fully blown PET bottles. volume was 5.75 percent less than in 2014. We Water re-use CASE STUDY invested $120,000 in wastewater treatment In 2015, we began using the technology to Wastewater treatment technology in 2015. re-use water from the regeneration and in the Netherlands INVESTING IN WATER-SAVING rinsing of resin granules at our Edmonton facility in Great Britain. This project alone At the end of 2015, CCE joined three other TECHNOLOGY companies – FUJIFILM, IFF Nederland and will save 11,520 m3 of water per year. In 2015, we invested approximately Agristo – to build a first wide-scale shared $543,000 in piloting and implementing MES monitoring wastewater treatment facility in the new technologies to improve our water Manufacturing Execution Systems (MES) Netherlands. The project, located near our efficiency (see infographic). Many of our linked to our production processes can Dongen facility, will process about 10 million projects involved sharing best practices track how much water is being consumed liters per day, and more than 3.5 billion between our manufacturing operations. in real time. We extended MES monitoring liters per year. The project has also been Developments in 2015 included: to our Dunkerque, Grigny and Antwerp supported by the Water Board (an association manufacturing operations in 2015. of regional water authorities), and Cofely, Bottle washers who helped build the installation. Due to the Of all our water reduction projects, this CIP processes low-energy consumption of the facility, all program will have the greatest impact on We began using electro chemically four partners will be able to benefit from reducing our water use ratio. As a result, activated (ECA) water, a process that lower costs for wastewater treatment. We we have been working to invest in replacing combines electrolyzed salt with water, expect to be able to fully realize the benefits bottle washers throughout our manufacturing in our ‘Clean in Place’ (CIP) processes at of this collaboration once the facility becomes operations, having started with an initial our Clamart manufacturing operation, fully operational in 2016. installation at our Marseille facility in 2014. having first implemented this process at In 2015 we invested $41.8 million to replace some of our other French sites including our glass bottle production line at our Marseille, Grigny, and Dunkirk. Dongen facility. The new line, which includes a more efficient bottle washer, will save Water treatment approximately 25,000 m3 of water per year. We upgraded our water treatment at We plan to continue the program with a our Jordbro facility in Sweden to recover further installation at our Antwerp and re-use water from processes such manufacturing operation in early 2016. as cleaning filters. FACTSHEET 19/32 3 Determined through volume and quality of wastewater in compliance with local licenses. Data gathered through internal KORE management and ISO 14001 systems. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Protecting and Replenishing the Water we use OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We will protect our water sources and the quality of the water they hold. Return Where water used in our beverages is sourced from areas of water stress, to nature the amount of water we use in our we will return an equivalent amount to nature. beverages, where it is sourced from areas of water stress, by investing in community-based water programs by 2020.1 INTRODUCTION Water is critical to our communities, our ecosystems and the sustainability Minimize of our business. Although North West Europe is generally thought to have the water impacts of our value chain through sufficient water, increasingly disruptive weather patterns and the effects sustainable sourcing programs. of flooding are raising concerns about water quality and water stress. WHAT WE ACHIEVED WATER SOURCED BY VOLUME AND TYPE IN 20153 Total water used 100% 8.24 million m3 100% Municipal 78.8% of our manufacturing operations have Rainwater 0.01% 6.5 million m3 implemented Source Water Protection Plans. 1,110 m3 68% of the water used in our beverages and sourced from areas of water stress was replenished in 2015. Borehole 21.19% 1.75 million m3 1,509,400 m3 water saved in 2015 through annual water replenishment programs. PROTECTING OUR WATER SOURCES REPLENISHING OUR WATERSHEDS HOW WE’RE DOING IT Most of the water we use comes from The Coca-Cola system around the world is municipal sources and the majority of the replenishing the water used in its beverages We will meet our targets by: remainder from on-site wells, all of which through community projects such as are licensed. reforestation, aquifer protection, wetlands • Protecting the water sources that As part of protecting the future sustainability restoration and river revitalization. As part supply our manufacturing operations and communities of our water sources, all of our manufacturing of this global approach, CCE has chosen to operations have carried out Source invest in replenishment programs in areas of • Replenishing our watersheds in areas water stress2 within our countries of operation of water stress by returning to nature the Vulnerability Assessments (SVAs) to assess potential risks in terms of water quality and (see infographic). We have identified these water used in our beverages through future availability for our business, the local areas through our SWPPs and water stress community-based water programs1 community and the wider ecosystem. Within mapping from global surveys such as the • Minimizing the water impact of our WRI's Aqueduct project, and studies value chain through sustainable each catchment, SVAs evaluate local water resource systems, past and present water conducted by The Coca-Cola Company. sourcing programs Water stress maps for the territories where quality, current water stresses and potential risks arising from extreme weather or we operate can be found here. Through these natural disasters. studies, we have identified three areas of water stress within our countries of operation Drawing on the findings of their SVAs, all our in South East England, the South East of France manufacturing operations now have Source and Flanders in Belgium. The six CCE Water Protection Plans (SWPPs) that take manufacturing sites in these areas account account of future water needs and identify for 36 percent of our production volumes, and any mitigation plans that may be required. draw 3 million m3 of water from local sources. These plans are reviewed and updated as necessary. Along with restoring rivers, wetlands and natural habitats, our replenishment programs At the end of 2014, all of CCE's take full account of the needs of local manufacturing operations took part in communities. Each involves communication a survey by The Coca-Cola Company to and engagement with people and assess the global vulnerability of our water organizations in the area. sources. The results support the findings of our SVAs and SWPPs. FACTSHEET 20/32 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 3 Data gathered through internal KORE management 2 Identified through SWPP and water stress mapping from global and ISO 14001 systems. survey and studies conducted by The Coca-Cola Company. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Water replenishment 286,400 m3 South East England Replenish 100% of water Our three-year partnership with The Coca-Cola Company and WWF-UK used in our beverages to protect and replenish the River Nar in Norfolk and the River Cray in Kent, where sourced from involved river catchment plans and restoring river habitats. At the end areas of water stress of the project we exceeded our replenishment target, returning more than 286,400 m3 to the ecosystem. We are currently running three water replenishment programs located in the areas of water stress where we operate. 1,208,000 m3 South East France The Camargue coastal wetlands are 15,000 m 3 2015 Progress: home to a variety of wildlife including flamingoes. For over 200 years, Flanders, Belgium however, the natural interaction of salt The De Zoom-Kalmthoutse Heide Nature Reserve is one of Europe’s top nature reserves. Over the next five years, we 68% and fresh water has been disrupted by agriculture and salt production. Through The Coca-Cola Company we will be working with The Coca-Cola water are working with WWF-France and Company, the NGO Natuurpunt, and replenished other water conservation experts to other local partners to repair the help re-establish the natural condition 2014 progress environment and improve wildlife of lagoons and marshes and restore habitats in the park’s Stappersven Lake. 12% wildlife habitats. South East England South East France Coca-Cola produced in Dongen. We then Following the successful completion of our Through The Coca-Cola Company, we worked with Denkstatt and the Technical first three-year partnership with WWF-UK are working with WWF-France and other University of Vienna to understand the water and The Coca-Cola Company to protect and conservation bodies in the Camargue, a footprint of sugar beet. Working in partnership replenish the River Nar and River Cray, we coastal area where the River Rhône flows into with the Water Footprint Network and the decided to apply the lessons learned in the Mediterranean. The aim of the project University of Twente, we examined the water other river catchments. In partnership with is to restore the natural flow of the Rhône footprint of cane sugar imported into Europe. WWF-UK, The Coca-Cola Company, local and to improve the region’s ecosystems and Through this project we learned more about farmers and other stakeholders, we have biodiversity. This three-year program, near our own water footprint in line with the ISO recently begun a new three-year project our Marseille manufacturing operations will 14046 methodology. The production processes in the Cam-Ely-Ouse and Broadland river help us achieve the majority of our overall for sugar and juice have emerged as our water catchments in East Anglia. These catchments, replenishment target. footprint ‘hot spots’. We will continue to work to which are located in areas that are intensively develop our understanding of our water used for sugar beet production, include Flanders, Belgium footprint going forward. important chalk river habitats. However, like In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company many other river catchments in the UK, they and a local NGO, Natuurpunt, we’re suffer from agricultural pollution and many undertaking restoration work in the of the rivers within the catchments fail to Stappersven Lake, part of the 3,750 hectare meet European Water Directive targets. De Zoom-Kalmthoutse Heathland Park nature reserve (see case study). As well as replenishing water, the project will further our commitment to sustainable MINIMIZING THE WATER IMPACT agriculture (see Factsheet 22). Given that OF OUR VALUE CHAIN these catchments are within sugar beet Around 80 percent of the total water footprint growing areas, and that agriculture accounts of our products comes from our agricultural CASE STUDY for the largest share of the water used in Water replenishment with Natuurpunt supply chain – which includes sugar beet our value chain, we hope that we and our grown in our countries of operation. To lighten partners can learn more about the water In 2014, in conjunction with The Coca-Cola that footprint, we’ve been working with our footprint of sugar beet production and reduce Company and a local NGO, Natuurpunt, European sugar beet processors to develop the impact by developing more sustainable we launched our first water replenishment bespoke standards that support our farming practices. project in Belgium. The project, focused on Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles the Stappersven Lake in the 3,750 hectare We’re using what we learn from our (see Factsheet 22). De Zoom-Kalmthoutse Heide nature reserve, replenishment projects to promote good Since 2009, together with The Coca-Cola aims to restore fens, inland dunes and water stewardship across the country and to Company, we have undertaken four water heathlands; and replace previously planted support the implementation of the European footprinting studies to understand our impact foreign species with more indigenous trees. Water Framework Directive which requires all The work aims to improve groundwater levels across the value chain. First, in conjunction rivers in England and Wales to achieve ‘good by improving rainwater penetration rates, with the University of Twente, we looked at ecological status’. and replenished 15,000 m3 of water in 2015. the water footprint of a 0.5 liter PET bottle of FACTSHEET 20/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Issue sheet: Sustainable Sourcing How can we sustainably source our key agricultural ingredients? OUR COMMITMENT INTRODUCTION Sustainably sourcing our key agricultural crops, and supporting the We will sustainably communities that produce them, is a critical issue for Coca-Cola Enterprises. source 100 percent of As a business, we rely on a sustainable That is why we have made a commitment our key agricultural supply of agricultural crops – such as sugar to source 100 percent of our key agricultural cane and sugar beet as sweeteners, pulp ingredients sustainably by 2020. We have set ingredients by 2020. and paper for our packaging and labels, rigorous processes to embed sustainability and coffee and juices as the main ingredients across our value chain, developed a set of in some of our other products. However, Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles ISSUE INSIGHTS as populations continue to grow, and food (SAGPs), for our agricultural ingredients, as demand increases – climate change is well as Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs) 9 billion directly impacting the quality and quantity of this supply base. which apply to all suppliers, and have introduced a rigorous audit process The world’s population is set to reach for key suppliers. We recognize that changing weather nine billion people by 2050.1 patterns, rainfall and soil quality in different Sustainable sourcing is a growing, and parts of the world in the future may result significant issue across the entire food Double in decreased availability or increased cost of some of the agricultural ingredients we and beverage industry. We have seen how issues concerning modern slavery, poor Global food production will need to rely on. As a result, we have a responsibility harvesting methods, and unsustainable double by 2030 to support growth in to hold ourselves and our suppliers to high supply, have impacted many industries, the world’s population.2 sourcing standards – ensuring that the including the food and beverage industry, agricultural ingredients we use are sourced over the past year. As ingredient supply 70% sustainably, in a way which respects human and labor rights, minimizes environmental chains are long and complex, it is therefore critical that we collaborate with other Globally, the agricultural sector impacts, supports farmers and sustains stakeholders, through programs like the consumes about 70 percent of the local livelihoods. Moreover, we have a Sustainable Agriculture Initiative, and planet’s accessible fresh water.3 responsibility to ensure that our suppliers organizations such as Rainforest Alliance are employing workers in a legal way – and the Forest Stewardship Council, to develop industry standards and share 36% avoiding any form of slavery, forced labor or human trafficking. best practices on sustainable sourcing. Agriculture represents 36 percent of the world’s land surface which is estimated to be suitable for crop production.4 ISSUE SHEET 21/32 1 The United Nations. 2 Stockholm Environment Institute. 3 WWF. 4 Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Dim Mozin Edward Millard Director, Procurement, Director, Asia Pacific Landscapes and Coca-Cola Enterprises Livelihoods, Rainforest Alliance A view from CCE A view from Rainforest Alliance CCE is a local business, producing approximately 90 percent of For any company, especially one like Coca-Cola Enterprises which its products in the country where they are sold. We source the has a sustainable sourcing commitment, it’s essential to ‘lift the vast majority of our agricultural ingredients from within Europe. veil’ off your supply chain and know what’s going on behind your It is important to ensure that we have a positive impact on immediate first-tier suppliers. the environment we operate in, from a social, economic and For the sake of corporate reputation and a broader ‘social’ environmental perspective. license to operate, companies need to identify and eliminate Some of our ingredients – for example, our juices, coffee and unacceptable practices within their own supply chains. cane sugar, are sourced through long and complex global supply There are many tools which companies can use to verify chains. Often, working conditions in other countries are not as sustainability practices within their own supply chains – including well regulated as in Europe, and this can mean that there is a risk independent third-party certification schemes or internally that suppliers are not meeting basic labor and human rights developed standards or systems, such as Coca-Cola’s Sustainable standards. The lack of supply chain transparency and traceability Agriculture Guiding Principles. can heighten the risk that these types of breaches exist. This can Ultimately it is a matter of working directly with suppliers – after have a negative impact on the livelihoods of local employees, all, their knowledge goes further up the supply chain than on our suppliers, and our corporate reputation. Through our end-users. commitment to implement our SAGPs across all of our key agricultural ingredients by 2020, we are helping to drive further transparency across our supply chain. It’s essential to ‘lift the veil’ off  e cannot make progress W your supply chain and know in this area alone. We are what’s going on behind your collaborating with trade immediate first-tier suppliers. associations and third parties to influence the industries that are Once companies have developed a detailed understanding already developing sustainability of the challenges and opportunities within their own supply chains they then need to develop collaborative and realistic governance models. plans for improvement. This will often require engagement with specialist technical partners who can help change social and environmental practices and implement responsible sourcing standards and policies. We cannot make progress in this area alone. We are collaborating Many successful companies are now including sustainability as with trade associations and third parties in order to influence the a key purchasing criterion, alongside the quality, reliability and industries that are already developing sustainability governance price of the product. As a result, the relationship with a supplier models, such as the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) obviously changes. Platform. We are also supporting wider business initiatives with CCE can’t change what’s happening within its supply chain on its NGOs and customers to identify new opportunities for own, but it can use its scale to show suppliers that sustainability collaboration. and purchasing policies need to work in tandem. It can also make By working with The Coca-Cola Company, we have an long-term contracts dependent upon a demonstration of support opportunity to take the lead and set the standard for sustainable for key sustainability priorities. sourcing. By doing so, we can help to ensure a sustainable, In our experience at Rainforest Alliance we find that more cost-effective supply of ingredients, while providing stable forward-thinking suppliers are already keen to embrace livelihoods for local farmers. sustainability and the business advantages it can bring. ISSUE SHEET 21/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Sustainable Agriculture OUR TARGET OUR COMMITMENT Working with our suppliers and The Coca-Cola Company, we will sustainably 100% source 100 percent of our key agricultural ingredients by 2020. Sustainably source 100 percent of our key agricultural ingredients by 2020. INTRODUCTION Sustainably sourcing our ingredients is critical to our business. Every bottle WHAT WE ACHIEVED of Coca-Cola, and many of our other products contain agricultural ingredients that start on a farm. Our ingredients account for one of the largest shares of 100% water that we use, and are the second-largest source of carbon emissions of our sugar suppliers are committed to across our value chain. To ensure the long-term availability of our key complying with our Sustainable Agriculture ingredients, we need to work with our suppliers to improve agricultural Guiding Principles (SAGPs) by 2020. practices to protect soil, conserve water, and minimize greenhouse gas emissions. We also have to ensure that our ingredients are grown and HOW WE’RE DOING IT harvested in ways that protect working conditions and workplace rights. • Establish and embed our SAGPs in our procurement processes • Engage with suppliers of our key SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE agricultural ingredients, industry GUIDING PRINCIPLES partners, and The Coca-Cola Company to ensure SAGP-compliance and drive Human and change and adoption of sustainable workplace rights Environment Management systems agricultural practices • Freedom of association • Harvest and post-harvest • Water management and collective bargaining handling • Energy management • Prohibit child labor, forced and climate protection • Reproductive material labor and abuse of labor identity, selection • Conservation of natural and handling • Eliminate discrimination habitats and ecosystems • Work hours and wages • Management systems, • Soil management record keeping and • Safe and healthy workplace • Crop protection transparency • Community and • Business integrity traditional rights SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE approximately 80 percent of a product’s GUIDING PRINCIPLES total water footprint. It is essential that the Our Sustainable Agriculture Guiding beet and cane sugar we use in Europe is Principles (SAGPs) are crucial to achieving our sustainably sourced, and that we understand sustainable agriculture objectives. Developed the sustainability issues and supply chains in partnership with The Coca-Cola Company of these two very different crops. and covering 14 of the Coca-Cola system’s Having shared our SAGPs with our beet agricultural ingredients, they define what we and cane sugar suppliers, we are now mean by sustainable sourcing and include working with them to develop plans for standards that agricultural suppliers are jointly meeting these principles by 2020. expected to meet in terms of human and Compliance with our SAGPs will be validated workplace rights, the environment and through third-party standards such as the management systems. We apply these Sustainable Agricultural Initiative Platform common SAGPs to the key agricultural (SAI) and Bonsucro. ingredients that we purchase – this includes Beet sugar beet and cane sugar, pulp and paper, orange, At CCE, most of the sugar we use comes apple and lemon juices and coffee. This work from sugar beet grown in North West Europe. is overseen by our Sustainable Agriculture Along with The Coca-Cola Company, we Steering Group. have set up several routes through which SUSTAINABLE SUGAR beet sugar suppliers can comply with our Sugar is one of the key agricultural ingredients SAGPs and meet third-party standards. that we use in some of our products, such as Our preferred method is the SAI’s Farmer Coca-Cola. Through water footprint analysis, Sustainability Assessment (FSA). The we know that the farming, processing and FSA allows farmers to self-assess the production of sugar can account for sustainability of their agricultural practices FACTSHEET 22/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Sustainable agriculture Coffee Chaqwa coffee is a growing brand for CCE in Belgium, Norway and Sweden. Sustainably In line with our SAGPs we are working with The Coca-Cola Company and our source 100% suppliers to ensure that we are able to achieve a 100 percent sustainable supply by 2020 and currently have a of our key agricultural number of UTZ and Fairtrade blends ingredients by 2020 available in our markets. We focus primarily on those ingredients that Sugar cane A small percentage of the sugar we we source directly from suppliers. In addition, use comes from sugar cane. Under ingredients that are not highlighted here are the existing EU sugar regime, a small sourced indirectly through The Coca-Cola percentage of CCE’s sugar cane imports Company and their global SAGP program. come from developing countries which have preferential trading relationships with the EU. We are working with Bonsucro, Rainforest Alliance and Fairtrade to define pathways to Sugar beet compliance to our SAGPs for our suppliers. The majority of the sugar that we use is sourced from sugar beet, grown in North West Europe. Compliance with our SAGPs Apple, Lemon and Orange juice for sugar beet is mainly being monitored Apple, lemon and orange, juice are key through the SAI’s FSA. ingredients for a number of our products. Although CCE purchases limited quantities directly, we work with The Coca-Cola Pulp and paper Company and other brand partners to We now have a policy to only source these ingredients sustainably. purchase pulp and paper from certified Compliance with our SAGPs can be sustainable sources, e.g. FSC. through SAI’s FSA, Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade or Global Gap+. against a range of environmental, social paper as key agricultural ingredients and and economic indicators. The FSA, which have committed ourselves to sourcing these can also be used for other agricultural sustainably by 2020. ingredients, such as juices, provides farmers We use pulp and paper in much of our with the information they need to make their packaging, including our labels, cardboard operations more sustainable. By providing and drink cartons, as well as our point of sale a single tool, farmers are able to share their materials. We are working with our suppliers progress with customers and suppliers to help them achieve a Sustainable Forest across their supply chain. Management accreditation such as the Forest CASE STUDY Our aim is that all our sugar beet suppliers will Stewardship Council (FSC). Since 2015, we Rainforest Alliance Farm Field achieve compliance with our SAGPs through have included a requirement for third party Assessments for Sugar Cane the SAI’s FSA or similar programs by 2020. certification in all of our new paper, pulp and cardboard contracts; and our suppliers have We recently completed a project with Cane sugar until 2020 to comply. The FSC certified logo Rainforest Alliance to examine the Despite the fact that cane sugar only represents a global chain of custody system sustainability risks and current best practices represents a very small part of CCE’s total supported by a chain of custody certification in Europe’s cane sugar supply chain. Focused sugar volume, we are working to ensure process and independent inspections. on three cane-producing countries in Africa that the cane sugar we do use is and the Caribbean, the work identified a sustainably sourced. We have also begun work to sustainably source the coffee that we use in Chaqwa, a number of social and environmental issues Through The Coca-Cola Company, there that need to be addressed to meet the brand currently available in Belgium, Norway are multiple third-party standards under expectations of our SAGPs. In response, our and Sweden. The Coca-Cola Company which a supplier can be certified as meeting cane sugar suppliers are developing their sources the coffee we use in these countries own codes of conduct to ensure that SAGP our SAGPs. These include Bonsucro, the from a variety of suppliers. Coffee growers Rainforest Alliance Standard and Fairtrade. criteria are taken into account at every stage can demonstrate SAGP compliance through of production from the smallholder onwards. The Coca-Cola Company, having played an a number of internationally recognized important role in establishing Bonsucro, is As this takes effect and the necessary schemes and are encouraged to identify auditing measures are put in place, we now Bonsucro Chain of Custody certified. This the standard most relevant to their farm expect our cane sugar supply chain to be certification allows Coca-Cola system bottlers, structure and customer base. These include fully compliant by 2020. including CCE, to accurately trace the origins UTZ, Rainforest Alliance and Fairtrade. We of their cane sugar. are working with our suppliers to ensure Other agricultural ingredients that we are able to achieve a 100 percent The Coca-Cola Company has identified 14 key sustainable coffee supply by 2020. agricultural ingredients which it intends to We are also working with The Coca-Cola source sustainably by 2020. From this list, Company and our orange, lemon and apple CCE has selected those ingredients that are juice suppliers together with other third-party most relevant to our business. In addition to frameworks to establish programs that will beet and cane sugar, we’ve identified orange, similarly ensure compliance with our SAGPs. lemon and apple juice, coffee and pulp and FACTSHEET 22/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Suppliers and Sustainability OUR TARGET OUR COMMITMENT We will work in partnership with our suppliers to reduce carbon emissions 1/3 and water impacts across our value chain. Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third by 2020. INTRODUCTION Analysis of our water and carbon footprint shows that our greatest WHAT WE ACHIEVED environmental impacts occur outside our own business in our value chain. It’s essential that we collaborate with suppliers, innovate throughout the 140 supply chain and help to improve our partners’ performance as well as our We worked with 140 key suppliers to reduce own. Sustainability is embedded into our procurement processes and supplier their carbon emissions in 2015. relationships and supported by joint projects with suppliers in areas such as agriculture, packaging and transportation. 61% SUPPLIER GUIDING PRINCIPLES (SGPs) of our procurement spend in 2015 was in countries in which we operate, and 87 percent Our SGPs outline minimum Work Discrimination was within the EU.1 requirements and address hours the following key areas: and overtime $4.3 billion Laws and Child labor Wages and We spent approximately $4.3 billion with regulations benefits 13,000 suppliers in 2015. SGPs Forced 70% labor Health and Nearly 70 percent of our spending with Freedom of safety suppliers was covered by contracts containing association Abuse Demonstration our Supplier Guiding Principles. and collective of labor of compliance bargaining Environment HOW WE’RE DOING IT OUR PEOPLE OUR PROCUREMENT PROCESSES Our sustainable procurement strategy As we seek to make our value chain more has three aspects: We want to ensure that our suppliers sustainable, we recognize the role played understand and adhere to CCE’s sustainability • Our people: training our procurement by our procurement teams in working with standards – these being aligned, where teams in sustainability suppliers, identifying opportunities for possible, to The Coca-Cola Company’s • Our procurement processes: ensuring improvement and building collaborative, standards. We uphold our standards through that our processes support sustainable long-term relationships whereby we and our CCE Code of Business Conduct and our purchasing decisions our suppliers can work towards common Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs) as well as • Our suppliers: encouraging our objectives. Therefore, we make sure our through regular audits. suppliers to improve their own buyers are aware of the following: sustainability performance • CCE’s expectations of suppliers and how Code of Business Conduct to evaluate them under our Supplier Our Code of Business Conduct outlines the Relationship Management (SRM) process principles by which we operate and how we work with our suppliers. The code is available • Sustainability issues related to specific on our website, www.cokecce.com. commodities. All procurement managers working directly Supplier Guiding Principles with suppliers are informed of these when Aligned with the SGPs of the Coca-Cola they join the team and the information is system, our own SGPs set out the minimum refreshed on a regular basis. requirements we expect of our suppliers in areas such as workplace policies and practices, health and safety, human rights, environmental protection and business integrity (see above). SGPs are now built into all new contracts and into multi-year contracts as they renew. In 2015, contracts incorporating SGPs accounted for approximately 70 percent of our spending with suppliers. FACTSHEET 23/32 1 Weighted average including spend in the US. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Suppliers and sustainability Through the Carbon Challenge, our suppliers Low-impact suppliers are encouraged, as a are ranked according to whether the product first step, to measure their carbon footprint Work in partnership or service they provide has a low, medium or high impact on CCE’s carbon performance. while medium-impact suppliers are encouraged to measure and reduce it. Those with our suppliers to reduce Indirect commodities or services have relatively in the high-impact category are encouraged carbon emissions across our low impact on our carbon footprint. In contrast, to not only measure and reduce, but also to suppliers of cans, PET and glass have the share their carbon footprint information with value chain greatest potential to affect our carbon CCE. This enables us to assess their relative footprint, positively or negatively, depending progress, refine our data and better on their own sustainability performance. understand developments in their respective sectors. Where suppliers return a low score, we work with them to improve it. We are High impact working with 140 All suppliers of cans, PET and glass Medium impact For example: suppliers of secondary and Low impact tertiary packaging, of our key suppliers For example: suppliers cold drinks equipment, to reduce their delivering services like or fleet and logistics carbon emissions IT, sales and marketing and human resources Measure Measure + reduce Measure + reduce + share We took these SGPs further in 2014 by • A sustainability rating from the adopting The Coca-Cola Company’s independent evaluation company Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles EcoVadis: The EcoVadis scorecard (SAGPs) for suppliers of sugar beet and sugar evaluates our suppliers against four cane. In 2015 we additionally identified criteria – environmental, social and orange, lemon and apple juice, coffee, and ethical performance and supply chain pulp and paper as key agricultural ingredients management. Suppliers’ scores are and committed ourselves to sourcing these used to develop action plans which help sustainably by 2020 (see Factsheet 22). We to improve their rating and reduce risk. EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT continue to develop bespoke tools to support Since we introduced the EcoVadis our sustainable sourcing strategy. assessment process in 2012, the average Tom Rousseau scores of our suppliers have improved Senior Manager Procurement, Audits substantially year on year. Belgium Over the past four years, The Coca-Cola Company has commissioned a series of • The results of our suppliers’ Carbon I work within CCE’s Procurement function independent audits to monitor supplier Challenge: CCE’s Carbon Challenge as part of the Energy and Renewable Energy compliance with the Coca-Cola system’s is a three-stage program designed to workgroup. At CCE, we have a target to SGPs. These have so far covered over encourage suppliers to make progress source 40 percent of our energy from two-thirds of our suppliers of ingredients towards their carbon-management goals renewable or low-carbon sources by 2020, and packaging. (see infographic). and have also committed through RE100 to A supplier’s CRS score is an important source 100 percent of our electricity from In addition, CCE, along with The Coca-Cola renewable sources. We will achieve this in Company, is a member of the AIM-PROGRESS part of the SRM process, receiving the same weighting as other SRM criteria including two ways. Firstly, we aim to generate as forum, a global group promoting responsible much renewable or low-carbon energy on sourcing practices and the harmonization quality, service, value and innovation. Outstanding performance is recognized site as possible – for example, through of supplier audits as a way of reducing solar panels, water turbines, or CHP facilities. duplication and costs for suppliers. Our annually through our Supplier of the Year Over the past year, we have also focused SGP audits are aligned with AIM-PROGRESS Awards. In 2015, Suiker Unie was recognized on buying renewable energy that is certified and are recognized by its members. Similarly, as CCE’s ‘Best Supplier’, for the second by Guarantees of Origin (GoO) from our we recognize audits carried out on behalf of consecutive year, and CHEP, who we have suppliers. GoOs are instruments defined by other signatory companies. partnered with on backhauling projects in European legislation that label electricity from Belgium (see Factsheet 13) was the winner renewable sources, providing information to OUR SUPPLIERS of the ‘Best CRS Supplier’ award. customers on the source of their electricity. Our SRM process helps us to collaborate As part of my role, I have worked with with suppliers and provides a framework suppliers over the past year to source the for evaluating each supplier’s performance type of renewable energy we need, ensuring in terms of quality, cost and value, service, that the supplier can provide GoOs which innovation, and corporate responsibility meet the minimum requirements defined by the World Resources Institute. and sustainability (CRS). Each supplier’s CRS evaluation is made up of two inputs: FACTSHEET 23/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Issue sheet: Employment, Diversity and Inclusion How can we address the issue of Diversity and Inclusion in our workforce? OUR COMMITMENT INTRODUCTION Attracting, developing and motivating a talented and diverse workforce is We will attract, develop critical to Coca-Cola Enterprises. As a business, we manufacture, sell and and motivate a highly distribute products across our territories. It is critical that we have a workforce that is reflective of our customers and consumers, and will be better able to talented and diverse meet their needs and anticipate trends in the marketplace. workforce within a safe and healthy We know that there is clear research demonstrating that companies that can At CCE, we are working to broaden our diversity not only on gender, but on workplace, to foster build a diverse workforce are better placed generations and cultural diversity. In Western to understand the needs of their customers Europe, unemployment, particularly among an inclusive culture. and consumers, but also to recruit and young people, has been a significant issue retain employees. More importantly, an for the past few years. At the same time, inclusive environment means embracing and there is a global shortage of employees who ISSUE INSIGHTS unleashing the full potential of our workforce. will have the skills required by companies in Having more diversity of ideas, thinking and the years ahead. 117 years experience across our business, leads to enhanced ways of working and ultimately Within CCE, the majority of our workforce is over the age of 30, with many of our is how long it will take to reach global to better internal decision making. employees having long terms of service. gender pay parity.1 However, there continues to be a gender Simultaneously, we have young graduates gap across the workforce in Europe, with entering the business. As a result, we have a 16% women continuing to earn 16 percent less per hour of work than men. As a clear need to develop a better understanding between generations in the workplace, and Women earn 16 percent less per hour manufacturing business, we draw to work hard to ensure that our pay equity of work than men.2 from Science, Technology, Engineering strategy takes into account the difference in and Maths (STEM) subjects – but there years of service. continues to be a challenge in increasing 40 million We believe we can play a positive role the number of students in these topics, in the communities in which we operate. particularly among females. We have invested in employability programs There will be a global shortage of 38 to 40 million highly skilled workers – needed To address this, we have developed that inspire and help young people to to raise productivity and drive growth – a robust diversity and inclusion strategy, build a brighter future by supporting them by 2020.3 including recruitment, apprenticeship and in acquiring the skills, knowledge and graduate programs that seek to address the understanding of the workplace that will gender imbalance and attract more diverse give them a competitive edge. 45% talent into all levels of our business. At a local level, we are also opening the doors of our Diverse companies are 45 percent more likely to improve their market share.4 manufacturing operations to young people to demystify manufacturing, encourage the uptake of STEM subjects at school and broaden the career aspirations of girls and boys alike. ISSUE SHEET 24/32 1 World Economic Forum, Global Gender Gap Report 2015. 3 McKinsey Global Institute. 2 Eurostat and European Commission. 4 Boston Consulting Group. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Rohini Anand Senior Vice President Caroline Cater Corporate Responsibility Director, Operational Marketing and Global Chief Diversity Coca-Cola Enterprises Officer Sodexo A view from Coca-Cola Enterprises A view from Sodexo5 Improving our diversity at CCE is the right thing to do – it also drives Building diversity is critical for any business – we know that performance, builds more diverse teams, and creates a point of we are only as good as our people. Sodexo is a client-based difference for us as an employer. We are one of many companies organization which operates across 83 countries. For us, building fighting to recruit and retain the best people – the more that we can diversity is also a competitive advantage – we have the ability to do to have a point of difference, the better. In addition, our work in work together with our clients to impact and improve many lives this area helps us create a motivated and engaged workforce – across the globe. creating a virtuous circle. At CCE, our initial focus as part of our diversity and inclusion strategy was on gender – an area where we had an opportunity to galvanize our efforts across our territories. Last year, we joined a small number We found that teams that had of leading companies in setting a target to achieve 40 percent 40-60 percent women significantly female representation at both leadership and management levels by 2025. We’ve made a lot of great progress, but there is more to do. outperformed teams with fewer or Like many organizations, we have more systemic challenges around driving diversity in our manufacturing operations, and our supply more than this balance. chain operations team have put a very proactive focus on this. To really build a diverse talent pipeline, we have to start at the beginning – to do more to mentor and develop relationships with schools, so we can get the best people taking the right subjects, At Sodexo we’re unpacking the barriers to having women help them into internship programs, and recruit and develop them in leadership areas, particularly in revenue generating and as leaders in our business. operational roles. We recently completed some internal research which reviewed 100 entities and 50,000 managers from teams across the world at Sodexo. We looked at the correlation between gender balanced teams and how well they performed from a Last year, we joined a small financial and non-financial perspective. Through this research, number of leading companies we found that teams that had 40-60 percent women significantly outperformed teams with fewer or more than this balance. in setting a target to achieve This was a key piece of work for us – using our internal data and 40 percent female representation KPIs, it demonstrated clearly where the gender balance range should be to drive performance. We were already doing well at both leadership and in this area – 43 percent of our executive committee is female, 40 percent of the board and we have 31 percent female management levels by 2025. representation at senior executive levels. This research allowed us to set even stronger targets – and we’re now aiming that our senior executive level is made up of 35 percent women by 2020, and 40 percent by 2025. We have focused our internal Women’s Network in Great Britain We are a leader in the area of diversity and inclusion, and on providing support at a middle manager and senior leadership we want to help our clients build their diversity as well. For us, level to stimulate female development and build their confidence. building leadership in this area is about continually raising the bar We’ve provided additional mentoring and support for women at and looking for new areas to focus on and addressing barriers to these levels to help provide the tools to be able to advance, and we inclusion. The issue of diversity started by being focused primarily continue to explore ways to build more flexibility into our business to on race and gender, now it’s broader. We’re looking at global address the issues of mobility and long working hours that are often issues such as generations and age, religion, and at the cited as barriers to our female employees progressing into intersection of gender and race. leadership positions. There are many areas where we can partner with other We’re also looking at the issues of building ethnic diversity and companies like CCE. For example, we participated in CCE’s recent building understanding between generations. In Great Britain, we’ve D&I lab on generations. We can do even more in the future – run pilots to help employees understand different ethnic customs building partnerships on mentoring, leadership development and religious festivals, and to help them feel comfortable in asking and networking programs, for example. questions – which helps them when talking to customers. Building understanding between generations helps us as well, providing insights that we wouldn’t normally receive from employees into what motivates them, and what they expect from us. Building diversity is everyone’s job. It needs to be owned and driven by the business – by our business unit leaders, by our country directors, by our managers, by our employees. Building a more diverse workforce makes business sense – it not only helps us to build more effective teams, it also gives us an edge in the market place. ISSUE SHEET 24/32 5 Sodexo are one of CCE’s largest customers and a supplier of catering services. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Employment, Diversity and Inclusion OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We will attract, develop and motivate a talented and diverse workforce. 40% By 2025 we intend that women will comprise at least 40 percent of Have at least 40 percent women in both both management and leadership grades across the business. management and leadership grades by 2025. INTRODUCTION Attract We believe that people make a company successful and sustainable. develop and motivate a talented Our aim is to recruit the best people, develop diverse and inclusive teams and diverse workforce. and provide our employees with rewarding careers in an environment that supports their development. WHAT WE ACHIEVED OUR FEMALE WORKFORCE IN 2015 80% 33% employee engagement score in our of our Board of Directors latest employee engagement survey. 30% 76% 26 % of our total workforce of employees in executive grades of our employees were covered by collective 26% is female bargaining agreements in 2015. of employees in leadership grades 43% 38% of our external hires were women in 2015. of employees in management grades HOW WE’RE DOING IT Our employment and diversity program FOSTERING A DIVERSE Setting targets focuses on fostering a diverse and inclusive AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE We have set detailed action plans for talent culture – attracting, developing and motivating We regard every employee as a valued acquisition, female retention and career a workforce that reflects the communities in member of CCE and are committed to progression and development in all busines which we operate. supporting each individual in achieving their areas, to meet our D&I targets. We have potential. Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) seen the results of this approach, with female strategy has traditionally focused on gender, representation increasing at management and has recently expanded to focus on level by four percentage points and at generations and ethnicity. leadership levels by two percentage points since 2013. Accountability Responsibility for diversity rests throughout Talent recruitment our business. Our Corporate D&I Council is Manufacturing and STEM1 careers have been chaired by two members of our Executive seen in the past to be mainly male dominated. Leadership Team and made up of business We are working to address this gap through leaders representing our business units and our recruitment strategy, led by a campaign functions. A detailed D&I scorecard allows us called ‘My Time is Now’, which encourages to measure and benchmark progress. Our women to think differently about their careers. Leadership Team (LT) under our CEO, John In addition, we aim for gender balance in our Brock, reviews how each business unit and candidate lists and interview panels, have function is progressing against its D&I action reworded our job advertisements to make plan every quarter. All members of our LT them gender neutral and have built female have individual D&I performance objectives. talent pipelines in areas of the business where we find it difficult to attract women. In addition, we have local D&I Councils We have also begun using video interviewing in the Netherlands, France, Belgium, technology, which allows us to not only screen Luxembourg, Norway and Great Britain. more candidates, but also to assess them on These local councils work with business more than just their written CVs. leaders to extend D&I initiatives across the business. FACTSHEET 25/32 1 Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Developing diversity We aim to recruit the best talent by: • Broadening and segmenting our recruitment campaigns We aim • Ensuring gender balanced candidate to attract, develop Attract short lists and interview panels and motivate • Rewording job advertisements to make them gender neutral a talented and diverse workforce • Using video interviewing to screen more candidates, and assess them on more than their written CV Develop Motivate WORKFORCE We look to build a diverse talent pipeline by: We aim to motivate our talent by: • Running standalone D&I training • Establishing employee networks, programs (e.g., Inclusive Leadership focused on gender, age and ethnicity Program and mentoring) • Working towards pay equity • Embedding D&I principles in all throughout our business by our people management training monitoring pay levels annually, • Providing specific coaching and and on an ad hoc basis mentoring to enable key talent to take the next step in their careers To support and increase the number of AWARENESS AND EDUCATION Beyond gender women in manufacturing overall, we support We also started to broaden our D&I agenda organizations such as Women in Engineering Embedding D&I within training from gender, working on engaging multiple and Women in Logistics in Great Britain. We When we started establishing D&I at CCE, generations and on cultural diversity. We also provide mentors for the Brunel University we created standalone programs aimed at believe these steps will bring us closer to our mentorship scheme for female engineering building the awareness and capabilities of our customers, consumers and our employees students, and are funding a study to better employees in this area. While we still continue (see case study). understand what motivates female employees to run some standalone programs, such as in Sweden. We also participate in programs our Inclusive Leadership Program, which aims which aim to improve youth employment and to raise awareness of the importance of D&I employability, and to promote STEM careers. and unconscious bias, we are now focusing primarily on embedding D&I principles within We are making progress – in 2015 we recruited existing programs, across our entire training 27 graduates to our University Talent Program curricula. (UTP), of whom 52 percent were women. Employees are also encouraged to create We also partner with organizations such an Individual Development Plan (IDP) which as the Careers Transition Partnership, in helps them focus on their development goals, Great Britain which is the Ministry of Defence’s and in 2015 87 percent of employees had an CASE STUDY official provider of Armed Forces Resettlement. IDP. Our online CCE Academy offers training D&I lab on generations Through this partnership we are able to across all areas of our business, offering recruit ex-military talent into our supply chain In 2015, we held our second D&I lab, a full 45,748 courses in 2015, with 9,585 employees day workshop focusing on the enablers function, helping in their transition between completing at least one. military and civilian life. to engage multiple generations within Female leadership coaching our workforce. A CCE workgroup made up Pay equity We have established programs which aim of a genderand age-balanced group of 40 CCE is committed to gender equality, and we to build our talent pipeline, and help our people from across our business were joined do not make employment-related decisions, by speakers from other leading companies female leaders progress to the next stage including pay decisions, on the basis of in D&I such as Acciona, Danone, Ernst & of their careers. For example, our Women Young and Sodexo, as well as members of legally or company-protected characteristics, in Leadership program helps female senior including gender. To ensure that line academia. The output of the session was a managers and above to build network and generational diversity action plan signed managers make appropriate pay decisions, leadership skills. Our Signature program we provide training and support during the off by our CEO, John Brock, and incorporated sends our female vice-presidents on courses into our 2016 D&I strategy. The D&I lab salary review process and when employees that facilitate contact between talented approach is innovative, and has won are being hired or promoted. More specifically, women from different organizations. external recognition, ranking fourth in we monitor pay equity within our territories the Diversity Journal’s 2015 ‘Innovation in through annual and ad hoc reviews that take Flexible working Diversity’ Awards. place not only when required by law. These We have updated our flexible working policies take account of additional factors such as and piloted workshops to encourage managers performance over time which can affect and their teams to think differently about the the pay of both men and women. benefits and implications flexible working. FACTSHEET 25/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 A Safe, Healthy Workplace OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We will provide a safe and healthy work environment with the aim of achieving Zero zero accidents and attaining world-class health and safety status. We will also Provide a safe and healthy work environment encourage participation in our employee wellbeing programs, so that at least with a vision of achieving zero accidents and attaining world-class health and safety status 50 percent of our employees take part by 2020. by 2020. INTRODUCTION 50% People are the key to a successful, sustainable company. To give their best and achieve their full potential, they need a safe, healthy and positive Encourage participation in our employee wellbeing programs so that at least working environment. 50 percent of employees take part by 2020. REDUCING OUR LOST-TIME ACCIDENT RATE TO ZERO WHAT WE ACHIEVED Our target 0.82 2.65 2007 lost-time accidents per 100 full-time employees in 2015.1 69% reduction in lost-time accident rate since 2007.1 0.892013 1.01 2014 0.822015 5.1% 2020 absentee rate.2 WORKING TOWARDS In 2015, CCE did not have any employee or 31% WORLD-CLASS SAFETY contractor fatalities. Tragically, in 2016, one of our long-term contractors died as a result employees taking part in wellbeing We aim to achieve world-class safety standards and a zero accident workplace of an industrial accident at our Antwerp programs in 2015.4 manufacturing operation. The incident is with a consistent approach and level of performance across our territories. To create currently under investigation with the local a strong safety governance, we operate authorities, and we are working to review HOW WE’RE DOING IT and adapt our safety procedures as Business Unit Safety Councils at a national level and health and safety committees at necessary to avoid any future tragic events. Our safe, healthy workplace program has two priorities: each of our manufacturing operations and During 2015 there were 2 contractor lost-time sales and distribution sites. Our standards accidents across our territories. In 2016, we • Working towards world-class safety apply equally to employees and contractors. will be focusing on improving contractor status across our operations management, and developing monitoring • Enabling and encouraging our employees 2015 SAFETY PERFORMANCE systems for tracking contractor accidents. to lead active, healthy lives In 2015, 16 of our 17 manufacturing operations Our 2015 absence rate was 5.1 percent. and all regional distribution centers were certified to Occupational Health and Safety Safety initiatives management system OHSAS 18001. Having revised our safety standards in 2014, Our lost-time accident (LTA) rate was we have a new safety strategy covering 0.82 accidents per 100 full-time equivalent people, the workplace, equipment and employees, compared to 1.01 in 2014.3 LTAs are systems. We have also launched a CCE-wide slightly lower at our manufacturing operations safety training framework and developed a than among commercial and sales people in new safety monitoring plan. These new tools the field because safety practices can be govern the frequency with which we test our better controlled on our own premises due to equipment, processes and procedures. improved employee efficiency. FACTSHEET 26/32 1 CCE employees only. While we capture contractor LTA data, technical system change we are not able to provide full we do not include it in our LTAs. year-end data for this indicator. 2 Data is accurate through mid-December 2015. Due to a 3 We estimate that the reduction in lost days (750 days) in 2015 resulted in a saving of $28,695. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 A safe, healthy workforce Available to all employees Free flu vaccines are available for employees in all countries. Encourage participation in our employee In 2015 nearly 11 percent of our employees participated. wellbeing programs so that at least 50% of our employees Health Risk Assessments (HRA), offer employees an analysis of their current state of health and take part recommend actions they may wish to take. The Global Corporate Challenge Offered to employees depending (GCC), encourages employees to on location walk, cycle or swim 10,000 steps a Access to health and fitness centers day for 100 days. In 2015, we fielded Employees at Head Office sites can more than 2,000 participants from benefit from access to on-site gyms. across our territories, approximately Discounts for health clubs and gyms 17 percent of our employees, are also available in some countries. took part. Occupational Health Assessments Campaigns to encourage (OHAs), employees can be referred employees to stop smoking for an assessment by their manager CCE promotes World No Tobacco Day and assessments are carried out by and runs awareness campaigns on medically qualified advisors. OHAs this topic. can also include risk and ergonomic Approximately Employee Assistance Program (EAP), 31% assessments of vehicles and 4 a confidential information service for workstations. employees with work or personal On-site occupational health problems such as bereavement, assessment days to raise awareness of our employees stress or financial concerns. of specific health topics, such as took part in wellbeing healthy diet, sun awareness, healthy programs in 2015. heart, blood pressure, workplace resilience and winter health. In 2015, we launched a safety maturity Employee benefits profiling tool, which measures the relative Benefits are available to all employees and Number of GB Road Traffic maturity of each site and function with vary according to country and employee level. regards to safety. Based upon the outcome They can include medical or dental insurance, Accident Claims Comparable fleet size approximately 1400. of the initial assessment, site specific plans eye care vouchers, vacation time and a variety to improve safety are then created. CCE has of leave packages to cover sickness, the birth led this approach, with other bottlers in the of a child, bereavement or a long-term illness 806 Coca-Cola system now trialing the tool. in the family. Employees can find information 590 To support this approach, we have also on all the benefits that apply to them, continued to develop our health and safety including those available as optional extras training curriculum, to consolidate and on our HR portal. Prospective employees standardize our approach across our territories. can also view some of these options on the careers section of our corporate website. 2014 2015 We are also improving the use of our safety data by recording potential or ‘near miss’ Wellbeing programs CASE STUDY accidents, as well as those that result in We encourage employees to take Safe driving program in Great Britain treatable injuries, helping to avoid more responsibility for their health and wellbeing serious incidents. and provide a range of programs to help Safe driving is critical to our employees’ We have also improved the safety them do so (see infographic). We aim to safety, as CCE’s fleet represents around 5,000 performance of our contractors, by raising ensure that 50 percent of our employees business drivers. Road traffic accidents are awareness of their responsibilities, the take part in the programs we offer, and one of CCE’s highest Health and Safety risks. continue to review how we can broaden to address these risks, we piloted a ‘Safe behaviors they need to observe and our the range of options available. Driver Program’ in Great Britain in 2015. own safety standards. Wellbeing champions across the business We developed a Safe Driving Policy, and Our strong safety record was recognized approximately 2,000 CCE drivers completed again in 2015, with Edmonton in Great Britain assist with the roll-out of our wellbeing individual driver risk assessments. Based receiving The Royal Society for the programs and involve our people in local upon the outcome of these assessments, Prevention of Accidents Gold Award. initiatives. We also publish health and participants were provided with risk-specific wellbeing information on our HR portal. training programs aimed at improving their EMPLOYEE WELLBEING driving behavior. The program was a success, We seek to ensure that our employees are dropping our accident frequency rate by safe and healthy, with a positive mindset. 7.7 percent between 2014 and 2015. As a We help support this through our employee result of the initial pilot’s success, we will benefit packages as well as the programs we now be running the program across all of offer to help them manage and improve their our territories in 2016. own health and wellbeing. FACTSHEET 26/32 4 Represents total 2015 participation in wellbeing programs offered to all employees, which may include some overlap in participation. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Community OUR TARGETS OUR COMMITMENT We will make a positive difference in our communities, working with 1% local partners and supporting the active involvement of our employees. Invest 1 percent of our annual pre-tax profit to support charitable and community INTRODUCTION partners and make a positive difference in the communities in which we operate. Our products are made locally, by local people. To support the communities in which we operate, we’re seeking to improve the workplace skills of young people, protect the environment and encourage our employees to be Support actively involved in their local communities. the active involvement of our employees by encouraging them to volunteer. VOLUNTEER HOURS BY COUNTRY 160 hrs 250,000 315 hrs Norway Support the skills development and Belux learning needs of 250,000 young people each year by 2020. 1,524 hrs France 180 hrs WHAT WE ACHIEVED United States 061 79 133,900+ 762 hrs Sweden total volunteering hours by our employees young people reached by our education centers and local partnerships in 2015. 2,251 hrs 1,167 hrs Great Britain Netherlands 0.64% of pre-tax profits invested in 2015. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT took part in a variety of specific programs In 2015, we invested $5.5 million1 (0.64 percent in 2015. Entry fees paid by non-school 6,179 of pre-tax profit), in community initiatives across our territories. This breaks down students were donated to the youth charity Recht op. Approximate hours volunteered by as follows: CCE employees in 2015. Education partnership programs 1 Cash contributions In 2015, we reached more than 133,900 1 63% young people through the following 100% 2 In-kind contributions 4 5% education partnerships: 3 Management costs Passport to Employment, France of the locations where we operate have 3 13% community programs in place. 4 Employee time Aiming to help young people from 2 19%2 underprivileged backgrounds, CCE employees provide interview training and mentoring 34,500+ to help participants find their first job. Espoir Banlieues (Hope for the Suburbs), visitors to our education centers in 2015. SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE IN DEVELOPING THEIR WORKPLACE SKILLS France As part of a government-led initiative, CCE has Since 2011, we’ve invested over $12 million to pledged to recruit unemployed people from 750 HOW WE’RE DOING IT help young people gain an understanding of disadvantaged areas in France. Over the past the workplace and the skills they will need to five years, 10 percent of our new French recruits Our community program focuses on: succeed within it. Initiatives in 2015 include: have come to us through the program. • Supporting young people to develop workplace skills Education centers The Real Business Challenge, Great Britain • Working with the community to improve CCE’s eight education centers in Great Britain, Aimed at 13 to 15 year-olds, the Real Business and protect the local environment France and Belgium offer students aged 12 Challenge is a national enterprise competition to 25 an opportunity to learn about modern for secondary schools in Great Britain. Students • Encouraging employees to volunteer manufacturing and the working environment. tackle a business task set by CCE and pitch Run by education specialists employed by CCE, their enterprise skills against other schools. they offer free visits that include a factory tour Preliminary in-school challenges are followed with content linked to the school curriculum. A by regional and national finals. Of the teachers ninth center will open in Norway in late 2016. who took part in 2015, 94 percent agreed the The Coca-Cola Visitors Center in Antwerp program had helped their students to develop attracted more than 15,000 young people who skills that increased their employability. FACTSHEET 27/32 1 CCE’s Community Investment contributions reported 2 Time includes both employee volunteering and using the standardized approach provided by the employee management time. LBG methodology. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Community Great Britain Support the skills development 88,900 The Real Business Challenge A national business competition in and learning needs of Great Britain for secondary schools. 250,000 young people Total reached: 88,900 each year by 2020. 1,910 France Passport to Employment in Interview training and mentoring to France help young people find their first job. Total reached: 1,900 Espoir Banlieues (Hope for the Initiatives in 2015 to Suburbs) Recruitment to CCE support the education from disadvantaged areas. of young people across our territories: Progress 218 Total reached: 10 in the The Netherlands against target: Netherlands JINC 133,929 Helping students prepare for the world of work. young people Total reached: 218 helped Norway 8,167 Red Cross Resource Centers Provide resources and activities in for young people. Great Britain, France, Belgium Education centers 34,506 Norway Total reached: 8,167 visitors to Introducing school students to the world of work and manufacturing. our education 228 Sweden Mentor centers in Total reached: 34,506 Sweden Mentoring for young people. Total reached: 228 Excelsior4All Foundation, Netherlands Reducing litter, Great Britain, £100,000 Challenge, Great Britain With CCE’s support, Excelsior4All runs a France and Belgium In 2015, Leendert den Hollander, Vice President learning center where students with learning We recognize that litter is a problem and and General Manager, CCE Great Britain, difficulties are given help in developing their we want to play our part in addressing it. In challenged the business to contribute social and sporting skills. Great Britain we’ve funded research with the £100,000 to the community through corporate JINC, Netherlands national anti-litter charity Keep Britain Tidy sponsorship, fund-raising and volunteering JINC brings together companies and and its Center for Social Innovation investigating hours. CCE’s sponsorship of Special Olympics underprivileged young people to help the littering behavior of young adults. We have in Great Britain accounted for £40,000 of the students prepare for the world of work. also invested in other campaigns including total amount. CCE provides funding and volunteers for Hubbub’s Neat Streets campaign, supported workshops, interview coaching and Keep Scotland Beautiful, and Clean Up one-to-one support. Britain, and are founding signatories to Keep Britain Tidy’s Litter Prevention campaign. In Red Cross, Norway France, we have partnered with the Surfrider We continue to support the four Red Cross Foundation for many years to clean beaches Resource Centers in Oslo. The centers provide and other natural sites with the help of after-school activities for young people, including employee volunteers. Employees have also homework assistance and soft skill development, volunteered to clean litter around each of our through sports and social networks. sites in Belgium. CASE STUDY Mentor, Sweden This scheme provides personal mentors for Clean the beaches, Sweden Adopte une Cause young people. CCE employees take part as We support Stada Sverige (Clean Sweden) in its work to promote environmental awareness This initiative launched in France in 2014 to volunteers. We also welcome school groups engage CCE’s employees with the community to learn about working for CCE. among young people. Since 2010, our support investment activities that CCE supports. has enabled more than 22,400 participants to Employee volunteers accumulate ‘hearts’ SUPPORTING COMMUNITY clear more than 363,300 kg of litter from over by participating in CRS activities, which CCE PROJECTS TO IMPROVE AND 1,717 Swedish beaches. converts into a financial donation to a charity PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT ENCOURAGING EMPLOYEES voted for by employees. Part of our community investment supports TO VOLUNTEER During 2015, 1,000 CCE employees took part programs which protect and enhance the in approximately 50 community activities We encourage employees to volunteer their environment – examples being our water across France, resulting in a $6,500 donation time, both to contribute to the community and to Special Olympics. replenishment partnerships with WWF in to enhance their own skills and experience. Great Britain and France and Natuurpunt in Much of our volunteering occurs during our Belgium (see Factsheet 20). Other annual CRS in Action Week in October. In environmental initiatives include: 2015, our employees volunteered 6,179 hours on community projects. In addition to volunteering at many of the programs mentioned above, employees also donated their time to promote recycling, support Special Olympics and co-ordinate other activities such as litter clean-ups. FACTSHEET 27/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Our Stakeholders and Materiality WHAT WE ACHIEVED INTRODUCTION We value the opinions of our stakeholders and the ongoing dialogue that we Rethinking Business have with them. Our Sustainability Plan has been developed based upon the Held a series of Executive Roundtables input of a wide range of stakeholders, and collaborating with them will be in conjunction with the Financial Times about our most material issues. critical to our ability to meet our targets. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT We grouped these issues together around Solutions COP21 Our material issues were confirmed through our seven commitment areas, and the detailed stakeholder expectations were In conjunction with The Coca-Cola Company, a review of our Sustainability Plan in 2014 with our key stakeholders. We sought used to inform the revision of our hosted a pavilion at the Grand Palais in Paris, as part of Solutions COP21, showcasing our feedback on our Sustainability Plan Sustainability Plan in 2014. We continue work on sustainability to the wider public objectives, and listened to our stakeholders’ to monitor our issues on an ongoing basis and stakeholders. expectations of us as a sustainability leader. throughout the year, and have reviewed Through these discussions, we identified and updated our materiality matrix again 35 priority issues which were then mapped this year. The full mapping of our material Sustainable against their ability to impact our business issues is below: Manufacturing and the level of stakeholder expectations. This mapping was verified by our CRS Partnered with Cranfield University to host Advisory Council, Executive Leadership Team stakeholder roundtables, and engage in and CRS Board Committee. research, to develop a series of white papers defining the path towards building a Factory of the Future in Great Britain in 2050. • Water pollution • Energy efficiency and • Innovation in refrigeration • Nutritional labeling carbon reduction • Innovation in packaging • Product quality • Use of recycled materials • Calorie reduction HOW WE’RE DOING IT • Resource scarcity • Nutrition and • Responsible marketing We engage with stakeholders throughout balanced diets • Whole value chain thinking the year on a local and national level and • Occupational health (carbon, water) build relationships to allow for an open and safety • Water consumption and honest dialogue, where we are able to productively discuss how to make progress • Water scarcity • Renewable energy and • Consumer recycling Stakeholder expectation against the issues that matter to us. • Impact of community alternative fuels • Packaging reduction contributions • Sustainable sourcing (sugar • Active lifestyles • Employee physical and other raw materials) • Noand low-calorie and mental health • Supply chain traceability alternatives • Recyclability of packaging • Portion size • Manufacturing waste • Local socio-economic • Water source protection impact, youth • Employee volunteering • Unemployment and job creation • Diversity and equal opportunities Potential to impact our business FACTSHEET 28/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT APPROACH We work closely with our stakeholders to develop responses to the issues that we face as a business and as a society. We do this both through memberships of industry associations such as UNESDA (the European soft drinks industry association), as well as through multi-stakeholder initiatives, and local engagement with stakeholders in our communities. More information about how we engage with our local stakeholders can be found in our country corporate responsibility and sustainability reports (see Factsheet 1). WELLBEING WHO WE ENGAGE WITH • Physical Activity: we have made a Government/regulators: commitment to enable three million e.g., UK Department of Health, people to be physically active by investing French National Authority for Health, in grassroots programs which support Dutch Healthcare Authority active lifestyles. For more information see Factsheet 9. Customers: e.g., Tesco, Carrefour, Albert Heijn • Industry Leadership: we engage with other members of the soft drinks Networks: industry through the European soft e.g., UNESDA, BSDA drinks association, UNESDA. CCE’s NGOs: OUR RESPONSE European President is also currently e.g., ParkLives, Le Sport Ça Me Dit, • Calorie Reduction: as part of our the President of UNESDA. Special Olympics, Olympic Moves etc. Sustainability Plan we have made a • Partnerships: together with The commitment to reduce the calories in Coca-Cola Company we engage in WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE SAYING our portfolio by 10 percent by 2020. academic and research partnerships • Local Commitments: we have worked which aim to improve our understanding Do more to reduce sugar and in conjunction with local and national of the role our drinks play in people’s calories across the portfolio governments to develop country-specific diets. Many such partnerships are funded calorie reduction commitments in Great by The Coca-Cola Company. A full list of Britain, France and the Netherlands. all partnerships since 2010 can be found • Responsible Marketing: we are via links to the country pages below. This Provide greater information will be updated annually. working with our customers to develop transparency on the our marketing strategies and promotions GB partnerships and research to better promote our noand low-calorie France that are funded through alternatives. Belgium & Luxembourg the Coca-Cola system Netherlands Norway Sweden SUSTAINABLE SOURCING WHO WE ENGAGE WITH OUR RESPONSE Government/regulators: • Suppliers: our suppliers are important e.g., UK Home Office stakeholders for us and will play a key role Suppliers: in helping us to achieve our value chain e.g., our sugar and juice suppliers sustainability commitments. In 2015, we held our annual Supplier Sustainability NGOs/associations: Webinar to share our CRS goals, progress e.g., SAI, Rainforest Alliance, Bonsucro, and aspirations. Oxfam, ASI • Value Chain: we have an ongoing relationship with EcoVadis to help us better understand and improve the impact of our WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE SAYING suppliers on our value chain. • Sourcing: we have made a commitment to ensure that 100 percent of our key Expand focus on sustainable agricultural ingredients can be sustainably sourcing beyond sugar sourced by 2020. • Key Ingredients: having worked to develop sustainable sourcing pathways for sugar cane and sugar beet we are now Measure and manage impacts working to develop pathways for other ingredients including apple, orange and across the full value chain lemon juices, coffee, and pulp and paper. FACTSHEET 28/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 CLIMATE CHANGE WHO WE ENGAGE WITH OUR RESPONSE Academics and networks: • Policy: through our membership of e.g., The Climate Group’s RE100 initiative, the Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group Group we engage with stakeholders, on Climate Change, Cambridge Institute for customers and industry peers to Sustainability Leadership, The Haga Initiative, advocate for ambitious European COP21, Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative, climate change policy. Caring for Climate • Thought Leadership: working with Investors: academic institutions helps us to e.g., CDP, DJSI, FTSE for Good, remain well-informed on sustainability Corporate Knights Global 100 issues and provides direction for our Government/regulators: thought leadership work. In 2015, we • Science Based Targets: our commitment e.g., ADEME, UN Global Compact, worked with Cranfield University to ‘to reduce the absolute carbon footprint European Parliament publish a white paper on ‘Sustainable of our core business operations by Manufacturing for the Future’. 50 percent by 2020’ has subsequently Suppliers: been approved as being fully aligned e.g., CHEP, Ardagh Glass, Electrabel GDF • Business Leaders: as part of a series of Executive Roundtables under the with climate science. Suez, EDF, Air Liquide ‘Rethinking Business’ theme, we hosted a • Stakeholders: we also work to engage discussion on climate change during the a broad range of stakeholders on the COP21 climate negotiations in Paris. The issue of climate change. In December roundtable was held in partnership with 2015, we exhibited at Solutions COP21, WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE SAYING the Financial Times and the Prince the major public-facing event at COP21. of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group. The exhibition, at Le Grand Palais in Paris, Develop science-based • Road to Paris: CCE signed three of showcased the concrete solutions we are undertaking in our business to reduce carbon-reduction targets CDP’s high profile ‘Road to Paris’ pledges – including commitments to our carbon impact. adopt science-based carbon reduction • Sustainability Networks: we participate targets, to include climate change in the European School of Management Develop focus on information within our mainstream and Technology’s Sustainability renewable energy, and corporate reporting and to ensure that Roundtable and SustainAbility’s Engaging innovation in refrigeration, 100 percent of the electricity we purchase Stakeholders network. and increase advocacy is from renewable sources by 2020. on climate policy EMPLOYMENT AND DIVERSITY WHO WE ENGAGE WITH OUR RESPONSE NGOs: • Diversity: we have developed a detailed e.g., Nos quartiers ont des Talents, ENAR, Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) strategy which Elles bougent focuses on improving diversity in three key Suppliers/Customers: areas – gender, generations, and ethnicity. e.g., Sodexo, Ernst & Young, Acciona, Danone • Women in Leadership: we aspire to Employees and Employee networks having a minimum of 40 percent of e.g., Elles @Coke, Cokettes, Factory’Elles, women in both leadership and Young Professionals, Xperience management grades by 2025. Government/regulators • Inclusion: we are working on a series of e.g., Ministry of Defence UK D&I labs which explore the issues of gender and age. Our first D&I lab took Academics and networks: place in 2015. e.g., University of Brunel , University of Rotterdam, Teknikspranget, ICAM • Economic Impact: we have strong relationships with the local communities in which we operate and in which our manufacturing operations are located. Our business provides employment for WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE SAYING over 11,500 people across our territories. Commit to empowering women in the workforce Broaden the focus to other areas of diversity e.g., generations, ethnicity FACTSHEET 28/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 RESOURCE SCARCITY WHO WE ENGAGE WITH Government/regulators: e.g., European Parliament, UK Government, Eco-Emballages, Fost Plus, Nedvang, Returpack, REPA, Infinitum, Rentpage, WRAP, DEFRA, Recoup Academics and networks: e.g., OpenIDEO, Every Can Counts, Chaque Canette Compte, University of Exeter Customers: e.g., Carrefour, Asda, Tesco Investors: e.g., CDP, DJSI Suppliers: e.g., Plastipak, Evolve Polymers, Aardagh Glass, Rexam, Veolia WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE SAYING Lead the industry by using more recycled and OUR RESPONSE • Suppliers: we engage with our renewable materials • PET Packaging: we have made a packaging suppliers to continually commitment to ensure that 40 percent enhance the sustainability of our of the PET we use by 2020 is recycled packaging. Through our recycling joint PET (rPET) and/or PET from renewable venture in France with Plastipak we are materials. working to increase the amount of food Innovate on alternative grade which we can use. We also have packaging and delivery options • Policy: we work at a national and a long-term agreement with Evolve pan-European level to enhance policy in Polymers in Great Britain to secure a this area. We are involved in an industry supply of rPET. wide workgroup on the European Commission’s Circular Economy Package. • MBA Students: we work in partnership with the University of Exeter, directly • Packaging Recovery: we engage with supporting their One Planet MBA Support a circular economy stakeholders such as EcoEmballages program. In 2016, we pitched a resource and FostPlus to continually improve the scarcity consultancy project to their way in which resources are collected MBA students. and recycled at a national level. WATER WHO WE ENGAGE WITH OUR RESPONSE Government/regulators: • Water Footprinting: we have completed e.g., National and local water authorities comprehensive water footprinting Academics and networks: analysis to enhance our understanding e.g., University of Twente (Water Footprinting), of water impacts across our value chain, Carbon Trust, Stockholm International Water particularly related to our key ingredients. Institute (SIWI) • Sustainable Ingredients: we have made NGOs: a commitment to sustainably source our e.g., WWF, Natuurpunt key agricultural ingredients by 2020 – this includes a focus on water sustainability. • Community Partnerships: we work with NGOs, such as WWF-UK, WWF-France WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE SAYING and Natuurpunt in Belgium, to help replenish 100 percent of the water that we use, where it is sourced from areas of Measure and manage impacts water stress. We have established local community water partnerships in the across the full value chain three countries where we experience water stress. FACTSHEET 28/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Governance OUR TARGET OUR COMMITMENT Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability We are committed to being a responsible business, embedding Corporate (CRS) is core to our vision of being the best Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) principles into our everyday decisions. beverage sales and service company. It is a key component of our Operating Framework INTRODUCTION and as such is critical to our long-term, sustainable growth. Our business is built on trust. Our customers, suppliers and consumers need to trust not only our products, but the fact that we treat our people fairly and with respect, protect the environment and adhere to relevant laws and WHAT WE ACHIEVED regulations. Being accountable and transparent is a key operating principle. 88% of eligible employees completed our RIGHT Way training program, including anti-corruption in 2014.1 28 CRS Committee of CCE’s sites were visited across our nine Board of Directors – geographical locations to raise awareness (from left to right): Andrea Saia, Cal Darden of the RIGHT Call2 process. (Chairman), John F. Brock, Véronique Morali, Jan Bennink, Phoebe Wood, Laura Brightwell (CCE Executive HOW WE’RE DOING IT liaison to CRS Committee). We aim to ensure the highest standards CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE RISK MANAGEMENT AND of corporate governance and to lead our CCE has a robust corporate governance BUSINESS PLANNING industry in Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. We will do so by: structure with a Board of Directors (BoD) We evaluate all strategic business risks overseeing the interests of the company and through an integrated risk assessment which • Establishing a strong corporate its shareholders. Of the seven committees that incorporates social and environmental risks governance structure support the BoD, the CRS Committee oversees under broader categories and is reviewed • Integrating risk management into our our CRS strategy while our Audit Committee annually by our BoD. This year we have business planning oversees compliance and risk management. identified 26 enterprise risks, including risks • Communicating and training our At CCE, we hold ourselves accountable to the related to climate change, water scarcity, people on our Code of Business Conduct waste and pollution, health and wellbeing, highest standards of corporate governance (COBC) to ensure our employees and health and safety, supplier management, and public accessibility to information about suppliers adhere ethics and compliance and brand reputation. our company. Our approach is set out in our • Ensure employees understand the RIGHT Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code Each of these risks is assigned to a specific Call process and share any concerns of Business Conduct (COBC). Further BoD committee and members of the Executive about potential breaches, without fear information about these and other aspects Leadership Team (ELT). Laura Brightwell is of retaliation the ELT member responsible for CRS. of our governance structure can be found on www.cokecce.com. Our Enterprise Risk Council Group acts as a cross-functional advisory board focusing CRS GOVERNANCE on matters relating to enterprise risk Chaired by CCE Board Director, Cal Darden, the management, ethics and compliance and CRS Committee meets five times a year and is business continuity. From 2016, this group primarily responsible for overseeing progress will have responsibility for making decisions against our Sustainability Plan. The Committee in response to identified risks. reviews and manages progress against our Relevant risks that could materially affect our goals, manages our CRS risks and issues and business and financial results are disclosed in ensures that stakeholders’ views are taken CCE’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. into account. To understand our risks more fully, CCE's Supporting our CRS Committee is our CRS Enterprise Risk Management team recently Advisory Council, chaired by Laura Brightwell, carried out detailed risk assessments of five Senior Vice President of Public Affairs and elements of the 26 enterprise risks – fraud, Communications. It comprises a crosscorruption and bribery; product quality; cyber functional group of CCE leaders who in turn security; social media; and physical security (the chair steering groups for each CRS focus area. last in the wake of the 2015 Paris terrorist attacks). Meeting five times a year, the Council is supported by a network of subject matter experts and CRS managers from across CCE. FACTSHEET 29/32 1 We have established a RIGHT Way model of five core ethical 2 Our process to address potential violations to our Code of values: Respect, Integrity, Good Judgment, Honesty and Business Conduct. Trust (RIGHT). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 OUR CRS GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE CCE CRS Committee Code of Business Coduct Violations reported in 2015 by type In 2015, CCE had 150 reported violations of our COBC. Eighty-five percent of these cases were recorded through employee reporting and routine systems and controls. Of these, 109 were substantiated,2 9 were partially substantiated3 and 16 were not substantiated.4, 5 CRS Advisory Council Number of confirmed incidents Working with each other 24% of corruption in 2015 0 Environmental Steering Committee Maintaining accurate records 38%1 150 Total number of Promoting health and safety in the workplace 8% reported violations in 2015 Preventing substance abuse 2% Energy Sustainable and Climate Packaging and Protecting company assets 19% Working with customers Change Recycling Wellbeing Community and suppliers 5% Avoiding conflicts of interests 4% 62 42 Sustainable Number of confirmed incidents Number of confirmed incidents resulting Sourcing Water Workplace resulting in employee dismissal6 in employee disciplinary action6 1 None of the 'Maintaining Accurate Records' breaches 4 Not Substantiated (an unintentional, non-negligent accident, were related to financial misstatements. misunderstanding, or a non-COBC related incident) 16 (12%). 2 Substantiated (an intentional act, or an unintentional but 5 Difference relates to the 16 reported cases remaining open negligent act, that results in disciplinary proceedings) 109 (81%). at the end of 2015. Internal CRS Network and 3 Partially Substantiated (an intentional act, but insufficient proof 6 Relates to substantiated and partially substantiated incidents. For Business Unit Leadership for disciplinary action to be taken) 9 (7%). the remaining cases, no disciplinary measures could be actioned. By completing these bottom-up risk assessments CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and CCE’s management has been further educated in Our COBC outlines the behavior we expect of the UK Bribery Act. We piloted the revised the handling and mitigation of such risks. every employee. Its twelve guiding principles anti-bribery program with our Public Affairs and In accordance with the precautionary principle, include the promotion of health and safety in the Communications and Legal employees in 2015, CRS is taken into account in the development workplace, complying with anti-corruption laws and will roll out the training more widely in 2016. process for any major project, product or new and upholding our environmental commitments. RIGHT CALL PROCESS investment, and is built into our annual and It’s one of the ways we comply with the ten long-range business planning processes. universal principles of the UN Global Compact, It’s essential that employees can raise concerns Progress against our Sustainability Plan is which CCE signed in 2007, and supports without fear of retaliation. Under our RIGHT Call reported each year. compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices process, those who suspect a violation of the Act and the UK Bribery Act. Approved by the BoD, COBC or one of our policies are encouraged to ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE the COBC is underpinned by a series of policies contact their line manager or the Human We have established a RIGHT Way model of that provide additional guidance on issues such Resources, Legal or Ethics and Compliance five core ethical values: Respect, Integrity, Good as anti-corruption, gifts, hospitality and function. In addition, employees can use an Judgment, Honesty, and Trust. These values entertainment, and insider trading. Each of these email address and the confidential and are the foundation of our COBC and underpin policies has been approved by an ELT member. anonymous RIGHT Call hotline with a single our decisions and working practices. The COBC and our related Ethics and Compliance telephone number in all territories. This hotline policies can be found on our intranet and are is also available for external stakeholders. GOVERNANCE publicly available on www.cokecce.com. Contact information for the hotline is available Our Ethics and Compliance team offers on our intranet, is shared during relevant These principles are carried through to our training programs and is publicly available governance, guidance and support to build a dealings with our employees and also with our culture of trust within CCE. The team promotes at www.cokecce.com. suppliers and customers. Our Supplier Guiding policies (COBC) and procedures (the RIGHT Call Principles (SGPs) reflect and communicate our Employee engagement surveys show a high process and RIGHT Way training) to ensure principles and emphasize to our suppliers the level of awareness as to where and how to report compliance. It also champions ethical behavior importance of responsible workplace policies concerns. In 2015, the Ethics and Compliance in everything we do. and practices, respect for human rights and communication plan consisted of a companyEvery two years, the team assesses CCE’s key environmental protection. Following the 2015 wide campaign about the RIGHT Call process compliance risks to ensure we are aware of, Modern Slavery Act in the UK, we have set up a and the COBC case process. and have in place, the policies and mechanisms multi-disciplinary group to ensure that CCE and Any report is dealt with at both local and to comply with varying local, national and our suppliers comply with its requirements. corporate level by CCE’s RIGHT Call Committees international laws and regulations. We In 2015, we did not receive any fines for violations. (RCCs) including cross-functional representatives. benchmarked other industries to see if there The local RCC investigates reported cases and were new compliance risks and developed our TRAINING submits an anonymous monthly report to the approach for the 2016 assessment. We provide COBC training to all CCE employees Corporate RCC. The Corporate RCC has oversight every three years with new employees receiving of COBC violations and is able to address trends it as part of their induction. We expanded with senior leadership and review whether the specialist e-learning modules to cover insider COBC is being applied consistently. All incidents trading, Rugby World Cup™, special event are reported to the Audit Committee. hospitality, and anti-bribery to ensure compliance FACTSHEET 29/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 2015 CRS Data Table Indicates our CRS performance data is assured over a three-year cycle by DNV GL. Indicates our 2015 carbon footprint has been audited by DNV GL. From 2012 through 2014 this was audited by SGS. FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2012 2013 2014 2015 7 Choice Reduce calories per liter across our Reduction in calories 2020 Not previously Not previously 3.23 4.5 Wellbeing: – Calorie product portfolio by 10 percent.1, 2 per liter (%) 2 reported reported Product reduction Reduction in total calories Ongoing Not previously Not previously 5.4 7.5 Portfolio across portfolio (%) 2 reported reported Products which are noor Ongoing 31 31 31.8 32 low-calorie (<40 calories per 250 ml) (%) 4 Choice Offer a noor low-calorie alternative Full sugar brands with Ongoing 47.6 53.8 56 59 – Availability whenever regular soft drinks are a noor low-calorie available. alternative (%) 5 Choice Ensure that all soft drinks are available in Products in packs that are Ongoing 19 19 19 20.8 – Portion Size small portion size choices, and increase 250ml or less (%) the availability of small packs. Nutritional Ensure clear nutritional labeling on Products with on-pack Ongoing 97.9 98 99 99 Information front of packs across all our products. GDA labeling (%) 6, 7 Quality Ensure that our products meet the Facilities accredited to ISO 9001 Ongoing 94 100 100 100 highest quality and food safety and FSSC 22000 (%) 8 standards, in line with customer Number of product quality Ongoing 1.30 1.24 1.17 1.23 expectations. complaints per million units sold (CPMU) Responsible Not market any of our products to Compliance with responsible Ongoing Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement Marketing children under 12 and not sell our marketing, marketing to in progress in progress in progress in progress products in primary schools.1 children education channel and digital marketing guidelines (%) 8 Active Lifestyles Enable three million people to be Numbers of people engaged 2020 Measurement >900,000 1,000,000+ 1,000,000 Wellbeing: physically active by investing in in active lifestyle programs in progress Active grassroots programs which support Lifestyles active lifestyles.1 10 Carbon Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink Reduction in value chain CO2e 2020 Measurement 17.8 19 24 Our Carbon Footprint in your hand by a third. emissions/total number of developed Footprint products, since baseline (%) Carbon Grow our business, but reduce the Carbon footprint – core 2020 737 659 618 523 Footprint – absolute carbon footprint of our core business operations Core business business operations by 50 percent. (‘000 tonnes CO2e) 8, 9, 11, 12 CO 2e reduction since 2007 2020 15 23 29 40 baseline (%) 8, 9, 11, 12 11 Manufacturing Manufacture every liter of product with CO2e per liter of product 2020 25.5 23.56 23.8 52.9 Energy and 50 percent less emissions. manufactured (g/liter) 8, 12 Renewable Energy use ratio 2020 81.67 72.2 74.14 74.49 Energy (kWh/1,000 liter) 8, 10 Renewable Source 40 percent of our energy from Energy sourced from 2020 Measurement 3.6 5.5 32.8 and low-carbon renewable or low-carbon sources. renewable/low-carbon developed Energy sources (%) 8, 10, 12, 16 12 Distribution Deliver a case of product with 30 percent CO2e g per case of 2020 Measurement 171 13913 138 Transportation less carbon emissions. product (g/case) developed % reduction per case 2020 Not previously 12 26 29 delivered reported 13 Cold drinks Reduce the carbon emissions from our Average CO2e per unit of 2020 0.70 0.63 0.63 0.56 Cold Drinks equipment cold drinks equipment by an average of equipment (metric tonnes Equipment 50 percent. per unit) Reduction in average CO 2e 2020 23 38.7 39 45 per unit of equipment since baseline (%) 15 Lightweighting Reduce by 25 percent the amount of Packaging use ratio 2020 123.9 120.1 120.5 115 Sustainable material we use across all packaging (g/liter product) 14 Packaging formats. Total weight of packaging 2020 367,925 368,261 346,545 348,754 used (tonnes) Recycled Include recycled aluminum, glass, and Recycled aluminum, Ongoing 32.715 32.715 3515 3915 Material steel in respective packaging formats. steel and glass (%) Total recycled materials Ongoing 127,557 111,783 120,320 130,645 used (tonnes) PET Bottles Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use PET that is rPET or PET from 2020 Not previously Not previously Measurement 35.5 is recycled PET and/or PET from renewable materials16 reported reported in development renewable materials. PET that is rPET (%) 16 2020 25 32 34 34 % of PET bottles that 2020 26.9 33.3 27.8 9.3 are PlantBottle™(%) 16 Recyclability Continue to ensure that 100 percent of Cans and bottles Annual 99.4 100 100 100 cans and bottles are fully recyclable. recyclable (%) Support the development of infrastructure KPI in development 2025 Not previously Not previously Measurement Measurement and technology to enable recycling of all reported reported in development in development other packaging materials. 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. to products with GDA labeling rather than volume. The 2012 and 2013 11 Calculated according to a market based approach. Under a location based 2 Against a 2010 baseline. numbers therefore show the percentage of our products with GDA Labels. approach our total operational carbon footprint would be 572,309 tonnes 3 Restatement of 2014 figures, previously quoted the calorie reduction across 7 Does not include products which do not require GDA labeling CO2e. our total portfolio rather than per liter. such as waters and our fountain Bag in Box products. 12 These reductions were largely driven by the revised scope two GHG protocol 4 Measured using unit cases. 8 Does not include contracted packers (co-packers). reporting guidelines, which allow us to more accurately reflect the carbon 5 This includes all CCE’s full-sugar brands, excluding waters and hot 9 Due to a number of minor data recalculations including changes to emission footprint of the electricity we procure directly. drinks = 57%. Our most popular brands (Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite) all factors, we have restated the carbon footprint of our core business 13 2014 figures restated due to a data calculation error in French rail have low-calorie alternatives and together these make up over 90% operations in 2007 (our baseline year) as well as for subsequent years. kilometer figures. of CCE’s volume. 10 Includes sources: thermal energy – natural gas, heat or steam, electricity, 14 We have made some minor adjustments on the timings of full 6 We changed the way we measured against this target in 2012. Our 2011 data LPG, oil, diesel and renewables – solar PV,, geothermal. Does not include implementation of some of our lightweighting projects and on how to in this table shows the volume of our products with GDA labeling. From 2012 ‘output’ from CHP as natural gas ‘input energy’, as CHP is included within account for the sales volumes of some of our products in the calculation to ensure greater focus on smaller brands, we changed the measurement natural gas. of this metric. FACTSHEET 30/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 2015 CRS Data Table — continued Indicates our CRS performance data is assured over a three-year cycle by DNV GL. Indicates our 2015 carbon footprint has been audited by DNV GL. From 2012 through 2014 this was audited by SGS. FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 Manufacturing Send zero waste to landfill from our own Total waste produced (metric 2020 32,894 28,019 27,165 28,700 Recycling manufacturing operations. tonnes) 8, 17 Waste recycled (%) 8, 17 2020 99.4 99.5 99.5 99.6 Packaging Recycle more packaging than we use, Packaging recycled 2020 73 84 88 89 Recycling13 by championing improvements to as a percentage of collections schemes and supporting total used (%) 18 the recycling industry. Inspiring Increase packaging recovery rates Number of consumer Ongoing 32.3 million 46.3 million 35.3 million 37.3 million consumers by using our brands to educate and opportunities provided to view inspire consumers to recycle more often. brand-led recycle/recover messaging Packaging Support the wider packaging industry to KPI in development Ongoing Not previously Not previously Measurement Measurement innovation explore next-generation packaging.1 reported reported in development in development 18 Protect Protect the future sustainability of the Water safely returned to nature Ongoing 100 100 100 100 Water water sources we use and safely return (%) 8, 19, 21 Stewardship to nature 100 percent of the wastewater Manufacturing plants with Ongoing 100 100 100 100 from our manufacturing operations. Source Water Protection Plans implemented (%) 8 Reduce Reduce the amount of water we use, Water use ratio 2020 1.40 1.3620 1.36 1.35 aiming to manufacture every liter of (liters water/liter product) 8, 21 product using an average of 1.2 liters of water. Total water used 2020 8.8 8.6 8.5 8.2 (million cubic meters) 8, 21 19 Replenish Return to nature the water used in our Water replenished (% vs liters in 2020 Measurement 6.5 12 68 Protecting and beverages, where it is sourced from our beverages where sourced developed Replenishing areas of water stress by investing in from areas of water stress) 8 the Water community-based water programs.1 We Use Value chain Minimize water impacts in our Number of projects/ 2020 1 2 3 3 value chain through our sustainable partnerships established sourcing programs. 21 Ingredients Sustainably source 100 percent of our key Agricultural ingredients sourced 2020 Not previously Not previously Measurement Measurement Sustainable agricultural ingredients.1 from suppliers who comply with reported reported in development in development Agriculture our SAGPs (%) 22 Supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers to Number of suppliers Ongoing 130 140 140 140 Suppliers and Collaboration reduce carbon emissions across each completing CCE’s Carbon Sustainability stage of our value chain Challenge 24 Workplace Aspire to have a minimum Females in executive grades22 Ongoing 21 24 30 30 Employment diversity 40 percent females in both leadership and Diversity and management grades. Females in leadership grades 2025 21 24 25 26 (%) 22 Females in management 2025 32 34 36 38 grades (%) 22 Attract Attract, develop and motivate a highly Females in workforce (%) Ongoing 24 24 25 26 talented and diverse workforce. Voluntary turnover rate (%) Ongoing 6.4 5.4 5.7 5.2 Employees with individual Ongoing 64 76 86.7 87.3 development plans (%) Average training days per employee Ongoing 3 2.7 2.2 1.9 25 Workplace Encourage participation in our employee % employees participating in 2020 Not previously Not previously Measurement 31.223 A, Safe, Diversity wellbeing programs so that at least our employee wellbeing reported reported in development Healthy 50 percent of our employees take part. programs Workplace Zero Accidents Provide a safe and healthy work Lost-time accident rate Ongoing 1.1224 0.8924, 25 0.9524 0.82 environment with a vision of achieving (number of lost-time accidents zero accidents and attaining world per 100 full-time equivalent class health and safety status. employees) 8, 26 Number of fatalities 8 Ongoing 0 0 0 027 26 Social Invest one percent of our annual Pre-tax profit invested (%) 28 Annual 0.5 1.129 0.7 0.6 Community Investment pre-tax profit to support charitable and community partners and make a positive difference in the communities in which we operate. Community Invest in community projects and Total value of community Ongoing 3.9 9.129 5.9 5.5 partnerships where we can make the contributions (millions $) 28 biggest impact, aligned to our core business and CRS focus areas. Employee Support the active involvement Number of hours volunteered Ongoing 10,200 5,098 6,071 6,179 Volunteering of our employees by encouraging by CCE employees (hours) 30 them to volunteer. Supporting Support the skills development and Number of young people 2020 Not previously Not previously 130,000 >133,900 young people learning needs of 250,000 young reached through our Education reported reported people through our Education Program Progam each year each year. 15 Through collaboration with our suppliers we have improved our knowledge 22 We have restated our diversity data from 2012-2014 to align with our 28 CCE’s community investment contributions reported using the and transparency of our data and we are now able to provide figures for new diversity commitment. standardized approach provided by the LBG methodology. 2012 and 2013. We are in the process of recalculating 2011 data. 23 Represents total 2015 participation in wellbeing programs offered 29 This includes significant one-off investments in 2013. 16 Year-end figures. to all employees, which may include some overlap in participation. 30 Time includes both employee volunteering and employee 17 Waste data generated from manufacturing operations, and waste 24 Data recalculation due to data improvements. management time. contractor information. 25 Cold drinks centers transferred from commercial operations. 18 Percentage of packaging recycled by championing improvements to 26 CCE employees only. Whilst we capture contractor LTA data we do not collection schemes and investing in strategic infrastructure projects. 2012 include it in our LTA and we do not currently split by gender. Data not data recalculated due to data improvements. For further information see collected for the USA or Bulgaria, as work is solely office-based. ‘Calculation methodology – CCE Packaging Recycled’. 27 Tragically in 2016, one of our long-term contractors died as a result of 19 In compliance with local regulations. an industrial accident at our Antwerp manufacturing operation. This 20 2013 figures restated due to revisions in production litre volumes. will be captured in our 2016 figures. 21 Data gathered through internal KORE management and ISO 14001 systems. FACTSHEET 30/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Social Data Lost-time accident rate 2007–20151 2.97 Supply Chain Commercial and sales CCE TOTAL 2 2.65 Number of lost-time accidents per 100 full-time equivalent employees. 2.45 2.16 1.96 1.87 2.97 2.97 2.97 2.97 2.97 2.97 2.97 2.97Supply 2.97Supply ChainSupply 2.97 ChainSupply ChainSupply Commercial Commercial ChainSupply Chain Commercial and Chain and Commercial Supply sales Chain Commercial Supply andSupply sales andTOTAL Commercial Chain sales CCE Chain sales CCE Commercial TOTAL Commercial CCE and22TOTAL sales 2 and2TOTAL sales 1.65 and CCE sales andCommercial CCE and 2 sales TOTAL CCE sales 2 CCE TOTAL TOTAL 2 CCE CCE TOTAL 2 1.69TOTAL 2 2 1.58 1.50 2.65 2.65 2.65 2.65 2.65 2.65 2.65 2.65 2.65 2.65 1.41 1.40 1.31 2.45 2.45 2.45 2.45 2.45 2.45 2.45 2.45 2.45 2.45 1.20 1.17 1.12 1.07 1.06 2.16 2.16 2.16 2.16 2.16 2.16 2.16 2.16 2.16 2.16 0.86 0.92 0.89 1.96 1.96 1.96 1.87 1.96 1.87 1.96 1.87 1.96 1.87 1.96 1.87 1.96 1.96 1.87 1.96 1.87 1.87 1.87 1.87 1.65 1.65 1.65 1.65 1.69 1.65 1.69 1.65 1.69 1.65 1.69 1.65 1.69 1.69 1.69 1.69 1.69 1.69 1.65 1.58 1.50 1.58 1.581.65 1.501.58 1.50 1.58 1.50 1.58 1.50 1.58 1.50 1.58 1.50 1.58 1.58 1.50 1.50 1.41 1.41 1.41 1.41 1.40 1.40 1.41 1.40 1.501.401.41 1.41 1.40 1.41 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.40 1.40 1.40 1.40 1.31 1.31 1.31 1.31 1.31 1.31 1.31 1.31 1.31 2009 1.22 1.27 20101.27 1.22 1.27 1.27 1.27 1.27 2012 1.27 1.27 1.20 1.20 1.17 1.20 1.201.17 2007 1.20 1.12 1.17 1.12 1.20 1.12 1.17 1.2020081.20 1.17 1.171.22 1.17 1.22 1.20 1.17 1.17 1.27 1.22 1.22 1.22 2011 1.22 1.22 20133 2 1.07 1.07 1.07 1.06 1.07 1.06 1.12 1.07 1.061.07 1.061.07 1.06 1.061.121.06 1.12 1.07 1.07 1.06 1.01 1.12 1.061.011.12 1.011.12 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 Data0.92 recalculation 1 0.86 0.86 0.890.92 0.860.890.92 and0.86 0.92 0.89 changes 0.86 0.83 0.92 0.89 to0.83 previous 0.860.89 0.92 0.86 0.83years 0.92 0.89 0.820.89 due 0.86 0.83 0.92 to0.86 data 0.82 0.83 0.92 0.89 improvements. 0.83 0.890.83 0.82 0.820.83 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.83 2 Nordics are included from the year 2010 onwards. 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 3 Cold Drinks Centers transferred from commercial to operations. 2007 2007 20072008 20072008 20072008 20072009 2008 2007 200920082007 20092007 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 20082011 2010 20092011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 201220112010 2011 2012 2010 2010 20122011 2012 2013 33 2013 2011 2011 2012 3 2013 2011 2012 3 2013 2014 20123 2013 2014 2013 2012 201232014 2014 3 2015 20132015 3 20132015 2014 3 2013 20143 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 1 Data 1recalculation Dataand Data1 recalculation Data and 1recalculation 1 recalculation changes Data changes toand recalculation Data changes 1previous and to1 recalculation previous Data years to1and changes dueData recalculation 1 toData previous changes and recalculation previous years due data recalculation years changes to and data previous due years changes improvements. and to data to due changes improvements. previous years and to changes previous data due toimprovements. toprevious years improvements. years to previous data due to years due data improvements. due to data years toimprovements. datato improvements. data improvements. improvements. due 2 Nordics are 2 2 Nordics Nordics included from Nordics are2included are the included 2 from year Nordics are included the from areonwards. year 22010 Nordics 2the2010 from Nordics year included 2the areonwards. Nordics 2010 from year are included are included the from 2010 2 onwards. Nordics year included are from onwards. the 2010 year fromyearthe onwards. 2010 the included year onwards. 2010 from the year onwards. 2010 onwards. 2010 onwards. 3 Cold 3Drinks Cold3Centers 3Drinks ColdCenters Cold Centers Drinks Drinks 3 transferred transferred Cold from 3Drinks Cold Centers transferred from commercial Cold Drinks commercial 3Centers transferred 3Drinks from Cold Centers Drinks commercial totransferred 3fromCenters Cold to transferred operations. Centers Drinks from transferred to operations. operations. commercial transferred from commercial Centers transferred tocommercial to operations. commercial from fromtocommercial operations. operations. to operations. from commercial to operations. to operations. Lost-time accident rate by country 20154 Supply Chain Commercial and sales CCE TOTAL Number of lost-time accidents per 100 full-time equivalent employees. 3.07 Supply SupplySupplySupply Chain Chain Chain Supply Chain Supply Commercial Chain Supply Commercial Chain Supply Commercial Supply Chain Chain Commercial Commercial and Chain and and sales Commercial sales andsales Commercial Commercial sales and and Commercial sales CCE and sales CCE CCE TOTAL andsales TOTAL and CCE TOTAL sales CCE sales TOTAL CCE TOTAL TOTAL CCE TOTAL CCE TOTAL CCE TOTAL 3.073.073.073.07 3.073.073.073.07 3.07 1.49 1.27 1.34 0.65 1.03 0.82 0.37 0.83 0.81 1.49 1.491.491.49 1.49 1.491.49 1.49 1.49 0.55 0.23 1.27 1.271.271.27 1.27 1.271.27 1.27 1.341.341.341.34 1.34 1.341.34 1.34 1.34 0.870.870.870.87 0.870.870.870.87 0.87 0.0 1.27 0.69 0.69 0.69 0.69 0.69 0.69 0.69 0.69 0.650.650.650.65 0.650.650.65 0.65 0.65 1.03 1.031.031.03 1.03 1.031.03 1.03 1.03 0.630.630.630.63 0.63 0.63 1.09 1.09 1.090.63 1.09 0.63 1.09 0.63 1.02 1.02 1.09 1.02 1.09 1.02 1.09 1.020.97 1.09 1.02 0.69 1.02 1.02 1.02 All CCE 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 Great Britain France Belux5 Net 0.820.820.820.82 0.820.82 0.82 0.37 0.37 0.82 0.370.82 0.37 0.83 0.370.83 0.83 0.370.83 0.37 0.370.83 0.83 0.370.83 0.81 0.810.830.810.83 0.810.81 0.81 0.810.81 0.810.28 0.380.380.380.38 0.38 0.38 0.380.380.38 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.230.23 0.230.230.230.23 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.28 0.550.550.550.55 0.550.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.000.000.000.000.000.000.000.00 40.00 0.00Data not 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 collected 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 for 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 the USA 0.00 0.000.00 0.00 0.00 0.00work as 0.00 0.00is solely office-based. 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5 6Belux6 commercial LTA rate is7high due to a relatively low number of FTEs in Luxembourg. All CCE All CCE CCE All All CCE All CCE All CCE All CCE AllGreat Great Great CCE CCE AllGreat Britain Britain Britain Great Britain GreatBritain France Great France Great Britain France Britain Great France France Britain BritainFrance France France Belux Belux 55 France Belux Belux 5 Belux 5 Belux 5 Netherlands Belux 5 Belux 5 Netherlands Netherlands Netherlands Belux 5 Netherlands 5 Netherlands Netherlands Netherlands Norway Norway Netherlands Norway Norway Norway Norway Sweden Norway Norway Sweden 6Sweden Sweden Sweden Norway 6 6 Sweden 6 6 6Bulgaria Sweden Bulgaria Sweden Bulgaria Data Bulgaria Sweden not 7 6 7 Bulgaria Bulgaria 77 6 Bulgaria collected 7 7 Bulgaria Bulgaria separately 7 7 on commercial employees in Sweden. 4 Data not Data 44 Data 4 Data not not 4notData collected collected collected collected 4 Data not 4forcollected Data for the not the USA 4forUSA Data4 collected the not for Data collected not forwork work USA the as the USA as asnot collected forwork isthe USA as is for work collected solely USA as is the solely for office-based. the USA is as solely work for as the solely work isoffice-based. USA office-based. solely work USA is work office-based. is assolely assolely office-based. office-based. is solely work office-based. office-based. office-based. is solely 7 Bulgarian office data first collected in 2015. Belux 55 Belux 5 Belux Belux 5commercial 5commercial Belux commercial Belux LTA 5 Belux commercial 5commercial LTA commercial Belux rate is LTA 5commercial 5LTA rate rate is iscommercial LTA rate high Belux high due high rate due is LTA to commercial high due to LTA rate is due relatively aahightorate ahigh LTA is due to relatively relatively rate ahigh LTA is to duerate low is low due relatively ahigh relatively tonumber low isahigh number duelow a to relatively tonumber relatively number low to due ofaFTEs of low FTEs relatively number ofaFTEs in in low relatively number of in FTEs oflow Luxembourg. Luxembourg. number FTEs Luxembourg. low FTEs innumber of of in number Luxembourg. FTEs inofLuxembourg. FTEs Luxembourg. in Luxembourg. inofLuxembourg. FTEs in Luxembourg. 66 Data not 6 Data Data not collected 6notData collected not 6 Data 6 Data collected 6separately not collected not 6separately collected Data separately 6 separately not Data collected on onnot separately Data collected commercial on commercial on collected not collected separately commercial separately commercial onseparately commercial employees employees commercial commercial onemployees onseparately employees onin employees incommercial Sweden. oninemployees Sweden. commercial Sweden. Sweden. inemployeesSweden. inemployees inemployees Sweden. in Sweden. in Sweden. in Sweden. 7 Bulgarian 77 Bulgarian Bulgarian 7office 7 Bulgarian 7office office Bulgarian data Bulgarian data 7office office data Bulgarian first 7 data Bulgarian collected first first Bulgarian first collected data 7office collected office data in first collected in data first collected office 2015. 2015. inoffice data first collected in 2015. in 2015. data first collected 2015. first collected in 2015.in 2015. collected in 2015.in 2015. WORKPLACE PROFILE DIVERSITY PROFILE 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Total employees 11,750 11,650 11,500 Females on Board of Directors (%) 33 33 33 Full-time employees (%) 96 95.6 96 Females in executive roles (%) 25 30 30 Male 98 99 Females in leadership roles (%) 24 25 26 Female 89 89 Females in management roles (%) 34 36 38 Voluntary turnover rate (%) 5.4 5.7 5.2 Females in non-management roles (%) 23 24 24 New hire rate (%) 5.2 Females in workforce (%) 24 25 26 Absentee rate (%) 4.6 5.1 1 Board of Directors members over 40 (%) 100 100 100 Employees with Individual Development Plans (%) 76 86.7 87.3 Ethnically diverse members of the Board 17 17 17 of Directors (%) Average training days per employee 2.7 2.2 1.9 Equal remuneration Executive 102 107 Age profile of workforce (%) <20 0 0.2 0.3 (median compensation of men vs. women) (%)2 Management 110 112 20–29 16 15.9 15.8 Non105 105 30–39 32 30.5 29.8 Management 40–49 33 32.6 31.7 50–59 17 18.2 19.7 60+ 2 2.6 2.8 Percentage of employees covered 76 76 by collective bargaining agreements FACTSHEET 31/32 1 Data is accurate through mid-December 2 Pay ratio is based upon a sample size of 43% 2015. Due to a technical system change we of our total workforce. are note able to provide full year-end data for this indicator. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 Assurance SCOPE AND APPROACH We understand that the reported financial Coca-Cola Enterprises Limited (“Coca-Cola data and information are based on data Enterprises”) commissioned DNV GL Business from Coca-Cola Enterprises’ 2015 Annual Assurance Services UK Limited (“DNV GL”) Report, which is subject to a separate to undertake independent assurance of its independent audit process. The review of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability financial data taken from the Annual Report • Review of Coca-Cola Enterprises’ Report 2015/2016 (the “Report”) and the is not within the scope of our work. approach to stakeholder engagement GHG emissions from its European operations We planned and performed our work to and recent outputs; and offices in the United States of America obtain the evidence we considered necessary • Review of information provided to us by disclosed therein for the year ended to provide a basis for our assurance opinion. Coca-Cola Enterprises on its reporting 31 December 2015. We are providing a ‘moderate level’ of and management processes relating to We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance. A ‘high level’ of assurance would the Principles; assurance methodology VeriSustainTM, which have required additional work at Group and • Interviews with ten selected Directors is based on our professional experience, site level to gain further evidence to support and senior managers responsible for international assurance best practice the basis of our assurance opinion. management of corporate responsibility including the AA1000 Assurance Standard, RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD and sustainability issues and review International Standard on Assurance of selected evidence to support OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000), and the issues discussed; Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability OF COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES AND OF THE ASSURANCE PROVIDERS • Site visits to the following Coca-Cola Reporting Guidelines. We evaluated the report Enterprises sites to review process and for adherence to the VeriSustainTM Principles The Management of Coca-Cola Enterprises systems for preparing site level key (the “Principles”) of stakeholder inclusiveness, have sole responsibility for the preparation of performance data and implementation materiality, responsiveness, completeness, the Report. In performing our assurance work, of corporate responsibility and neutrality and reliability. our responsibility is to the management of sustainability strategy and initiatives: We evaluated the performance data using the Coca-Cola Enterprises; however our statement represents our independent opinion and is • Uxbridge, United Kingdom: reliability principle together with Coca-Cola European Headquarters Enterprises’ data protocols for how the data intended to inform all Coca-Cola Enterprises’ stakeholders. DNV GL was not involved in • Paris, France: Corporate office is measured, recorded and reported. The performance data in scope was: the preparation of any statements or data • Dunkirque, France: Manufacturing site included in the Report except for this • Jordbro, Sweden: Manufacturing site Water use Assurance Statement. • Water used (1,000 liter) • Review of supporting evidence for key This is the fourth year that we have provided claims and data in the report. Our checking • Water use ratio (Liters of water/liter assurance of Coca-Cola Enterprises’ Report. processes were prioritised according of product manufactured) Our assurance team also undertook a Scope to materiality and we based our • Water safely returned to nature (%) 2 Readiness Assessment of Coca-Cola prioritisation on the materiality of issues Enterprises’ revised GHG Inventory emissions at a consolidated corporate level; Recycling reporting methodology, supporting data and • Number of consumer opportunities assumptions for compliance against the new • Review of the processes for gathering provided to view brand-led recycle/ Scope 2 requirements of the GHG Protocol and consolidating the specified key recover messaging Corporate Standard in January 2016. DNV GL performance data and, for a sample, provides a range of certification services to checking the data consolidation; and Carbon Footprint Coca-Cola Enterprises, none of which • An independent assessment of • Carbon footprint – core business constitute a conflict of interest with this Caca-Cola Enterprises’ reporting operations (1,000 tons CO2e) assurance work. against the Global Reporting Initiative • CO2e reduction since 2007 baseline (%) DNV GL’s assurance engagements are (GRI) G4 Guidelines, ‘Core’ level. • Scope 1, Direct emissions (1,000 tons CO2e) based on the assumption that the data and OPINION • Scope 2, Indirect emissions information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good On the basis of the work undertaken, (1,000 tons CO2e) (location and faith. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability nothing came to our attention to suggest market-based approach) or co-responsibility for any decision a person that the Report does not properly describe • Scope 3, Third party emissions Coca-Cola Enterprises’ adherence to the or an entity may make based on this (1,000 tons CO2e) Principles. In terms of reliability of the Assurance Statement. performance data, nothing came to our Wellbeing BASIS OF OUR OPINION attention to suggest that these data have • Reduction in calories per liter (%) A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability not been properly collated from information • Products which are noor low-calorie reported at operational level, nor that the and assurance specialists performed work (<40 calories per 250ml) (%) assumptions used were inappropriate. at corporate and site level. We undertook • Full sugar brands with a noor the following activities: We believe that the Report is in line with the low-calorie alternative (%) ‘Core’ requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines. • Review of the current corporate • Products in packs that are 250ml responsibility and sustainability issues or less (%) that could affect Coca-Cola Enterprises • Number of people engaged in active and are of interest to stakeholders; lifestyle programs FACTSHEET 32/32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 — 2016 OBSERVATIONS Completeness and these were corrected prior to inclusion in Without affecting our assurance opinion How much of all the information that has the Report and corrective actions have been we also provide the following observations. been identified as material to the organisation identified. These errors resulted from the and its stakeholders is reported. inaccurate application of the Coca-Cola The Report presents an update of the Enterprises internal reporting procedures, Coca-Cola Enterprises’ activities and The Report provides a good overview of performance across the organisation, at following a harmonisation of multiple safety performance against its Sustainability Plan data reporting systems into one global and we specifically welcome the introduction corporate and operational levels, and includes upstream and downstream impacts of its system. We recommend that Coca-Cola of a 10-year historic review of key milestones Enterprises considers providing further for the business (see Factsheet 05 – 10 Years operations and products. The Report covers the organisation’s impacts over a longer time training to relevant employees on using the of Sustainability). As this the last Corporate new safety systems and establishes stricter Responsibility and Sustainability Report of frame, including long-term targets and historic performance on key performance data. controls around the data collection and review Coca-Cola Enterprises before becoming part mechanisms. of Coca-Cola European Partners, after the Neutrality merger with Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke The extent to which a report provides a and Coca-Cola Iberian Partners; we look For and on behalf of DNV GL Business balanced account of an organisation’s forward to seeing how the Coca-Cola Assurance Services UK Limited London, UK performance, delivered in a neutral tone. Enterprises’ sustainability commitments will 6 May 2016 be embedded within the new organisation The tone in the Report is generally neutral and the sharing and transfer of knowledge and, with no obvious and deliberate intent to and expertise. unduly influence the reader. The Report discloses both favourable and unfavourable Stakeholder inclusiveness performance data in accordance with the The participation of stakeholders in Sustainability Plan and its focus areas. Gareth Manning developing and achieving an accountable However, we recommend Coca-Cola Principal Consultant and Lead Assuror and strategic response to sustainability. Enterprises provides more commentary on the UK Sustainability, DNV GL – challenges it faces in areas of less favourable Business Assurance We observed a good level of stakeholder engagement related to the commitments in performance, such as commercial losttime Coca-Cola Enterprises’ Sustainability Plan and accident rate, and disclose its plans for day-to-day business activities at both the improvement going forward; and areas where corporate and operational levels. The further progress will become increasingly Jon Woodhead engagement considers the views of a wide difficult, such as energy use and energy use Head of Department and Reviewer range of internal and external stakeholders ratio reduction. UK Sustainability, DNV GL – and is clearly disclosed in the Report through Business Assurance Reliability examples and case studies, as well as forward The accuracy and comparability of looking thought leadership pieces such as the information presented in the report, as ‘Rethinking Business’ executive roundtables in well as the quality of underlying data conjunction with the Financial Times, as well as management systems. the Sustainable Manufacturing for the Future whitepaper with Cranfield University, (see Coca-Cola Enterprises has well-established Factsheet 06 – Innovate for the Future). processes for compilation, submission and approval of water use, carbon footprint, Materiality recycling and well-being performance data The process for determining the issues (see specific metrics above) from its that are most relevant to an organisation operations to corporate level systems. We and its stakeholders. found a limited number of errors and Coca-Cola Enterprises has demonstrated a omissions and these were corrected prior to robust and effective process for determining inclusion in the Report. and prioritising material issues at corporate We restate our recommendation that level, as part of the review of its Sustainability Coca-Cola Enterprises publishes and Plan in 2014. While there was no materiality signposts its methodology for collecting and update in 2015, the process in 2014 considered reporting key performance data included in inputs from a wide range of sources, including the ‘CRS data table’ factsheet. the expectations of internal and external This was the first reporting period that stakeholders, megatrends, financial Coca-Cola Enterprises have reported their considerations, policies and regulations, Scope 2 GHG emissions using the marketcorporate and local environments, and based method following the amendment to overall sustainability context. the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. Across Responsiveness Coca-Cola Enterprises’ sites, we observed The extent to which an organisation varying quality and detail in the energy responds to stakeholder issues. certificates used for calculating this method. In subsequent reporting periods, as more The Report presents a good overview of sites begin reporting their Scope 2 emissions how Coca-Cola Enterprises has consulted following the market-based method, we with a wide range of key stakeholders and recommend Coca-Cola Enterprises seeks DNV GL Business Assurance Services UK has engaged and responded to corporate consistency in the quality of information used Limited is part of DNV GL – Business responsibility and sustainability issues. in all its sites’ certificates. Assurance, a global provider of certification, The publication of responses to stakeholder verification, assessment and training services, feedback on key issues linked to its We found a limited number of material errors helping customers to build sustainable Sustainability Plan (see Factsheet as well as some non-material errors in the business performance. 28 – Stakeholders and Materiality) is Lost-time Accident rate performance data, www.dnvgl.co.uk/BetterAssurance particularly effective and transparent. FACTSHEET 32/32 Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. 2500 Windy Ridge Parkway Atlanta, GA 30339 +1 678 260-3000 European Headquarters Coca-Cola Enterprises, Ltd. Enterprises House Bakers Road Uxbridge UB8 1EZ GB +44 1895 231313 wwww.cokecce.com
