THE SCANIA REPORT 2015 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Vehicles and services Opeating income No. of employees Connected vehicles SEK m. SEK m. No. Units (accumulated) 100,000 12,500 50,000 200,000 80,000 10,000 40,000 150,000 60,000 7,500 30,000 100,000 40,000 5,000 20,000 50,000 20,000 2,500 10,000 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net sales Operating income Number of employees Connected vehicles 94,897 9,641 44,409 167,704 2015 provided a challenging demand Scania managed to reach a double-digit In the past few years, Scania has There has been strong growth in deliveries situation with vast differences between operating margin in 2015. The market employed more people in sales, marketing of connected vehicles, an enabler for Scania’s major markets. By increasing mix, record high service volume, positive and services to support growth in Scania in increasing support to customers market share in some markets Scania currency rate effects and record earnings emerging markets. The number of by offering more efficient services. managed to keep deliveries at a stable from Financial Services were partly offset employees in Research and Development Beneﬁts include lower fuel consumption level. The service business reached an all by declining volumes in other markets. has also increased to further strengthen and emissions, improved trafﬁc safety and time high. the product and service portfolio to optimisation of ﬁlling rates and transport achieve growth and proﬁtability ambitions. routes. Customer profitability at the core Improving customer profitability, and consequently our own, is core in our business model. Page 12 Information Online On Scania’s corporate website additional information about the company’s performance during the year can be found. The website provides CEO statement truck registration statistics, key financial Scania’s CEO Henrik ratios, sustainability data and more. It is Henriksson on our possible to subscribe to financial reports performance in 2015 and press releases via e-mail, and to and vision going order printed reports in single copies. forward. Visit www.scania.com/group/en Page 4 CONTENTS SCANIA IN BRIEF Scania at a glance 2015 2 CEO Statement 4 A company culture guided by core values 6 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Opportunities in a changing world 8 Understanding our priorities 10 Customer profitability at the core 12 Tailor-made solutions increase our flexibility 14 Extensive service offering, enhancing customer profitability 16 Our employees are our strength 18 One step ahead of a fast-changing market 20 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Creating value The path to sustainable transport 22 With a holistic view, Improved energy efficiency through cooperation 24 we strive for solutions Taking the lead in alternative fuels 26 that create value to all Smarter transport through connectivity 28 stakeholders in the value Responding to every need 30 chain. Page 32 CREATING VALUE 32 Creating value for our stakeholders throughout our value chain RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 34 How Scania works CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 39–53, 108 Market trends 2015 39 Risks and risk management 43 Board of Directors and Executive Board 48 Group financial review 51 The path to sustainable FINANCIAL REPORTS 54–107 transport Consolidated income statements 56 Sustainable transport Consolidated balance sheets 58 is about moving Consolidated statements of changes in equity 60 people and goods Consolidated cash flow statements 61 while contributing to Notes to the consolidated financial statements 62 economic and social development. Parent Company financial statements, Scania AB 105 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 106 Page 22 Proposed distribution of earnings 108 Audit report 109 Key financial ratios and figures 111 Definitions 112 Multi-year statistical review 113 GRI INDEX 115–119 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 120 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 1 SCANIA IN BRIEF With the aim to be the leader in sustainable transport, at Scania we are building our business while creating value for our customers, employees and society. Delivering customised heavy trucks, buses, engines and services, our focus is on efficient, low-carbon solutions that enhance customer profitability. SCANIA AT A GLANCE 2015 WE OPERATE IN Luleå Lathi Södertälje St. Petersburg Oskarshamn Słupsk Meppel Zwolle Angers Taipei Bangkok Bengaluru Kuala Lumpur Johannesburg Tucumán São Paulo Regional product centres Production units Research and development Sales and services Net sales by product segment 2015, % 6 1 5 Sales and deliveries 2015, geographic distribution, % Trucks Buses and coaches Engines Services 69,762 Units 6,799 Units 8,485 Units SEK 20,585 m 4 1 1 1 4 5 1 5 2 3 2 3 4 5 4 3 5 4 3 2 2 3 2 1. Trucks 61% 1. Latin America 12% 1. Latin America 31% 1. Latin America 38% 1. Latin America 13% 2. Buses 9% 3. Engines 2% 2. Europe 62% 2. Europe 28% 2. Europe 31% 2. Europe 69% 4. Service 20% 3. Africa and Oceania 6% 3. Africa and Oceania 13% 3. Africa and Oceania 8% 3. Africa and Oceania 6% 5. Used vehicles 6% 4. Eurasia 4% 4. Eurasia 1% 4. Eurasia 1% 4. Eurasia 3% 6. Other 2% 5. Asia 16% 5. Asia 27% 5. Asia 22% 5. Asia 9% 2 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 SCANIA IN BRIEF WE DELIVER VALUE TO Customers: Employees: Suppliers: Owners/lenders: Society: Driver training Health attendance Cost of goods Return on capital Investments in R&D employed 30,000 96.3% 44,134 19.3% 5,600 In 2015 Scania trained Total global health The goods bought The return on capital In 2015 Scania 30,000 drivers in safe attendance in 2015 was from suppliers in employed in 2015 was invested SEK 5,600 and efficient driving. on a high and stable level 2015 amounted to stable at 19.3 percent. million in research and of 96.3 percent. SEK 44,134 million. development. WE PROVIDE SOLUTIONS IN TRUCKS BUSES AND COACHES Scania supports transport companies across Scania offers a complete range of city buses the world by delivering tailor-made heavy trucks and coaches for public transport operators and used for each customer’s need, including coach companies. As urbanisation increases, long-haulage, distribution and construction. public transport is growing in importance. ENGINES SERVICES Scania engines can be found at the heart of Scania has an extensive services offering, machines required to be in use 24 hours a including workshop services, connected day, including wheel loaders, patrol boats and vehicle services, driver training and coaching emergency power gensets. and quick access to parts to enhance For more information, visit customers’ vehicle performance. www.scania.com/group/en Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 3 CEO STATEMENT At the UN Conference on Climate Change, COP21, in December 2015, world leaders committed to limit the global temperature increase to 2°C. This was a milestone – for the climate, and for global society and business. Our industry will play a particularly important role in this challenge. CONTINUING THE LEAD IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT An expanding population, increasing urbanisation and growing in market development, by swiftly rebalancing and refocusing our economies will lead to continued demand for mobility of goods resources. Our ﬂexible global production system proves the resilience and people. This growth must be managed while at the same time of our organisation. reducing emissions and climate footprint. As a leader in our industry, Nevertheless, we see no signs of a quick recovery, neither in Brazil nor we aim to continue taking the lead in driving this change. Transport Russia. Therefore our focus in 2016 will continue to be on adjusting and mobility must be a part of the solution, and Scania is well to the lower demand situation in two of our most important markets positioned to take on the challenge. through increased flexibility, cost control and by growing in emerging markets. A challenging but strong year 2015 was a year of challenges. Our industry has seen four years of Success through innovative solutions moving sideways. Demand has dropped dramatically in some of Scania’s success is related to our attractive market offer. We continue our most important markets like Brazil, Russia and the Middle East. to develop tailored solutions relevant to the customer, while the overall Although demand in Europe has rebounded, it is more important than quality of our products has never been better. Our market share has ever to maintain ﬂexibility, keep an eye on costs and leverage on our been strengthened and in Europe, it is higher than ever. initiatives in research and development, production and sales. In our bus and coach business, we have gained market share, Growth in emerging markets will have to come in new ways in the particularly in Europe. At the same time we are revamping our product future. Recent developments have illustrated this. The ﬂexibility in our portfolio at a steady pace. We have taken some signiﬁcant deals on product offerings deriving from our unique modular product system Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems and package solutions to cities like will be needed to build a rolling vehicle population in this part of the Accra, Cartagena and Jakarta. world. Geographically, this is where our long-term growth will be, Our service business has shown great success. Inspired by the and the past year should not discourage from becoming even more modular product system we are developing and tailoring our services focused on the emerging markets. offering. One example is our ﬂexible maintenance plans precisely With this said, 2015 was also an impressive year for Scania. Despite adapted for each individual vehicle based on operational data. The the market situation, we were still able to maintain a double-digit data we receive from our connected vehicles enables us to offer new margin performance. We responded to the geographic differences 4 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 SCANIA IN BRIEF The future ahead Looking ahead, in a world increasingly dependent on safe and efficient transport, we need to take a holistic view. Scania already has innovative technologies in place to meet tomorrow’s transport needs, for example the broadest market range of alternative fuels. However, I see a huge potential to increase the efficiency of today’s transport services. This creates new business opportunities for Scania. Taking out waste in the system is what changes the game in our industry. Scania already has innovative technologies in place to meet tomorrow’s transport needs, for example the broadest market range of alternative fuels. For Scania, elimination of waste is part of our heritage and a cornerstone in our core values and strategy. Through tailored solutions, we drive efficiency and profitability for our customers and our customers’ customers throughout the whole logistical value business opportunities within services. Our investment in the rolling chain. Guided by our core values and our approach to continuous ﬂeet has paid off, and at the end of the year up to 170,000 Scania improvements, together with our ability to use the data from our vehicles were connected in the world. connected vehicles, we have a strong leadership position on the path towards a sustainable transport system. Driving customer value through partnership Dedicated employees the core Scania will continue to offer innovative products and services. During 2015 Scania filed patent applications regarding 264 new Scania’s success builds on our dedicated and skilled workforce inventions, which puts us at the top in Sweden. Our innovative consisting of employees with highly varying backgrounds and capacity and technology leadership are dependent on collaboration nationalities. The right mix of competence will be a prerequisite with the right partners with different industries, research institutes for Scania to continue taking the lead in sustainable transport. and universities. Our research projects with academia and the private I would like to take the opportunity to thank all employees for their sector, such as the Integrated Transport Research Lab at Stockholm’s contribution to strengthen our operations and making Scania this Royal Institute of Technology, will therefore continue to be of great successful. I look forward to continuing the journey of this great importance. During the year, the cooperation within Volkswagen company. Together we will continue to broaden the offering of Truck & Bus on current and future collaboration proceeded and the products and services that drives profitability for our customers, and cooperation with MAN on the development of common component I am convinced that we can further strengthen our efforts to reinforce platforms continued. The cooperation is bearing fruit and we can our leading position in the industry. already see clear synergies. Through collaboration and partnerships, Scania will be faster in responding to trends, adapting new technological developments and finding new and efficient solutions. To have the capacity to create long-term customer value, we also need to be a responsible business partner. We therefore actively work with the ten principles of the UN Henrik Henriksson Global Compact in our operations. President and CEO, Scania Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 5 SCANIA IN BRIEF Scania’s core values – Customer first, Respect for the individual and Quality – define our company culture and are the basis for our business development and working methods. Closely linked, our core values guide our actions and create value for Scania’s stakeholders. A COMPANY CULTURE GUIDED BY CORE VALUES OUR CORE VALUES Scania’s employees are at the centre of our culture and working processes. Guided by our core values and with a strong focus on continuous improvement every individual contributes in maintaining our culture and high standards. Throughout decades, our core values have been the guiding star throughout the Scania organisation, together with our working methods based on a mindset of continuous improvements. CUSTOMER FIRST RESPECT FOR QUALITY THE INDIVIDUAL Understanding our customers’ business From drivers of vehicles to our High-quality solutions are essential leads to solutions that enhance employees on the production line, the for our customers’ profitability. customer profitability by means of high individual stands at the centre in all Knowledge of our customers’ needs earning capacity and low operating that we do. ­We seek to capture the and requirements ensure that our cost. The customer’s operations and knowledge, ­experience and ambition of products and services meet the highest resource efficiency are at the centre of each i­ndividual to continuously improve demands. Deviations from targets the value chain: from R&D, sourcing and and develop our working methods. and standards are used as a valuable production to delivery and financing of ­Inspiration and new ideas emerging source of continuous improvement. vehicles, engines and services. from our daily work lead to higher We seize every opportunity to eliminate ­quality, efficiency and job satisfaction. waste and inefficiencies. 6 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 SCANIA IN BRIEF OUR WAYS OF WORKING Our working methods are founded on our core values with a Scania Retail System (SRS) is applied to improve the strong focus on continuous improvements applied throughout customer experience, service flow and shorten lead the entire organisation. This approach is delivering high time. The R&D organisation applies the same principles, quality in all areas. The Scania Production System (SPS) striving for shorter lead times to the market and faster is based on this approach where focus is on eliminating delivery of customer value. This philosophy and working waste, improving resource efficiency and optimising flows method is also used within purchasing, financial services in production. Across the entire service network, and administration. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 7 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Scania is well-positioned to meet the transport LOCAL IMPACT needs of a rapidly changing world. Leveraging our Urbanisation deep knowledge of different industry verticals and Stockholm, Sweden: Stockholm is expected to be the fastest growing city in Europe in the taking major driving forces into account in decisioncoming five years, with its population expanding by 11 percent by 2020. making, Scania will continue to build a robust brand that our customers trust and society values. Economic OPPORTUNITIES IN fluctuations Brazil: The decrease in real GDP 2015 was -1.3% A CHANGING WORLD as projected by the World Bank in June 2015. Two years earlier the World Bank had projected a 3.8% Congestion growth for 2015. Accra, Ghana: The number of vehicles on the road is estimated to have grown by a factor of five in the past 15 to 20 years. The world is changing rapidly and so does the business landscape. Global driving forces and broad trends are reshaping the society and challenging all industries. A world growing while GLOBAL DRIVING FORCES becoming globalised, urbanised and digitalised is by definition also a world becoming more complex and demanding flexible and • Climate change • Access to energy efficient solutions. Climate change is one of the Many countries rely on most critical environmental import of oil, which today is Climate change is an increasingly important driver for companies and social problems facing the primary energy source and their operations, underscoring the need for collective action to the world today. for transport. To cut cost address complex challenges. A strained ecosystem is putting limits and secure independence • Population growth these nations see a need on growth based on fossil fuels, with long-term implications for The world’s population is to find alternatives and access to raw materials. growing. The UN predicts that rid themselves of the oil the global population will grow dependency. The market climate is also more competitive. Stakeholders’ needs from currently seven billion to become more specific and the expectations are higher on the nine billion by 2050. • Changing legislation A range of policies and industry when it comes to transparency and responsibility. The • Urbanisation regulations impact the development is also stimulating product innovation and creating Almost 60 percent of the transport industry, from business opportunities. global population will live climate change, air and in cities by 2030, most in water quality to safety emerging markets. and congestion. Industry challenges • Digitalisation • Transparency and The transport sector is in the midst of a paradigm shift. Economic New technology facilitates the accountability growth and demand for transport need to be decoupled from emergence of interconnected Stakeholder expectations negative environmental impacts and increased emissions. Growing products, value chains and are high on the industry populations, rising middle classes and urbanisation will lead to both business models. conducting business changed and increased transport needs. This will have to happen ethically, openly, honestly • Rise of emerging and responsibly. with less of an impact on climate, environment and resources. markets Digitalisation and technology developments will also change the Most of the nearly five billion • Economic fluctuations priorities and preferences among our customers, which will affect people who will belong to the Economic cycles cause the way the transport system will be designed. These challenges middle classes by 2030 will volatility, shifts in demand live in emerging markets. and currency fluctuations, will put huge requirements on the industry’s expertise, competence and are affected by crisis. and creativity. 8 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Digitalisation Rise of emerging Local emissions and air Indonesia: 139 million markets pollution Indonesians were expected to China: By 2030, one Beijing, China: 33 percent is be online in 2015 — about half billion people in China the share of days between 2008 of the population. could be middle and 2015 when the air quality class. index (AQI) in Beijing has not been categorised unhealthy. Road safety India: 16 lives Climate change are lost in road China: 20 percent accidents every share of non-fossil hour in India. fuels in primary energy consumption is the Chinese target by Access to energy 2030. New Zealand: The electric Population growth vehicle and plug-in hybrid Ethiopia: 50 percent of the car registrations quintupled world’s population growth between 2010 and 2014. until 2050 is expected to come from Africa. Ethiopia is expected to be the world’s 10th most populous country. INDUSTRY CHALLENGES OUR RESPONSE • Transport – decoupling CO2 • Local emissions and Ensuring profitability for our customers is emissions air pollution the primary objective of Scania’s strategy. Global freight transport is Emissions from transport affect We do this by taking a holistic view of expected to double by 2030. To quality of life, especially in cities, the logistics flow and by working in close meet the climate challenge, with causing respiratory diseases. dialogue with our customers in order to an increasing need for transport, meet their needs in a rapidly changing the CO2 emissions need to be • Noise pollution world. By succeeding in this aim, we sharply reduced. In an urbanised world – with strengthen our own competitiveness, transport needs increasing profitability and future success. We also • Congestion in densely populated areas – strive for collaboration with the right Growing populations, rising reducing noise will be partners, to be faster in responding to middle classes and urbanisation increasingly important. trends and adapting new technological contribute to congestion. developments to find new and efficient This puts pressure on urban • Access to competence solutions. infrastructure, hampering Due to continuous industry SUSTAINABLE Our strategy is highly dependent on economic growth. change, the competencies TRANSPORT our core values and working methods, needed in 2020 will not be the particularly our dedication to quality as • Road safety same as the ones we have today. well as identifying waste in all processes Growing transport needs may and commitment to continuous lead to road safety challenges improvement. Together, these qualities especially in developing countries. make Scania resilient and give us a strong leadership position in a world increasingly dependent on safe, sustainable and efficient transport systems. Sources include: The OECD, United Nations, UN-Habitat, United Nations Conference on trade and development, The World Bank, Government of India (Ministry of Road Transport and For more on Our response in Highways), National Development and reform commission of China (Department of sustainable transport Climate Change), PwC and McKinsey & Company, Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. see pp 22—31 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 9 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Accelerating urbanisation, climate change and scarcer resources are all factors that mean transport has to change. Expectations about how companies do business in a responsible way are also evolving and reshaping how business success is defined. Scania has identified 26 topics essential to creating lasting value for stakeholders and ensuring our business develops for the long term. UNDERSTANDING OUR PRIORITIES Adopting an outside-in perspective helps Scania to identify and The findings guide our reporting focus as well as inform internal understand the aspects most relevant to achieving our business discussions and stakeholder engagement. aims. The materiality process is also part of our philosophy of continuous improvement. To identify the topics most relevant to Our aim is to develop and strengthen the process in the future in Scania and the stakeholders, our materiality process evolved further order to continue to be a useful base for dialogues and decisions. during 2015. Through a mapping and analysis process including During 2016, we will extend the stakeholder involvement to validate internal and external stakeholder dialogue, we identified future the findings. priorities and actions. SCANIA’S MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 2015 IDENTIFY PRIORITISE ACTIVATE VERIFY The starting point was the Each topic was mapped Through surveys and Using the outcome from 2015, review of our 2014 list of against the degree of their interviews we analysed we clustered 26 topics into six material topics to align with importance to Scania’s the topics against the business-relevant categories. our operations, in the light ability to deliver on the expectations of key of our process towards business priorities by internal stakeholders, weighted The major change from integrated reporting. experts and executives. according to their influence previous years is the on — and importance to incorporation of a broader The approach also —the business. scope of topics. These include incorporated insight from risks and opportunities research, industry impacts, The four key stakeholder facing our business related and competitor analysis. groups included in 2015: to macro-economic • Existing and potential developments, technical employees disruptions and our ability to • Financial actors (lenders deliver on our strategy in a and analysts) complex market environment. • Society (regulators and NGOs) • Commercial actors (suppliers, customers and transport buyers) 10 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Our approach to materiality includes: mapping our understanding of how the world is changing and identifying a universe of topics that are relevant to Scania and our stakeholders; exploring the expectations of groups most influential for our business; analysing our impacts from the perspective of Scania’s business strategy and culture; and assessing these findings against our impacts across the value chain. Through this approach, we arrived at 26 material topics grouped in six categories. PRODUCTS MARKETPLACE Scania’s business model focuses on how we can Through our tailor-made applications and our state-ofimprove our customer’s profitability. Our innovations the-art low-carbon solutions Scania will continue to build continue to focus on advancing efficient, low-carbon a stable presence in our selected markets. transport solutions. Topics: Topics: • Sustainable transport system • Pricing • Road safety and security • Viability of long-term contracts • Intelligent transport technologies • Changing market conditions • Low-emission technologies • Emerging markets strategy • Life cycle optimisation • Customer satisfaction • Technical shortcomings in products DIRECTION OPERATIONS Business strategy and leadership are key to our success Workplace operations and systems must be efficient and setting a clear direction backed up by investment, secure, and throughout every aspect of our supply chain identifying pioneering partnerships, ensuring diligent we must apply the highest standards. governance and demonstrating integrity. Topics: Topics: • Long-term financial viability • Operational efficiency • Integrity and compliance • Interruptions in critical information systems • Identifying threats and opportunities • Responsible sourcing • Clear and considered corporate strategy • Stakeholder engagement • Industry collaboration • Investment in R&D EMPLOYEES SOCIETY It is vital to the future of our business that Scania We must ensure that value is shared across our supply approach recruitment strategically, in order to attract and chain and make a positive connection with local retain talent by providing a safe and inspiring workplace. communities wherever we are operating. Topics: Topics: • Safety, health and work environment • Community impacts and contributions • Attraction and retention of competence • Human rights • Access to talent Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 11 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH The Scania business model focuses on how we can improve our customers’ profitability, and consequently our own. Through close dialogue, we build a partnership with transport actors in order to create value for all actors in the logistic flow. CUSTOMER PROFITABILITY AT THE CORE Long-term relationships with profitable customers are the basis for LOGISTIC SOLUTIONS a profitable Scania. By delivering the right products and the right services at the right time, we support our customers in improving By understanding our customers’ needs and the demands from their their operating income. High-quality vehicles and services maximise customers, Scania can provide solutions to eliminate waste and improve customer profit and uptime (the time the vehicle is in operation and efficiencies in the entire transport flow. thus generating revenue). Maximum load capacity and flexibility are also important for the customer to ensure a stable stream of revenue. Buyers Our business model, illustrated as a scale on the next page, takes of transport services into account our customers’ revenue potential and total operating cost. Scania has greatest influence on factors like fuel, repair and maintenance costs, residual value of the vehicle, and cost and g 2. availability of financing. In these aspects, it is critical that we continue din Lo an gis to be best in class. Delivering on this business model defines our rst tic brand and ensures a profitable Scania. de ss Un LOGISTIC erv 1. SOLUTIONS ice s A holistic view of the transport flow In our aim to take the lead in sustainable transport, and be the industry’s logistics experts, Scania takes a holistic view of logistics. Scania 3. Transport solutions Transport companies With this approach we gain insights from our customers – transport companies – and their customers – buyers of transport services. Transport service buyers are increasingly setting ambitious carbon reduction goals. This affects our customers and Scania. Above all, 1. Understanding 2. Logistics services 3. Transport solutions transport companies value cost efficiency and reliability. Transport Understanding needs Providing efficient, Building strong companies want to avoid unplanned stoppages, searches for freight of transport service safe, reliable services, relationships to gain and waiting times, all of which increase operating costs. In short, buyers, and sharing that maximising customer insights into customer they want their fleet to operate smoothly, efficiently and on time. knowledge with transport satisfaction. needs, and developing companies. transport solutions to With this approach, we seek to optimise solutions that improve the meet them. profitability of all actors in the value chain. Understanding the cost and revenue aspects of the different applications or industries in which our customers operate, allows us to tailor solutions for vehicles and services that improve our customers’ profitability. While important, it is not enough to simply understand our customers’ business challenges. We also need to understand the demands of their customers, and the cost implications for the entire transport flow in order to eliminate waste and improve efficiencies. 12 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Our core values Our approach Our success factors • Customer first • Holistic view • Highly skilled employees • Respect for the individual • Scania Production System (SPS) • Cutting edge R&D • Quality • Scania Retail System (SRS) • Modularisation • Application focus • Extensive service offering • Connectivity CUSTOMER PROFITABILITY OUR BUSINESS MODEL SCANIA PROFITABILITY + Customer revenue + Scania revenue • Uptime • Vehicles and Engines • Flexibility • Repair and maintenance • Load capacity • Financing and insurance • Used vehicles – Customer cost* 1 – Scania cost 6 2 • Production of vehicles, 5 engines and services • Research and development • Selling and administration 4 • Financing 3 1. Tyres 2. Drivers 3. Fuel 4. Vehicle 5. Repair and maintenance 6. Administration *European long haulage = Customer operating =S  cania operating income income GROWTH STRATEGY 2. Grow with the market 4. New markets In Scania’s ambition to grow, profitability Scania’s ability to maintain market share Scania has ambitions to further strengthen our and the ability to meet short-term volatility depends on understanding customers’ needs, presence in new markets. There is a growing in demand is safeguarded by our modular so that we can support their growth and need globally for cost-efficient sustainable system, efficient and flexible production and profitability by providing the right solutions. transport solutions. We understand local conditions our service business. The growth strategy We are flexible and resilient in relation to and are gradually increasing local sourcing. rests on five pillars. regional differences and changing market and economic conditions. 5. New customer segments 1. I ncreasing sales of services Scania has a systematic approach to judging per vehicle 3. Increase market share the potential in each segment and assess if There are several drivers behind the increasing In selected markets and segments, Scania the modular system can be applied to suit demand for services. Transport companies are targets a higher market share. Short lead that segment’s specific demands. This ensures focusing more on logistics services, which means times are important in bringing new products that Scania’s revenue potential in each segment a growing need to outsource servicing of vehicles. to market that improve customer efficiency and will compensate for the cost of adapting products Tailored packages can increase fuel efficiency uptime. A flexible production system means and services. and uptime. quick adjustments to demand volatility and potential to increase market share when the opportunity arises. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 13 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Scania’s unique modular product system, developed over several decades, is one of COMPONENT MODULARISATION our most important success factors. It is Scania’s modular product system is applied on our entire product portfolio – trucks, buses and coaches, integral to our approach to flexibility and and engines. The wide range of choices available lies at the heart of our business model. to customers is achieved through the design of the interfaces between different components. Each interface is precisely defined to allow the greatest possible flexibility when components are combined into TAILOR-MADE the correct performance steps in the vehicle. A large percentage of the chassis components in a bus are shared with a truck. Scania’s Industrial Marine engines SOLUTIONS INCREASE are developed from the base engines for vehicles, making full use of the modular concept. OUR FLEXIBILITY The modular product system enables Scania to provide individual specifications for each customer with a limited number of components in its product range. The modular system, with its relatively few number of parts and components, enables Scania to achieve economies of scale in research and development, production and service operations and at the same time maximize resource efficiency. With this strategic approach, Scania gains the flexibility to tailor solutions to different transport needs in the context of changing Trucks Buses Engines market demands. Through Scania’s modularised system, each vehicle is tailored to its specific purpose and new, high-quality technologies are brought to market quickly and efficiently. Customers benefit through a tailormade vehicle with high uptime, reduced fuel consumption and optimised load capacity. Standardised interfaces Standardised interfaces are the foundation of modularisation. They are designed in such a way that they do not change over time. This makes it possible to install new components that improve product performance without the need to change the surrounding components. Same need, identical solution Several components are often the same despite different applications. The shortest truck cab variant may be needed in order to maximise cargo capacity both in light distribution service and in a heavy tipper truck operating in a mine. A powerful, high-torque engine may satisfy the need for maximum traction power in a demanding operation or for maintaining a uniform speed during long highway journeys. The same need will always result in identical solutions. Axles Frames Well-balanced performance steps Driven, steered and tag Frames are manufactured axles are part of Scania’s in several strength classes. Components are matched to specific customer needs, such modularised range, which is The most rugged features as differences in cab sizes, engine output, frame strengths and used in various combinations in an inner frame to handle number of axles. Scania’s R&D operations continually evaluate how 2-, 3-, 4and 5-axle vehicles. extra-heavy loads. to further refine the modular system in order for Scania to have the Some driven axles are available with hub reduction. smallest possible number of parts and the largest possible selection of variants in its product portfolio so that every customer can obtain an optimised product. 14 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Cabs Scania’s cabs are strongly modularised, with a common frame, common outer panels and interior parts. Cabs are fitted at different heights and lengths to suit different applications and to give the customers ample opportunities to optimise space and comfort in the cab. Only one type of windshield is used in all cabs. Gearboxes Engines With two main gearboxes in Scania’s engine range is based on three engine series combination with range and splitter featuring five, six or eight cylinders, with the cylinder units, Scania covers haulage needs and related components sharing a common design. ranging from 16 tonnes to 200 tonnes This means that engine development work can focus gross train weight. Gearboxes are on optimising the combustion in one cylinder, which available with manual or automated is used in all engines. The basic design of these gear changing (Scania Opticruise) engines is very similar and they share many parts and and can be ordered with an components, radically reducing the number of unique integrated Scania Retarder. parts that are included. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 15 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Customer profitability depends not only on a well-specified vehicle, but also on high-quality service to boost uptime, reduce unplanned stops and operating costs. Vehicle uptime is critical for our customers’ life cycle profitability. EXTENSIVE SERVICE OFFERING, ENHANCING CUSTOMER PROFITABILITY Services are an integral part of Scania’s offering. Inspired by the SCANIA DRIVER SERVICES product modularisation concept, we tailor services to meet each Scania Driver Services helps even the most experienced drivers customer’s needs. Quick access to parts, speedy repairs, driver to drive more safely and economically. Other positive effects training and coaching, connected vehicle solutions and maintenance include longer-lasting tyres and powertrain as well as increased are among the services Scania offers to enhance vehicle performance road safety awareness. and customer profitability. Scania provides tailored solutions for a large number of applications that offer improved efficiency, high ECOLUTION BY SCANIA performance and lower environmental impact: Ecolution by Scania is a solution that combines our tailored products with services and continuous customer dialogue. The shared goal is SCANIA WORKSHOPS improved fuel efficiency. Through performance diagnostics, monthly Some 19,000 people work with sales and services in Scania’s follow-ups and driver training our results show an average 10 percent subsidiaries worldwide. Scania has an extensive network of some 1,600 reduction in fuel consumption. workshops. Our service workshops are strategically located along transport routes and near logistics centres to enable high uptime for the SCANIA FLEET MANAGEMENT customer. Scania also offers mobile workshops to meet servicing needs Scania Fleet Management increases the efficiency of the vehicle at the customer site and also field workshops which are integrated in the fleet. Customers are able to choose from different packages that can customer’s operations, for instance at mines or bus depots. track vehicle utilisation, driver performance and fuel consumption. Interfaces include smartphones and data can be received in real time. SCANIA ASSISTANCE Scania offers emergency service to all customers via Scania Assistance CONNECTIVITY or via local country offices. Scania Assistance is available 24h a day, Connectivity provides valuable insight into how Scania’s vehicles seven days a week and allows customers in some 50 countries to are used in real time. With this intelligence we are gaining new maintain contact with Scania in their own language via 13 Assistance opportunities to tailor products, services and solutions, which centres, to minimise unplanned stops. increase efficiency, fuel economy and safety. Moreover, connectivity provides valuable insights enabling us to be more efficient in our SCANIA FINANCIAL SERVICES workshop network. Scania conducts our own financing operations in 50 countries, which builds trust and loyalty in the Scania brand. We expect that this part of the offering will become increasingly attractive to customers, especially in new markets. Scania Insurance provides efficient claims handling and at times replacement vehicles – all of which helps to improve uptime. 16 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 CONNECTIVITY – THE BRIDGE TO THE FUTURE AT THE FOREFRONT BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Scania began to systematically leverage data on vehicle performance The intelligence supplied via connectivity represents great potential in 2011 when we decided to standardise connectivity in our trucks to improve logistical flows and widen the dialogue to different actors by fitting the Scania Communicator device controller in all vehicles. in the value chain. This way, we combine data with information from Today, up to 170,000 Scania vehicles on the road are fully connected, other systems for route planning, traffic information and supplier and the number of connected Scania vehicles is increasing rapidly. data etc., in an intelligent way to create optimised transport and operating processes. Connectivity provides valuable insight into how Scania vehicles are used in real time. It is the basis for Ecolution by Scania (see page 25) that enables continuous improvement of driver performance, using vehicle data in driver coaching sessions and to customise maintenance programmes. Connectivity also provides valuable insights into operating conditions as well as the necessary intelligence to enhance vehicles for even better performance. This constitutes useful insight for our research and development work. Moreover, connectivity enables us to be more efficient in our workshop network. By gaining information about vehicle status, swift and tailored analyses can be carried out in order to prepare for the upcoming servicing assignment. All of this means less downtime and makes it possible for our customers to keep vehicles out on the roads where they can contribute to earnings and profitability. While still evolving, connectivity shows potential today to enhance road safety. In the near future, buses and trucks will be able to send data about route transportation etc. to authorities and other stakeholders. POTENTIAL FOR OUR INDUSTRY Scania takes an integrated approach when viewing the logistics system at large. Bringing our know-how in operational efficiency learned from our production system, we eliminate waste in the whole transport system. By analysing and combining the data gained through our connected vehicles we see potential to improve the flow in traffic and logistic systems. The real transformative potential for our industry lies in enabling APPLICATIONS FUTURE communication within the whole transport system. Connectivity can AVAILABLE TODAY APPLICATIONS then be used to optimise whole transport flows, not just the logistical flow of different industries. With a growing need for transport, more Smart features Autonomous vehicles efficient logistical flows and improved filling rates have the potential • Lane Departure Warning. • Suited for vehicles operating in to really change the transport business for the better. Therefore we • Active Cruise Control, mines and other challenging working environments. are making preparations to ensure that our trucks, buses and engine Scania Active Prediction. • Sensors take in the surrounding installations will be included in ‘ecosystems’ where machinery can • Autonomous Emergency Braking. environ­­ment with no need for communicate with each other and with people. New services continual adjustment. • Follow-up of drivers and vehicles. Big data • Condition-based maintenance: • Provides an overview of transport Service intervals based on actual activity and transport flows. need. • Optimises flows. • Preventive maintenance: The vehicle sends a warning when a certain • Eliminates waiting times and other component is about to fail. Planned waste. replacement minimises repair-related • Data on mileage and filling rates downtime and eliminates unplanned provides a view of the business stops. climate, an indicator for short-term • Platooning: Heavy vehicles use changes in demand. inter-vehicle communication to form fuel-efficient, aerodynamic formations on motorways. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 17 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Motivated employees committed to continuous improvement and a balanced mix of backgrounds, experience, nationalities and genders are key to Scania’s success in ensuring long-term growth and profitability. OUR EMPLOYEES ARE OUR STRENGTH A motivated and diverse workforce, committed to continuous Attract and retain the right competencies improvement, provides the right platform for Scania’s success. Our We have a strong focus on ensuring that we attract and retain the core values guide our employees in their day-to-day work. With a right competencies to meet our future challenges. Working proactively common way of thinking and working, every individual contributes within the company and together with other partners in society, such by strengthening and improving how Scania operates. Involvement as academia and schools, is integral for Scania’s success. inspires motivation and builds commitment. Everyone is involved in this process in their daily work and allows us to capture and manage Our training centre, Scania Academy, trains employees on all levels the extensive knowledge within the organisation, opening up for new from all of Scania’s business units as well as people employed at methods and techniques. Scania’s independent dealers around the world. In 2015, a large number of training sessions were completed by employees from several countries. Scania Academy provides digital material as well Employee well-being and safety first as physical classes and continuously develops the course offering. Employee well-being is a top priority for Scania. With 96.3 percent healthy attendance we know that motivation engages employees to A diverse workforce, in terms of gender, ages, backgrounds and take ownership of objectives. experience, strengthens our company and enhances our ability to attract and retain talent. During 2015, we held top management During 2015 we increased the scope of our employee satisfaction seminars across the globe to discuss ways of working to ensure barometer, launched in 2014, to measure employee satisfaction. The that all employees are given the opportunity to develop their survey serves as the basis for a systematic working practice with full potential. measurable indicators for follow-up and improvement. The survey will be implemented on a global level in 2017. Our global presence also provides an opportunity for our employees to seek international experience. More than 300 Scania employees To ensure our employees’ well-being a safe workplace is also a are currently working in a foreign country – this includes employees priority. All employees go through regular health and safety training. from 30 countries working in 50 different countries. Job rotation Scania’s training organisation conducted several sessions this year between different areas of Scania’s business generates new to increase awareness and to circulate best practices of health and synergies and knowledge exchange, benefiting both Scania and safety issues. Moreover, the Scania Safety, Health and Environment the individual employee. (SHE) standard works as a guideline in order to involve our employees addressing issues such as safety equipment, chemicals handling, mental and social well-being, crisis support and road safety. As Scania enters new markets, new requirements are imposed for safety work. Thus, specific guidelines and training have been developed to address issues concerning risk assessment, and new safety and logistics procedures. 18 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 A GLOBAL WORKFORCE BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH With operations in more than 100 countries and a diverse workforce Scania is a truly global company, strategically placed where our customers need us. Total number of employees at the end of 2015 44,409 Future competence mapping Employee Internal With an eye to the future, Scania ”We need to ask ourselves whether turnover turnover employed a Competence Manager we have the right skills and whether in 2015 to ensure that the company existing strengths need further training. has the engineering expertise it needs But it’s equally a matter of ensuring, to meet anticipated world-leading through dialogue with universities, technologies in 2030. Beatrice Jonsson, that new graduates have the skills we a trained engineer who has worked with need for the future. Close cooperation Scania on KTH projects, recently joined with management is crucial, and the HR team in this role. being responsible for an operation “My primary function is to develop a also includes full responsibility for 8.3% 5.0% competence roadmap for all of Scania’s guaranteeing that you have the skills engineering competencies. I’m starting within your team,” says Beatrice with R&D, which has the company’s Jonsson. most well developed technology roadmap and greatest number of The Competence Manager is an engineers,” says Beatrice Jonsson. important bridge to the academic sphere and will develop Scania’s The competence roadmap’s overall excellent interaction with colleges objective is to ensure that Scania’s and universities on a strategic level. entire skills base evolves in tandem Focus is also on jointly identifying with the company’s development. training courses that make skills The starting point is to analyse what’s exchange available to current currently in place so that skills gaps can employees in a well-planned and be identified. responsible manner. Capturing the skills During 2015, Scania initiated The purpose is to decide concrete management seminars – Skill Capture actions in the management teams, Initial Workshops – across the to spread best practice and organisation. The aim of the workshops aggregate Scania’s most needed is to discuss ways of working to ensure improvement activities. Scania will that Scania’s diversity and inclusion-work be tracking the mind-set change enables all present and future employees throughout the process. to perform at their full potential. 162/1,000 Share of female managers per 1,000 Scania managers Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 19 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Our innovations meet customer demands for higher uptime and greater efficiency. Following our successful introduction of Euro 6 engines, our R&D continues to focus on advancing low-carbon transport solutions. ONE STEP AHEAD OF A FAST-CHANGING MARKET The majority of Scania’s R&D resources are applied to meet the SOLUTIONS TO NEW MARKETS challenges of sustainable transport. In 2015, we invested SEK 5.6 Emerging markets generally have the same basic demands for goods billion in R&D, equal to 5.9 percentage of annual net sales. With R&D transport and mobility as developed countries. For these different located in Södertälje, Sweden, 3,500 engineers work together with demands, Scania has adaptable solutions and performance steps suppliers, universities and research institutions on the future of trucks, available in the modular system. buses, engines and optimised transport solutions. Our investments in R&D are generating results. During 2015 Scania PERFORMANCE THROUGHOUT LIFE CYCLE filed patent applications regarding 264 new inventions, which puts Heavy-duty vehicles in general have a long lifespan. The typical Scania at the top in Sweden. Scania vehicle has an operational life of 20 years or longer. Our focus must not only reflect existing conditions impacting the vehicles at For trucks and buses, the most challenging areas are to improve road purchase, but also consider how performance can be maximised safety, efficient and environmental friendly powertrain, and future throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. driver-assistant systems by using the potential of connectivity. The main tools in the innovation process are: PARTNERSHIPS MAKE US FASTER • Combustion engine technology: Reducing CO2-emission, fuel Having a close dialogue with our customers is core in Scania’s consumption and cutting regulated emissions by improved business model. When cooperating with logistics companies combustion and after-treatment process. On customer demands, or planning groups of cities, the tailoring of a solution leads to Scania offers solutions for alternative fuels like biogas, ethanol and insights that are crucial in R&D. To fully benefit from technological hybrid-application where brake energy could be recovered. opportunities such as connectivity, specialists from different industries must come together. During the year, the cooperation • Power electrification: Local emission free drive. within Volkswagen Truck and Bus on current and future collaborations • Connectivity: Intelligent vehicles improve all aspects of energy proceeded and the cooperation with MAN of common component efficiency, road safety and transport planning and management. platforms continued. • Predictive drive systems: Scania Active Prediction and Eco-Roll, features that lower fuel consumption. Our innovative capacity and technology leadership are dependent on partnerships such as these. Scania is also involved in important • Advanced Driver Assistans Systems: Traffic jam pilot, autonomous research projects together with academia and the private sector, driving suited for vehicles operating in mines and other challenging such as the Integrated Transport Research Lab at Stockholm’s Royal working environments. Institute of Technology. Through collaboration, we can be faster in Realising innovations in these areas demands an outside-in responding to trends, adapting new technological developments and perspective. We have to stay one step ahead of a fast-changing finding solutions, for example, to work on transport solutions for future marketplace and ensure that Scania’s innovations are adapted to smart cities to support the urbanisation trend. different customer requirements. 20 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH INTEGRATED TRANSPORT RESEARCH LAB (ITRL) SUSTAINABILITY VEHICLE CONCEPTS USER NEEDS AND BUSINESS MODELS INFRASTRUCTURE SOCIETY INFORMATION COMMUNICATION POLICY TECHNOLOGY (ICT) A look at the future Development of driver environment lightweight materials With instant information projected directly onto the Strong and light new composite materials give a windshield in a new prototype simulator, the MODAS potential to reduce vehicle weight and thus allow research project gives a glimpse on what the future more payload or passengers within the weight limits driver environment will look like. The project includes for trucks and buses. The primary focus for a truck Scania, Interactive Institute Swedish ICT, Luleå making use of new material is on strength, fatigue University of Technology and Uppsala University, and length of life. Scania is continuing to slim down partly funded by a partnership between the Swedish the materials to cap costs and reduce weight government and the automotive industry. The also within heavy vehicles, as well as production project has developed a concept built on a so called processes and surface treatment to reduce losses multimodal interface, including a visual display on the of the powertrain. windshield where the driver gets a comprehensive view of the truck’s position on the road and the In the future, more high-strength steels will be used traffic environment. in load-bearing structures in chassis and cabin. Polymers incorporating carbon fibre and other Scania’s research in autonomous vehicles focuses composite materials in load-bearing structures are on using today’s and future technology to increase also seen in cab elements and leaf springs, while road safety as well as to decrease fuel consumption new hybrid materials will make it possible to integrate and emissions. Future automated systems mean the several functions into the same element. Scania driver’s role will evolve from driving to supervising. is also looking at light metals such as aluminium High performing electronic systems and sensors for bus mounts and parts and magnesium for e.g., cameras will be used when carrying out a interior details. transport task. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 21 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT New demands on sustainable transport require rethinking throughout the entire process of transporting people and goods. Scania is at the forefront in developing efficient and smart solutions. We work in close dialogue to support our customers in the transition to a sustainable transport system. THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Sustainable transport is all about moving people and goods while Electrification is still in its infancy but Scania is well-positioned to take contributing to economic and social development without jeopardising advantage of the technological opportunities on the horizon, including human health and safety or endangering the environment. inductive, wireless and charging as well as conductive charging from overhead lines. Scania especially recognised the advantages of hybrid Scania firmly believes that the climate impact of the world’s road freight vehicles that also operate on alternative fuels. transport can – and should – be radically reduced. The agreement from December 2015, to limit the global temperature increase to 2°C, Connectivity lies at the heart of efforts to reduce environmental reached at the UN Conference on Climate Change (COP21) is a strong impact. By collecting and analysing vehicle and driver data, we can signal that the low-carbon transition will accelerate. provide customers with the necessary advice on how to make smarter use of their fleets. It will enable transporters, individually and through However, there is no single solution for transforming the transport collaboration, to achieve greater fill rates, better route planning and system into a sustainable one. Rather, a holistic approach is called for, thus make better use of available capacity. considering the specific transport assignment and the maturity of the transport and logistics infrastructure in different parts of the world. We recognise the pivotal role of the driver in obtaining optimal fuel performance. Increasingly sophisticated assistance and monitoring Our approach is based on three pillars: systems provide the basis for continuous coaching for improved performance. • Energy efficiency • Alternative fuels and electrification Equally important for achieving optimal fuel consumption is the vehicle specification. Through our modular product system, we can provide • Smart transport the right vehicles, precisely tailored for the assignment at hand, to optimise transport and logistics performance. A holistic approach is called for, considering the We work together with our customers and the customer’s customer to specific transport assignment and the maturity transform the transport system in a way that contributes to customer profitability while creating a low-carbon transport system. of the transport and logistics infrastructure in different parts of the world. Alternatives to fossil fuels will be increasingly important in reducing carbon impact. There is broad consensus that a wide range of alternatives to fossil fuels is needed; no single alternative will suffice. Therefore, Scania offers the most comprehensive range of alternatives, allowing customers to select the fuel most suited for their operation. 22 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT ENERGY EFFICIENCY page 24 ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND ELECTRIFICATION SMART TRANSPORT page 26 page 28 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 23 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT — ENERGY EFFICIENCY Scania aims to combine powertrain and whole vehicle optimisation with driving performance in order to achieve supreme fuel efficiency. Continuous dialogue with customers helps to enhance efficiency even further. IMPROVED ENERGY EFFICIENCY THROUGH COOPERATION A three-party focus is needed in providing the market with energy Continued focus on driving and optimisation efficient products and solutions: We continue to maintain our focus on vehicle optimisation and driving performance to maximise fuel efficiency. • Powertrain performance. While development should lead to reduced environmental footprint from the powertrain, driveability, Logistics is usually highly complex and involves many parties. This reliability and quality must, in parallel be improved. prevents an optimised flow and lead to inefficiencies. Higher fill rate and longer truck and trailer combinations can yield greater vehicle • Vehicle optimisation. The vehicle specification must be tailored utilisation. We are devoting resources to further exploring smarter to the transport task. Scania’s salesmen work together with the logistics planning, which will also increase energy efficiency. customer to ensure the vehicle is optimised for the transport need intended. In the coming decades, an increasing transport demand will come • Fuel consumption during operation. Scania’s technical fuel from emerging markets. This will increase the need for smarter consumption levels have proven to be industry leading. However, logistics in Asia, Africa and Latin America, building demand for consumption is also closely connected to driver behaviour. Scania efficient and sustainable transport solutions. works with customers in coaching drivers, optimising driver support products and services to reduce fuel consumption and thereby CO2 emissions and cost. Optimised service and maintenance also Offering the most efficient technology for contribute to lower fuel consumption over the vehicle’s life cycle. our product is core for Scania. Improved Efficient solutions aerodynamics, combustion efficiency and using Offering the most efficient technology for our product is core for positioning data to optimise fuel consumption Scania. Improved aerodynamics, combustion efficiency and using positioning data to optimise fuel consumption are some of the are some of the technologies offering real technologies offering real opportunities for enhanced efficiency and opportunities for enhanced efficiency and extending product life cycles. extending product life cycles. Scania offers 18 different Euro 6 engines, which meets the European exhaust emissions standard, that is mandatory from 2014. Globally, Euro 6 has also been adopted by other selected countries. In addition to diesel trucks, Scania also offers the market’s broadest range of vehicles for alternative fuels, including gas, bioethanol, biodiesel and hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) for the Euro 6 level. All Scania’s diesel engines can also switch to running on HVO. Thereby, Scania has led the way in combining tough emission standards with low carbon solutions. 24 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Ecolution by Scania With the shared goal to improve fuel efficiency, Scania offers customers to join a partnership within Ecolution by Scania. This concept combines our most tailored products with services and continuous customer dialogue. Customers that adopt the programme are guaranteed fuel savings based on their specific transport pattern. Various measures help achieve this. For example, the truck is specified according to the particular needs of each customer in terms of cargo weight, driving conditions and driver potential. An extended maintenance programme is implemented, for example involving regular axle alignment and tyre pressure monitoring. Driver training and driver coaching is another important provision. Through performance monitoring, monthly follow-ups and driver training, customers using Ecolution by Scania show reductions in fuel consumption. In Reducing our own footprint Scania Transport Laboratory addition to the environmental gains, the savings also help improve the customers’ Scania has set a target to halve energy In 2015 Scania Transport Laboratory profitability. use across Scania’s operations per supplied 5 percent of our inbound manufactured vehicle by 2020, using transport. It was established with the 2010 as the baseline. By 2015, energy aim of providing greater insights into 10% use was already reduced by 16 percent. customers’ transport challenges. The Since 2013, we have systematically laboratory uses commercially available motivated our suppliers to reduce energy solutions and enables Scania to test The average fuel savings on existing consumption and use alternative fuels and evaluate vehicle properties and Ecolution vehicles compared to the and smart transport, while requiring performance on the road, and uses the reference vehicle. them and subsuppliers to comply information to reduce CO2 emissions. with Scania´s sustainability policy Through driver training, with fill rate and standards. and efficient vehicles in focus, the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions per tonne-kilometre more than halved 16% since 2008. In 2014, Scania Transport Laboratory began testing transport of cargo with Energy use reduced by two full-length trailers resulting in 31.5 16 percent since 2010. metre truck and trailer combinations on major routes in Sweden. Double trailers allow for an increased volume of goods transportation and enable greater efficiency. Tests have continued in 2015. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 25 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT — ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND ELECTRIFICATION Scania offers the broadest range of vehicles operated on commercially available alternative fuels. From this market-leading position, we aim to remain a driving force in the growth of alternative fuels. TAKING THE LEAD IN ALTERNATIVE FUELS Fossil fuels dominate the global vehicle park’s energy supply. Opportunities in emerging markets Biofuels currently account for only around 2 percent of total transport A number of our deliveries in 2015 were collaborations with cities fuel. In order for the heavy transport sector to reach climate targets, in emerging markets on introducing low-carbon and reliable buses. alternative fuels need to gain ground in the coming years. In recent years we have seen a growing interest in biofuels in countries like India, where ethanol and biogas is gaining ground and Scania has The greatest challenge is not to develop engines that operate on sold adapted buses. alternative fuels, but to match the performance of the traditional diesel engine. Scania has the technology in place to power buses and trucks Together with local and national authorities, Scania has taken with alternative fuels, while maintaining performance and reliability. initiatives to introduce waste treatment schemes to generate biogas. Non-fossil alternatives for heavy transport are available here and now. We believe that strengthened partnerships, also in production and distribution of alternative fuels, are needed to reach full-scale Unmatched range for alternative fuels operations. One example where Scania, together with Swedfund, Scania pioneered alternative fuels more than 30 years ago, with the the development financier of the Swedish state, has taken greater introduction of bioethanol buses. Today, we offer engines that run responsibility in tackling environmental challenges, is in the Indian on all commercially available alternatives, including compressed and city of Nagpur (see case on next page). liquefied biogas, biodiesel, HVO and bioethanol. Applicable for every truck and bus operation, it is the market’s broadest range of vehicles Alternative fuels and electricity in the pipeline on alternative fuels. There is no single solution that, on its own, can transform the transport system. Success will depend a lot on availability, To qualify as one of Scania’s commercially viable alternatives, the fuel functionality, cost and climate impact of different alternative type must meet three crucial criteria: It must reduce CO2, be available fuels. The transport industry is a natural actor to take the lead in large enough quantities, and be reasonably priced. in this development, and Scania’s broad offer and flexibility will In close dialogue with our customers, we develop solutions for be a clear market advantage. combining different fuels and powertrains, depending on local Electrification will also play an important role. Several applications conditions. Scania’s global engine platform allows customers that for electrified vehicles are being developed, including continuous have access to high-quality fuels to opt for engines with the best charging along electric highways and wireless charging on roads for environmental performance and fuel efficiency, no matter where in buses. The development is driven by both political initiatives and an the world they are based. increasing market demand. All actors involved – the power suppliers, infrastructure and vehicles – must cooperate to grasp this opportunity. In our dialogue with the customers, we gain an understanding on the needs of our customers and customers’ customers. From this position Scania continues to develop the best electrification solutions. 26 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Euro 6 range Scania offers the broadest range of natural gas, biogas, HVO, biodiesel, bioethanol and hybrid solutions that meet the Euro 6 standard on the market. • Natural gas (CNG/LNG) – The most diesel-like gas engine in the world, with up to 15 percent CO2-reduction. • Biogas (CBG/LBG) – The engine Wirelessly charged city bus tested can be operated with biogas from for the first time in Sweden a number of sources. Up to 90 percent CO2-reduction. • HVO – Every Scania diesel truck is Scania has become the first company an HVO truck, when switching fuels. in Sweden to test a wirelessly charged electric-hybrid city bus. The bus will start Driving the development for Up to 90 percent CO2-reduction. operating on the streets of Södertälje, electrified roads • Biodiesel – The engine runs on Sweden, during summer 2016 as part of a biodiesel as well as conventional research project. diesel. Up to 66 percent Trucks powered by electricity are capable A charging station will be able to refill the of reducing fossil fuel emissions by 80 CO2-reduction. vehicle wirelessly from the road surface in to 90 percent and energy consumption • Bioethanol/ED95 – Scania has just 6 to 7 minutes. with 50 percent or more. During 2016, a long experience of developing Scania will test this technology in realand producing ethanol engines for life conditions on an electrified road in commercial vehicle operations. Up to Sweden. As part of Sweden’s Gävle 90 percent CO2-reduction. Electric Road project, Scania will begin • Hybrid – A suitable choice for urban trialling trucks on an electrified part of and suburban vehicles with a high the E16 motorway between Gävle and frequency of stops and starts. Up to Sandviken. The programme is aimed 92 percent CO2-reduction. at demonstrating and evaluating the feasibility and effectiveness of electric road technology. Trucks in the trial will receive electrical power via pantograph power collectors on their roofs which are then connected to overhead power Wastewater sludge becomes lines. The trucks will be equipped with Indian biogas an electric hybrid powertrain developed by Scania. Scania and Swedfund have established 80-90% a partnership to develop the production of biogas as an automotive fuel in the Indian city of Nagpur. The biogas will be produced from digested sludge from one Trucks powered by electricity of the city’s wastewater treatment plants. are capable of reducing fossil fuel While driving business for both our emissions by 80 to 90 percent. customers and Scania, this cooperation will help solve some of India’s environmental challenges including air pollution, waste management and energy imports. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 27 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT — SMART TRANSPORT Smart transport is about utilising technology opportunities in combination with logistics expertise, to develop efficient and profitable transport and mobility systems that meet complex needs. SMARTER TRANSPORT THROUGH CONNECTIVITY To achieve a sustainable transport system, it is necessary to 170,000 connected Scania vehicles broaden the scope to the entire logistic system. Better route and load Five years ago, Scania introduced connectivity as standard in the planning through increased collaboration between transport buyers European markets. Today connected customers in more than and transporters can significantly reduce waste. Ensuring an optimal 50 countries gain access to services in order to follow up and evaluate fill rate enhances transport efficiency and helps avoid unnecessary the performance of their vehicles. Scania currently offers a broad CO2 emissions. suite of connected services. The next step in the development of communication with the vehicle is service and maintenance, which A key enabler to achieve this is technology evolution in fields such is based on its specific use and driving style instead of just driving as Information Communication Technology (ICT), connectivity and distance, which traditionally applies in the industry. big data. In 2015, almost 70,000 connected trucks and buses were added, Connectivity enables smart transport and now the number of connected vehicles is up to 170,000. We have reached the critical mass needed to leverage the development in all Scania has a long tradition working with flow optimisation, and is aspects of our customers business. By 2020, we expect 80 percent therefore well-equipped to enable smart transport. Connectivity will of the global Scania fleet to be connected. be one of the crucial tools to take smart transport to the next level. Since 2011, Scania has systematically analysed and leveraged data on vehicle and driver performance, in order to optimise vehicles and Connecting the transport system vehicle maintenance as well as to coach drivers. Connectivity in trucks and buses has so far focused on the vehicle and the driver. Huge potential lies in leveraging connectivity to enable Connectivity solutions can take place within the vehicle, between communication within the whole transport system. This requires smart the vehicle and Scania, between vehicles and, not least, between infrastructure in combination with a wider deployment of information transport operators and their vehicles. The aim is to optimise and communications technology. When this happens, the transport functionality, decrease fuel consumption, increase uptime and system will become more efficient for society at large. enhance safety, while continuously improving Scania’s products and services. Another promising opportunity lies in platooning becoming commercially viable on public roads. This would create a framework The knowledge gained through connectivity enables a holistic view for customers to avail of the substantial fuel and cost savings proved of the transport system. Companies can plan their logistics flows in tests. better not only in analysing driving, but also in areas such as fleet management and servicing. With detailed information about the Autonomous vehicles are a natural next step when discussing different industries and their logistical challenges, we can tackle the future of smarter transport. Scania has been active in the field existing inefficiencies and drive improvements across the entire of autonomous vehicles for several years and the technology is value chain. This means less maintenance downtime which makes already highly developed. When commercialised, it can increase it possible for the customers to keep vehicles out on the roads road safety as well as decrease fuel consumption and emissions. where they can contribute to earnings. Future automated systems mean that the driver’s role will evolve from driving to supervising. Legal restrictions on open roads provide some challenges in this development, but already in 2016, Scania will start to test autonomous vehicles for closed areas like in mines. 28 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Platooning – formations for savings Platooning is a concept where heavy vehicles can use inter-vehicle communication to form fuel-efficient, aerodynamic formations on motorways. Scania was among the first heavy vehicle manufacturer to explore platooning. We put the concept into practice with the help of our adaptive cruise control system. Tests have shown that the convoys can reduce fuel consumption by up to 12 percent. In 2015, Scania has taken the next steps towards commercialised platooning. Wireless communication between vehicles will allow for the distances between them to be safely reduced. A system that will help transport operators to direct their drivers to the nearest convoy is also being developed. Efficiency in logistics at Scania The New Inbound Logistics (NILE) project NILE was finalised in 2015. As a natural Autonomous trucks for mining was initiated in 2013 to improve logistics continuation of the success factors efficiency within the group, thereby reducing shown in the project, Scania established a our own carbon emissions and supply chain sustainability roadmap to be able to reach One of the very first self-driving trucks in waste. By balancing four considerations our corporate target – a reduction of the day-to-day operation could be a mining – finding the right equipment, carrier, CO2 emissions in the group by 25 percent truck from Scania. At the forefront of modality and routing – Scania was able to between 2012 and 2020. The outcome research in this area, Scania is not far from substiantially reduce the CO2 emissions from the roadmap will carry on during carrying out tests under real-life ­conditions. from inbound transport in Europe and Latin 2016, targeting strategically important flows Development of the concept has come so America. We also demonstrated greater and specific supplier areas where great far that the test vehicle now has no problem asset utilisation and reduced stock levels, sustainability improvements can be realised. in carrying out tasks such as picking up and greater alignment to production and less Scania is also aiming at taking a greater unloading a load of gravel. It’s also capable volatility in deliveries. responsibility as transport buyer and in of safely dealing with obstacles on the road. designing logistics flows and transport The next step could be self-driving routes in close partnership with transport container trucks in ports. After that the suppliers. technology is likely to be applied to the long haul transport sector, with self-driving vehicles driving between large transport centres where their cargoes are loaded into ordinary trucks. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 29 THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT In a world dependent on safe and efficient transport, a holistic view of the logistics flow is required. Our solutions are shaping this path by boosting efficiencies and eliminating waste. RESPONDING TO EVERY NEED INDUSTRY-TAILORED SOLUTIONS Scania works with an application focus. This allows us to meet specific demands of a range of industries, from mining, forestry, manufacturing, bus systems, to retail Platooning Timber applications distribution and waste management. With Scania’s Scania is leading a three-year European Fuel comprises about modular system as our starting point, we optimise trucks, research project to develop a system for one-third of the total operating buses and engines for a range of applications. This is implementing road-based truck platooning. cost for a timber haulier. complemented with services adapted to each transport Heavy vehicles are able to drive in close Robustness and highformation with gaps of just 0.5 to 1 second performance engines are need. Scania can also contribute to further improve flows in order to reduce air drag. needed to meet the demands. and efficiency by applying an application focus. Mining applications In mining, large volumes of heavy material must be moved in tough conditions, at the lowest cost per tonne. This requires robust equipment with high reliability and low fuel consumption. Scania Field Workshop Demanding transport sectors – such as the mining industry – require high productivity and high uptime for the entire fleet to remain efficient. With preventive maintenance and fast repairs on-site, Scania Field Workshops get vehicles up and running again. 30 Scania Annual and Sustainability report 2015 CITIES ON THE MOVE THE PATH TO SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Cities will be one of the most important drivers for change, demanding efficient, high-capacity and lowcarbon solutions with low environmental impact. Scania works systematically to gain more insight into the entire logistics flow, and to develop and offer more sustainable solutions both in and around cities. Bus systems BRT systems offer an efficient and practical Engine applications form of urban transport. Our solutions for city Scania gensets used as back-up buses operating on natural gas or biogas offer power in hospitals and in other tasks a combination of high capacity, fuel economy need to be highly reliable. Other and low environmental impact. applications for Scania Engines include construction and mining equipment. Distribution segment Retail distribution and waste management are essential to city life. Our ­solutions save fuel and contribute to greater transport efficiency. Alternative fuels Alternative fuels play a large role in reducing the climate impact of transport services. Scania offers one of the market’s broadest Euro 6 engine ranges for alternative fuels, such as biodiesel and biogas that can be used in city buses and trucks. Marine applications Whether a fast patrol craft or heavy river barge, outstanding operating economy and low emissions are important features of Scania’s marine solutions, based on our marine engine range. Solutions are tailored to offer flexible options for ratings, equipment, transmissions and instrumentation. Electrification Scania is participating in field tests for a wirelessly charged hybrid electric bus. Using inductive charging, the vehicle receives power wirelessly from the road. This opens up the possibility of entirely electrified roads. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 31 CREATING VALUE With a holistic view and strong focus on continuous improvement, Scania seeks to develop solutions that add value for all actors in the value chain. With customers at the centre, value accrues also for Scania and for our key stakeholders, creating a profitable and sustainable transport industry for the future. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE CHAIN OUR VALUE CHAIN Long-term profitable development in Scania entails accomplishing better economic value creation while, in parallel, having a positive impact on society, thus creating shared value. By partnering with our customers and other stakeholders, and applying our knowledge and innovative solutions, Scania contributes to the 1. Research and Development 2. Sourcing 3. Production transformation of transport systems With a high level of investments in With rigorous environmental, ethical With a strong focus on continuous and embeds greater efficiency R&D, Scania creates value for and social demands, we support improvement, SPS helps eliminate throughout the value chain. customers by meeting their businesses throughout our global waste, improve resource efficiency Our biggest impact – positive and demands for higher uptime and supply chain that maintain fair and optimise production flow, thereby negative – occurs beyond Scania’s greater efficiency, and for society by conditions. In return, we benefit reducing our environmental footprint. own operations; instead it is when supporting a safe and efficient from higher supplier quality and Scania trucks and buses are on the transport system. productivity, and minimise negative road that our products and services impact during the life cycles of our create benefits for customers and products. society, and major environmental effects arise. 4. Sales 5. In use 6. Services 7. End-of-life With a global presence, we work With logistics thinking we focus on By continuously improving our Scania’s ambition is to continuously together with our customer to how to make the system flow more global sales and services reduce non-recyclable components ensure the vehicle is optimised for efficient. By applying connectivity operations and working hand-inand provide guidelines for end-of-life their specific transport assignment and focusing on lifecycle hand with customers, we improve treatment and dismantling, also in and to address their environmental optimisation, we help customers our ability to meet their sustainability partnership with others, to minimise impact. This sense of responsibility improve operational efficiency, goals, identify efficiencies and impact from our products’ life cycle. in sales is reflected in our principles reduce noise, impacts and costs, deliver high value-added services. and also extends forward in the and improve road safety and Made mainly out of high recovery value chain. security. value materials like cast iron and steel, our trucks are 95 percent commercially recyclable. 32 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 CREATING VALUE OUR Customers With our focus on customer profitability, Scania has Scania driver training Connected vehicle sales, STAKEHOLDERS a strong brand in the industry; recognised especially 2011–15 (drivers) accumulated 2011–15 (’000 vehicles) Value creation is the essential aim of for fuel efficiency, performance and the quality of 30,000 180 our products and services. In terms of customer our business and links Scania to our 25,000 150 loyalty, Scania typically scores among the best key stakeholder groups. Scania has in the industry. Driver training and connected 20,000 120 been consistent in delivering benefits vehicles that create conditions for better economy, 15,000 90 to customers, employees, suppliers, are two examples of services that are appreciated by 10,000 60 our customers. owners and lenders and society at 5,000 30 large. Value creation is dynamic: 0 0 investments in machinery and in the 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 health and training of employees leads to higher productivity. Collaborating Employees with universities and schools as well Scania’s employees are key to our success. Total global healthy Training hours per attendance 2011–15 (%) employee as contributing to local communities There is great satisfaction in belonging to a 2011–15 (hours) healthy, inspiring and productive workplace 100 increase the talent pool and support 30 where performance is well rewarded. Every Scania´s business environment. The 95 25 year, a significant share of the employees value that this approach creates for enhance competence and skills through 20 Scania, is, in turn, reinvested in our tailored training programmes. 90 15 business, creating the right conditions 10 for continued growth with profitability. 85 5 0 80 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Suppliers Providing business opportunities and shared Cost of goods 2011–15 technology with expectations of meeting high (SEKm) environmental and social standards, creates value 50,000 for our suppliers (and society at large). In return, Scania benefits through higher supplier quality 40,000 and productivity. 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 11 12 13 14 15 Owners and lenders Scania provides value for our owners and lenders ROCE 2011–15 Cash flow 2011–15 (return %) (SEKm) by continuing to deliver growth with profitability and generating positive cash flows. 40 8,000 30 6,000 20 4,000 10 2,000 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Society Ecolution by Scania, Developing and delivering tailored solutions that contract sales R&D expenses 2011–15 drive efficiency and profitability in the value chain accumulated 2011-15 (SEKm) (vehicles) is our major contribution to society. Employment, 7,000 6 training of employees and investment in R&D are 6,000 5 other examples of how Scania generates value for 5,000 4 society at large. 4,000 3 This benefits the economies of local communities, 3,000 strengthens skills and experience in the workforce, 2 2,000 and reduces negative environmental impact through 1 1,000 low carbon transport solutions. 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 33 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Sustainability is multifaceted and Scania strives to ensure that its business in all aspects and at every stage complies with high social, ethical and environmental standards. Scania closely monitors its performance in all key areas of sustainability with the aim of achieving continuous improvement. This is very much in keeping with Scania’s core values. HOW SCANIA WORKS SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR PROCESSES By building long-term supplier relationships, Scania work for For Scania, elimination of waste forms part of our heritage and sustainable solutions throughout the entire value chain. All suppliers constitutes a cornerstone in our core values and strategy. Guided must meet our high standards and are asked to require the same of by our core values and our approach to continuous improvement, their own suppliers. Our suppliers must confirm compliance by living we closely review strategies in order to externally and internally up to our standards and all potential suppliers are treated equally to reduce our footprint, and ensure that ethical principles are adhered encourage competition. to. Established processes, clear guidelines and employee training support our employees in their daily work. Through tailored solutions, Partnerships improve effectiveness we drive efficiency and profitability for our customers and our Collaborating with a greater number of actors improves effectiveness. customers’ customers throughout the whole logistical value Scania works closely together with customers, suppliers and other chain and bring value to the society. auto manufacturers. Through its membership in the CSR Europe Automotive Working Group (EAWG), Scania works with other Striving for high social, ethical, and environmental standards is well in automotive companies to improve sustainability throughout the line with Scania’s long-standing commitment to quality and a culture value chain. The automotive industry value chain is complex, and of continuous improvement. Our way of working is founded on good collaboration with other actors saves resources and sends a clear governance frameworks and systems, clear aims and direction, and message to suppliers. Part of this collaborative work involves a committed workforce that delivers on the company’s vision. increasing the number of suppliers that meet the sustainability requirements and the ethical guidelines. EAWG offers capacity building SOURCING PROCESSES to local partners and training courses for suppliers in selected countries. Scania works cross-functionally with purchasing on a global level. By setting high standards for quality and compliance with ethical Requirement to lower CO2 emissions principles, Scania limits its exposure to business risks. The majority Reducing the environmental impact is a key component of Scania’s of purchases is sourced from Swedish, German and other EU country customer offer. As a leader in our industry, we strive to reduce suppliers. Meanwhile, purchasing in India and China is increasing CO2 emissions from our incoming transports (see page 29, smart with the global growth of Scania’s operations. Scania therefore works transport). To achieve our target we work closely with our suppliers, systematically to ensure that the high standards are maintained by all impose requirements for a 3 percent annual reduction in of our partners. In 2015, detailed purchasing process guidelines were CO2 emissions, and offer alternative fuel and transport solutions. added to our Corporate Guidance Manual, and all parts of Scania We presently require that all new transporters meet at least now follow the same processes. Employees involved in the Euro 5 standards. purchasing process have been trained in the new principles. High standards for suppliers RESPONSIBLE SALES Scania sets explicit requirements for all suppliers. New suppliers are Our responsibility also extends forward in the value chain. With the subject to a review process, and must meet Scania’s standards and Scania Dealer Operating Standard, we impose strict requirements on follow our ethical principles. All suppliers are evaluated on a regular our distributors and retailers. Scania provides support and regularly basis. In regions where qualified suppliers are scarce, such as in India, monitors compliance to ensure that our quality, environmental and Scania has launched qualification programmes and is investing in responsible businesses process standards are met. During 2015, supplier development. we stepped up our efforts to integrate environmental, human rights and anti-corruption aspects in our sales processes. Our sales departments are being trained and will continuously be equipped with the necessary tools to manage issues in complex environments over the coming years. 34 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES IN OUR PRODUCTION CO2 emissions RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Scania should lead by example, to ensure that we continuously and Almost all greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted by our operations is strategically work to use resources efficiently in production. Our five CO2, derived from direct and indirect energy use. In 2015, Scania’s long-standing priorities serve as guidelines in our long-range efforts to CO2 emissions from industrial operations totalled 81,700 tonnes, reduce our environmental impact: the same level as 2010 but with an increased production volume • Efficient use of energy and water in facilities and operations. of 17 percent. This has resulted in a 15 percent reduction per vehicle to 1.03 tonnes CO2/vehicle. • Reduce use of raw materials and chemicals. • Reduce air and wastewater emissions. Water • Increase reuse and reducing waste material. Scania reviews its production facilities to identify impact in areas • Reduce risks for accidents and spill and effectively managing with limited water resources. With the exception of Latin America, them if they occur. Scania has no production activities in areas where access to water is limited. The greatest share of Scania’s water consumption – Efficient energy use approximately 80 percent – is attributable to consumption by Scania continuously works towards its goal of halving energy use employees. Water consumption per produced vehicle increased 5 per produced vehicle by 2020 from the base year 2010. In 2015, percent to 6.8 cubic metres/vehicle in 2015 due to lower production production volumes were slightly lower than the preceding year, volume. In a longer perspective, the water use per vehicle has mainly due to the decline at Scania’s Latin American production units. decreased by 11 percent since 2010. This led to reduced total energy use by 3 percent but an increase in relation to number of produced vehicles, 8.1 MWh. Chemicals Scania’s priority is to reduce the use of environmentally hazardous All Scania production sites use the Kaizen method, a part of SPS, chemicals and to work responsibly with chemical management. to identify and eliminate energy waste. Kaizen refers to activities that Today, these chemicals are necessary to meet the complex technical continuously improve all functions and involve all employees. needs of modern vehicles and are currently used in production and service operations. Scania’s environmental policy emphasises A continued focus on changed practices and investment in resource the Precautionary Principle, which is particularly relevant for efficient equipment is needed together with an increased production handling chemicals. volume to achieve the target. ENERGY USE FOR INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS All Scania performance indicators are set in relation to the number of produced vehicles. Performance data covers all industrial operations. Energy Water Carbon dioxide from production Transport CO2 emissions CO2 from goods Total MWh M3 Total Tonnes/ CO2 from goods transport per vehicle MWh per vehicle Total m3 per vehicle ktonnes vehicle transport (tonnes) (tonnes/vehicle) 800,000 30 1 million 30 100 5 300,000 3.5 25 25 250,000 3.0 800,000 80 4 2.5 20 20 200,000 600,000 60 3 2.0 600,000 15 15 150,000 400,000 40 2 1.5 10 10 100,000 1.0 200,000 20 1 5 5 50,000 0.5 400,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy Water Emissions of CO2 tonne/vehicle Transport-related direct CO2 Energy use per produced vehicle has Most production processes have Nearly all greenhouse gases emissions decreased by 17 percent since 2010. closed systems and industrial (GHG) emitted by our operations is Lower production volumes in Latin wastewater is treated before draining. CO2, derived from direct and indirect America resulted in a decrease in Only minor drain off is made directly to energy use. emissions from inbound flows in Latin the sewage system, such as America and overseas flows to Latin wastewater from cooling towers. America. Emission levels for inbound in Europe is at the same levels as in 2014 while we transported 9 percent more goods in 2015 compared to 2014. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scania AB and its direct wholly-owned subsidiary Scania CV AB (together “Scania”) maintain a high international standard of corporate governance through the clarity and simplicity of its management systems and governing documents. Corporate governance at Scania is based on the Articles of Association, Swedish legislation, in particular the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act and internal governing documents. The Volkswagen Group’s governing documents are also being gradually implemented. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In accordance with the Swedish Companies Act and Scania’s Articles Governing documents at Scania of Association, the composition of the Board is decided by election. The most important governing documents at Scania are: Decisions at the AGM are usually made by simple majority. In some • The  Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors, including the cases such as an amendment to the Articles of Association, however, Board’s instruction to the President and CEO and guidelines for the Swedish Companies Act or the Articles of Association stipulates essential reporting processes at Scania either a certain level of attendance in order to reach a quorum or a qualified majority of votes. During 2015, neither the AGM, nor any • The Rules of Procedure of the Audit/Remuneration Committees EGM, did authorise the Board to resolve on the issue or repurchase • How Scania is Managed of shares. • Corporate Governance Manual • Scania Financial Manual THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Scania’s Board of Directors, which is identical for Scania AB and Scania CV AB, is elected every year by the shareholders at the AGM. Application The Board is the link between the shareholders and the company’s This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in compliance management. It is of great importance in the task of developing with Chapter 6, Section 7 of the Annual Accounts Act. Scania’s strategy and business operations. According to the respective Articles of Association, in addition to THE SHAREHOLDERS those Board members who are appointed pursuant to Swedish law by Shareholders of Scania that hold more than 10 percent of the voting a party other than the AGM, the Board shall comprise a minimum of rights on 31 November 2015, are Volkswagen AG and its subsidiary three and a maximum of 10 members plus a maximum of two deputy MAN SE. Volkswagen AG holds 82.63 percent of the shares in Scania members. The members are elected each year at the AGM for the AB and MAN SE holds 17.37 percent of the shares in Scania AB. The period up to the end of the next AGM. Volkswagen Group thus directly or indirectly owns 100 percent of the shares in Scania and therefore, directly or indirectly, controls all of the Scania’s Board is composed of eight elected Board members and no voting rights in Scania. deputy members. On 31 December 2015, they were: Helmut Aurenz The Annual General Meeting Annika Falkengren The right of shareholders to make decisions on Scania’s affairs is Matthias Gründler ultimately exercised at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). According Per Hallberg to the Swedish Companies Act, within six months of the expiry of Marcus S Piëch each financial year, Swedish limited liability companies shall hold a Christian Porsche general meeting of shareholders, where the Board of Directors shall Andreas Renschler present the Annual Report and the Auditors’ Report. This shareholder Peter Wallenberg Jr meeting is called the Annual General Meeting. At Scania, the AGM is normally held during April or May. Notice convening the AGM shall Andreas Renschler is the Chairman of the Board of Directors. In be issued no earlier than six and no later than four weeks before the addition, the trade unions at Scania have appointed two Board Meeting. Notice convening an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) members and two deputy members for them. They were for 2015: shall be issued no earlier than six and no later than three weeks before Johan Järvklo the Meeting. Lisa Lorentzon Mikael Johansson, deputy member Mari Carlquist, deputy member 36 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Instruction to the President and CEO THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY In the instruction of the Board to Scania’s President and CEO, the The decision-making structure and management of Scania are Board specifies his duties and powers. This instruction includes described in the internal governing document ‘How Scania is guidelines on capital expenditures, financing, financial reporting and Managed’. It also describes Scania’s policies concerning quality, external communications. employment and employees, and environment and sustainability issues, competitive methods and ethics. The Board’s Committees The principles and rules presented in the governing document The Board currently has two committees: The Remuneration ‘Scania Financial Manual’ also apply to the Scania Group. Committee and the Audit Committee. The Board appoints the Financial, commercial, legal and tax risks are reported regularly members of the committees from among its own members. The to the Audit Committee. Remuneration Committee discusses issues concerning compensation principles and incentive programmes. It also prepares decisions The companies in the Scania Group also work in compliance with the concerning the conditions of employment of the President & CEO and principles established in Scania’s ‘Corporate Governance Manual’. the Executive Board. The Audit Committee discusses and monitors The main responsibility for the operations of subsidiaries, ensuring issues related to administrative processes, refinancing, treasury that the established profitability targets are achieved and ensuring that operations, risk control and the controller organisation. Its brief all of Scania’s internal rules and principles are followed rests with the also includes discussing and evaluating the company’s application Board of Directors of each respective subsidiary. of important accounting issues and principles and the company’s financial reporting, as well as evaluating the auditors and approving All managers in the company are responsible for working and the use of external auditors for non-auditing-related services. communicating in compliance with the company’s strategy. At the annual Top Management Meeting, the Executive Board The Audit Committee shall also receive and discuss complaints communicates the Scania Group’s strategic direction. The Group’s concerning accounting, internal controls or auditing in the company. strategic direction is also compiled in summary documents (known as ‘one-pagers’), which are available to employees. The strategic The Remuneration Committee only exists in Scania AB, while the direction serves as the foundation for the Scania Group’s business Audit Committee is identical and common to Scania CV AB. and operating plans. Auditors The President and CEO At Scania, the independent auditors are elected annually by the Under the Board of Directors, the President and CEO has overall shareholders at the AGM, for a period until the end of the next responsibility for the Scania Group. financial year’s AGM. To ensure that the requirements concerning information and controls The Executive Board that are incumbent on the Board are being met, the auditors report At the side of the President and CEO is the Executive Board. on a continuous basis to the Audit Committee on all substantive The Executive Board makes joint decisions – in compliance with accounting issues as well as any errors and suspected irregularities. guidelines approved by the Board and the instruction on the division The auditors also participate in at least one Board meeting per of labour between the Board of Directors and the President and year and are invited, as needed, to participate in and report to the CEO – on issues in its area of competency that are of a long-term, meetings of the Board. strategic nature, such as the development of the company, research and development, purchasing, overall human resource matters, Once a year, the auditors report to the Audit Committee without the environmental work, marketing, pricing policy, capital expenditures, President and CEO or any other member of the company’s operative and financing. The Executive Board also prepares such issues that management being present at the meeting. The auditors have no shall be decided by the Board of Directors. assignments for the company that affect their independence as auditors for Scania. The strategy meetings of the Executive Board take place once each month. These strategies are summarised from a global perspective and updated, taking into account market developments. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The corporate units The controller organisation, like financial responsibility, follows the The heads of corporate units are responsible to the Executive Board company’s organisational and responsibility structure. Controllers for ensuring that the appropriate actions are taken in their respective who closely scrutinise business operations are found at all levels fields of responsibility based on the strategies that have been decided. of the organisation. Clear reporting to higher levels takes place Each corporate unit reports to one of the members of the Executive regularly, ensuring a solid understanding of how a unit’s business Board. The heads of corporate units also have a general responsibility operations are reflected in the figures. In its task of compiling, for issues that affect the entire company, and they assist the President verifying, and analysing financial information, the corporate-level and CEO and the Executive Board in their work. controller organisation has access to the figures and business-related comments of all operational units. The members of the Executive Board and most of the heads of corporate units, who are not prevented by other obligations, also Information and communication gather at a brief operational business update meeting once during In order to inform, instruct and coordinate financial reporting, each normal work week. Scania has formal information and communications channels to the affected employees regarding policies, guidelines and reporting Internal control of financial reporting manuals. These formal information and communications channels The cornerstones of Scania’s internal control system consist of the are supplemented by frequent dialogue between Finance and control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information Business Control and the individuals in charge of financial reporting at and communication as well as monitoring. operational units. The Group holds internal seminars and conferences regularly, with a focus on quality assurance in financial reporting and Control environment governance models. Internal control at Scania is based on the decisions on organisational structure, powers and guidelines made by the Board of Directors. Monitoring The Board’s decisions have been transformed into functioning Scania monitors compliance with the above described governing management and control systems by the Executive Board. documents and the effectiveness of the control structure. Monitoring Organisational structure, decision-making procedures, powers and and evaluation are performed by the company’s corporate controller responsibilities are documented and communicated in governing departments in industrial operations, all sales and services companies documents, such as internal policies, manuals and codes. Also and finance companies. During 2015, in its control and investigative included in the basis for internal control are Group-wide accounting activities the company prioritised areas and processes with large and reporting instructions, instructions regarding powers, and flows and values as well as selected operational risks. Monitoring authorisation rights as well as manuals. The Group reporting system compliance with the Scania Corporate Governance Manual and for integrated financial and operational information is another central Scania Financial Manual remained high priority areas, along with element of the control environment and internal control. Integrated units undergoing changes. reporting of financial and operational information ensures that external financial reporting is firmly based on business operations. In addition In preparation for every meeting, the Audit Committee of the Board to information on final outcome figures, the reporting system also of Directors receives an internal control report for review. This report includes quarterly moving forecast information. Corporate Control is prepared by Group Internal Audit, whose main task is to monitor is responsible for continuous updating of accounting and reporting and review internal control of the company’s financial reporting. instructions, with due regard for external and internal requirements. The independence of the unit is ensured by its reporting to the Audit Committee. Risk assessment and control activities The Board receives monthly financial reports. This financial Risk management and risk assessment are an integral element of information increases in terms of content in the run-up to each interim the business management and decision-making processes. Risk report, which is always preceded by a Board meeting where the areas identified in financial reporting are handled and scrutinised Board approves the report. via Scania’s controller organisation. Through the organisational structure and the work methods described above, the company deems the internal control system concerning financial reporting well suited to the company’s operations. 38 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Global GDP growth during 2015 continued to be below long-term average. REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Meanwhile, the Brazilian and Russian economies contracted significantly. The recovery in Europe continued to be supported by a weak euro and low interest rates. Scania strengthened its position in the European market and managed to increase market share on both the truck and bus side. Service revenue was again at an all-time-high level. MARKET TRENDS 2015 VEHICLES AND SERVICES Higher market share Scania’s vehicle deliveries in 2015 were slightly below the 2014 level. Scania increased its market share in Europe during 2015. Due to the Truck deliveries decreased by 4 percent to a total of 69,762 units while early introduction of Euro 6 vehicles, Scania has extensive experience bus and coach deliveries were basically unchanged compared with with two generations of the engines. Scania also received widespread 2014 and reached 6,799 units. Demand for service-related products recognition for its low fuel consumption. Scania’s offer in alternative increased in all markets. Engine deliveries rose by 2 percent to 8,485 fuels is the most comprehensive in the industry. Scania truck units and service sales increased by 9 percent to SEK 20,585 m., the registrations rose to some 43,900 units, equivalent to a market share highest level ever. of about 16.5 (15.1) percent. The truck market in Europe Declining economy in Latin America The economic growth in Europe continued during 2015. The total Brazil in 2015 experienced a severe recession with decelerating market for heavy trucks in 26 of the European Union member economic activity. Earlier subsidies for truck investment were countries (all EU countries except Bulgaria and Malta) plus Norway substantially reduced already in 2014 and continued to be restricted and Switzerland increased by 19 percent to about 266,700 units during 2015. Scania truck registrations in Brazil amounted to some during 2015, compared to about 224,800 trucks in 2014. As a result 5,222 units, equivalent to a market share of about 12.6 (15.3) percent. of the high European truck deliveries during 2005–2008, followed by Demand held up well in other Latin American markets, such as Peru, lower levels in recent years, the average age of the truck population Chile and Argentina. has been relatively high, which provided support to demand in Europe in 2015 as well as a high economic activity in general. 16.5% 43,900 SEK MARKET SHARE Marknadsandelar Trucks above 16 tonnes, 26 EU countries plus Norway and Switzerland (all EU countries except Bulgaria and Malta). % 20,585m Scania’s market share in Europe based on truck Number of registered Scania trucks in Europe 25 Service revenue in 2015 registrations 2015 2015 20 Mercedes Scania 15 MAN Volvo 10 DAF Renault 5 Iveco 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Scania increased its market share for the third consecutive year. Scania’s main competitors are other Western manufacturers. In the truck segment, Scania competes with DAF, Iveco, MAN, Mercedes, Renault and Volvo. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 39 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Opportunities in emerging markets Success in the services business Order bookings in Asia in 2015 were lower than the previous year, Service demand was good throughout the year in virtually all mainly due to fewer orders to the Middle East. However, Scania noted markets, both in and outside of Europe. In recent years, Scania a substantial increase in truck sales to Turkey in anticipation of the has increased its vehicle deliveries in many emerging markets in transition to Euro 6 in 2016. Overall deliveries to Asia decreased Asia and Latin America and has also expanded its service capacity by 39 percent to 8,349 trucks. and strengthened its offer. This has had a positive impact on service demand. Service revenue rose by 9 percent to a record In Eurasia, where Russia is the largest market, demand was level of SEK 20,585 m. In local currency the upturn was 6 percent. severely affected by the economic crisis and Scania’s truck Demand for service and repairs is more stable over an economic deliveries decreased to 2,583 units during 2015. With the cycle than demand for new vehicles. This is because hauliers can geopolitical turbulence, the outlook for the region is uncertain. opt to defer new investments but cannot avoid repairs and servicing to the same extent. Deliveries in Africa and Oceania increased by 12 percent during the year, mainly due to higher sales in South Africa. FINANCIAL SERVICES The bus and coach market The customer financing portfolio increased by SEK 0.9 billion to SEK Scania’s deliveries of buses and coaches during 2015 amounted to 56.5 billion during the year. In local currencies the portfolio increased 6,799 units, in line with 2014. Compared to 2014, Scania deliveries by SEK 4,300 m., by 8 percent. Scania’s share of financed vehicles in Europe increased in 2015 by 41 percent. Deliveries increased in rose from 37 percent to 42 percent. The demand for insurance Asia while they were lower in Africa and Oceania. During the second solutions was also greater. Most of the portfolio consists of customers quarter 2015, the new Scania Interlink family of low, medium and high in European markets. The financing portfolio is well diversified in terms decker buses was presented. Scania also delivered its hybrid city bus of geography and types of customers as well as their size, economic to customers in Denmark, Norway and Sweden during the year. sector and vehicle applications. Scania reduces its risk by pursuing a conservative credit policy and a refinancing profile that matches In the bus and coach segment, Scania’s main competitors are borrowing to lending. Irisbus, MAN, Mercedes, Neoplan, Setra and Volvo. Close collaboration between Financial Services and Scania’s sales All-time high for industrial and marine engines organisation is a major explanation for Scania’s expanding financing Demand increased during 2015 and Scania’s deliveries were at an portfolio. This collaboration allows both operations to mutually benefit all-time high. Scania has a number of major agreements with OEMs from insights concerning customers and their businesses. such as Doosan, Atlas Copco and Terex. During 2015, additional Experience shows that brand loyalty is higher among customers that partnerships were established with Oshkosh Corporation to supply select financing, insurance and maintenance contracts with Scania. engines for airport vehicles and with Hyundai Heavy Industries for excavators and wheel loaders. Deliveries of engines rose by 2 percent to 8,485 units. Initially, engine deliveries for power electrification to Brazil were high but subsequently declined due to the Brazilian Close collaboration between Financial economic crisis. Scania deliveries to marine applications showed a Services and Scania’s sales organisation is strong performance in Asia. a major explanation for Scania’s expanding financing portfolio. 40 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Operating income Insurance Contracts Finance Contracts Vehicles priduced Rest of world Europe SEK m. No. No. No. 1,200 70,000 150,000 100,000 60,000 1,000 120,000 80,000 50,000 800 40,000 90,000 60,000 600 30,000 60,000 40,000 400 20,000 30,000 20,000 200 10,000 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Operating income Insurance contracts Finance contracts Vehicles produced Financial Services Operating income increased to a There was an increasing demand for Customers are increasingly choosing During 2015, Scania produced 79,350 record-high SEK 1,040 m. A larger Scania’s insurance solutions during Scania as their long-term partner in vehicles (82,208). Quality and delivery average portfolio, and higher margins 2015. Efficient claims management vehicle financing. precision improved. and only slightly increased bad debt and fast repairs in Scania’s service expenses had a positive effect. network is the core of the offer. Record-high results Scania has expanded its technical capacity to 120,000 vehicles Operating income increased to record-high SEK 1,040 m. A larger from 100,000. The work on ensuring flexibility to meet short-term average portfolio, and higher margins and only slightly increased bad fluctuations in demand is continuing as Scania expands its capacity. debt expenses had a positive effect. During 2015, Scania produced 79,350 vehicles (82,208). The environmental performance at Scania’s production units is PRODUCTION AND ENVIRONMENT strengthened continuously. The Scania Production System is central The high demand for vehicles in Europe was reflected in the record in the work of reducing the use of energy, water and chemicals. capacity production level at Scania’s European units. Due to falling Scania places a special focus on the environmental impact from demand, primarily in Brazil, production at the unit in São Bernardo transport, both inbound in the form of components and articles do Campo was affected, but thanks to the common global production from suppliers and also from outbound delivery of parts and vehicles. concept Scania was able to make use the excess capacity there to So far the results are very encouraging. supply other markets. Shorter lead times, higher quality and delivery precision were in focus, and all these parameters improved. In chassis assembly, real-time preventive risk preparedness was introduced to uphold quality. Vehicle quality was at an all-time high, both measured internally as well as in customer surveys. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 41 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS EMPLOYEES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Ensuring that all employees, regardless of their form of employment, The aim of Scania’s research and development organisation is to feel dedicated and interested in their work is an important task for improve productivity and profitability in customer operations based managers at all levels of the organisation. Regardless of what work on low fuel consumption, high uptime and low service cost combined they do, or where they are in the world, people who work at Scania with good performance. Scania puts a lot of resources into research need to feel job satisfaction and a sense of well-being. Scania’s and development, which is concentrated at the Scania Technical systematic efforts to monitor job satisfaction was developed in 2015 Centre in Södertälje, where some 3,500 people are employed. with a single common survey. During 2015, research and development expenses amounted to SEK 5,573 m. (5,304), which corresponded to 5.9 percent of net sales. Scania is convinced that diverse work groups, reflecting diversity in gender, ethnicity and background, are key to success and therefore aims to work for a more diversified workforce in all its operations. % SEK m. Sweden Global Questions relating to well-being, working environment, safety and 25 6,000 health have high priority. All managers and employees at production units are involved in improving working methods. In this way, Scania 5,000 20 has been able to reduce employee turnover and keep healthy attendance at a high stable level over the years, while increasing 4,000 15 its production capacity. The principles, developed over many years at Scania’s production units, have been adapted and are 3,000 being implemented in the other parts of the company. The number 10 2,000 of employees at Scania increased to 44,409 at the end of 2015 compared with 42,129 on the same date in 2014. 5 1,000 0 0 2011 2015 2011 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Share of female managers R&D Expenses Diversity is important for Scania Scania has maintained a high level of and a number of projects have been investments to strengthen the product initiated to increase the share of portfolio in the coming years. women among executive officers. 42 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Risks are a natural element of business operations and entre­preneurship. REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Part of the day-to-day work of Scania is to manage risks, to prevent risks from harming the company and to limit the damage that may arise. Various risks may have an ­adverse impact on Scania with direct effects on business operations and on the company’s reputation. RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Scania is one of the leading companies in the heavy vehicle industry. Risks of overlooking threats and opportunities, of sub-optimising This leads to high expectations from all stakeholders, especially operations in the company, and of making the wrong decisions are customers, about Scania as a company and its products and thereby minimised, while the risk of uncertainty and lack of clarity services. It is important to monitor and minimise events and behaviour concerning the company’s strategy and business development is that might adversely affect the company’s brand and reputation. managed in a systematic way. Scania’s strong corporate culture is based on established values, Research and development projects are revised continuously on the principles, and methods and is the foundation of the company’s basis of each project’s technological and commercial relevance. risk management work. Scania’s Board of Directors is responsible to the owners for the company’s risk management. The company OPERATIONAL RISKS continuously reports on risk-related matters to the Board and the Market risks Audit Committee of the Board. The demand for Scania’s products is mainly driven by transport needs and also by a certain replacement need for vehicles to maintain high STRATEGIC RISKS availability and low life-cycle cost of the vehicles. Corporate governance and policy-related risks The Executive Board carries the main responsibility for managing Fluctuations in world financial markets have a large or small impact on corporate governanceand policy-related risks. All units of the real economic cycles and thus on the demand for Scania’s products. company work according to a management system that meets Since commercial vehicles are a capital investment, demand is not Scania’s requirements, guidelines, and policies and is well only affected by need but also by the availability and cost of capital. documented. Rapid dissemination of appropriate information Markets may temporarily stall, and local currencies may depreciate. is safeguarded via the company’s management structures and The status of public finances and fiscal austerity in countries may processes. Management systems are continuously being improved, have a negative impact on demand for our products. Demand both through the day-to-day work and regular reviews, performed for service-related products is less affected by fluctuations in the internally and by third parties. economic cycle than demand for vehicles. Business development risks Well-diversified sales in more than 100 countries limit the effect of Risks associated with business development and long-term a downturn in any given market. In individual markets, substantial planning are managed primarily through Scania’s cross-functional changes may occur in the business environment, such as the (interdepartmental) meeting structure for decision making of a introduction or raising of customs duties and taxes, introduction or strategic and tactical nature, as well as Scania’s established yearly cessation of stimulus measures as well as changed requirements for process for strategic planning. Such planning is discussed and vehicle specifications. Impositions of sanctions against certain countries challenged throughout the company, based on external and internal may reduce the potential for marketing Scania’s products. In addition, deliberations. All units and levels of the company are involved in the shortcomings in national legal systems may substantially impair strategic process. Scania’s ability to carry out operations and sales. Scania monitors all its markets continuously in order to spot warning signals early and to be Both the cross-functional meeting structure and the strategic process able to take action and implement changes in its marketing strategy. are long-established and are evolving continuously. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risks in the sales and services network Mitigation is done by having specialised roles in relevant entities In the major markets, distributors are predominantly owned by to monitor and control these risks (Risk Managers, AML Offices, Scania. Aside from volume risks that are linked to market risks above, Compliance Managers, Internal Audit). there are commercial risks in the sales and services network for various types of contracted services and also in relation to residual Production risks value obligations and used vehicle prices. Repair and maintenance Scania has an integrated component manufacturing network contracts comprise one important element of the sales and with two geographic bases, Sweden and Brazil/Argentina. This services business and help to generate high uptime for the customer, concentration entails some risk, which is nevertheless offset by the good capacity utilisation at workshops and greater customer loyalty. fact that the company’s uniform global production system enables These contracts are often connected to predetermined prices. it to source components from either area. According to the Scania Thus both price and handling risks arise. Continuity Planning Principles, Scania must continuously maintain its preparedness at such a level that the company’s ability to maintain As a result of residual value obligations and repurchase guarantees delivery assurance to its customers is not adversely affected. and trade-ins, the sales and services organisation handles a large volume of used trucks and buses. Prices and sales figures may vary Scania has a shared risk management model, the Business over economic cycles. Due to Scania’s high degree of integration Interruption Study, with corporate-level responsibility for coordination into its sales and services network, the company has extensive and support to line management. This model is continuously being knowledge in handling these variations. refined and also takes into account the effects of suppliers on Scania’s delivery precision. The Business Interruption Study identifies, quantifies Sales and services units assume a credit risk in relation to their and manages potential interruption risks. This also includes evaluating customers, mainly for workshop services performed and parts sold. alternatives, methods and lead times for resuming normal operations. However, the customer base is widely dispersed and the risk in relation to each individual customer is thus limited. Based on the results of this work, Scania regularly develops continuity plans adapted to each operating unit, which are part of every Operational risks in the sales and services network are detected manager’s responsibilities. Training and drills occur with affected and eliminated by using Scania Retail System (SRS), which is an employees and service providers at Scania’s production units. adaptation for the commercial operations of the Scania Production System (SPS). Follow-up occurs by means of monitoring systems, reporting and response procedures. Yearly reports are submitted to Production and Independent dealers may suffer problems that may have an adverse Logistics management. effect on Scania’s operations. This may include shortcomings in management and investment capacity or problems related to Scania’s Blue Rating Fire Safety system is a standardised method generational shifts in family businesses. If the problems are not merely for carrying out risk inspections, with a focus on physical risks and transitory, Scania may replace dealers or take over the business. for being able to present Scania’s risks in the reinsurance market. Scania continuously maintains close contact with its independent Yearly risk inspections are conducted at all production units and a few dealers in order to spot warning signs at an early stage and to be able Scania-owned distributors/workshops. to take action. Scania Blue Rating – Safety, Health and Environment is a Regulatory risks in the Financial Services operations method Scania uses to evaluate and develop the safety, health Scania’s operations include arrangement of financing and insurance and environmental work at its industrial units. See also under services which under several legislations have to comply with FSA’s Sustainability risks. (Financial Services Authorities) rules. Non-compliance with these Production and quality risks in the workshop network’s services rules can lead to penalties or even revocation of operating licences. production are managed by means of SRS, the Scania Dealer Operating Standard (DOS) certification and the Scania Code of Practice. 44 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Supplier risks Uniform structures, common and coordinated recruitment methods Scania continually checks that suppliers meet the company’s and tools as well as clearly described job requirements, help minimise stringent quality, financial, logistic, environmental and ethical the risk of recruitment errors. requirements. Such checks are also made during nomination of new agreements. This work is regularly reported to Scania Purchasing Human resource and talent development occurs with the help of management. a coordinated methodology. In this way, Scania achieves quality assurance and continuous improvement in its human resource Scania’s suppliers undertake to comply with the United Nations activities. Global Compact with respect to sustainability in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Trends are continuously monitored, for example by using key figures for healthy attendance, employee turnover, age structure In order to minimise the impact of production interruptions or financial and professional job satisfaction, as well as by using development problems among suppliers, Scania’s ambition is to work with more dialogues. Targeted actions are implemented as needed. than one supplier for critical items. Scania continuously safeguards the quality and delivery precision of Information risks purchased items. It carries out day-to-day monitoring, then prioritises For Scania, it is crucial to handle information in a way that enables and classifies deviations. In case of repeated deviations, an escalation operations to share and process information in an efficient and reliable model is used in order to create greater focus and quickly restore a way, both within the company and in collaboration with customers, normal situation. suppliers and other business partners. The main risks which may affect information management are that: Fluctuations in the world’s financial markets also risk affecting • Interruptions occur in critical information systems, regardless of Scania’s suppliers to a greater or lesser degree. The financial status cause of suppliers is monitored continuously. • Strategic or other sensitive information is revealed to unauthorised persons Natural disaster risk • Strategic or other sensitive information is intentionally or It is hard to predict the occurrence of natural disasters as well as their unintentionally changed or corrupted frequency and scale. For Scania’s own operations or suppliers located Scania has a central unit for information security, which is responsible in geographical regions that are repeatedly affected, or where the risk for introduction and follow-up of Scania’s information security policy. is deemed higher for other reasons, the natural disaster risk is given As part of their normal responsibilities, managers monitor and special attention in both the risk assessment and in the continuity approve the risk level in their respective area of responsibility and planning process. ensure that all employees are aware of their responsibilities. Followup occurs by means of both internal monitoring and monitoring Human resource and talent recruitment performed by third parties. For its future success, Scania is dependent on its ability to attract and retain motivated employees with the right expertise, in order to Sustainability risks ensure that its operations can deliver the required product and service The term ‘sustainability risks’ refers to risks of undesirable quality. Some of the important risks from a human resource and talent consequences related to the environment, health and safety, human recruitment perspective that may affect deliveries are: rights and business ethics in Scania’s business operations. Risk • Insufficient supply of the right expertise identification and continuity planning are part of every manager’s • Inadequate expertise responsibilities and include planning adapted to each operating unit. • Recruitment errors Training and drills occur with all affected employees and service Scania has structured, well-established working methods for close providers at Scania’s production units. Follow-up occurs by means of cooperation with a number of universities and institutes of technology monitoring systems, reporting and response procedures. in order to create and recruit cutting-edge expertise. Scania runs an upper secondary school in Södertälje, Mälardalens Tekniska At its production units around the world, Scania has carried out Gymnasium MTG, with the ambition of offering high-quality technical orientation studies and risk assessments of buildings as well as soil upper secondary school education aimed at vocational or university and groundwater contamination. preparation. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT As needed, supplementary investigations and required actions have Research and development risks been undertaken. This work takes place in close cooperation with Research and product development occur in close contact with local or regional authorities. the production network and the sales and services organisation to effectively safeguard high quality. All production units have permits that comply with national legislation. In addition to legal requirements and the conditions included in New legislation these permits, operations may also be subject to local requirements The ability to meet coming environmental and safety standards and rules. in various markets is of great importance for Scania’s future. In particular, this relates to legal requirements for reduced levels of In connection with increased production, Scania applies for new pass-by noise, which will gradually enter into effect starting in 2016 permits covering the affected operations. For certain Scania and carbon dioxide legislation for heavy trucks in the EU, which is operations, however, recurrent permit assessments are required. expected to enter into effect in 2018. Scania has adopted a safety, health and environment standard, Other important future regulations are changed national emissions which covers 16 prioritised areas. Scania Blue Rating – Safety, standards in several of Scania’s markets. Health & Environment is a method used in Scania’s production and research and development operations to evaluate safety, To meet new regulations, Scania is utilising its global, modularised health and environment work. Follow-up occurs based on Scania’s product range and is adapting technologies in its future product environment and work environment policy and on the targets and portfolio. legal requirements of the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. Based on the result of this audit, Scania can identify Product launch risks areas for improvement and promote good working methods in Political decisions aimed at influencing the vehicle market in a given order to gradually improve operational working environments and direction – for example, for environmental reasons – by such means reduce environmental impacts. This method is also one of the tools as tax cuts and levies as well as regional environmental zoning rules – for improving efforts to avoid and reduce work environment and may lead to rapid changes in demand. This may require acceleration environmental risks. of product introductions and increases in research and development resources at an earlier stage. Scania manages this by integrating the Scania’s work with values and the Scania Code of Practice creates work done by the business intelligence group into all its development a natural basis for an ethical and responsible approach among and introduction projects. Management and employees in relation to Scania’s role in society. Throughout the development period, work occurs on a crossFurther guidance and support is given to employees through manuals functional basis to ensure that the results of business intelligence and training. Special emphasis is placed on ethical and human rights gathered by all units are taken into account and that Scania issues in complex geographical locations and business segments. establishes the right priorities in its development portfolio. The Climate change constitutes a global risk and Scania works continually product launch process includes carrying out risk analyses on a to reduce the impact of its products and in its operating activities. number of occasions in order to manage this type of risk. Product liability It is Scania’s objective to develop products that are reliable and safe to the user, the general public and the environment. However, if a product should show signs of technical shortcomings that might be harmful to people or property, that is dealt with by the Scania Product Liability Council. This body decides what technical solutions should be used in order to solve the problem and what marketing measures are needed. The Product Liability Council also conducts a review of the processes in question to ensure that the problem does not recur. 46 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Insurable risks Administration of contracts, essential rights, Scania works continuously with the identification, analysis and legal risks and risk reporting administration of insurable risks, both at Group and local level. Administration of contracts, essential rights and legal risks occur in the normal course of operations. Scania has also introduced a Legal Risk A corporate unit is responsible for the Group’s global insurance Reporting system, according to which risks are defined and reported. portfolio. Customary Group insurance policies to protect the Group’s At least once a year, a report on such risks is submitted to the Audit goods shipments, assets and obligations are arranged in accordance Committee of the Board. with Scania’s Corporate Governance Manual and Finance Policy. Local insurance policies are obtained in accordance with the laws TAX RISKS and standards of the country in question. When needed, Scania Scania and its subsidiaries are the object of a large number of tax receives assistance from outside insurance consultancy companies cases, as a consequence of the company’s operating activities. For in identifying and managing risks. Insurance is obtained only from further information, see Note 2, page 69. None of these cases is well-reputed insurance companies, whose financial strength is deemed capable of resulting in a claim that would substantially affect continuously monitored. Scania’s financial position. Tax risks above a certain level are reported Risk inspections, mainly focusing on physical risks, are performed regularly to management. Once a year, a report is submitted to the yearly in most cases at all production units and at a number of Audit Committee of the Board. Scania-owned sales and services units/workshops according to the standardised Scania Blue Rating Fire Safety system. This work FINANCIAL RISKS maintains a high claim prevention level and a low incidence of claims. Beyond business risks, Scania is exposed to various financial risks. Those that are of the greatest importance are currency, interest LEGAL RISKS rate, refinancing and credit risks. Especially in Scania’s Financial Contracts and rights Services, access to competitive funding is critical and to a large Scania’s operations include a wide variety of intangible licensing extent dependent on Scania’s credit rating on the financial markets. agreements, patents and other intellectual property rights. As a consequence of Scania being a wholly owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group, Scania is also affected by changes in Scania also concludes numerous commercial and financial contracts, credit ratings for Volkswagen. The rating institute Standard & Poor’s which is normal for a company of Scania’s scale and type. Scania’s considers Volkswagen’s ownership of Scania to be ‘Highly Strategic’ operations are not dependent on any single commercial or financial rather than ‘Core’ and their ratings methodology therefore dictates contract, patent, licensing agreement or similar right. that Scania’s issuer credit rating shall be limited to the higher of (i) its stand-alone credit rating and (ii) a rating corresponding to one notch Legal actions lower than Volkswagen’s. Scania’s issuer credit rating can never be Scania is affected by numerous legal proceedings as a consequence higher than Volkswagen’s. of the company’s operating activities. This includes alleged breaches of contract, non-delivery of goods or services, producer liability, Any downgrade by Standard & Poor’s of Volkswagen’s credit rating patent infringement or infringements related to other intellectual therefore may result in a downgrade by Standard & Poor’s of Scania’s property, or alleged violations of laws and regulations in force. Even issuer credit rating. Financial risks are managed in accordance with if disputes of this kind should be decided in a favourable way without the Financial Policy adopted annually by Scania’s Board of Directors. adverse economic consequences, they may adversely affect Scania’s See also Note 27 on pages 93-98. reputation. For further information, see Note 2, page 69. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 47 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Scania’s Board of Directors consists of eight members elected by the AGM and two employee representatives plus two deputies for the latter. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andreas Renschler Henrik Henriksson Helmut Aurenz Annika Falkengren Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2015. Member of the Board of Directors since 2016. Member of the Board of Directors since 2008. Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. Chairman, Remuneration Committee. Born: 1970. Born: 1937. Member, Remuneration Committee. Member, Born: 1958. Education: BSc Bachelor of Science in Education: Apprenticeship in Horticulture, Audit committee. Education: Degrees in business engineering Business Administration. Entrepreneur. Born:1962. and business administration. Relevant work experience: Other directorships: Education: BSc. Other directorships: Various managerial positions at Scania since Member of various boards and advisory bodies Other directorships: Member of the Board of Management, 1999, President and CEO of Scania since among them the advisory assemblies for BadenChairman of the Swedish Bankers Association. Volkswagen AG. Chairman of the Board of 2016. Württembergische Bank and Landesbank Director of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken Directors, MAN SE. Chairman of the Board of Baden-Württemberg. Independent Board AB and of Securitas AB. Member of the Directors, MAN Truck & Bus AG. Chairman member of Audi AG and Automobili Lamborghini Supervisory Board of Volkswagen AG. of the Board of Directors, MAN Latin America Holding Spa. Relevant work experience: Indústria e Comércio de Veículos Ltda. Relevant work experience: Several management positions within Member of the Board of Directors, Deutsche Started in 1958 a now-sizeable garden and the Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. Messe AG. Member of the Board of Directors, fertiliser products business in the ASB Group President and CEO of Skandinaviska Enskilda Sinotruk (Hongkong) Limited. in Ludwigsburg, Germany. Banken AB. Relevant work experience: Member of the Board of Management, Volkswagen AG, responsible for Commercial Vehicles. CEO Volkswagen Truck & Bus GmbH. Various management positions at Daimler AG, responsible for Purchasing and Production for Mercedes-Benz Cars and Mercedes-Benz Vans. Member of the Board of Management at Daimler AG, responsible for Daimler Trucks and Daimler Buses. President of Smart GmbH. Head of Executive Management Development at Daimler AG. Various management positions at Daimler AG. 48 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Markus S. Piëch Christian Porsche Peter Wallenberg Jr Matthias Gründler Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. Member of the Board of Directors since 2014. Member of the Board of Directors since 2005. Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. Born: 1985. Born: 1974. Born: 1959. Chairman, Audit Committee. Education: Mag. rer. soc. oec., Bakk. Education: Dr. Dr. Education: MBA. Born: 1965. Other directorships: Other directorships: Other directorships: Education: Studies of Economics at the Member of the Supervisory Board of MAN Member of the Board of MAN Truck & Bus AG. Chairman of Foundation Asset Management IFW (Institute for Knowledge Transfer) in Truck & Bus AG. Relevant work experience: Sweden AB, the Grand Group AB, the cooperation with the Daimler Academy, Relevant work experience: “General Partner” for several companies Royal Swedish Automobile Club and Stuttgart Training as Industrial Clerk Daimler Member of the Executive Board of Salzach within Porsche Holding GmbH, Salzburg Kungsträdgården Park & Evenemang Benz AG, Stuttgart. Privatstiftung. (2005–2009). AB. Vice Chairman of the Knut and Alice Other directorships: Wallenberg Foundation. Board member Member of the Supervisory Board, MAN SE, of Investor AB, SEB Kort AB, Stockholm Munich, Member of the Supervisory Board, International Fairs, Aleris Holding AB and MAN Truck & Bus AG, Munich and Member Atlas Copco AB. of the Supervisory Board, MAN Latin America Relevant work experience: Indústria e Comércio de Veículos Ltda. Various positions at Grand Hôtel. Relevant work experience: CFO Volkswagen Truck & Bus GmbH. Formerly CFO Daimler Trucks & Buses. Several management positions within Daimler AG. Lisa Lorentzon Mari Carlquist Johan Järvklo Mikael Johansson Representative of the Federation of Salaried Representative of the Federation of Salaried Representative of the Swedish Metal Workers’ Representative of the Swedish Metal Workers’ Employees in Industry and Services at Scania Employees in Industry and Services (PTK) Union at Scania. Member of the Board of Union at Scania. Deputy member of the Board (PTK). Member of the Board of Directors since at Scania. Deputy member of the Board of Directors since 2008. Previously deputy of Directors since 2008. 2015. Previously deputy member since 2012. Directors since 2015. member since 2006. Born: 1963. Born: 1982. Born: 1969. Born: 1973. Relevant work experience: Relevant work experience: Relevant work experience: Relevant work experience: Various positions at Scania. Various positions at Scania since 2007. Various positions at Scania since 1987. Various positions at Scania. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 49 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Executive Board decides the strategic direction of the Scania Group. EXECUTIVE BOARD Henrik Henriksson Johan Haeggman Kent Conradson Andrea Fuder President and CEO. Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Born: 1970. Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Head of Human Resources. Head of Purchasing. Education: BSc Bachelor of Science in Born: 1960. Born: 1958. Born: 1967. Business Administration. Education: BSc Bachelor of Science in Education: BSc Bachelor of Science in Education: MBA Master of Business Joined Scania in 1997. Business and Economics. Business Administration and Economics. Administration and Economics and MSc Joined Scania in 1989, employed until 1999. Joined Scania in 1979. Master of Science. Rejoined Scania in 2003. Joined Scania in 2012. Christian Levin Peter Härnwall Harald Ludanek Thomas Karlsson Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Head of Sales and Marketing. Acting Head of Commercial Operations. Head of Research and Development. Head of Production and Logistics. Born: 1967. Born: 1955. Born: 1958. Born: 1953. Education: MBA Economics and Business Education: MBA, Master of Business Education: Dr.-Ing. Education: MSc Master of Science in Administration and MSc Mechanical Administration. Joined Scania in 2012. Engineering. Engineering. Joined Scania in 1983. Joined Scania in 1988. Joined Scania in 1994. 50 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW NET SALES DELIVERIES The net sales of the Scania Group, in the Vehicles and Services During 2015, Scania delivered 69,762 (73,015) trucks, a decrease segmen­t, increased by 3 percent to SEK 94,897 m. (92,051). of 4 percent. Bus deliveries were essentially unchanged at Currency rate effects had a positive impact on sales of 4 percent. 6,799 (6,767) units. Engine deliveries increased by 2 percent to 8,485 (8,287) units. New vehicle sales revenue increased by 5 percent. Sales were positively influenced by currency effects, a positive market mix and an Vehicles delivered. 2015 2014 increased share of Euro 6 vehicles. Engine sales revenue increased by 11 percent. Service revenu­e increased by 9 percent and amounted Vehicles and Services to SEK 20,585 m. (18,828). Higher volume, mainly in Europe, of Trucks 69,762 73,015 workshop hours and parts as well as currency rate effects had a Buses 6,799 6,767 positive impact. Total new vehicles 76,561 79,782 Interest and lease income in the Financial Services segment Used vehicles 17,046 15,151 increased by 10 percent due to higher financing volume, higher Engines 8,485 8,287 interest rates and positive currency effects. 2015 Financial Services Net sales by product, SEK m. 2014 Number financed (new during the year) 2015 2014 Trucks 61,250 59,587 Trucks 23,837 22,380 Buses 8,994 7,412 Buses 687 768 Engines 1,656 1,495 Total new vehicles 24,524 23,148 Services 20,585 18,828 Used vehicles 5,915 5,592 Used vehicles 6,236 5,173 New financing, SEK m. 32,120 27,463 Miscellaneous 1,836 2,790 Portfolio, SEK m. 56,486 55,556 Delivery sales value 100,557 95,285 Adjustment for lease income 1 –5,660 –3,234 EARNINGS Total Vehicles and Services 94,897 92,051 Scania’s operating income amounted to SEK 9,641 m. (8,721) Financial Services 5,517 5,029 during 2015. Operating margin amounted to 10.2 (9.5) percent. Elimination 2 –2,622 –2,200 Operating income in Vehicles and Services totalled SEK 8,601 m. Scania Group total 97,792 94,880 (7,705) during 2015. Higher vehicle deliveries in Europe, record high service volume and currency rate effects had a positive impact on 1 Consists of the difference between sales value based on delivery and revenue recognised earnings. Lower vehicle volume to Latin America and Eurasia and the as income. This difference arises when a lease or delivery is combined with a residual value low capacity utilisation in the Latin American production system had guarantee or a repurchase obligation. Significant risks remain, therefore recognition is based on an operating lease contract. a negative effect. 2 Elimination refers to rental income from operating leases. Scania’s research and development expenditures amounted to SEK 7,043 m. (6,402). After adjusting for SEK 1,863 m. (1,454) in capitalised expenditures and SEK 393 m. (356) in depreciation of previously capitalised expenditures, recognised expenses increased to SEK 5,573 m. (5,304). Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 51 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW Compared to the full year 2014, the total currency rate effect was CASH FLOW positive and amounte­d to SEK 2,270 m. Cash flow in Vehicles and Services amounted to SEK 4,376 m. Operating income in Financial Services rose to SEK 1,040 m. (4,690). Tied-up working capital decreased by SEK 1,656 m. (1,016). This was equivalent to 1.9 (2.0) percent of the average port­folio Net investments amounted to SEK 7,737 m. (5,706), including during the year. The improved earnings were mainly due to a larger SEK 1,863 m. (1,454) in capitalisation of development expenses. portfolio, higher margins and positive currency rate effects. Bad debt At the end of 2015, the net cash position in Vehicles and Services expenses increased during the year. amounted to SEK 7,579 m. (12,139). At year-end 2015, the size of the customer finance portfolio amounte­d Cash flow in Financial Services amounted to SEK –3,816 m. to SEK 56.5 billion, which represented an increase of SEK 0.9 billion (–3,554), due to a growing customer finance portfolio. since the end of 2014. In local currencies, the portfolio increased by SEK 4.3 billion, equivalent to 7.7 percent. FINANCIAL POSITION Operating income per segment, SEK m. 2015 2014 Financial ratios related to the balance sheet 2015 2014 Vehicles and Services Equity/assets (E/A) ratio, % 26.8 31.4 Operating income 8,601 7,705 E/A ratio, Vehicles and Services, % 35.2 44.0 Operating margin, % 9.1 8.4 E/A ratio, Financial Services, % 9.8 11.5 Financial Services Return on capital employed, Vehicles and Services, % 2 19.3 19.9 Operating income 1,040 1,016 Net debt/equity ratio, Vehicles and Services 3 –0.24 –0.35 Operating margin, % 1 1.9 2.0 Operating income, Scania Group 9,641 8,721 2 Calculation is based on average capital employed for the thirteen most recent months. Operating margin, % 10.2 9.5 3 Net cash (–) Net debt (+). Income before taxes 9,109 8,322 Taxes –2,356 –2,313 During 2015, the equity of the Scania Group decreased by Net income 6,753 6,009 SEK 3,964 m. and totalled SEK 37,837 m. (41,801) at year-end. Net income added SEK 6,753 m. (6,009) while decided dividend 1 The operating margin of Financial Services is calculated by taking operating income decreased equity by SEK 9,600 m. (-). Equity decreased by as a percentage of the average portfolio. SEK –2,465 m. (+951) because of exchange rate differences that arose when translating net assets outside Sweden. In addition, equity Scania’s net financial items amounted to SEK –532 m. (–399). increased by SEK 1,796 m. (–2,989) because of cash flow hedges and Net interest items amounted to SEK –259 m. (–223). Net interest actuarial losses on pension liabilities. items were negatively affected by a lower return on net cash position in Vehicles and Services compared to previous year. Other financial Taxes attributable to items reported under “Other comprehensive income and expenses amounted to SEK –273 m. (–176). These income” totalled SEK –448 m. (718). The non-controlling interest was included SEK -171 m. (35) in valuation effects related to financial unchanged during the year as in the previous year. instruments where hedge accounting was not applied. Net financial items for 2014 also included costs related to Volkswagen’s public offer FINANCIAL RISKS to Scania’s shareholders of SEK 160 m. Currency risk The largest currency flows were in euros, Brazilian reals and British Income before taxes amounted to SEK 9,109 m. (8,322). The Scani­a pounds. Group’s tax expense for 2015 was equivalent to 25.9 (27.8) percent of income before taxes. The tax rate was positively affected by lower According to Scania’s financial policy, future cash flows may be earnings in Brazil where the tax rate is higher. In addition, the tax rate hedged during a period that is allowed to vary between 0 and was negatively affected by remeasurement of tax loss carry-forwards 12 months. The Board of Directors approves maturities of more than during previous year. 12 months. At year-end 2015, no future cash flows were hedged. Net income for the year totalled SEK 6,753 m. (6,009), corre­sponding The net foreign assets of sub­sidiaries are normally not hedged. to a net margin of 7.1 (6.5) percent. However, to the extent a foreign subsidiary has significant net monetary assets in functional currency, they may be hedged. At the end of 2015, no foreign net assets were hedged. 52 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Interest rate risk OTHER CONTRACTUAL RISKS Scania’s financial policy concerning interest rate risks in Vehicles and Residual value exposure Services is that the interest rate refixing period on its net debt should Scania delivers some of its vehicles with guaranteed residual value normally be within the 0–6 month range, but divergences may be or with repurchase obligations, where Scania thus has residual allowed up to 24 months. The Board of Directors approves maturities value exposure. There is also residual value exposure for short-term of more than 24 months. In Financial Services the interest rate refixing rental vehicles with an estimated residual value. The amount for period on borrowings shall be matched with the interest rate refixing residual value exposure at year-end was SEK 12,752 m. (11,666). period on assets. To manage interest rate risks in the Scania Group, Exposure rose by SEK 1,086 m., mainly due to an increased number derivative instruments are used. of newly contracted obligations in Europe. During 2015, the volume of new contracts with guaranteed residual value or with repurchase Credit risk guarantees, was about 11,400 (8,300), excluding short-term rental The management of credit risks in Vehicles and Services is regulated contracts. by a credit policy. In Vehicles and Services, credit exposure consist­s mainly of receivables from independent dealerships as well as end Service contracts customer­s. A large proportion of Scania’s sales of parts and workshop hours occur­s through repair and service contracts. Selling a service contract To maintain a controlled level of credit risk in Financial Services, the involves a commitment by Scania to provide servicing to customers process of issuing credit is supported by a credit policy as well as during the contractual period in exchange for a pre­determined credit instructions. fee. The cost of the contract is allocated over the contractual The management of the credit risks that arise in Scania’s treasury period according to estimated consumption of service, and actual operations, among other things in investment of cash and cash divergences from this are recognised in the accounts during the equivalents and derivatives trading, is regulated in Scania’s Financial period. From a portfolio perspective, Scania continually estimates Policy document. Transactions occur only within established limits possible future divergences from the expected cost curve. Negative and with selected, creditworthy counterparties. divergences from this result in a provision, which affects earnings for the period. Borrowing and refinancing risk The number of contracts rose during 2015 by 12,900 and totalled Scania’s borrowings primarily consist of bonds issued under capital 150,000 at year-end. Most of these are in the European market. market programmes, and other borrowing mainly via the banking system. As part of Scania’s management of refinancing risk, there THE PARENT COMPANY are five committed credit facilities: three in the inter­national borrowing The Parent Company, Scania AB, is a public company whose market and two in the Swedish market. assets consist of the shares in Scania CV AB. The Parent Company During 2015, Scania CV AB had its credit rating adjusted downwards conducts no operations. Income before taxes of Scania AB during by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) by one notch, from Atill BBB+. 2015 totalled SEK 0 m. (0). The downward adjustment was a consequence of VW’s rating Scania CV AB is a public company and parent company of the Scania being adjusted downwards during the autumn to BBB+, and Scania, CV Group, which includes all production, sales and services and as a wholly-owned subsidiary cannot have a higher credit rating finance companies in the Scania Group. according to S&P’s valuation model. During the autumn, VW’s rating was adjusted downwards by two notches, i.e. from A to BBB+. Credit In Scania AB, an Extraordinary General Meeting in December ratings apply to measurement of the credit risk of long-term debt, decided on a dividend of SEK 9,600 m. The dividend proposals i.e. longer than one year. decided by the board in 2014 and 2015 were never executed by the Annual General Meetings. The dividend of SEK 9,600 m. corresponds For more information about management of financial risks, to approximately 50 percent of the net income for the financial see also Note 27. years of 2013, 2014 and 2015.This is in line with Scania’s historical benchmark of distributing approximately 50 percent of the net income to the shareholders. No changes are anticipated in relation to this historical benchmark. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 53 FINANCIAL REPORTS FINANCIAL REPORTS Amounts in tables are reported in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK m.) unless otherwise stated. 54 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated income statements 56 Consolidated balance sheets 58 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 60 Consolidated cash flow statements 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 62 Note 1 Accounting principles 62 Note 2 Key judgements and estimates 69 Note 3 Revenue from external customers 71 Note 4 Operating expenses 71 Note 5 Financial Services 72 Note 6 Financial income and expenses 73 Note 7 Taxes 73 Note 8 Depreciation/amortisation 74 Note 9 Intangible assets 75 Note 10 Tangible assets 77 Note 11 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 79 Note 12 Inventories 80 Note 13 Other receivables 80 Note 14 Equity 81 Note 15 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 82 Note 16 Other provisions 87 Note 17 Accrued expenses and deferred income 87 Note 18 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities 88 Note 19 Lease obligations 88 Note 20 Government grants and assistance 89 Note 21 Cash flow statement 89 Note 22 Businesses acquired/divested 90 Note 23 Wages, salaries and other remuneration and number of employees 90 Note 24 Related party transactions 91 Note 25 Compensation to executive officers 92 Note 26 Fees and other remuneration to auditors 93 Note 27 Financial risk management 93 Note 28 Financial instruments 99 Note 29 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 102 Parent Company financial statements, Scania AB 105 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 106 Proposed distribution of earnings 108 Audit report 109 Key financial ratios and figures 111 Definitions 112 Multi-year statistical review 113 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 55 FINANCIAL REPORTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS January – December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 Vehicles and Services Net sales 3 94,897 92,051 Cost of goods sold 4 –70,389 –69,902 Gross income 24,508 22,149 Research and development expenses 1 4 –5,573 –5,304 Selling expenses 4 –9,071 –8,034 Administrative expenses 4 –1,309 –1,138 Share of income in associated companies and joint ventures 11 46 32 Operating income, Vehicles and Services 8,601 7,705 Financial Services 5 Interest and lease income 5,517 5,029 Interest and depreciation expenses –3,543 –3,214 Interest surplus 1,974 1,815 Other income 178 183 Other expenses –45 –60 Gross income 2,107 1,938 Selling and administrative expenses 4 –823 –755 Bad debt expenses, realised and anticipated –244 –167 Operating income, Financial Services 1,040 1,016 Operating income 9,641 8,721 Interest income 599 578 Interest expenses –858 –801 Other financial income 12 120 Other financial expenses –285 –296 Total financial items 6 –532 –399 Income before taxes 9,109 8,322 Taxes 7 –2,356 –2,313 Net income 6,753 6,009 1 Total research and development expenditures during the year amounted to SEK 7,043 m. (6,402). 56 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS January – December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 Other comprehensive income 14 Items that may be reclassified to net income Translation differences –2,465 951 Cash flow hedges change in value for the year – –23 reclassification to net income 23 – Taxes –44 36 –2,486 964 Items that will not be reclassified to net income Remeasurements of defined-benefit plans 15 1,773 –2,966 Taxes –404 682 1,369 –2,284 Total other comprehensive income –1,117 –1,320 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,636 4,689 Net income attributable to: Scania shareholders 6,764 6,019 Non-controlling interest –11 –10 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Scania shareholders 5,645 4,690 Non-controlling interest –9 –1 Operating income includes depreciation of 2 8 –3,261 –3,125 2 Value decrease in operating leases is not included. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 57 FINANCIAL REPORTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 31 December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 9 6,855 5,259 Tangible assets 10 25,309 23,322 Lease assets 10 20,428 17,489 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 11 516 535 Long-term interest-bearing receivables 28 26,359 27,156 Other long-term receivables 1 13, 28 1,353 1,382 Deferred tax assets 7 2,947 1,580 Tax receivables 429 442 Total non-current assets 84,196 77,165 Current assets Inventories 12 16,918 16,780 Current receivables Tax receivables 195 275 Interest-bearing receivables 28 16,373 16,929 Non-interest-bearing trade receivables 28 6,981 7,205 Other current receivables 1 13, 28 4,094 3,717 Total current receivables 27,643 28,126 Current investments 28 213 51 Cash and cash equivalents 28 Current investments comprising cash and cash equivalents 8,225 7,161 Cash and bank balances 4,070 3,754 Total cash and cash equivalents 12,295 10,915 Total current assets 57,069 55,872 Total assets 141,265 133,037 1 Including fair value of derivatives for hedging of borrowings: Other non-current receivables, derivatives with positive value 594 504 Other current receivables, derivatives with positive value 554 640 Other non-current liabilities, derivatives with negative value 508 706 Other current liabilities, derivatives with negative value 390 443 Net amount 250 –5 58 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS 31 December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 2,000 2,000 Other contributed capital 1,120 1,120 Reserves –3,943 –1,455 Retained earnings 38,613 40,080 Equity attributable to Scania shareholders 37,790 41,745 Non-controlling interest 47 56 Total equity 14 37,837 41,801 Non-current liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 28 26,206 26,503 Provisions for pensions 15 7,339 9,039 Other non-current provisions 16 2,893 3,079 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17 9,085 6,522 Deferred tax liabilities 7 1,849 7 Other non-current liabilities 1 28 567 836 Total non-current liabilities 47,939 45,986 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 28 28,736 20,238 Current provisions 16 2,001 1,896 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17 9,278 8,912 Advance payments from customers 684 827 Trade payables 28 10,841 9,707 Tax liabilities 788 573 Other current liabilities 1 28 3,161 3,097 Total current liabilities 55,489 45,250 Total equity and liabilities 141,265 133,037 Net debt, excluding provisions for pensions, SEK m. 42,183 35,780 Net debt/equity ratio 1.11 0.86 Equity/assets ratio, % 26.8 31.4 Capital employed, SEK m. 99,867 97,586 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 59 FINANCIAL REPORTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY In Note 14 there is a description of the consolidated equity items and information about the company’s shares. The equity of the Scania Group has changed as follows: Other Currency Total, NonShare contributed Hedge translation Retained Scania controlling Total 2015 capital capital reserve reserve earnings share­holders interest equity Equity, 1 January 2,000 1,120 –18 –1,437 40,080 41,745 56 41,801 Exchange differences on translation –2,467 –2,467 2 –2,465 Hedge reserve Change in value related to cash flow hedge recognised in other comprehensive income – – – Cash flow reserve transferred to operating income 23 23 23 Remeasurements of defined-benefit plans 1,773 1,773 1,773 Tax attributable to items recognised in other comprehensive income –5 –39 –404 –448 –448 Total other comprehensive income 18 –2,506 1,369 –1,119 2 –1,117 Net income for the year 6,764 6,764 –11 6,753 Dividend to Scania AB shareholders –9,600 –9,600 –9,600 Equity, 31 December 2,000 1,120 0 –3,943 38,613 37,790 47 37,837 Other Currency Total, NonShare contributed Hedge translation Retained Scania controlling Total 2014 capital capital reserve reserve earnings share­holders interest equity Equity, 1 January 2,000 1,120 0 –2,410 36,345 37,055 57 37,112 Exchange differences on translation 942 942 9 951 Hedge reserve Change in value related to cash flow hedge recognised in other comprehensive income –23 –23 –23 Cash flow reserve transferred to operating income – – – Remeasurements of defined-benefit plans –2,966 –2,966 –2,966 Tax attributable to items recognised in other comprehensive income 5 31 682 718 718 Total other comprehensive income –18 973 –2,284 –1,329 9 –1,320 Net income for the year 6,019 6,019 –10 6,009 Dividend to Scania AB shareholders – – Equity, 31 December 2,000 1,120 –18 –1,437 40,080 41,745 56 41,801 60 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS January – December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 Operating activities Income before tax 21 a 9,109 8,322 Items not affecting cash flow 21 b 4,423 3,684 Taxes paid –2,094 –2,027 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 11,438 9,979 Change in working capital Inventories –1,294 –1,401 Receivables –768 556 Provisions for pensions 302 193 Trade payables 892 825 Other liabilities and provisions 2,524 1,215 Total change in working capital 1,656 1,388 Cash flow from operating activities 13,094 11,367 Investing activities Net investments through acquisitions/divestments of businesses 21 c –125 –154 Net investments in non-current assets, Vehicles and Services 21 d –7,612 –5,561 Net investments in credit portfolio etc., Financial Services 21 d –4,797 –4,516 Cash flow from investing activities –12,534 –10,231 Cash flow before financing activities 560 1,136 Financing activities Change in debt from financing activities 21 e 1,962 53 Cash flow from financing activities 1,962 53 Cash flow for the year 2,522 1,189 Cash and cash equivalents, 1 January 10,915 9,562 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents –1,142 164 Cash and cash equivalents, 31 December 21 f 12,295 10,915 Cash flow statement, Vehicles and Services 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 10,457 9,008 Change in working capital etc. 1,656 1,388 Cash flow from operating activities 12,113 10,396 Cash flow from investing activities –7,737 –5,706 Cash flow before financing activities 4,376 4,690 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 61 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 1 Accounting principles The Scania Group encompasses the Parent Company, Scania APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Aktiebolag (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556184-8564 Consolidated financial statements and its subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures. The Parent Company has its registered office in Södertälje, Sweden. The The consolidated financial statements encompass Scania AB and address of Scania’s head office is SE-151 87 Södertälje, Sweden. all subsidiaries. “Subsidiaries” refers to companies in which Scania directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent of the voting rights The consolidated accounts of the Scania Group have been prepared of the shares or otherwise has control. Subsidiaries are reported in compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards according to the acquisition method of accounting. This method (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) means that acquisition of a subsidiary is treated as a transaction as well as the interpretations by the IFRS Inter­pretations Committee through which the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets (IFRIC) as adopted by the European Union. In addition, and assumes its liabilities. The acquisition analysis establishes the Recommendation RFR 1, “Supplementary Accounting Rules for fair value on the acquisition date of the acquired identifiable assets, Groups” from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board has been liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities and any non-controlling applied. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies interests. The consideration transferred on acquisition of a subsidiary as the Group except in the instances described below in the section consists of the fair values on the transfer date of assets given, “Parent Company accounting principles”. The functional currency of liabilities that have arisen to previous owners and equity instruments the Parent Company is Swedish kronor (SEK), and the financial issued as payment in exchange for the acquired net assets. reports are presented in Swedish kronor. Assets and liabilities are Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition are recognised at historical costs, aside from certain financial assets and recognised directly in the income statement as they arise. liabilities which are carried at fair value. Financial assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value are mainly derivative instruments. Non-controlling interests are either recognised at their proportionate Preparing the financial reports in compliance with IFRS requires share of net assets or at their fair value, which means that nonthat Management make judgements and estimates as well as make controlling interests have a share in goodwill. The choice between assumptions that affect the application of accounting principles and the various alternatives may be made for each acquisition. amounts recognised in the financial reports. The actual outcome In business combinations where the consideration transferred, may diverge from these estimates and judgements. Judgements any non-controlling interests and the fair value of previously owned made by Management that have a substantial impact on the financial shares (in step acquisitions) exceed the fair value of the acquired reports, and estimates which have been made that may lead to identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, the significant adjustments, are described in more detail in Note 2, difference is recognised as goodwill. When the difference is negative, “Key judgements and estimates”. Estimates and assumptions are this is recognised directly in the income statement. Only earnings reviewed regularly. Amendments of estimates are reported in the arising after the date of acquisition are included in the equity of period in which the amendment was made if the amendment only the Group. Divested companies are included in the consolidated affects this period, or in the period in which the amendment was financial statements until the date when controlling influence ceases. made and future periods if the amendment affects both the current Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or expenses and period and future periods. The principles stated below have been unrealised gains or losses that arise from intra-Group transactions applied consistently for all periods, unless otherwise indicated between Group companies are eliminated in their entirety during the below. Furthermore, the Group’s accounting principles have been preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised consistently applied by Group companies, in respect of associate gains that arise from transactions with associated companies and companies and joint ventures, if necessary, by adjustment to the joint ventures are eliminated to the extent that corresponds to the Group’s principles. Group’s percentage of ownership in the company. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES extent that there is no impairment loss. Non-controlling interests, that The accounting principles are unchanged from those applied in is, equity in a subsidiary not attributable to the Parent Company, are the Annual Report 2014. reported as an item under equity that is separate from share capital owned by the Parent Company’s shareholders. A separate disclosure of the portion of the year’s earnings that belongs to non-controlling interests is provided. Associated companies and joint ventures The term “associated companies” refers to companies in which Scania, directly or indirectly, has a significant influence. “Joint ventures” refers to companies in which Scania, through contractual cooperation with one or more parties, has a joint controlling influence on operational and financial management. 62 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Foreign currencies – translation Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases and FINANCIAL REPORTS Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional are carried as lease assets among tangible non-current assets. currency at the exchange rate on the transaction date. Monetary Revenue from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at over the leasing period. Depreciation of the asset occurs on mainly the exchange rate on the balance sheet date, and exchange rate a straight-line basis to the estimated residual value of the asset at the differences that arise are recognised in the income statement. end of the leasing period. Non-monetary items are recognised at historic cost using the Transactions that include repurchase obligations or residual value exchange rate on the transaction date. guarantees, which mean that important risks remain with Scania, When preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income are carried as operating leases; see above. statements and balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated Lease obligations (Scania as lessee) to the Group’s reporting currency, Swedish kronor. All items in the income statements of foreign subsidiaries are trans­lated using the In case of a financial lease, when the risks and rewards associated average exchange rates during the year. All balance sheet items with ownership have been transferred to Scania, the leased asset is are translated using the exchange rates on the balance sheet carried as a tangible non-current asset and the future commitment date (closing day rate). The translation differences that arise as a liability. The asset is initially carried at the present value of when translating the financial statements of subsidiaries outside minimum lease payments at the beginning of the leasing period. Sweden are recognised under “Other comprehensive income” and The leased asset is depreciated according to a schedule and the accumulate in the currency translation reserve in equity. Subsidiaries lease payments are recognised as interest and principal payments use the local currency as their functional currency, aside from a few on the liability. Operating leases are not carried as assets, since the subsidiaries for which the euro is the functional currency. risks and rewards associated with ownership of the asset have not been transferred to Scania. Lease payments are expensed Monetary long-term items in a business outside Sweden for which continuously on a straight-line basis over the lease term. settlement is not planned or will probably not occur within the foreseeable future are, in practice, part of the company’s net BALANCE SHEET – VALUATION PRINCIPLES investment in ope­rations outside Sweden. Exchange rate differences on such monetary items, which comprise part of the company’s net Tangible non-current assets including lease assets investment (extended investment) are recognised under “Other Tangible non-current assets are carried at cost minus accumu­lated comprehensive income” and accumulate in the currency translation depreciation and any impairment losses. A non-current asset is reserve in equity. divided up into components, each with a different useful life (depreciation period). Machinery and equipment as well as lease BALANCE SHEET – CLASSIFICATIONS assets have useful lives of 3–12 years. The average useful life of Scania’s operating cycle, that is, the time that elapses from the buildings is 40 years, based on 50–100 years for frames, 20–40 purchase of materials until payment for goods delivered is received, years for frame supplements and inner walls, 20–40 years for is less than twelve months. This means that operations-related items installations, 20–30 years for exterior surface layers and 10–15 are classified as current assets and current liabilities, respectively, years for interior surface layers. Land is not depreciated. if these are expected to be realised/settled within twelve months, Depreciation is mainly recognised on a straight-line basis over the counting from the balance sheet date. Cash and cash equivalents estimated useful life of an asset, and in those cases where a residual are classified as current assets unless they are restricted. Other value exists, the asset is depreciated down to this value. Useful life assets and liabilities are classified as non-current. For classification and depreciation methods are examined regularly and adjusted in of financial instruments, see the section on financial assets and case of changed circumstances. liabilities under “Financial assets and liabilities”, page 64. Borrowing costs are included in the cost of assets that take Classification of financial and operating leases (Scania as lessor) a substantial period of time to get ready. Lease contracts with customers are carried as financial leases in Intangible non-current assets cases where substantially all risks and rewards associated with Scania’s intangible assets consist of goodwill, capitalised ownership of the asset have been transferred to the lessee. At expenditures for development of new products and software. the beginning of the leasing period, sales revenue and a financial Intangible non-current assets are recognised at cost less any receivable equivalent to the present value of future minimum lease accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Borrowing costs payments are recognised. As a result, the difference between the are included in the cost of assets that take a substantial period of sales revenue and the cost of the leased asset is recognised as time to get ready. income. Lease payments received are recognised as payment of the financial receivable and as financial revenue. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 63 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 1 Accounting principles, continued Goodwill Financial assets and liabilities Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Financial instruments are any form of contract that gives rise to Recognised goodwill has arisen from acquisitions of distribution and a financial asset in one company and a financial liability or equity dealer networks, which have resulted in increased profitability upon instrument in another company. These encompass cash and cash their integration into the Scania Group. Goodwill has an in­definite equivalents, current (short-term) investments, interest-bearing useful life and impairment testing is done at least yearly. receivables, trade receivables, trade payables, borrowings and derivative instruments. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash Capitalised product development expenditures and bank balances as well as current liquid investments with a Scania’s research and development activities are divided into a maturity amounting to a maximum of 90 days, which are subject to concept phase and a product development phase. Expenditures an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. “Current investments” during the concept phase are charged to earnings as they arise. consist of investments with a longer maturity than 90 days. Expenditures during the product development phase are capitalised, beginning on the date when the expenditures are likely to lead Classification of financial instruments to future economic benefits. This implies that it is technically possible All financial assets and liabilities are classified in the following to complete the intangible asset, the company has the intention and categories: the potential to complete it and use or sell it, there are adequate a) Financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value via the resources to carry out development and sale, and remaining income statement consist of two sub-categories: expenditures can be reliably estimated. Impairment testing i) Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, occurs annually for product development projects that have not including mortgage bonds and all of Scania’s derivatives aside yet gone into service, according to the principles stated below. The from those derivatives that are used as hedging instruments amortisation of capitalised development expenditures begins when when hedge accounting is applied. The main purpose of the asset is placed in service and occurs on a straight-line basis Scania’s derivative trading is to hedge the Group’s currency and during its estimated useful life. For capitalised product development interest rate risks. expenditures, useful life is estimated at between three and ten years. ii) Financial assets and financial liabilities that were identified from Capitalised software development expenditures the beginning as an item measured at fair value via profit or loss. Capitalised software development expenditures include expen­dScania has no financial instruments classified in this itures directly attributable to completion of the software. They are subcategory. amortised on a straight-line basis during the useful life of the b) Loans and receivables software, which is estimated at between three and five years. These assets have predetermined or determinable payments Impairment testing of non-current assets and are not quoted in an active market. Scania’s cash and cash The carrying amounts of Scania’s intangible and tangible assets as equivalents, trade receivables and loan receivables belong to well as its shareholdings are tested on every closing day to assess this category. whether there is indication of impairment. This includes intangible c) Other financial liabilities assets with an indeterminable useful life, which refer in their entirety Includes financial liabilities not held for trading. Scania’s trade to goodwill. The recoverable amount of goodwill and intangible pay­ables as well as borrowings belong to this category. assets that have not yet gone into service is calculated annually regardless of whether there is an indication of impairment loss Recognition and carrying amounts or not. Non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at their cost, which is equivalent to their fair value at that time plus Inventories transaction costs, aside from those classified as financial assets Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. recognised at fair value via profit or loss. The last-mentioned category Cost is calculated by applying the first in, first out (FIFO) principle. is recognised at fair value, excluding transaction costs. Financial An allocable portion of indirect expenses is included in the value of assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated to Swedish the inven­tories, estimated on the basis of normal capacity utilisation. kronor at the closing day exchange rate. Scania applies settlement The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary date accounting for everything except assets held for trading, where course of business less the estimated costs of completion and of recognition occurs on the transaction date. Derivatives with positive making a sale. value (unrealised gains) are recognised as “Other current receivables” or “Other non-current receivables”, while derivatives with negative values (unrealised losses) are recognised as “Other current liabilities” or “Other non-current liabilities”. 64 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Hedge accounting Fair value hedging FINANCIAL REPORTS Scania is exposed to various financial risks in its operations. In order Hedging instruments, primarily interest rate derivatives that eliminate to hedge currency rate risks and interest rate risks, derivatives are the risk that changes in the market interest rate will affect the value of mainly used. For accounting purposes, cash flow hedging is used for the liabilities (hedged item), are recognised according to fair value hedging of currency rate risks. Scania’s external financing occurs hedging rules. In these hedging relationships, the hedging instrument mainly via different borrowing programmes. To convert this borrowing i.e. the derivative, is carried at fair value and the hedged item, i.e. the to the desired interest rate refixing structure, interest rate derivatives borrowing, is carried at fair value with regard to the risk that has been are used. To the extent that hedging of borrowings with variable hedged. This means that the change in value of the derivative interest rates is used, derivatives are recognised according to cash instrument and that of the hedged item match in net financial items. flow hedging rules. In those cases where hedging of borrowings with fixed interest rates is used, derivatives are recognised according to Hedging of net investments outside Sweden fair value hedging rules. Currency rate risk related to net investments in subsidiaries outside Sweden that have a functional currency different from that of the Due to the very strict requirements in order to apply hedge Parent Company is hedged to the extent that the subsidiary is accounting, Scania has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to over-capitalised or has sizeable monetary assets that will not be all hedging transactions. In cases where hedge accounting is not utilised in its operations. Hedging occurs by using derivatives as applied, because of the separate treatment of derivatives, which are hedging instruments. Translation differences on financial instruments carried at market value, and liabilities, which are carried at accrued used as hedging instruments are recognised including tax effects cost, accounting volatility arises in net financial items. Financially under “Other comprehensive income” and accumulate in the speaking, Scania considers itself hedged and its risk management currency translation reserve in equity, provided that the hedge is adheres to the Financial Policy approved by the Board of Directors. efficient. This effect thus matches the translation differences that Cash flow hedging arise in equity when translating the accounts of the subsidiary Hedging instruments, primarily currency futures that were acquired outside Sweden into the functional currency of the Parent Company. for the purpose of hedging expected future commercial payment Provisions flows in foreign currencies (hedged items) against currency rate risks Provisions are reported if an obligation, legal or informal, exists as a are recognised according to cash flow hedging rules. This implies consequence of events that occur. It must also be deemed likely that that all derivatives are accounted for in the balance sheet at fair value, an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and that and changes in the value of futures contracts are recognised under the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions for warranties for “Other comprehensive income” and accumulate in a hedge reserve in vehicles sold during the year are based on warranty conditions and equity. Amounts that have been recognised in the hedge reserve in the estimated quality situation. Provisions on service contracts are equity are recognised in the income statement at the same time as related to expected future expenses that exceed contractual future the payment flows reach the income statement. revenue. Provisions for residual value obligations arise as a Hedging instruments, primarily interest rate swaps that were consequence either of an operating lease (Scania as lessor) or a acquired for the purpose of hedging future interest flows, are delivery with a repurchase obligation. The provision must cover the recognised according to cash flow hedging rules. This means that current assessment that expected future market value will be below borrowings with variable interest rate are converted to a fixed interest the price agreed in the lease contract or repurchase contract. In this rate. The derivative is recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, case, a provision for the difference between these amounts is to be and changes in value are recognised under “Other comprehensive reported, to the extent that this difference is not less than an as yet income” and accumulated in the hedge reserve in equity. The unrecognised deferred profit. Assessment of future residual value interest portions of the derivative are recognised continuously in the risk occurs continuously over the contract period. For provisions income statement and thus affect net financial items in the same related to pensions, see the description under “Employee benefits” period as interest payments on the borrowings. Any gain or loss below and in Note 15, “Provisions for pension­s and similar attributable to an inefficient portion is immediately recognised in commitments”. For provisions related to deferred tax liabilities, the income statement. see below under “Taxes”. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 65 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 1 Accounting principles, continued Taxes The interest rate on top-quality corporate bonds is used in those The Group’s total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. countries where there is a functioning market for such bonds. In Income taxes are recognised in the income statement except when the other countries, the interest rate on government bonds is used underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive income, instead. For plans that are funded, the fair value of the plan assets such as remeasurements of defined-benefit plans, or in equity, is subtracted from the estimated present value of the obligation. causing the related tax effect to be recognised in other Remeasurements of net pension liabilities, which include actuarial comprehensive income or in equity, respectively. Deferred tax is gains and losses, return on plan assets excluding amounts that are recognised in case of a difference between the carrying amount of part of net interest income on net defined benefit liability and each assets and liabilities and their fiscal value (“temporary difference”). change in the effect of the asset ceiling excluding amounts that Valuation of deferred tax is based on how the underlying assets or are part of net interest income on net defined benefit liability, are liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax is recognised in “Other comprehensive income” and do not affect net calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or income. Remeasurements are not reclassified to net income in substantively enacted on the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets subsequent periods. minus deferred tax liabilities are recognised only to the extent that it In the case of some of the Group’s defined-benefit multi-employer is likely that they can be utilised. plans, sufficient information cannot be obtained to calculate Scania’s share in these plans. They have thus been accounted for as defined Employee benefits contribution. For Scania, this applies to the Dutch pension funds Within the Scania Group, there are a number of both defined Pensioen­fonds Metaal en Techniek and Bedrijfstakpensioenfonds contribution and defined benefit pension and similar plans, some of Metal Elektro, which are administered via MN Services, as well as which have assets that are managed by special foundations, funds the portion of the Swedish ITP occupational pension plan that is or the equivalent. administered via the retirement insurance company Alecta. The plans include retirement pensions, survivor pensions, health care Most of the Swedish plan for salaried employees (the collectively agreed and severance pay. These are financed mainly by provisions to ITP plan), however, is accounted for by provisions in the balance sheet, accounts and partially via premium payments. safeguarded by credit insurance from the mutual insurance company Plans in which Scania only pays fixed contributions and has no Forsäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti, which also administers the obligation to pay additional contributions if the assets of the plan are plan. See also Note 15, “Provisions for pensions and similar insufficient to pay all com­pensation to the employee are classified as commitments”. Scania follows the rules in IAS 19 concerning limits in the defined contribution plans. The Group’s expenditures for defined valuation of net assets, the so-called asset ceiling since these are never contribution plans are recognised as an expense during the period valued at more than the present value of available economic benefits in when the employees render the services in question. the form of repayments from the plan or in the form of reductions in Defined benefit plans are all plans that are not classified as defined future fees to the plan. This value is determined as present value taking contribution. These are calculated according to the “Projected Unit into account the discount rate in effect. Credit Method”, for the purpose of fixing the present value of the obligations for each plan. Calculations are performed and are based INCOME STATEMENT – CLASSIFICATIONS on actuarial assumptions that are set on the closing day. The Research and development expenses obligations are carried at the present value of expected This item consists of the research and development expenses disbursements, taking into account inflation, expected future pay that arise during the research phase and the portion of the increases and using a discount rate equivalent to the interest rate on development phase that does not fulfil the requirements for top-rated corporate or government bonds with a remaining maturity capita­lisation, plus amortisation and any impairment loss during corresponding to the obligations in question. the period of previously capitalised development expenditures. See Note 9, “Intangible non-current assets”. Selling expenses Selling expenses are defined as operating expenses in sales and service companies plus costs of corporate-level commercial resources. In the Financial Services segment, selling and admini­strative expenses are reported as a combined item, since a division lacks relevance. 66 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 Administrative expenses MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL REPORTS Administrative expenses are defined as costs of corporate Related party transactions management as well as staff units and corporate service departments. Related party transactions occur on market terms. Financial income and expenses Government grants including EU grants “Interest income” refers to income from financial investments and Government grants received that are attributable to operating pension assets. “Other financial income” includes gains that arise expense­s reduce these expenses. Government grants related to from the valuation of non-hedge-accounted derivatives (see the investments reduce the gross cost of non-current assets. section on financial instruments) and exchange rate gains attribut­able to financial items. “Interest expenses” refers to expenses attributable Contingent liabilities to loans, pension liability and changes in the value of loan hedging A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past derivatives. “Other financial expenses” include current bank fees, events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence losses arising from valuation of non-hedge-accounted derivatives or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events. A and exchange rate losses attributable to financial items. contingent liability can also be a present obligation that is not recognised as a liability or provision because it is not probable that INCOME STATEMENT – VALUATION PRINCIPLES an outflow of resources will be required, or because the amount of Revenue recognition the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when substantially all Incentive programmes risks and rewards are transferred to the buyer. Where appro­priate, The outcome of the incentive programme for executive officers is discounts provided are subtracted from sales revenue. recognised as a salary expense in the year the payment is related to. Net sales – Vehicles and Services CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Sales DURING THE NEXT YEAR In case of delivery of new trucks, buses and engines as well as used New standards, amended standards and interpretations that enter vehicles in which Scania has no residual value obligation, the entire into force on 1 January 2016 and subsequently have not been revenue is recognised at the time of delivery to the customer. applied in advance. The following new and amended standards have Leases not yet begun to be applied. • Operating lease – in case of delivery of vehicles that Scania IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments” – This standard will replace finances with an operating lease, revenue is allocated on a IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. straight-line basis over the lease period. The assets are recognised It contains rules for classification and measurement of financial as lease assets in the balance sheet. assets and liabilities, impairment of financial instruments and hedge • Residual value obligation – in case of delivery of vehicles for which accounting. Today’s four classification categories for assets are substantial risks remain with Scania and on which Scania has a replaced by three – financial instruments measured at amortised cost, repurchase obligation at a guaranteed residual value, revenue is fair value through profit and loss and fair value through other allocated on a straight-line basis until the repurchase date, as with comprehensive income. Fair value changes due to own credit on an operating lease. liabilities should be recognised in other comprehensive income for the fair value option category. Expected losses should also be • Short-term rental – in case of short-term rental of vehicles, revenue considered in the impairment model. Hedge accounting is based is allocated on a straight-line basis over the contract period. more on the internal risk management so that the entity’s risk Leasing and rentals mainly involve new trucks and buses. In such management is reflected in the financial statements. So-called macro cases, the asset is recognised in the balance sheet as a lease hedges have been moved to a separate project and entities can opt asset. to continue to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 pending the Service-related products completion of the project. The standard enters into force on Income for service and repairs is recognised as income when the 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted when endorsed by the service is performed. For service and repair contracts, income is EU. Approval by the EU is expected during the second half of 2015. allocated over the life of the contracts, as expenses for the fulfilment IFRS 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” replaces IAS 11, of the contract arise. Financial Services In case of financial and operating leases, with Scania as the lessor, the recognition of interest income and lease income, respectively, is allocated over the lease period. Other income is recognised on a continuous basis. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 67 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 1 Accounting principles, continued IAS 18, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15, IFRIC 18 and SIC 31. It will be applied to but instead applies a cost-based method in accordance with the all contracts with customers, with certain exceptions. The standard Annual Accounts Act. describes the principles that an entity must apply in order to measure The scope of financial instruments in the accounts of the Paren­t and recognise revenue. The core principle is that an entity will Company is extremely limited. The reader is thus referred to the recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or Group’s disclosures related to IFRS 7, “Financial instruments – services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to Disclosures”. which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard enters into force on 1 January 2018. Subsidiaries Approval by the EU is expected during the first quarter of 2016. The Holdings in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company standard is not expected to have any material impact on Scania’s financial statements according to the cost method of accounting. financial reports, aside from increased disclosure requirements. Testing of the value of subsidiaries occurs when there is IFRS 16, “Leases” – In January 2016, IASB issued a new lease an indi­cation of a decline in value. Dividends received from standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the related subsidiaries are recognised as income. interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires Anticipated dividends assets and liabilities arising from all leases, with some exceptions, Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognised in cases to be recognised on the balance sheet. This model reflects that, at where the Parent Company has the exclusive right to decide on the start of a lease, the lessee obtains the right to use an asset for the size of the dividend and the Parent Company has made a a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. The decision on the size of the dividend before having published its accounting for lessors will in all material aspects be unchanged. financial reports. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. EU has not yet adopted Taxes the standard. The group has not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 16. The Parent Company financial statements recognise untaxed Other changes in standards and interpretations that enter into force reserves including deferred tax liability. The consolidated financial on 1 January 2016 or subsequently are not expected to have any statements, however, reclassify untaxed reserves to deferred tax material impact on Scania’s accounting. liability and equity. Correspondingly, no allocation of part of the appropriations is made to deferred tax expense in the Parent PARENT COMPANY Company’s income statement. Parent Company accounting principles Group contributions The Parent Company has prepared its Annual Report in compliance The Parent Company recognises Group contributions received and with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2, provided as appropriations in the income statement. “Accounting for Legal Entities” of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 implies that the Parent Company in the Annual Report of a legal entity shall apply all International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations approved by the EU as far as this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act, and taking into account the connection between reporting and taxation. The recommendation states what exceptions from IFRS and additions shall or may be made. The Parent Company does not apply IAS 39, “Financial instruments”, 68 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 2 Key judgements and estimates The key judgements and estimates for accounting purposes that are Intangible assets discussed in this section are those that Group Management and the Intangible assets at Scania are essentially attributable to capita­lised Board of Directors deem the most important for an under­standing of product development expenditures and “acquisition good­will”. Scania’s financial reports, taking into account the degree of All goodwill items at Scania stem from acquisitions of previously significant influence and uncertainty. These judgements are based on indepen­dent importers/dealerships. All goodwill items are subject historica­l experience and the various assumptions that Management to an annua­l impairment test, which is mainly based on recoverable and the Board deem reasonable under the prevailing circumstances. amounts, including important assumptions on the sales trend, margin The conclusions drawn in this way provide the basis for decisions and discount rate before tax; see also below. regarding recognised values of assets and liabilities, in those cases In the long term, the increase in sales of Scania’s products is where these cannot easily be established through information from deemed to be closely correlated with economic growth (GDP) in other sources. Actual outcomes may diverge from these judgements each respective market, which has been estimated at 2 percent if other assumptions are made or other conditions emerge. Note 1 (2 percent). The revenue/cost ratio, or margin, for both vehicles and presents the accounting principles the company has chosen to apply. service is kept constant over time compared to the latest known Important estimates and judgements for accounting purposes are level. When discounting to present value, Scania uses its average attributable to the following areas. cost of capital, currently 10 percent (11 percent) before taxes. Obligations These assumptions do not diverge from information from Scania delivers about 15 percent of its vehicles with residual value external information sources or from earlier experience. To the obli­gations or repurchase obligations. These are recognised as extent the above parameters change negatively, an impairment loss operating lease contracts, with the consequence that recognition may arise. On 31 December 2015, Scania’s goodwill amounted to of revenue and earnings is allocated over the life of the obligation. SEK 1,231 m. (1,148). The impairment tests that were carried out showed that there are ample margins before impairment losses If there are major downturns in the market value of used vehicles, will arise. this increases the risk of future losses when divesting the returned vehicles. When a residual value guarantee is deemed likely to result Scania’s development costs are capitalised in the phase of product in a future loss, a provision is recognised in those cases where the development where decisions are made on future production and expected loss exceeds the profit on the vehicle not yet recognised market introduction. At that time there is future predicted revenue as revenue. and a corresponding production cost. In case future volume or the price and cost trend diverges negatively from the preliminary Changes in market value may also cause an impairment loss in used calculation, an impairment loss may arise. Scania’s capitalised vehicle inventories, since these are recognised at the lower of cost development costs amounted to SEK 3,485 m. (3,851) on 31 and estimated net realisable value. December 2015. At the end of 2015, obligations related to residual value or repurchase amounted to SEK 12,752 m. (11,666). Pension obligations In the actuarial methods that are used to establish Scania’s pension Credit risks liabilities, a number of assumptions are highly important. The most In its Financial Services operations, Scania has an exposure in critical one is related to the discount rate on the obligations. the form of contractual payments. At the end of 2015, these amounted Other vital assumptions are average life expectancy and average to SEK 56,486 m. (55,556). In all essential respects, Scania has duration of the obligations. A higher discount rate decreases the collateral in the form of the right to repossess the underlying vehicle. recognised pension liability. In calculating the Swedish pension In case the marke­t value of the collateral does not cover the exposure liability, the discount rate used was 3.00 percent (2.50). Changes to the customer, and the customer has a problem completing its in the above-mentioned actuarial parameters are recognised in contractual payments, Scania has a risk of loss. On 31 December “Other comprehensive income”, net after taxes. 2015, the reserve for doubtful receivables in Financial Services operations amounted to SEK 872 m. (869). See also “Credit risk” under Note 27, “Financial risk management”. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 69 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 2 Key judgements and estimates, continued Product obligations In 2011, Scania became the subject of an investigation conducted by Scania’s product obligations are mainly related to vehicle warranties the European Commission concerning inappropriate cooperation. in the form of a one-year “factory warranty” plus extended warranties Scania received a statement of objections in the investigation in and, in some cases, special quality campaigns. For each vehicle November 2014, which Scania can now reply to before the EU sold, Scania makes a warranty provision. For extended warranties Commission reaches its decision. Scania’s view is that if the and campaigns, a provision is made at the time of the decision. Commission would pursue a claim in accordance with the allegations Provisions are dependent on the estimated quality situation and the stated in its statement of objections it is more likely than not that the degree of utilisation in the case of campaigns. An essential change Commission will not ultimately be successful. In addition, given the in the qualit­y situation may require an adjustment in earlier ongoing nature of the investigation and the uncertainties associated provisions. Scania’s product obligations can be seen in Note 16, with them, Scania is not yet able to predict or estimate the duration of “Other provisions” and amounted to SEK 1,381 m. (1,572) on 31 the investigation, what, if any, conduct regulatory authority may December 2015. pursue, what the regulatory authority may conclude, or what sanctions the regulatory authority will seek. As a result, Scania Legal and tax risks remains unable to estimate the impact the investigation will have. On 31 December 2015, provisions for legal and tax risks amounted to Having said that, it cannot be ruled out that the Commission will SEK 1,336 m. (1,377). See Note 16, “Other provisions”. impose fines on Scania. Legal risks Tax risks Demands and claims aimed at the Group, including demands and The Group is party to tax proceedings. Scania’s management has claims that lead to legal proceedings, may be related to infringements made the assessment, based on individual examination, that the final of intellectual property rights, faults and deficiencies in products that outcome of these proceedings will not have any material impact on have been delivered, including product liability, or other legal liability the financial position of the Group, beyond the recognised reserves. for the companies in the Group. Significant judgements are made in order to determine both current The Group is party to legal proceedings and related claims that are and deferred tax liabilities/assets. As for deferred tax assets, Scania normal in its operations. In addition, there are demands and claims must assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be utilised to normal to the Group’s operations that do not lead to legal offset future taxable profits. The actual result may diverge from these proceedings. In the best judgement of Scania’s management, such judgements, among other things due to future changes in business demands and claims will not have any material impact on the climate, altered tax rules or the outcome of still uncompleted financial position of the Group, beyond the provisions that have examinations of filed tax returns by authorities or tax courts. The been set aside. judgements that have been made may affect income both negatively and positively. 70 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 3 Revenue from external customers NOTE 4 Operating expenses Vehicles and Services 2015 2014 Vehicles and Services 2015 2014 Trucks 61,250 59,587 Cost of goods sold Buses 8,994 7,412 Cost of goods 44,134 45,481 Engines 1,656 1,495 Staff 14,100 12,908 Service 20,585 18,828 Depreciation/amortisation1 2,263 2,201 Used vehicles 6,236 5,173 Other 9,892 9,312 Other products 1,836 2,790 Total 70,389 69,902 Total delivery value 100,557 95,285 1 Of which an impairment loss of SEK 0 m. (19). Adjustment for lease income 1 –5,660 –3,234 Net sales, Vehicles and Services 94,897 92,051 Research and development expenses Financial Services 5,517 5,029 Staff 2,028 1,922 Eliminations 2 –2,622 –2,200 Depreciation/amortisation 675 632 Revenue from external customers 97,792 94,880 Other 2,870 2,750 1 Refers mainly to new trucks, SEK –4,832 m. (–2,878) and new buses, SEK –497 m. (–242). The Total 5,573 5,304 adjustment amount consists of the difference between sales value based on delivery and revenue recognised as income. This difference arises when a lease or delivery is combined with a residual value guarantee or a repurchase obligation. Significant risks remain, therefore recognition is based Selling expenses on an operating lease contract. This means that recognition of revenue and earnings is allocated based on the term of the obligation. Staff 4,986 4,502 2 Elimination of the amount that corresponds to depreciation/amortisation of operating leases in the Depreciation/amortisation 1 297 267 Financial Services segment. At Group level, the revenue from operating leases shall consist of accrued income in the Vehicles and Services segment and interest income in the Financial Other 3,788 3,265 Services segment, which is achieved by elimination of depreciation/amortisation. Total 9,071 8,034 1 Of which an impairment loss of SEK 10 m. (1). Geographical distribution 2015 2014 Administrative expenses Vehicles and Services Staff 677 595 Europe 59,880 49,993 Depreciation/amortisation 7 7 Eurasia 2,623 5,321 Other 625 536 Asia 13,055 12,121 Total 1,309 1,138 America 11,781 17,648 Africa 7,558 6,968 Financial Services 2015 2014 94,897 92,051 Selling and administrative expenses Staff 563 509 Financial Services Depreciation/amortisation 19 18 Europe 4,346 3,855 Other 241 228 Eurasia 278 298 Total 823 755 Asia 126 138 America 523 521 Cost of goods includes new trucks, buses, engines, parts, used vehicles, bodywork and cars. The cost of goods may vary, depending on the degree of integration in different markets. Capitalised Africa 244 217 product development expenditures have reduced the expense categories “Staff” and “Other”. 5,517 5,029 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 71 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 5 Financial Services Financial Services offers various forms of financing solutions, Financial receivables (hire purchase contracts ordinarily with maturities of between 3–5 years, with the vehicle as and financial leases) 2015 2014 underlying collateral. Market conditions as well as civil law and tax 1 January 43,943 39,358 rules in each country often determine what financin­g solution is New receivables 24,188 22,307 offered. Financing consists mainly of financial leases, in which the right of ownership of the vehicle remains with Scania during the lease Loan principal payments/ terminated contracts –22,203 –19,261 term, but material risks and rewards have been transferred to the lessee. If hire purchase contracts are offered, the right of ownership Divestment of subsidiaries – –578 is transferred to the customer on the date of sale, but Financial Change in value adjustments –128 –90 Services receives collateral in the form of a lien on the vehicle. If Exchange rate differences –3,203 2,207 Financial Services offers a lease when delivering vehicles for which Carrying amount, 31 December 42,597 43,943 substantial risks remain with Scania, primarily attributable to guaranteed residual values, the contract is recognised as an operating lease. Total receivables and lease assets 3 56,486 55,556 3 The number of contracts in the portfolio on 31 December totalled about 120,000 (113,000). 2015 2014 Interest income 2,373 2,362 Lease income 3,144 2,667 Net investments in financial leases 2015 2014 Depreciation –2,622 –2,200 Receivables related to future Interest expenses –921 –1,014 minimum lease payments 25,448 25,225 Net interest income 1,974 1,815 Less: Other income and expenses 133 123 Reserve for bad debts –601 –575 Gross income 2,107 1,938 Imputed interest –1,945 –2,032 Selling and administrative expenses –823 –755 Net investment 4 22,902 22,618 Bad debt expenses 1 –244 –167 4 Included in the consolidated financial statements under “current” and “non-current interestOperating income 1,040 1,016 bearing receivables”. 1 These expenses were equivalent to 0.44 (0.32) percent of the average credit portfolio. Future minimum Operating Lease assets (operating leases) 2015 2014 lease payments 5 leases Financial leases 1 January 11,613 9,505 2016 2,792 9,125 New contracts 7,932 5,156 2017 2,095 6,924 Depreciation –2,622 –2,200 2018 1,384 4,960 Terminated contracts –2,629 –1,685 2019 726 2,833 Change in value adjustments 5 27 2020 211 1,129 Exchange rate differences –410 810 2021 and later 69 477 Carrying amount, 31 December 2 13,889 11,613 Total 7,277 25,448 2 The consolidated balance sheet also includes elimination of deferred profit of SEK 2,232 m. 5 “Minimum lease payments” refers to the future flows of incoming payments related to the contract (1,771). portfolio, including interest. For operating leases, the residual value is not included since this is not a minimum lease payment for these contracts. 72 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 6 Financial income and expenses NOTE 7 Taxes 2015 2014 Tax expense/income for the year 2015 2014 Interest income Current tax 1 –2,461 –2,153 Bank balances and financial investments 359 309 Deferred tax 105 –160 Derivatives 1 237 265 Total –2,356 –2,313 Pension assets 3 4 Total interest income 599 578 1 Of which, taxes paid: –2,094 –2,027 Interest expenses Deferred tax is attributable to the following: 2015 2014 Borrowings –516 –681 Deferred tax related to temporary differences 108 47 Derivatives 1 –622 –454 Deferred tax due to changes in tax rates and Total borrowings and derivatives –1,138 –1,135 tax rules 2 12 –9 Less interest expenses recognised Deferred tax income due to tax value in Financial Services 2 536 585 of loss carry-forwards recognised during the year 143 61 Pension liability –256 –251 Deferred tax expense due to utilisation Total interest expenses –858 –801 of previously recognised tax value of tax loss carry-forwards –107 –276 Total net interest –259 –223 Deferred tax related to change in Other financial income 3 12 120 provision to tax allocation reserve –99 0 Other financial expenses 3 –285 –296 Other deferred tax liabilities/assets 48 17 Total other financial income Total 105 –160 and expenses –273 –176 2 The effect of changes in tax rates mainly refers to Italy, Brazil and Great Britain (during 2015) and Net financial items –532 –399 Chile, Denmark and Norway (during 2014). 1 Refers to interest on derivatives that are used to match interest on borrowings and lending as well as the interest component in derivatives that are used to convert borrowing currencies to lending currencies. 2015 2014 2 Recognised in the operating income of Financial Services. 3 Refers to SEK –171 m. (35) in market valuation of financial instruments for which hedge Reconciliation accounting is not applied, as well as exchange rate differences and unrealised/realised gains of of effective tax Amount % Amount % SEK 3,661 m. (3,543) and unrealised/realised losses of SEK 3,723 m. (3,530) attributable to foreign exchange derivatives and bank–related costs. Income before tax 9,109 8,322 Tax calculated using Swedish tax rate –2,004 22.0 –1,831 22.0 Tax effect and percentage influence: Difference between Swedish and foreign tax rates –214 2 –410 5 Tax-exempt income 121 –1 112 –1 Non-deductible expenses –170 2 –132 2 Utilisation of tax value of loss carryforwards not previously recognised 64 –1 160 –2 Valuation of tax value of loss carryforwards not previously recognised 10 0 3 0 Adjustment for taxes per­taining to previous years –66 1 –12 0 Changed tax rates 9 0 –14 0 Other –106 1 –189 2 Tax recognised –2,356 26 –2,313 28 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 73 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 7 Taxes, continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities Reconciliation of deferred tax are attributable to the following: 2015 2014 assets (–) / liabilities (+), net amount 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets Carrying value on 1 January –1,573 –1,063 Provisions 921 966 Deferred taxes recognised in the year’s income –105 160 Provisions for pensions 1,287 1,703 Exchange rate differences 149 4 Non-current assets 1,227 885 Acquired/divisted businesses 23 13 Inventories 675 585 Recognised in “Other comprehensive income”, changes attributable to: Unutilised tax loss carry-forwards 3 425 411 remeasurements of defined-benefit plans 403 –682 Other current liabilities 2,083 1,521 hedge reserve 5 –5 Other 233 386 Deferred tax assets (–) / tax liabilities (+), net Offset within tax jurisdictions –3,904 –4,877 amount –1,098 –1,573 Total deferred tax assets 4 2,947 1,580 Deferred tax liabilities Provisions 162 205 NOTE 8 Depreciation/amortisation Non-current assets 5,328 4,605 Other current liabilities 76 – Vehicles and Services 2015 2014 Tax allocation reserve 5 121 22 Intangible non-current assets Other 66 52 Research and development expenses 2 419 378 Offset within tax jurisdictions –3,904 –4,877 Selling expenses 2 66 57 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,849 7 Total 485 435 Deferred tax assets (–) / tax liabilities (+), net Tangible non-current assets amount –1,098 –1,573 Costs of goods sold 1 2,263 2,201 3 Of the deferred tax assets attributable to unutilised tax loss carry-forwards, SEK 217 m. may be Research and development expenses 2 256 254 utilised without time constraints. 4 Deferred tax assets related to tax loss carry-forwards are recognised to the extent that it is likely Selling expenses 2 231 210 that the loss carry-forwards can be utilised to offset profits in future tax returns. Deferred tax Administrative expenses 7 7 assets related to unutilised tax loss carry-forwards of SEK 12,443 m. (12,513) were not assigned a value. Most of these were not assigned a value because these tax loss carry-forwards may only Total 2,757 2,672 be utilised in relation to a limited portion of operations. Tax loss carry-forward not assigned a value may be utilised without time constraints. 5 In Sweden, tax laws permit provisions to an untaxed reserve called a tax allocation reserve. Total depreciation/amortisation, Deductions for provisions to this reserve are allowed up to a maximum of 25 percent of taxable Vehicles and Services 3 3,242 3,107 profits. Each provision to this reserve may be freely withdrawn and face taxation, and must be withdrawn no later than the sixth year after the provision was made. 1 Of which, a value decrease of SEK 351 m. (282) related to short-term rentals in Vehicles and Services. In addition, there was a value decrease of SEK 1,132 m. (1,086) in capitalised repurchasing obligations. 2 Comparative figures have been adjusted. 3 Of which SEK 10 m. (20) is an impairment loss. Financial Services 2015 2014 Operating leases (payments of principal) 2,622 2,200 Other non-current assets 1 19 18 Total depreciation/amortisation, Financial Services 2,641 2,218 In the Group accounts, depreciation/amortisation was adjusted downward by SEK 709 m. (611) to its consolidated value. In Note 10, Group depreciation/amortisation related to short-term rentals, capitalised repurchasing obligations and operating leases under the heading “Lease assets” thus amounted to SEK 3,396 m. (2,956). 1 Of which SEK 6 m. (6) are intangible assets. 74 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 9 Intangible assets Other 2015 Goodwill Development intangibles 1 Total Accumulated cost 1 January 1,173 6,943 851 8,967 Acquisitions/Divestment of subsidiaries 166 – 57 223 Additions – 1,863 96 1,959 Divestments and disposals – – –8 –8 Reclassifications – – 1 1 Exchange rate differences –86 –4 –38 –128 Total 1,253 8,802 959 11,014 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses 1 January 25 3,092 591 3,708 Amortisation for the year – Vehicles and Services – 393 92 485 – Financial Services – – 6 6 Impairment loss of the year – – – – Divestments and disposals – – –8 –8 Exchange rate differences –3 – –29 –32 Total 22 3,485 652 4,159 Carrying amount, 31 December 1,231 5,317 307 6,855 – of which capitalised expenditures for projects that have been placed in service 1,133 – of which capitalised expenditures for projects under development 4,184 1 Refers mainly to software, which is purchased externally in its entirety, and customer relationships capitalized upon acquisitions of subsidiaries. Group borrowing expenditures Borrowing expenditures included in cost of the item “Development during the year” 6 Interest rate for determination of borrowing expenditures included in cost 0.8% Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 75 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 9 Intangible assets, continued Other 2014 Goodwill Development intangibles 1 Total Accumulated cost 1 January 1,111 5,488 699 7,298 Acquisitions/Divestment of subsidiaries 3 – 25 28 Additions – 1,454 86 1,540 Divestments and disposals –2 – –3 –5 Reclassifications – 1 18 19 Exchange rate differences 61 – 26 87 Total 1,173 6,943 851 8,967 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses 1 January 25 2,735 492 3,252 Amortisation for the year – Vehicles and Services – 357 77 434 – Financial Services – – 6 6 Impairment loss of the year 1 – – 1 Divestments and disposals –2 – –3 –5 Exchange rate differences 1 – 19 20 Total 25 3,092 591 3,708 Carrying amount, 31 December 1,148 3,851 260 5,259 – of which capitalised expenditures for projects that have been placed in service 1,333 – of which capitalised expenditures for projects under development 2,518 1 Refers mainly to software, which is purchased externally in its entirety, and customer relationships capitalized upon acquisitions of subsidiaries. Group borrowing expenditures Borrowing expenditures included in cost of the item “Development during the year” 10 Interest rate for determination of borrowing expenditures included in cost 1.3% Scania tests the value of goodwill and other intangible assets at least yearly. Impairment testing is carried out for cash-generating units, which usually correspond to a reporting unit. Goodwill has been allocated among a number of cash-generating units, and the amount allocated to each unit is not significant compared to the Group’s total carrying amount for goodwill. Goodwill that has been allocated to cash-generating units coincides with the total carrying value of goodwill. The assumptions used in estimating recoverable amounts are disclosed in Note 2, “Key judgements and estimates”. Intangible assets are essentially attributable to capitalised product development expenditures and “acquisition goodwill”. All goodwill items are attributable to acquisitions of previously inde­pen­dent importers/dealers that comprise separate cash-generating units. 76 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 10 Tangible assets Construction in Buildings Machinery progress and 2015 and land and equipment advance payments Lease assets 1 Total Accumulated cost 1 January 19,313 31,539 3,250 22,712 76,814 Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries 2 2 4 – – 6 Additions 179 1,030 4,370 11,097 16,676 Divestments and disposals 3 –101 –853 –6 –5,660 –6,620 Reclassifications 942 1,202 –2,086 –1,353 –1,295 Exchange rate differences –838 –1,434 –111 –1,044 –3,427 Total 19,497 31,488 5,417 25,752 82,154 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 4 1 January 7,811 22,969 – 5,223 36,003 Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries 0 0 – – 0 Depreciation for the year – Vehicles and Services 453 1,943 – 1,483 3,879 – Financial Services 0 13 – 2,622 2,635 – Elimination – – – –709 –709 Impairment loss for the year 9 1 – –5 5 Divestments and disposals –64 –689 – –2,526 –3,279 Reclassifications 143 –138 – –529 –524 Exchange rate differences –313 –1,045 – –235 –1,593 Total 8,039 23,054 – 5,324 36,417 Carrying amount, 31 December 11,458 8,434 5,417 20,428 45,737 − of which “Machinery” 2,243 − of which “Equipment” 6,191 − of which “Buildings” 8,520 − of which “Land” 2,938 − of which Financial Services 79 32 13,889 14,000 1 Including assets for short-term rentals, operating leases as well as assets capitalised due to repurchase obligations. 2 Of which increase through business combinations amounts to SEK 6 m. 3 An amount of SEK 100 m. as compensation for damaged tangible assets was obtained from third parties and recognised as income in the income statement. 4 Impairment losses on lease assets refer to value adjustment for credit losses. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 77 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 10 Tangible assets, continued Construction in Buildings Machinery progress and 2014 and land and equipment advance payments Lease assets 1 Total Accumulated cost 1 January 18,204 29,746 2,501 18,977 69,428 Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries –126 –7 – – –133 Additions 200 813 2,868 7,678 11,559 Divestments and disposals –83 –942 –13 –4,437 –5,475 Reclassifications 526 1,544 –2,108 –1,317 –1,355 Exchange rate differences 592 385 2 1,811 2,790 Total 19,313 31,539 3,250 22,712 76,814 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 2 1 January 7,264 21,509 – 4,367 33,140 Acquisitions/divestments of subsidiaries –69 –18 – – –87 Depreciation for the year – Vehicles and Services 425 1,947 – 1,367 3,739 – Financial Services – 12 – 2,200 2,212 – Elimination – – – –611 –611 Impairment loss for the year 10 9 – –27 –8 Divestments and disposals –28 –780 – –2,096 –2,904 Reclassifications 4 – – –471 –467 Exchange rate differences 205 290 – 494 989 Total 7,811 22,969 – 5,223 36,003 Carrying amount, 31 December 11,502 8,570 3,250 17,489 40,811 − of which “Machinery” 2,355 − of which “Equipment” 6,215 − of which “Buildings” 8,505 − of which “Land” 2,997 − of which Financial Services 31 11,613 11,644 1 Including assets for short-term rentals, operating leases as well as assets capitalised due to repurchase obligations. 2 Impairment losses on lease assets refer to value adjustment for credit losses. 78 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 11 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 2015 2014 Carrying amount, 1 January 515 470 Acquisitions, capital contributions, divestments and impairment losses during the year 1 –9 14 Exchange rate differences 28 76 Share in income for the year 41 32 Dividends –79 –77 Carrying amount, 31 December 496 515 Contingent liabilities – – 1 SEK -9 m. refers to divestment of the shareholding in Cummins-Scania HPI LLC in 2015. SEK 11 m. refers to increased shareholding in Laxå Specialvehicles AB in 2014. Value of Scania’s share in consolidated financial statements Carrying amount in Associated companies / Corporate ID number / Parent Company Country of registration Ownership, % financial statements 2015 2014 BITS DATA i Södertälje AB, 556121-2613, Sweden 33 2 10 9 Cummins-Scania HPI LLC, 043650113, USA – – – 8 Laxå Specialvehicles AB, 556548-4705, Sweden 48 25 45 41 ScaValencia S.A., ESA46332995, Spain 26 14 22 25 Holdings in associated companies 41 77 83 Share of: Net income 2 32 12 Total comprehensive income 32 12 2 Includes a gain of SEK 5 m referring to divestment of the shareholding in Cummins-Scania HPI LLC in 2015. Value of Scania’s share in consolidated financial statements Carrying amount in Joint ventures / Corporate ID number / Parent Company Country of registration Ownership, % financial statements 2015 2014 Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing LLC, 20-3394999, USA 50 463 411 423 Oppland Tungbilservice A/S, 982 787 602, Norway 50 1 4 5 Tynset Diesel A/S, 982 787 580, Norway 50 1 4 4 Holdings in joint ventures 465 419 432 Share of: Net income 14 20 Total comprehensive income 14 20 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 496 515 Other shares and participations 20 20 Total 516 535 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 79 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 11 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures, continued Summarised financial information regarding Scania’s holdings in Summarised balance sheet 2015 2014 the joint venture Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing LLC is set out Non-current assets 638 621 below: Cash and cash equivalents 323 245 Summarised income statement 2015 2014 Other current assets 507 457 Total assets 1,468 1,323 Net sales 2,276 1,693 Operating income 1 61 60 Equity 822 846 Interest income/expenses and Other financial expenses 12 –6 Other current liabilities 646 477 Taxes –22 –16 Total equity and liabilities 1468 1,323 Net income for the year 51 38 Scania Group’s share of Equity (50%) 411 423 Other comprehensive income for the year – – Carrying amount 411 423 Total comprehensive income for the year 51 38 Scania has received dividends from Cummins-Scania XPI Scania Group’s share (50%) 26 19 Manufacturing LLC amounting to USD 8 m. (10). Cummins-Scania 1 Depreciation amounting to SEK 114 m. (106) is included in Operating income. XPI Manufacturing LLC is a joint venture with Scania and Cummins as partners. The joint venture manufactures fuel injection systems with extra-high pressure injection (XPI). Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing LLC is recognised using the equity method. NOTE 12 Inventories NOTE 13 Other receivables 2015 2014 2015 2014 Raw materials, components and supplies 2,018 2,241 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 423 504 Work in progress 1,345 1,277 Derivatives with positive market value 595 504 Finished goods 1 13,555 13,262 Advance payments 1 8 Total 16,918 16,780 Pension asset 107 144 Other receivables 1 227 222 1 Of which, used vehicles. 1,811 1,585 Total other non-current receivables 1,353 1,382 Value adjustment reserve, 31 December –1,025 –846 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1,179 1,001 Derivatives with positive market value 580 644 Value-added tax 1,527 1,282 Advance payments 94 143 Other receivables 714 647 Total other current receivables 4,094 3,717 Total other receivables 5,447 5,099 1 Comparative figures have been adjusted. 80 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 14 Equity The consolidated statements of changes in equity shows a complete Reconciliation of change in number of reconciliation of all changes in equity. shares outstanding 2015 2014 The share capital of Scania AB consists of 400,000,000 Series A Number of A shares shares outstanding with voting rights of one vote per share and outstanding, 1 January 400,000,000 400,000,000 400,000,000 Series B shares outstanding with voting rights of 1/10 Number of A shares vote per share. A and B shares carry the same right to a portion of outstanding, 31 December 400,000,000 400,000,000 the company’s assets and profit. The nominal value of both A and B shares is SEK 2.50 per share. All shares are fully paid and no shares Number of B shares are reserved for transfer of ownership. No shares are held by the outstanding, 1 January 400,000,000 400,000,000 company itself or its subsidiaries. Number of B shares Other contributed capital consists of a statutory reserve contributed outstanding, 31 December 400,000,000 400,000,000 by the owners of Scania AB when it became a limited company in Total number of shares, 1995. 31 December 800,000,000 800,000,000 The hedge reserve consists of the change in market value of commercial cash flow hedging instruments in cases where hedge The equity of the Scania Group consists of the sum of equity accountin­g is applied according to IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: attribut­able to Scania’s shareholders and equity attributable to Recognition and Measurement”. non-controlling interests. At year-end 2015, the Group’s equity The currency translation reserve arises when translating totalled SEK 37,837 m. (41,801). According to the Group’s Financial net asset­s outside Sweden according to the current method of Policy, the Group’s financial position shall meet the requirements of accounting. The currency translation reserve also includes currency the business objectives it has established. At present, this is deemed rate differences related to monetary items for businesses outside to presuppose a financial position equivalent to the requirements for Sweden deemed to be a part of the company’s net investment. The obtaining at least an BBB+ credit rating from the one of the most negative exchange rate difference of SEK 2,465 m. arose as a result important rating institutions. of the Swedish krona’s appreciation against currencies important to In order to maintain the necessary capital structure, the Group may Scania. The exchange rate differences were mainly due to the krona’s adjust the amount of its dividend to shareholders, distribute capital to appreciation against the BRL. the shareholders or sell assets and thereby reduce debt. Retained earnings consist not only of accrued profits but also of the Financial Services includes eleven companies that are subject to change in pension liability attributable to remeasurements of oversight by national financial inspection authorities. In some defined-benefit plans etc. recognised in “Total other comprehensive countries, Scania must comply with local capital adequacy income”. Regardin­g changes in actuarial assumptions, see also Note requirements. During 2015, these units met their capital adequacy 15, “Provisions for pensions and similar commitments”. In Scania, an requirements. Extraordinary General Meeting in December decided on a dividend of SEK 9,600 m. The dividend proposals decided by the board in 2014 The Group’s Financial Policy contains targets for key ratios related to and 2015 were never executed by the Annual General Meetings. The the Group’s financial position. These coincide with the ratios used by dividend of SEK 9,600 m. corresponds to approximately 50 percent credit rating institutions. Scania’s credit rating according to Standard of the net income for the financial years of 2013, 2014 and 2015. This and Poor’s at the end of 2015 was for: is in line with Scania’s historical benchmark of distributing • long-term borrowing: BBB+ approximately 50 percent of the net income to the shareholders. No • outlook: Negative changes are anticipated in relation to this historical benchmark. • short-term borrowing: A–2 For the Annual General Meeting in 2016 the board, therefore, • short-term borrowing, Sweden: K–1. proposes that no dividend will be paid. Non-controlling interests refer to the share of equity held by external owners outside of Scania in certain subsidiaries in the Group. Scania Group has a few non-wholly owned subsidiaries of which one is considered to have a substantial non-controlling interest. Qanadeel AL Rafidain Automotive Trading Co. Ltd. in Iraq has non-controlling interest amounting to 49 percent of the shares and voting power in the company. In 2015, income attributable to non-controlling interests amounted to SEK –11 m. (–10) and accumulated non-controlling interests in the company amounted to SEK 47 m. (56) as of 31 December, 2015. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 81 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 15 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments The Group’s employees, former employees and their survivors may pension, children’s pension and life insurance. This plan also be included in both defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans includes early retirement pension, which covers employees with at related to post-employment compensation. The plans include least five years of service or who have retired prematurely at the retirement pensions, early retirement pensions, survivor pensions, request of the company. health care and severance pay. For defined-contribution plans, Contributions are split between employer and employees for the Scania makes continuous payments to public authorities and basic pension plan and in the supplementary plan for members of the independent organisations, which thus take over obligations towards manage­ment. employees. Switzerland recognises the net pension assets in the balance sheet The Group’s expenses for defined-contribution plans amounted to and an asset ceiling is thus applied. SEK 847 m. (756) during 2015. The commitment that is recognised in the balance sheet stems from the defined-benefit plans. The plans Brazil are secured through reinsured provisions in the balance sheet, Employees at Scania Latin America Ltda are covered by four foundations and funds. Calculations are performed according to the post-employment defined-benefit plans. Three health care plans Projected Unit Credit Method, using the assumptions presented cover medical, dental and pharmaceutical expenses as well as the under each country below. Scania’s forecast pension payments cost of a life insurance plan. The plans are open to personnel retiring related to defined-benefit plans, both funded and unfunded plans, at a minimum age of 55 with at least 10 years’ service. is SEK 258 m. for 2016. Great Britain The largest plans are described in more detail below. Employees at Scania Great Britain (SGB) are covered by a premiumSweden based occupational pension. Both the company and employees Blue-collar workers are covered by the SAF/LO plan, which is a contribute to the plan. There are defined-benefit plans, which are defined-contribution multi-employer plan based on collective closed for future accruals since 31 May 2003. The defined-benefit agreements, covering a number of different sectors. plans operated by SGB include the following: Salaried employees are covered by the ITP plan, which is also a 1. The Scania Staff Pension Plan multi-employer plan based on collective agreements, covering a 2. The Scania Executive Pension Plan number of different sectors. The ITP plan has two parts, firstly, ITP1, 3. The Scania Reliable Vehicles Staff Pension Plan which is a defined-contribution pension plan applying to employees All plans are administered by trustees who are responsible for born in 1979 or later, and secondly, ITP2, which is a defined-benefit ensuring that SGB has sufficient financing to fully meet all vested/ pension plan applying to employees born before 1979. earned benefits for all members. Most of the ITP2 plan is managed internally by Scania in the PRI system. Financing occurs through provisions to an account in the The normal retirement age in the schemes is 65. balance sheet, safeguarded by credit insurance from the mutual insurance company Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti. MULTI-EMPLOYER DEFINED-BENEFIT PLANS How­ever, a portion of the ITP2 plan is safeguarded via premiums to Sweden the retirement insurance company Alecta. These obligations are A portion of the ITP2 plan is safeguarded by premiums to Alecta. recognised under the heading “Multi-employer defined-benefit plans”. These obligations are also defined-benefit but Alecta does not have Aside from these obligations, there are defined-benefit obligations in information about allocation of vested/earned benefits, premiums and Scania CV relating to blue-collar workers who at the age of 62 have assets among various employers and therefore these obligations are worked for 30 years or who at the age of 63 have worked for 25 recognised as a defined-contribution plan. years in the company, as well as to a limited number of persons in At year-end 2015, Alecta’s surplus, in the form of a collective managerial positions. Special payroll tax is now included in the consolidation level (assets in relation to the insurance obligation), provision for pension provisions. amounted to 153 percent (143). If the consolidation level falls below or exceeds the normal range (122-155), Alecta shall take measures, for Switzerland example raise agreed subscription prices and extension of existing The Pensionskasse and the Wohlfahrts­stiftung are the legal benefits, or introduce premium reductions. carriers of the pension plans and reviewing early retirement pension. There are two pension plans: Alecta’s insurance obligation is calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which deviate from the methods 1. A basic pension plan for employees and management, and assumptions applied in measurement of defined-benefit covering retirement pension, disability pension, spouse pensions according to IAS 19. Premiums to Alecta amounted to pension, children’s pension and life insurance. SEK 109 m. (112). 2. A supplementary plan for members of the management, covering retirement pension, disability pension, spouse 82 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 15 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments, continued The Netherlands and therefore these obligations are recognised as a definedEmployees at Scania’s Dutch companies are covered by the Dutch contribution plan. In the Dutch plans, both companies and collectively-agreed pension plans, which are multi-employer defined employees contribute to the plan. Companies’ premiums to benefit plans. The plans Pensioenfonds Metaal en Techniek (PMT) MN Services totalled SEK 82 m. (74). The consolidation level of and Bedrijfstakpensioenfonds Metal­elktro (PME) are administered by MN Services was 98 percent (103). MN Services. PMT and PME do not have information about allocation Information regarding the largest plans during 2015 Sweden Switzerland Brazil Great Britain Present value of defined-benefit obligations 6,107 821 490 816 Fair value of plan assets – –928 –55 –665 Net assets not fully valued due to curtailment rule – – 16 – Recognised as pension liability (asset) in the balance sheet, SEK m. 6,107 -107 451 151 Breakdown into categories Present value of defined-benefit obligations for persons in active employment, SEK m. 4,046 434 83 – Persons in active employment, number 8,396 334 3,127 – Present value of defined-benefit obligations for paid-up policy holders, SEK m. 997 – – 607 Paid-up policy holders, number 2,557 – – 433 Present value of defined-benefit obligations for retired employees, SEK m. 1,064 387 407 209 Retired employees, number 2,304 99 1,131 183 Assumptions/conditions Discount rate, % 3.0 0.9 13.3 3.7 Average life expectancy, women/men, years 86 86 83 88 Average duration of obligations, years 22.0 14.9 14.3 22.0 Sensitivity analysis concerning change in present value of obligations, SEK m. 0.5% increase in discount rate –608 –55 –34 –81 0.5% decrease in discount rate 698 64 36 94 1 year increase in life expectancy 235 9 10 24 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 83 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 15 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments, continued Information regarding the largest plans during 2014 Sweden Switzerland Brazil Great Britain Present value of defined-benefit obligations 7,607 733 709 741 Fair value of plan assets – –877 –69 –615 Net assets not fully valued due to curtailment rule – – 20 – Recognised as pension liability (asset) in the balance sheet, SEK m. 7,607 –144 660 126 Breakdown into categories Present value of defined-benefit obligations for persons in active employment, SEK m. 5,035 376 158 – Persons in active employment, number 7,857 335 3,325 – Present value of defined-benefit obligations for paid-up policy holders, SEK m. 1,054 – – 588 Paid-up policy holders, number 2,600 – – 451 Present value of defined-benefit obligations for retired employees, SEK m. 1,518 357 551 153 Retired employees, number 2,256 91 1,156 166 Assumptions/conditions Discount rate, % 2.5 1.5 11.8 3.5 Average life expectancy, women/men, years 86 86 78 87 Average duration of obligations, years 29.4 14.7 15.6 23.0 Sensitivity analysis concerning change in present value of obligations, SEK m. 0.5% increase in discount rate –820 –47 –46 –73 0.5% decrease in discount rate 950 54 81 93 1 year increase in life expectancy 364 27 27 25 Expenses for pensions and similar commitments Expenses for pensions and other defined-benefit payments recognised in the income statement 2015 2014 Current service expenses –371 –223 Interest expenses, net liabilities –256 –251 Interest income, net assets 3 4 Past service expenses 0 –9 Net gains (+) and losses (–) due to curtailments and settlements 0 0 Total expense for defined-benefit payments recognised in the income statement –624 –479 Pension expenses and other defined-benefit payments are found in the income statement under the headings “Research and development expenses”, SEK 140 m. (80), “Cost of goods sold”, SEK 114 m. (77), “Selling expenses”, SEK 102 m. (66) and “Administrative expenses”, SEK 15 m. (9). The interest portion of the net liability is recognised as an interest expense and the interest portion in net assets is recognised as interest income. 84 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 15 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments, continued Expenses related to pensions and similar commitments Expenses for pensions and other defined-benefit payments recognised in “Other comprehensive income” 2015 2014 Experience-based adjustments in net liabilities 409 –930 Effects of changes in demographic assumptions –71 278 Effects of changes in financial assumptions 1,452 –2,469 Actual return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income –18 122 Changes in present value of asset ceiling not included in interest expense 1 33 Total expense/revenue for defined-benefit payments recognised in “Other comprehensive income” 1,773 –2,966 Pension commitments Recognised as provision for pensions in the balance sheet 2015 2014 Present value of defined-benefit obligations, wholly or partly funded 2,626 2,720 Present value of defined-benefit obligations, unfunded 6,581 8,091 Present value of defined-benefit obligations 9,207 10,811 Fair value of plan assets –1,992 –1,937 Net assets not fully valued due to curtailment rule 17 21 Recognised in the balance sheet 7,232 8,895 Of which, pension liabilities recognised under the heading “Provisions for pensions” 7,339 9,039 Of which, pension assets recognised under the heading “Other long-term receivables” –107 –144 Liabilities related to pensions and similar commitments Present value of defined-benefit obligations changed during the year as follows: 2015 2014 Present value of defined-benefit obligations, 1 January 10,811 7,202 Present value of reclassified obligations, 1 January 0 26 Current service expenses 371 223 Interest expenses 302 303 Payments made by pension plan participants 12 11 Experience-based actuarial gains and losses –409 930 Adjustment effects from changes in demographic assumptions 71 –278 Adjustment effects from changes in financial assumptions –1,452 2,469 Exchange rate differences –156 212 Disbursements of pension payments –343 –291 Past service expenses 0 9 Present value of defined-benefit obligations in acquired/divested companies – – Settlements – –4 Gains and losses due to net settlements for the year – –1 Present value of defined-benefit obligations, 31 December 9,207 10,811 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 85 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 15 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments, continued Plan assets related to pensions and similar commitments Fair value of plan assets changed as follows during the year: 2015 2014 Fair value of plan assets, 1 January 1,937 1,575 Fair value of plan assets related to reclassified obligations, 1 January –1 14 Interest income on plan assets 51 57 Actual return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income –18 122 Effects of changes in financial assumptions 0 0 Exchange rate differences 35 158 Payments to pension plan 102 92 Payments made by pension plan participants 15 14 Disbursements of pension payments –129 –95 Fair value of plan assets in acquired/divested companies – – Settlements – 0 Fair value of plan assets, 31 December 1,992 1,937 Asset ceiling Present value of asset ceiling 2015 2014 Present value of asset ceiling, 1 January 21 51 Present value of reclassified asset ceiling, 1 January – – Interest expenses 2 2 Changes in present value of asset ceiling not included in interest expense –1 –33 Exchange rate differences –5 1 Present value of asset ceiling, 31 December 17 21 2015 2014 Quoted price in Quoted price in Allocation of fair value in plan assets an active market Unquoted price an active market Unquoted price Cash and cash equivalents 12 – 32 – Equity instruments issued by others 8 – 10 – Debt instruments issued by Scania – 3 – 4 Debt instruments issued by others 95 – 99 – Properties leased to Scania companies – 43 – 40 Investment properties 18 – 17 – Equity mutual funds 771 – 720 – Fixed income mutual funds 629 – 679 – Real estate funds 311 – 256 – Other investment funds 14 20 17 20 Other plan assets 68 – 43 – Total 1,926 66 1,873 64 86 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 16 Other provisions 2015 Product obligations Legal and tax risks Other provisions 1 Total 1 January 1,572 1,377 2,026 4,975 Provisions during the year 1,372 282 1,528 3,182 Provisions used during the year –960 –38 –1,181 –2,179 Provisions reversed during the year –532 –69 –105 –706 Exchange rate differences –71 –216 –91 –378 31 December 1,381 1,336 2,177 4,894 – of which, current provisions 1,024 82 895 2,001 – of which, non-current provisions 357 1,254 1,282 2,893 2014 Product obligations Legal and tax risks Other provisions 1 Total 1 January 1,473 1,337 1,781 4,591 Provisions during the year 1,354 347 1,348 3,049 Provisions used during the year –1,225 –217 –990 –2,432 Provisions reversed during the year –60 –122 –189 –371 Exchange rate differences 30 32 76 138 31 December 1,572 1,377 2,026 4,975 – of which, current provisions 1,166 15 715 1,896 – of which, non-current provisions 406 1,362 1,311 3,079 1 “Other provisions” include provisions for potential losses on service agreements. Total number of contracts increased during 2015 by 12,900 contracts (7,800) and amounted to 150,000 contracts (137,100) at year-end. Uncertainty about the expected outflow dates is greatest for legal and tax disputes. Otherwise outflow is expected to occur within one to two years. Provisions are recognised without discounting and at nominal amounts, as the time factor is not deemed to have a major influence on the size of the amounts, since the future outflow is relatively close in time. For a description of the nature of the obligations, see also Note 1, “Accounting principles”, and Note 2, “Key judgements and estimates”. NOTE 17 Accrued expenses and deferred income 2015 2014 Accrued employee-related expenses 3,944 3,676 Deferred income related to service and repair contracts 4,030 3,287 Deferred income related to repurchase obligations 1 7,589 6,396 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 2,800 2,075 Total 18,363 15,434 − of which, current 9,278 8,912 − of which, non-current 9,085 6,522 Of the above total, the following was attributable to Financial Services operations 336 307 1 Of the above deferred income related to vehicles sold with repurchase obligations, SEK 1,214 m. (1,299) is expected to be recognised as revenue within 12 months. SEK 472 m. (319) is expected to be recognised as revenue after more than 5 years. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 87 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 18 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities Assets pledged 2015 2014 In 2011 Scania became the subject of an investigation conducted by the European Commission concerning alleged inappropriate Financial receivables 2 198 3,216 cooperation. Scania received a statement of objections in the Other 2 1 investigation in November 2014, which Scania can now reply to Total 1 200 3,217 before the EU Commission reaches its decision. Scania’s view is that if the Commission would pursue a claim in accordance with the 1 Of which, assets pledged for: allegations stated in its statement of objections it is more likely than not that the Commission will not ultimately be successful. In addition, Borrowings 198 3,216 given the ongoing nature of the investigation and the uncertainties Liabilities of others 2 1 associated with them, Scania is not yet able to predict or estimate 2 Refers mainly to pledged leases in Financial Services, SEK 180 m. (3,197). the duration of the investigation, what, if any, conduct regulatory authority may pursue, what the regulatory authority may conclude, or Contingent liabilities 2015 2014 what sanctions the regulatory authority will seek. As a result, Scania Contingent liability related to FPG credit insurance 62 58 remains unable to estimate the impact the investigation will have. Having said that, it cannot be ruled out that the Commission will Loan guarantees 2 3 impose fines on Scania. Other guarantees 229 211 Total 293 272 In addition to the above contingent liabilities, the Group has issued vehicle repurchase guarantees worth SEK 73 m. (67) to customers’ creditors. NOTE 19 Lease obligations As a lessee, the Scania Group has entered into financial and operating leases. Future payment obligations on non-cancellable operating leases 2015 2014 Future minimum Of which, related Future minimum Of which, related Operating leases lease payments to premises lease payments to premises Within one year 577 255 561 275 Between one year and five years 1,052 595 1,077 714 Later than five years 369 352 365 313 Total 1,998 1,202 2,003 1,302 Expensed minimum lease payments amounted to SEK 713 m. (652), of which SEK 313 m. (265) related to costs for leases on premises. Future payment obligations on non-cancellable financial leases 2015 2014 Present value of Present value of Future minimum future minimum Future minimum future minimum Financial leases lease payments Interest lease payments lease payments Interest lease payments Within one year 10 1 9 7 3 4 Between one year and five years 17 7 10 14 9 5 Later than five years 5 5 0 7 7 0 Total 2 32 13 19 28 19 9 2 Refers to financial leases where the obligation exceeds one year. 88 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 19 Lease obligations, continued NOTE 20 Government grants and assistance Financial lease assets in balance sheet During 2015, the Scania Group received government grants Carrying amount 2015 2014 amountin­g to SEK 1 m. (19) attributable to operat­ing expense­s of SEK 38 m. (143). Vehicles for leasing 0 0 Buildings 17 19 Machinery 0 0 Other 25 21 Total 42 40 NOTE 21 Cash flow statement 2015 2014 2015 2014 a. Vehicles and Services: d.1. Vehicles and Services: Interest and dividends received/paid Acquisitions of non-current assets Dividends received from associated companies 79 77 Investments in non-current assets 2 –8,561 –6,598 Interest received 484 557 Divestments of non-current assets 3 949 1,037 Interest paid –432 –611 Total –7,612 –5,561 2 Of which, SEK 1,863 m. (1,454) in capitalised research and development expenditures. 3 Also includes moving vehicles for short-term rentals to inventory. b.1. Vehicles and Services: Items not affecting cash flow Depreciation/amortisation 3,242 3,107 d.2. Financial Services: Net investments in credit portfolio etc. Bad debts 26 32 New financing 4 –32,158 –27,491 Associated companies 33 45 Payments of principal and completed contracts 27,361 22,975 Deferred profit recognition, lease assets 642 238 Total –4,797 –4,516 Other 182 67 4 Refers mainly to financing of customer purchases of Scania vehicles. Includes Total 4,125 3,489 other tangible and intangible assets. b.2. Financial Services: e. Change in debt through financing activities Items not affecting cash flow Net change in current investments –190 –4 Depreciation/amortisation 19 18 Net change in current borrowings 5 1,161 2,831 Bad debts 244 167 Reclassification of non-current borrowings to Other 35 10 current borrowings –9,953 –11,089 Total 298 195 Decrease in non-current borrowings –5,447 –168 Increase in non-current borrowings 5 16,391 8,483 c. Net investment through acquisitions/ Total 1,962 53 divestments of businesses 1 Divestments of businesses 0 67 Acquisitions of businesses –125 –221 f. Cash and cash equivalents Total –125 –154 Cash and bank balances 4,070 3,754 1 See Note 22, “Businesses acquired/divested”. Short-term investments comprising cash and cash equivalents 8,225 7,161 Total 12,295 10,915 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 89 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 22 Businesses acquired/divested Scania is not an acquisition-intensive Group or a Group that divests Total consideration transferred for the acquisition of the dealership in businesses to a large extent and no significant acquisitions or Brazil was SEK 218 m., of which SEK 60 m. consisted of remission of divestments have occurred during the years 2014–2015. Business previous receivables to the seller. In 2015, SEK 128 m. was paid out acquisitions usually consist mainly of dealerships. During 2015, an and the remaining amount is expected to be disbursed during 2016. acquisition was made of a dealership in Brazil. During 2014, two The acquisition was made in the end 2015 and therefore no result minor acquisitions were made of dealerships in Kenya and China and was recorded for the year. If the acquisitions had occurred in the one acquisition of a bus body manufacturer in Finland. During 2014, beginning of 2015, the acquired operations would have had the the Financial services business in Turkey and the private car following impact on the 2015 financial statements: Net sales minus dealership in Switzerland were sold. intra-Group sales, SEK 85 m. and Income before taxes, SEK –7 m. NOTE 23 Wages, salaries and other remuneration and number of employees Wages, salaries and other remuneration, pension expenses and other mandatory payroll fees (excluding personnel on hire) 2015 2014 Boards of Directors, Presidents and Executive (or Group) Vice Presidents 1 391 374 – of which bonuses 99 93 Other employees 14,983 13,936 Subtotal 15,374 14,310 Pension expenses and other mandatory payroll fees 5,021 4,397 – of which pension expenses 2 1,290 1,055 Total 20,395 18,707 1 The number of Board members and executive officers was 539 (552). 2 Of the pension expense in the Group, SEK 37 m. (29) was for Boards of Directors and executive officers in the Scania Group. At year-end, the total pension obligation was SEK 154 m. (150) for this category. 2015 2014 Average number of employees (excluding personnel on hire) Total Women Total Women Sweden 13,335 20% 13,061 20% Europe (excluding Sweden) 14,347 14% 13,484 13% Eurasia 850 25% 965 22% America 6,083 14% 6,354 13% Asia 2,248 18% 2,095 18% Africa and Oceania 1,630 17% 1,575 16% Total 38,493 17% 37,534 16% 90 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 23 Wages, salaries and other remuneration and number of employees, continued Gender distribution 2015 2014 Board members in subsidiaries and the Parent Company 434 451 – of whom, men 402 423 – of whom, women 32 28 Presidents/Managing Directors of subsidiaries and the Parent Company, plus the Group’s Executive Board 105 101 – of whom, men 102 99 – of whom, women 3 2 Number of employees, 31 December 2015 2014 Vehicles and Services Production and corporate units 20,428 19,304 Research and development 3,904 3,671 Sales and service companies 19,253 18,395 Subtotal 43,585 41,370 Financial Services 824 759 Total 44,409 42,129 – of whom, on temporary contracts and on hire 5,411 5,172 NOTE 24 Related party transactions Revenue Expenses Receivables Liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Volkswagen Group 257 169 731 535 917 1,302 11,579 1,359 Associated companies and joint ventures BITS DATA i Södertälje AB 0 – 17 18 0 – 2 3 Cummins-Scania HPI L.L.C – – 25 24 – – – 7 Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing L.L.C 88 62 666 461 12 7 88 38 Laxå Special Vehicles AB 44 19 176 165 11 4 48 47 ScaValencia S.A. 119 64 52 48 4 3 0 – Others 8 8 5 5 1 – 0 – Disclosures of relationships with related parties that include a commitments” and Note 23, “Wages, salaries and other remuneration controlling influence are provided in the list of subsidiaries. See also and number of employees”. Purchases and leases of company cars the presen­tation of Scania’s Board of Directors and Executive Board are included in the trans­actions with the Volkswagen Group. as well as Note 25, “Compensation to executive officers”. Disclosures All related party transactions occur on market terms. of dividends from, and capital contributions to, associated Liabilities to the Volkswagen Group for the dividend decided on in companies and joint ventures etc. are provided in Note 11, “Holdings December 2015 amounts to SEK 9,600 m. in associated companies and joint ventures”. Disclosures of pension plans are provided in Note 15, “Provisions for pensions and similar Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 91 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 25 Compensation to executive officers PRINCIPLES FOR COMPENSATION TO TERMINATION CONDITIONS FOR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE EXECUTIVE BOARD The principles for compensation to Scania executive officers are If the President and CEO resigns of his own volition, he is entitled to adopted by the AGM. The purpose is to offer a market-related his salary for a six-month notice period. Any variable salary during the compensation package that will enable the company to recruit and year in question is disbursed according to conditions adopted by the retain executive officers. Compensation to executive officers consists Annual General Meeting. In case of termination by the company, a of the following parts: six-month notice period applies with retained benefits and severance 1. Fixed salary pay equivalent to 24 months of salary is payable. 2. Variable earnings-dependent salary If the company terminates their employment, the other members of the Executive Board are entitled to severance pay equivalent to a 3. Pension maximum of 18 months of salary, in addition to their salary during The fixed salary of executive officers shall be competitive in relation to the six-month notice period. If they obtain new employ­ment within position, individual qualifications and performance. The fixed salary is 18 months, counting from their termination date, the severance reviewed annually. The size of the variable salary is dependent on pay ceases. Scania’s earnings. The pension comprises a premium-­based pension system that applies in addition to the public pension and the ITP occupational pension. Pension Pension Total expenses, expenses, Board Other salary and defined defined Total Fixed remuVariable remuremucontribution benefit pension Pension 2015, SEK thousand salary neration 1 salary neration neration system system expenses obligations Chairman of the Board – President and CEO 4,523 5,271 139 9,933 1,777 867 2,644 8,154 Former President and CEO 2,739 – 10,3592 13,098 2,544 318 2,862 2,655 Rest of Executive Board (7 persons) 25,673 22,097 2,087 49,857 5,353 2,768 8,121 22,274 1 Other Board members’ total fees: Hans Dieter Pötsch 0; Francisco J. Garcia Sanz 0; Peter Abele 375; Helmut Aurenz 550; Peter Wallenberg Jr 500; Ferdinand K. Piëch 0; Leif Östling 0; Christian Porsche 0; Annika Falkengren 325, Matthias Gründler 0; Markus S. Piëch 0. Ferdinand K. Piëch resigned on 27 April 2015. Leif Östling, Peter Abele, Francisco J. Garcia Sanz and Hans Dieter Pötsch resigned at the Annual General Meeting on 26 June 2015. 2 Includes payment of vacation pay liability and salary during notice period. Pension Pension Total expenses, expenses, Board Other salary and defined defined Total Fixed remuVariable remuremucontribution benefit pension Pension 2014, SEK thousand salary neration 1 salary neration neration system system expenses obligations Chairman of the Board – President and CEO 7,900 6,474 258 14,632 2,907 360 3,267 2,381 Rest of Executive Board (7 persons) 26,913 21,104 2,006 50,023 5,892 2,714 8,606 18,511 1 Other Board members’ total fees: Hans Dieter Pötsch 0; Francisco J. Garcia Sanz 0; Peter Abele 750; Helmut Aurenz 500; Peter Wallenberg Jr 500; Åsa Thunman 600; Jochem Heizmann 0; Ferdinand K. Piëch 0; Leif Östling 0. Jochem Heizmann resigned at the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2013. Pension expenses, defined-contribution system: annual Other remuneration: taxable portion of car allowance, premiums according to a defined contribution pension system and news­paper subscriptions and other perquisites. ITPK (defined contribution portion of the ITP occupational pension). Retirement age: the retirement age according to agreements Pension expenses, defined-benefit system (ITP): risk is 60 for the President and CEO and the Executive Board. insurance premiums and the increase of retirement pension The retirement age for the ITP occupational pension is 65. liability according to the ITP occupational pension plan. 92 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 26 Fees and other remuneration to auditors Fees and other remuneration to auditors that were expensed statutes or agreements that is also intended for parties other than the during the year are reported below. Remuneration for consultclient, and which is not included in the auditing assign­ment. “Tax ations is reported in cases where the same public accountancy firm consultancy” is consultation on matters of tax law. “Other services” has the assignment to audit an individual company. “Auditing refers to consultancy that cannot be attri­buted to any of the other assignments” refers to statutor­y examination of the annual accounts categories. Auditing expenses that have arisen because Scania is a as well as the administration of the Board of Directors and the subsidiary of Volkswagen have been reinvoiced. President and CEO. “Auditing activities beyon­d auditing assignments” refers to examination of administratio­n or financial information that shall be performed in accordance with laws, articles of association, 2015 2014 Auditing firm PwC Other auditors EY Other auditors Auditing assignments 34 1 46 1 Auditing activities beyond auditing assignments 1 3 2 0 Tax consultancy 3 1 2 0 Other services 1 1 2 0 Total 39 6 52 1 NOTE 27 Financial risk management FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT IN THE SCANIA GROUP – Revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities in a functional currency In addition to business risks, Scania is exposed to various financial other than the reporting currency of the Parent Company (SEK) are risks in its operations. The financial risks that are of the greatest translated at the average exchange rate during the year and the importance are currency, interest rate, credit and refinancing risk, exchange rate on the balance sheet date, respectively. The effect which are regulated by a Financial Policy adopted by Scania’s Board that arises because the exchange rate on the balance sheet date is of Directors. changed from the beginning of the year and the average exchange rate of the year deviates from the balance sheet rate is recognised Credit risk related to customer commitments is managed, within in the translation reserve in other comprehensive income established limits, on a decentralised basis by means of local credit (translation effect). assessments. Decisions on major credit commitments are made in corporate credit committees. Other risks are managed primarily at During 2015, 94 (95) percent of Scania’s sales occurred in countries corporate level by Scania’s treasury unit. On a daily basis, the outside Sweden. Since a large proportion of production occurs in corporate treasury unit measures the risks of outstanding positions, Sweden, at costs denominated in Swedish krono­r, this means that which are managed within established limits in compliance with the Scania has large net inflows of foreign currencies. Financial Policy. During 2015, total currency exposure in Scania’s operating income amounted to about SEK 37,800 m. (34,600). The largest currencies in CURRENCY RISK this flow were EUR, BRL and GBP. The table on the next page shows Currency Risk is the risk of negative effects on earnings and balance currency exposure in Scania’s operating income in the most sheet items denominated in foreign currency, due to currency commonly occurring currencies. movements. Changes in exchange rates also affect Scania’­s income statement and balance sheet as follows: – An individual company may have monetary assets and liabilities in a currency other than its functional currency, which are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. When settling monetary assets and liabilities, an exchang­e rate differenc­e arises between the exchange rate on the balance sheet date and on the payment date. All changes in exchange rates attributable to translation or settlement of monetary items are recognised in the income statement (transaction effect). Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 93 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 27 Financial risk management, continued Currency exposure in operating By means of derivative contracts, corporate-level borrowings are income, Vehicles and Services 2015 2014 converted to lending currencies. In Financial Services, assets should British pound (GBP) 7,000 4,300 be financed by liabilities in the same currency. Scania’s borrowings in variou­s currencies excluding and including currency derivatives can Euro (EUR) 5,200 2,100 be seen in the table “Borrowings” in the section on interest rate risk. Norwegian krone (NOK) 2,900 2,700 At the end of 2015, Scania’s net assets in foreign currencies Polish zloty (PLN) 2,200 1,600 amounte­d to SEK 23,700 m. (24,900). The net foreign assets of US dollar (USD) 2,100 2,000 subsidiaries are normally not hedged. To the extent subsidiaries have Korean won (KRW) 1,800 1,300 significant net monetary assets in functional currencies, however, Australian dollar (AUD) 1,800 1,800 they may be hedged. At year-end 2015 no foreign net assets were hedged (–). South African rand (ZAR) 1,700 1,400 Russian rouble (RUB) 1,500 3,700 Net assets, Vehicles and Services 2015 2014 Danish krone (DKK) 1,400 1,300 Brazilian real (BRL) 4,600 6,300 Arabic dirham (AED) 1,100 – Euro (EUR) 4,100 4,400 Swiss franc (CHF) 1,100 1,200 Argentine peso (ARS) 1,500 1,100 Argentine peso (ARS) –1,400 –1,100 British pound (GBP) 1,100 1,300 Brazilian real (BRL) –1,800 2,400 Norwegian krone (NOK) 600 600 Other currencies 10,000 8,700 Swiss franc (CHF) 500 600 Total currency exposure Polish zloty (PLN) 500 300 in operating income 36,600 33,400 Indian rupee (INR) 500 100 Danish krone (DKK) 400 300 Currency exposure in operating income, Financial Services 2015 2014 Australian dollar (AUD) 400 300 Euro (EUR) 500 600 Russian rouble (RUB) 300 400 Other currencies 700 600 Korean won (KRW) 300 –100 Total currency exposure US dollar (USD) –100 –150 in operating income 1,200 1,200 Other currencies 1,500 1,850 Total net assets in foreign currencies, Vehicles and Services 16,200 17,300 Based on revenue and expenses in foreign currencies during 2015, Net assets, Financial Services 2015 2014 a one percentage point change in the Swedish krona against other Euro (EUR) 4,300 4,600 currencies, excluding currency hedges, has an impact on operating Other currencies 3,200 3,000 income of about SEK 378 m. (346) on an annual basis. In Vehicles Total net assets in foreign currencies, and Services, compared to 2014, the total positive currency rate Financial Services 7,500 7,600 effects amounted to about SEK 2,270 m. According to Scania’s financial policy, Scania’s Management may Total net assets in foreign currencies, hedge future currency flows with a hedging period varying between Scania Group 23,700 24,900 0 and 12 months. Maturity over 12 months is decided by the Board of Directors. When currency risks are hedged, currencies are mainly sold by means of forward contracts, but currency options may also Effect on exchange rate differences on net income be used. At year-end 2015, no future currency flows were hedged. Net income for the year was affected by exchange rate difference­s as To ensure efficiency and risk control, borrowings in Scania’s shown in the following table: sub­sidiarie­s largely occur through the corporate treasury unit, 2015 2014 mainly in EUR and SEK, and are then transferred to subsidiaries Operating income –187 99 in the form of internal loans in their local currencies. Financial income and expenses –62 14 Taxes 0 –4 Effect on net income for the year –249 109 94 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 27 Financial risk management, continued INTEREST RATE RISK InterestInterestInterest Rate Risk is the risk of negative effects on interest income Interest rate refixing in Financial bearing bearing and expenses due to movements in interest rates. For Scania’s Services, 31 December 2015 portfolio 1 liabilities 2 assets and liabilities that carry variable interest rates, a change in 2016 29,232 28,872 market interest rates has a direct effect on cash flow, while for 2017 11,662 10,971 fixed-interest assets and liabilities, the fair value of the portfolio is 2018 8,699 8,034 instead affected. To manage interest rate risks, Scania primarily uses 2019 4,750 2,629 interest rate derivatives in the form of interest rate swap agreements. 2020 1,736 285 At year-end 2015, Scania’s interest-bearing assets mainly consisted 2021 and later 407 35 of assets in Financial Services and of short-term investments and Total 56,486 50,826 cash and cash equivalents. Interest-bearing liabilities consisted mainly of loans, to a great extent intended to fund lending in Financial Services operations and to a lesser extent to fund working capital in InterestInterestVehicles and Services. Interest rate refixing in Financial bearing bearing Services, 31 December 2014 portfolio 1 liabilities 2 Interest rate risk in Vehicles and Services 2015 29,569 27,698 Borrowings in Vehicles and Services are mainly used for funding of 2016 10,805 10,909 workin­g capital. To match the turnover rate of working capital, a short interest rate refixing period is used in the borrowing portfolio. 2017 8,427 7,471 Scania’­s policy concerning interest rate risks in the Vehicles and 2018 4,679 2,495 Services segment is that the interest rate refixing period on its net 2019 1,711 395 debt should normally be within 0–6 month range, but that 2020 and later 365 56 divergences are allowed up to 24 months. The Board of Directors Total 55,556 49,024 approves maturities of more than 24 months. 1 Including operating leases. Net cash in Vehicles and Services was SEK 7,579 m. (12,139) at 2 Including the effect of interest rate derivatives. Other funding consists mostly of equity. year-end 2015. The borrowing portfolio amounte­d to SEK 9,728 m. (166) and the average interest rate refixing period for this portfolio Scania’s total borrowing portfolio amounted to SEK 54,942 m. was less than 6 (6) months. Short-term investments and cash and (46,741) at year-end 2015. cash equivalents amounted to SEK 17,056 m. (12,310) and the average interest rate refixing period on these assets was less than Borrowings Borrowings Borrowings, incl. currency excl. currency 1 (1) month. The net cash also includes derivatives that hedge 31 December 2015 swap agreements swap agreements borrowings with a net value of SEK 251 m. (–5). EUR 22,011 19,147 Given the same loan liabilities, short-term investments, cash and SEK 6,863 26,170 cash equivalents and interest rate refixing periods as at year-end BRL 4,675 4,675 2014, a change in market interest rates of 100 basis points (1 percentage point) would change the interest expenses in Vehicles GBP 5,184 – and Services by about SEK 50 m. (5) and interest income by about ZAR 2,116 972 SEK 160 m. (120) on an annual basis. USD 1,885 1,085 NOK 1,646 478 Interest rate risk in Financial Services RUB 1,497 62 Scania’s financial policy regarding interest rate risks in the Financial Services segment is that lending and borrowing should match in DKK 1,371 – terms of interest rates and maturity periods. Interest rate refixing CLP 1,258 330 related to the credit portfolio and borrowing in Financial Services had AUD 1,099 – the following structure as of 31 December 2015: KRW 775 195 CHF 661 – THB 559 87 PLN 156 – CZK –22 – Other currencies 3,074 1,607 Total 1 54,808 54,808 Accrued interest 134 134 Total 54,942 54,942 1 Total borrowings excluded SEK 134 m. related to accrued interest. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 95 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 27 Financial risk management, continued CREDIT RISK Provisions for bad debts changed as follows: Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty in a transaction will not Provisions for bad debts 2015 2014 fulfil its contractual obligations and that any collateral will not cover Provisions, 1 January 370 383 the company’­s claim. An overwhelming share of the credit risk for Scania is related to receivables from customers. Scania sales are Provisions for potential losses –16 7 distributed among a large number of end customers with a large Withdrawals due to actual credit losses –22 –42 geographic dispersio­n, which limits the concentration of credit risk. Currency rate effects –20 22 Other 1 0 Credit risk in Vehicles and Services In the Vehicles and Services segment, carried receivables before Provisions, 31 December 313 370 provisions for bad debts from customer­s totalled SEK 7,097 m. (7,728), most of which consisted of receivables from independent Credit risk in Financial Services dealerships and end customers. The total estimated fair value of The credit portfolio including operating leases in the Financial collateral was SEK 1,075 m. Most of the collateral consisted of Services segment can be seen in the table below: repossession rights and bank guarantees. During the year, collateral valued at SEK 12 m. was repossessed. Credit portfolio 2015 2014 Exposure 57,358 56,425 Timing analysis of portfolio assets Past-due Past-due past due but not recognised as payments payments – of which, operating leases 13,899 11,628 impairment losses 2015 2014 Credit risk reserve 872 869 < 30 days 687 1,032 Carrying amount 56,486 55,556 30–90 days 362 296 – of which, operating leases 13,889 11,613 91–180 days 57 155 > 180 days 56 102 To maintain a controlled level of credit risk in the segment, the Total 1,162 1,585 proces­s of issuing credit is supported by a credit policy as well as credit instruction­s. Credit risks are limited by active credit assessment, manage­ment of the loan portfolio and its underlying assets as well as an intensive focus and constructive dialogue with Provisions for bad debts amounted to SEK 313 m. (370), equivalent to those customers who do not follow the agreed payment plan. 4.2 (4.6) percent of total receiv­ables. The year’s bad debt expense Collateral in Financial Services operations mainly exists in the form amounted to SEK 26 m. (32). of the possibility of repossessing the financed assets. Timing analysis of portfolio assets 2015 2014 Past due but not recognised Past-due Total Estimated fair Past-due Total Estimated fair as impairment losses payments exposure 1 value of collateral payments exposure 1 value of collateral < 30 days 60 2,209 2,146 69 3,005 2,728 30–90 days 93 1,315 1,301 100 1,704 1,717 Past due and recognised as impairment losses 91–180 days 31 229 206 52 423 409 > 180 days 44 130 122 79 272 251 Inactive contracts 78 310 196 123 586 383 Total 306 4,193 3,971 423 5,990 5,488 1 Exposure is defined as maximum potential loss, without regard to the value of any collateral. 96 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 27 Financial risk management, continued The portfolio mainly consists of financing of trucks, buses and trailers for small and medium-sized companies. The credit risk concentration in 2015 was equivalent to that of 2014. A description of credit risk exposur­e can be seen in the table below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Percentage of Percentage Percentage of Percentage Number of total number of of portfolio Number of total number of of portfolio Concentration of credit risk customers customers value customers customers value Exposure < SEK 15 m. 29,970 98.6 69.4 28,459 98.5 69.6 Exposure SEK 15–50 m. 334 1.1 14.1 349 1.2 13.9 Exposure > SEK 50 m. 87 0.3 16.5 87 0.3 16.5 Total 30,391 100.0 100.0 28,895 100.0 100.0 Accounts with past-due receivables ordinaril­y lead to relatively quick corporate treasury operations, among other things when investing repossession of the item being financed. Re­negotiation only occurs in liquidit­y and in derivatives trading, is regulated in Scania’s Financial those cases where, after a new credit evaluation, Financial Service­s Policy. Transactions occur only within established limits and with deems the customer’s payment problems to be of a short-term, selected, credit­worthy counterparties. To reduce credit risk, the tempo­rary nature and where renegotiation can take place without volume of exposure allowed per counterparty is limited, depending greatly worsening its risk position. on the counterparty’s credit rating. To further limit credit risk, Scania For Scania’s customers the renegotiation need was at the same level has entered into International Swaps and Derivatives Associatio­n during 2015 as in 2014. The carrying amount of the financial assets, (ISDA) netting contracts with all of its counterparties. whose terms had been renegotiated, amounted to SEK 1,458 m. The corporate treasury unit is responsible for ensuring compliance (1,505 ) at year-end. Contracts are regarded as bad debts when with the rules of Scania’s Financial Policy. payment is more than 90 days past due or when there is information Net exposure to counter­party risk related to derivatives trading that causes Scania to terminate the contracts early. amounted to SEK 255 m. (–25) at the end of 2015. Estimated gross The resale market for repossessed and used vehicles functioned exposure to counterparty risks related to derivatives trading totalled smoothly during 2015. During the year, 1,283 (1,759) financed SEK 1,175 m. (1,148). Estimated gross exposure to cash and cash vehicle­s were repossessed. At year-end, the number of repossessed equivalents and short-term investments amounted to SEK 12,508 m. but not yet sold vehicles amounted to 214 (404), with a total carryin­g (10,966). Short-term investments are deposited with various banks. amount of SEK 73 m. (115). Repossessed vehicles are sold off by Scania had short-term investments worth SEK 8,438 m. (7,212), of means of a new financing contrac­t with another customer, direct sale which SEK 8,225 m. (7,161) consists of investments with a maturity of to an end custome­r or sale via Scania’s dealership network. less than 90 days and SEK 213 m. (51) consisted of investments with a Provisions for bad debts changed as follows: maturity of 91–365 days. In addition to short-term investments, Scania had bank balances worth SEK 4,070 m. (3,754). Provisions for bad debts 2015 2014 Provisions, 1 January 869 805 Provisions for potential losses 210 162 Withdrawals due to actual credit losses –160 –104 Exchange rate differences –47 23 Divestment of subsidiaries – –17 Provisions, 31 December 872 869 Provisions as percentage of gross portfolio 1.5 1.6 The year’s expenses for actual and potential credit losses amounted to SEK 244 m. (167). Other credit risks at Scania The administration of the financial credit risks that arise primarily in Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 97 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 27 Financial risk management, continued REFINANCING RISK Controlling Scania’s refinancing risk includes safeguarding Refinancing risk is the risk of not being able to meet the need for access to credit facilities and ensuring that the maturity structure of future funding. Scania applies a conservative policy concerning borrowings is diversified. At year-end, Scania’s total borrowings had refinancing risk. For Vehicles and Services, there shall be a liquidity the following maturity structure: reserve consisting of available cash and cash equivalents as well as Maturity structure of Scania’s borrowings 2015 2014 unutilised credit facilities which exceeds the funding needs for the next two years. 2015 – 20,065 For Financial Services, there shall be dedicated funding that cover­s 2016 28,602 13,982 the estimated demand for funding during the next year. There shall 2017 14,925 6,579 also always be borrowings that safeguard the refinan­cing of the 2018 3,149 3,410 existing portfolio. 2019 2,602 2,375 At the end of 2015, Scania’s liquidity reserve, consisting of unutilised 2020 3,227 156 credit facilities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term 2021 and later 2,303 – investments, amounted to SEK 49,913 m. (40,134). Scania’s credit facilities include customary Change of Control clauses, which means Total 54,808 1 46,567 1 that the counterparty could demand early payment in case of 1 Total borrowings excluded SEK 134 m. (174) related to accrued interest and fair value adjustments significant changes in ownership involving a change in control of the on bonds for which hedge accounting was previously applied. company. At year-end, Scania had borrowings, in some cases with related Maturity structure of derivatives Derivatives with Derivatives with ceiling­s, as follows: attributable to borrowings, 2015 positive value negative value Borrowings, 2015 Total borrowings Ceiling 2016 8 – Medium Term Note Programme – – 2017 40 – European Medium Term Note Programme 23,233 31,973 2018 – – Other bonds – – 2019 – – Credit facility (EUR, SEK) – 37,405 2020 – – Commercial paper, Sweden 535 10,000 2021 and later – – Commercial paper, Belgium 1,635 3,654 Total 1 48 – Bank loans and Other loans 29,405 – Total 1 54,808 2 83,032 Maturity structure of derivatives Derivatives with Derivatives with attributable to borrowings, 2014 positive value negative value 2015 2 81 Borrowings, 2014 Total borrowings Ceiling 2016 38 – Medium Term Note Programme – – 2017 49 – European Medium Term Note Programme 20,920 33,304 2018 – – Other bonds – – 2019 – – Credit facility (EUR) – 29,168 2020 and later – – Commercial paper, Sweden 1,250 10,000 Total 1 89 81 Commercial paper, Belgium – 3,806 Bank loans 24,397 – 1 Does not include accrued interest. Total 1 46,567 2 76,278 1 Of the total ceiling, SEK 37,405 m. (29,168) consisted of guaranteed revolving credit facilities. 2 Total borrowings excluded SEK 134 m. (174) related to accrued interest and fair value adjustments on bonds where hedge accounting was previously applied. 98 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 28 Financial instruments Financial assets in the Scania Group mainly consist of financial leases For financial instruments that are carried at accrued cost, fair value and hire purchase receivables that have arisen in the Financial disclosures are provided in the table below. The carrying amounts of Service­s segment due to financing of customers’ vehicle purchases. interest-bearing assets and liabilities in the balance sheet may Other financia­l assets of significance are trade receivables from diverge from their fair value, among other things as a consequence of independent dealerships and end customers in the Vehicles and changes in market interest rates. To establish the fair value of Services segment plus short-term investments and cash and cash financial assets and liabilities, official market quotations have been equivalents. Scania’s financial liabilities consist largely of loans, used for those asset­s and liabilities that are traded in an active mainly taken out to fund Financia­l Service­s’ lending and leasing to market. customers and, to a lesser exten­t, to fund capital employed in In those cases where assets and liabilities are not traded in an active Vehicles and Services. Financial assets and liabilities give rise to market, fair value has been established by discounting future various kinds of risks, which are largely managed by means of payment flows at current market interest rates and then converting to various derivative instruments. Scania uses derivative instruments, SEK at the current exchange rate. mainly for the purpose of: Fair value of financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade – Transforming corporate-level borrowings in a limited number of payables and other non-interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities currencies to the currencies in which the financed assets are that are recognised at accrued cost minus any impairment losses, is denominated. regarded as coinciding with the carrying amount. Fair value disclosures on all financial instruments that are not carried at fair – Transforming the interest rate refixing period for borrowings in value are attributable to Level 2. Financial Services as well as achieving the desired interest rate refixing period for other borrowings. Impairment losses on assets occur only when there is reason to believe that the counterparty will not fulfil its contractual obligations, – Converting future commercial payments to functional currency. not as a consequence of changes in market interest rates. – To a lesser extent, converting surplus liquidity in foreign Financial assets and liabilities that have been offset against each currencies to SEK. other consist of loans receivable and payable. The gross amounts totalled SEK 131 m. (417). The amount that has been offset from each FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS amount totals SEK 131 m. (417). In Scania’s balance sheet, items carried at fair value are mainly Financial assets and liabilities that can be offset against each other derivatives and current investments. For derivatives for which hedge consist of derivatives covered by legally binding master netting accoun­ting is not applied, fair value adjustment is carried via the agreements. Carrying amounts of assets and liabilities amounted to income statement. Derivatives attributable to cash flow hedging are SEK 1,148 m. (1,135) and SEK 863 m. (1,149). The amount that was carried at fair value via “Other comprehensive income”. Fair value is not offset from each amount was SEK 690 m. (708). established according to various levels, defined in IFRS 13, that reflect the extent to which market values have been utilise­d. Current investments and cash and cash equi­valents are carrie­d according to Level 1, i.e. quoted prices in active markets for identical assets, and amounted to SEK 3,089 m. (1,093). Other assets that are carried at fair value refer to deriva­tives. These assets are carrie­d according to Level 2, which is based on data other than the quoted prices that are part of Level 1 and refer to directly or indirectly observable market data. Scania applies a valuation technique that consists of estimating the present value of future cash flows based on observable yield curves. The yield curve applied is derived from relevant listed yields for the respective period during which cash flows are received or paid. The derivatives are recognised under other non-­current assets, other current assets, other non-current liabilities and other current liabilities and amounted to SEK 256 m. (-2) net. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 99 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 28 Financial instruments, continued Financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value via Loan the income Held-toreceivables Other Net Cash Total Total statement (“through maturity and trade financial investment flow carrying fair Scania Group, 2015, SEK m. profit and loss”)* investments receivables liabilities hedges hedges amount value Non-current interest-bearing receivables 26,359 26,359 26,481 Current interest-bearing receivables 16,373 16,373 16,409 Non-interest-bearing trade receivables 6,981 6,981 6,981 Current investments and Cash and cash equivalents 3,089 9,419 12,508 12,491 Other non-current receivables 1 594 63 657 657 Other current receivables 2 580 – – 580 580 Total assets 4,263 – 59,195 – – – 63,458 63,599 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 26,206 26,206 25,938 Current interest-bearing liabilities 28,736 28,736 28,701 Trade payables 10,841 10,841 10,841 Other non-current liabilities 3 508 – 508 508 Other current liabilities 4 411 – 411 411 Total liabilities 919 – – 65,783 – – 66,702 66,399 1 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other long-term receivables”, SEK 1,353 m. 2 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other current receivables”, SEK 4,094 m. 3 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other non-current liabilities”, SEK 567 m. 4 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other current liabilities”, SEK 3,161 m. * Held for trading Financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value via Loan the income Held-toreceivables Other Net Cash Total Total statement (“through maturity and trade financial investment flow carrying fair Scania Group, 2014, SEK m. profit and loss”)* investments receivables liabilities hedges hedges amount value Non-current interest-bearing receivables 27,156 27,156 27,311 Current interest-bearing receivables 16,929 16,929 16,952 Non-interest-bearing trade receivables 7,205 7,205 7,205 Current investments and Cash and cash equivalents 1,093 5 9,653 10,746 10,883 Other non-current receivables 1 504 466 970 970 Other current receivables 2 644 8 0 652 652 Total assets 2,241 – 61,417 – – 0 63,658 63,973 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 26,503 26,503 26,664 Current interest-bearing liabilities 20,238 20,238 20,347 Trade payables 9,707 9,707 9,707 Other non-current liabilities 3 706 706 706 Other current liabilities 4 444 23 467 467 Total liabilities 1,150 – – 56,448 – 23 57,621 57,891 1 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other long-term receivables”, SEK 1,382 m. 2 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other current receivables”, SEK 3,717 m. 3 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other non-current liabilities”, SEK 836 m. 4 Financial instruments included in the balance sheet under “Other current liabilities”, SEK 3,097 m. 5 Comparative figures have been adjusted. * Held for trading 100 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 28 Financial instruments, continued HEDGE ACCOUNTING INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSES ON Scania applies hedge accounting according to IAS 39 as follows: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – To a minor extent in 2015, Scania applied cash flow hedge The table below shows interest income and interest expenses for all accounting on currency derivatives in order to hedge parts of the of Scania’s financial assets and financial liabilities: commercial flow in GBP against SEK. 2015 2014 Scania considers that it is hedged economically, and risk Interest income on financial assets 1 2,920 3,150 management follows the financial policy approved by the Board. Interest expenses on financial liabilities 2, 3 –1,692 –1,857 For more detailed information on accounting of hedging instruments and hedged items, see Note 1, “Accounting principles”. Total 1,228 1,293 NET GAINS/LOSSES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 1 SEK 239 m. (516) consists of interest income generated from financial assets carried at fair value. RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT 2 Also includes interest expenses related to operating leases and interest expenses related to The table below shows the following items that are recognised in the Financial Services that were recognised in the operating income. income statement: 3 SEK –624 m. (–458) consists of interest expenses generated from financial liabilities carried at fair value. – Gains and losses related to currency rate differences, including gains and losses attributable to cash flow hedge accounting. The reason why income diverges from recognised interest income in − Gains and losses related to financial instruments for which net financial items is largely that Financial Services is included in the hedge accounting is applied. table and that interest income and interest expenses attribut­able to Net gains/losses 2015 2014 pensions are excluded. Financial assets and liabilities held for trading, carried at fair value 310 –815 Loan and trade receivables 1 204 1,168 Other financial liabilities –952 –370 Total –438 –17 1 Also includes operating leases. Gains and losses due to currency rate differences related to derivatives, loan receivables and borrowings mainly arise in Scania’s treasury unit. Most of the loan receivables that give rise to currency rate differences comprise the treasury unit’s receivables from Group companies. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 101 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 29 Shares and participations in subsidiaries The following listing shows shareholdings owned directly and indirectly by the Parent Company as of 31 December 2015 Company Corporate ID no. Registered office Country % Ownership DynaMate Industrial Services AB 556528-9286 Södertälje Sweden 100 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Flygmotorn 556528-9112 Södertälje Sweden 100 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Hjulnavet 556084-1198 Södertälje Sweden 100 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Motorblocket 556716-6698 Södertälje Sweden 100 Fastighetsaktiebolaget Vindbron 556040-0938 Södertälje Sweden 100 Ferruform AB 556528-9120 Luleå Sweden 100 Kai Tak Holding AB 556548-4739 Södertälje Sweden 100 LOTS Group AB 556593-3057 Södertälje Sweden 100 MW-Hallen Restaurang AB 556616-7747 Södertälje Sweden 100 Mälardalens Tekniska Gymnasium AB 556548-4754 Södertälje Sweden 80 Scania Bus Financing AB 556728-9433 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania CV AB 556084-0976 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Delivery Center AB 556593-2976 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Holding Europe AB 556017-7825 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Industrial Maintenance AB 556070-4818 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania IT AB 556084-1206 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Overseas AB 556593-2984 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Real Estate AB 556084-1180 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Real Estate Lund AB 556791-9823 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Real Estate Services AB 556593-3024 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Sales and Services AB 556593-3073 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Trade Development AB 556013-2002 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Transportlaboratorium AB 556528-9294 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Treasury AB 556528-9351 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Trucks & Buses AB 556267-1585 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Used Vehicles AB 556548-4713 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania-Bilar Sverige AB 556051-4621 Södertälje Sweden 100 SRE Kiruna AB 556185-2129 Södertälje Sweden 100 Stockholms Industriassistans AB 556662-3459 Södertälje Sweden 100 Sågverket 6 AB 556528-9062 Södertälje Sweden 100 Vabis Försäkringsaktiebolag 516401-7856 Södertälje Sweden 100 Vindbron Arendal AB 556822-2367 Södertälje Sweden 100 Volkswagen Truck & Bus AB 556528-9104 Södertälje Sweden 100 Aconcagua Vehiculos Comerciales S.A. 30-70737179-6 Buenos Aires Argentina 100 Automotores del Atlantico S.A. 30-70709795-3 Buenos Aires Argentina 100 Concesionaria Automotores Pesados S.A. 30-55137605-9 Buenos Aires Argentina 100 Motorcam S.A. 33-70791031-9 Buenos Aires Argentina 100 Scania Argentina S.A. 30-51742430-3 Buenos Aires Argentina 100 Scania Australia Pty Ltd. 000537333 Melbourne Australia 100 Scania Real Estate Österreich GmbH FN95419y Brunn am Gebirge Austria 100 Scania Österreich GmbH FN366024x Brunn am Gebirge Austria 100 Scania Belgium N.V. BE0402.607.507 Neder-Over-Heembeek Belgium 100 Scania Group Treasury Belgium N.V. BE0809.445.796 Neder-Over-Heembeek Belgium 100 Scania Real Estate Belgium N.V. BE0423.251.481 Neder-Over-Heembeek Belgium 100 Scania Treasury Belgium N.V. BE0888.285.319 Neder-Over-Heembeek Belgium 100 Scania BH d.o.o., Sarajevo 4200363460007 Sarajevo Bosnia-Herzegovina 100 Scania Botswana (Pty) Ltd. CO.2000/6045 Gaborone Botswana 100 Santa Catarina Veículos e Serviços Ltda. 22.416.982/0001-30 Biguaçu Brazil 100 Codema Comercial e Importadora Ltda. 60.849.197/0001-60 Guarulhos Brazil 99.99 Scania Administradora de Consórcios Ltda. 96.479.258/0001-91 Cotia Brazil 99.99 Scania Latin America Ltda. 59.104.901/0001-76 São Bernardo do Campo Brazil 100 Suvesa Super Veics Pesados Ltda. 88.301.668/0001-10 Eldorado do Sul Brazil 99.98 Scania Bulgaria EOOD BG121796861 Sofia Bulgaria 100 Scania Real Estate Bulgaria EOOD 201589120 Sofia Bulgaria 100 Scania Chile S.A. 96.538.460-K Santiago Chile 100 Scania (Hong Kong) Ltd. 1205987 Hongkong China 100 Scania Real Estate Hong Kong Ltd. 2083208 Hongkong China 100 Scania Sales (China) Co., Ltd. 110000450001661 Beijing China 100 Scania Sales and Service (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. 440101400126397 Guangzhou China 100 Vabis Transportation Services (Guangxi) Ltd 32956526-9 Beihai, Guangxi Province China 100 Scania Colombia S.A. 900.353.873-2 Bogotá Colombia 100 Scania Hrvatska d.o.o. 080213913 Zagreb Croatia 100 Scania Czech Republic s.r.o. CZ61251186 Prague Czech Republic 100 Scania Real Estate Czech Republic s.r.o. 24196746 Prague Czech Republic 100 Scania Danmark A/S DK17045210 Ishøj Denmark 100 Scania Danmark Ejendom Aps 33156332 Ishøj Denmark 100 Scania Eesti AS 10238872 Tallinn Estonia 100 Scania Real Estate Finland Oy 2559582-1 Helsinki Finland 100 Scania Real Estate Holding Oy 2566377-5 Helsinki Finland 100 Scania Suomi Oy 0202014-4 Helsinki Finland 100 SOE Busproduction Finland Oy 26121679 Lahti Finland 100 Scania France S.A.S. 307166934 Angers France 100 Scania Holding France S.A.S. 403092786 Angers France 100 Scania IT France S.A.S. 412282626 Angers France 100 Scania Production Angers S.A.S. 378442982 Angers France 100 102 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 29 Shares and participations in subsidiaries, continued Company Corporate ID no. Registered office Country % Ownership Scania Real Estate France S.A.S. 78961241300011 Angers France 100 SCANIA Vertrieb und Service GmbH HRB 20490 Koblenz Germany 100 B. + V. GrundstücksVerwaltungsund Verwertungs-GmbH HRB 2277 Koblenz Germany 100 B. + V. Grundstücksverwertungs-GmbH & Co. KG HRA 3377 Koblenz Germany 100 Scania CV Deutschland Holding GmbH HRB 6077 Koblenz Germany 100 Scania Danmark GmbH DE 15 295 18862 Flensburg Germany 100 SCANIA DEUTSCHLAND GmbH HRB 532 Koblenz Germany 100 Scania Flensburg GmbH 15 295 18587 Flensburg Germany 100 SCANIA Real Estate Deutschland GmbH HRB 23796 Koblenz Germany 100 SCANIA Real Estate Deutschland Holding GmbH HRB 23798 Koblenz Germany 100 SCANIA Vertrieb und Service GmbH HRB 59787 Kerpen Germany 100 Scania West Africa Ltd. CS450862014 Accra Ghana 100 Griffin Automotive Ltd. 27922106 Road Town Great Britain 100 Scania Great Britain Ltd. 831 017 Milton Keynes Great Britain 100 Scania Real Estate (UK) Ltd. 7648886 Milton Keynes Great Britain 100 Scania Hungaria Kft. 10 415 577 Biatorbágy Hungary 100 Scania Real Estate Hungaria Kft. 13-09-159119 Biatorbágy Hungary 100 Scania Commercial Vehicles India Pvt. Ltd. U35999KA2011FTC05698 Bangalore India 100 PT Scania Parts Indonesia AHU-09655.40.10.2014 Balikpapan Indonesia 100 Qanadeel AL Rafidain Automotive Trading Co. Ltd. 7500 Erbil Iraq 51 Scania Iraq Automotive Trading Company Ltd 000088307-02 Basra Iraq 100 Italscania S.p.A. 11749110158 Trento Italy 100 Scania Commerciale S.p.A. IT 01184460226 Trento Italy 100 Scania Milano S.p.A. IT 02170120220 Trento Italy 100 Scania Japan Ltd. 0104-01-083452 Tokyo Japan 100 Scania Central Asia LLP 84931-1910-TOO Almaty Kazakhstan 100 Scania East Africa Ltd. PO51426902Z Nairobi Kenya 100 Scania Latvia SIA 50003118401 Riga Latvia 100 UAB Scania Lietuva 123873025 Vilnius Lithuania 100 Scania Luxembourg S.A. B53.044 Münsbach Luxembourg 100 Scania Real Estate Holding Luxembourg S.àr.l B160795 Münsbach Luxembourg 100 Scania Treasury Luxembourg S.àr.l 19992418373 Luxembourg Luxembourg 100 Scania Makedonija d.o.o.e.l 7027532 Ilinden Macedonia 100 Scania (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 518606-D Shah Alam Malaysia 100 Scania Comercial, S.A. de C.V. SCO031124MF5 Queretaro Mexico 100 Scania Servicios, S.A. de C.V. SSE031124MF5 Queretaro Mexico 99.99 Scania Maroc S.A. 06100472 Casablanca Morocco 100 Scania Moçambique, S.A. 100453150 Beira Mozambique 100 Scania Namibia (Pty) Ltd. 2004/438 Windhoek Namibia 100 Norsk Scania A/S 879 263 662 Oslo Norway 100 Norsk Scania Eiendom A/S 996036545 Oslo Norway 100 Scania del Perú S.A. 20101363008 Lima Peru 100 Scania Polska S.A. KRS0000091840 Nadarzyn Poland 100 Scania Power Polska Sp. z o.o. 517301 Warszawa Poland 100 Scania Production Slupsk S.A. KRS0000083601 Slupsk Poland 100 Scania Real Estate Polska Sp.z o.o. 435 941 Nadarzyn Poland 100 Scania Investimentos Imobiliários S.A. PT508948118 Vialonga Portugal 100 Scania Portugal S.A. PT502929995 Santa Iria de Azóia Portugal 100 Scania Real Estate Romania S.R.L. J23/2019/29.07.2011 Ciorogârla Romania 100 Scania Romania S.R.L. J23/588/27.04.2004 Ciorogârla Romania 100 OOO Petroscan 1027808004102 St. Petersburg Russia 100 OOO Scania Peter 1027804908372 St. Petersburg Russia 100 OOO Scania Service 1035006456044 Golitsino Russia 100 OOO Scania-Rus 1025004070079 Golitsino Russia 100 Scania Real Estate d.o.o. Beograd 20659874 Belgrade Serbia 100 Scania Srbija d.o.o. 17333321 Krnjesevci Serbia 100 Scania Singapore Pte. Ltd. 200309593R Singapore Singapore 100 Scania Real Estate Slovakia s.r.o. 44767668 Senec Slovakia 100 Scania Slovakia s.r.o. 35826649 Senec Slovakia 100 Scania Slovenija d.o.o. 1 124 773 Ljubljana Slovenia 100 Scania South Africa Pty Ltd. 1995/001275/07 Aeroton, Guateng South Africa 100 Scania Incheon Ltd. 120111-0639065 Incheon South Korea 100 Scania Korea Ltd. 120111-0122515 Seoul South Korea 100 Scania Korea Seoul Ltd. 110111-5304681 Seoul South Korea 100 Scania Yangsang Ltd. 234111-0084495 Yangsan South Korea 100 Scania Hispania Holding S.L. B82853938 Madrid Spain 100 Scania Hispania S.A. ESA59596734 Madrid Spain 100 Scania Real Estate Hispania, S.L.U. B36682003 Pontevedra Spain 100 Garage Vetterli AG CH-020.3.909.930-2 Seuzach Switzerland 100 Scania Real Estate Schweiz AG CH-020.3.035.714-4 Kloten Switzerland 100 Scania Schweiz AG CH-020.3.926.624-8 Kloten Switzerland 100 Scania Tanzania Ltd. 39320 Dar es Salaam Tanzania 100 Power Vehicle Co. Ltd. 01055547132895 Bangkok Thailand 100 Scan Siam Service Co. Ltd. 0105545023525 Bangkok Thailand 100 Scania Siam Co Ltd. 0105543060121 Bangkok Thailand 100 Scania Thailand Co Ltd. 0105534098031 Bangkok Thailand 100 Scania IT Nederland B.V. 05062402 Zwolle The Netherlands 100 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 103 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 29 Shares and participations in subsidiaries, continued Company Corporate ID no. Registered office Country % Ownership Scania Logistics Netherlands B.V. NL8521.82.697.B.01 Zwolle The Netherlands 100 Scania Nederland B.V. 27136821 Breda The Netherlands 100 Scania Production Meppel B.V. 05046846 Meppel The Netherlands 100 Scania Production Zwolle B.V. 05020370 Zwolle The Netherlands 100 Scania Real Estate The Netherlands B.V. 50687921 Breda The Netherlands 100 Scania Middle East FZE 150175 Dubai The United Arab Emirates 100 TOV Donbas-Scan-Service 34516735 Makijivka Ukraine 100 TOV Kyiv-Scan 35706433 Kiev Ukraine 100 TOV Scania Ukraine 30 107 866 Kiev Ukraine 100 TOV Scania-Lviv 37497108 Lviv Ukraine 100 Scania Holding Inc. 4019619 Wilmington United States 100 Scania USA Inc. 06-1288161 San Antonio/ TX United States 100 Scanexpo International S.A. 21.490591.0012 Montevideo Uruguay 100 Scania de Venezuela S.A. J-30532829-3 Valencia Venezuela 100 Financial Services Scania Credit AB 556062-7373 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Finance Holding AB 556548-4697 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Finans AB 556049-2570 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Projektfinans AB 556593-3008 Södertälje Sweden 100 Scania Leasing Österreich GmbH FN246699v Brunn am Gebirge Austria 100 Scania Österreich Holding GmbH FN 316321 d Brunn am Gebirge Austria 100 Scania Finance Belgium N.V. BE0413.545.048 Neder-Over-Heembeek Belgium 100 Scania Insurance Belgium N.V. BE0819.368.007 Neder-Over-Heembeek Belgium 100 Scania Banco S.A. CNPJ11.417.016/00011 São Paulo Brazil 100 Scania Corretora de Seguros Ltda. CNPJ11.513.179/00105 São Paulo Brazil 100 Scania Finance Bulgaria EOOD BG175108126 Sofia Bulgaria 100 Scania Rent Bulgaria EOOD 175108126 Sofia Bulgaria 100 Scania Finance Chile S.A. 76.574.810-0 Santiago Chile 100 Scania Credit (Hong Kong) Ltd. 1945045 Hongkong China 100 Scania Credit Hrvatska d.o.o. 80516047 Lucko Croatia 100 Scania Finance Czech Republic spol. s r.o. CZ25657496 Prague Czech Republic 100 Scania Finance France S.A.S. 350890661 Angers France 100 Scania Location S.A.S. 402496442 Angers France 100 Scania Finance Deutschland GmbH HRB 3917 Koblenz Germany 100 Scania Versicherungsvermittlung GmbH HRB 22831 Koblenz Germany 100 Scania Finance Great Britain Ltd. 2173954 London Great Britain 100 Scania Finance Magyarország Zrt. 13-10-040959 Biatorbágy Hungary 100 Scania Lízing Kft. 13-09-107823 Biatorbágy Hungary 100 Scania Finance Ireland Ltd. 482137 Dublin Ireland 100 Scania Finance Italy S.p.A. 03333020158 Milan Italy 100 Scania Finance Luxembourg S.A. B0082907 Münsbach Luxembourg 100 Scania Credit (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 1011611-H Shah Alam Malaysia 100 Scania Services del Perú S.A. 20392923277 Lima Peru 100 Scania Finance Polska Sp.z.o.o. 0000036594 Nadarzyn Poland 100 Scania Insurance Polska Sp.z o.o. 0000478529 Nadarzyn Poland 100 Scanrent Alguer de Viaturas sem Condutor, S.A. 502631910 Santa Iria de Azóia Portugal 100 Scania Credit Romania IFN S.A. J23/1818/2005 Ciorogârla Romania 100 Scania Regional Agent de Asigurare S.R.L. J23/534/2011 Ciorogârla Romania 100 Scania Rent Romania S.R.L. J23/1669/2008 Ciorogârla Romania 100 OOO Scania Finance 1045005504774 Moscow Russia 100 OOO Scania Leasing 1027700203970 Moscow Russia 100 OOO Scania Strachovanie 1127747003097 Moscow Russia 100 Scania Finance Slovak Republic s.r.o. 43874746 Senec Slovakia 100 Scania Leasing d.o.o. 356417700 Ljubljana Slovenia 100 Scania Credit Solutions Pty Ltd. 2009/016998/07 Aeroton, Gauteng South Africa 100 Scania Finance Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd. 2000/025215/07 Aeroton, Guateng South Africa 100 Scania Finance Korea Ltd. 195411-0007994 Kyungam South Korea 100 Scania Commercial Vehicles Renting S.A. A82853995 Madrid Spain 100 Scania Finance Hispania EFC S.A. A82853987 Madrid Spain 100 Scania Finance Schweiz AG CH-020.3.029.627-6 Kloten Switzerland 100 Scania Credit Taiwan Ltd. 54330725 Taipei Taiwan 100 Scania Siam Leasing Co. Ltd. 0105550082925 Bangkok Thailand 100 Scania Finance Nederland B.V. 3446773 Breda The Netherlands 100 Scania Insurance Nederland B.V. 1745773 Middelharnis The Netherlands 100 TOV Scania Credit Ukraine 33052443 Kiev Ukraine 100 Dormant companies are not included. 104 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCANIA AB INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY January – December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 Restricted equity Unrestricted share­Administrative expenses 0 0 Share Statutory holders’ Operating income 0 0 2015 capital reserve equity Total Financial income and expenses 1 0 29 Equity, 1 January 2,000 1,120 16,482 19,602 Income after financial items 0 29 Total comprehensive income for the year 0 0 Appropriations 2 – –29 Dividend –9,600 –9,600 Income before taxes 0 0 Equity, Taxes 3 – – 31 December 2015 2,000 1,120 6,882 10,002 Net income 0 0 Restricted equity Unrestricted share­Share Statutory holders’ 2014 capital reserve equity Total STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Equity, 1 January 2,000 1,120 16,482 19,602 January – December, SEK m. 2015 2014 Total comprehensive income Net income 0 0 for the year 0 0 Other comprehensive income – – Dividend – – Total comprehensive income 0 0 Equity, 31 December 2013 2,000 1,120 16,482 19,602 BALANCE SHEET CASH FLOW STATEMENT 31 December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 January – December, SEK m. Note 2015 2014 ASSETS Operating activities Financial non-current assets Income after financial items 8 0 29 Shares in subsidiaries 4 8,435 8,435 Items not affecting cash flow – – Current assets Taxes paid – – Due from subsidiaries 5 11,167 11,167 Cash flow from operating activities before Total assets 19,602 19,602 change in working capital 0 29 Cash flow from change in working capital SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 6 Due from subsidiaries – –29 Restricted Equity Total change in working capital – –29 Share capital 2,000 2,000 Cash flow from operating activities 0 0 Statutory reserve 1,120 1,120 Investing activities Unrestricted shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ contribution paid – – Retained earnings 6,882 16,482 Cash flow from investing activities – – Net income 0 0 Total cash flow before financing activities – – Total shareholders’ equity 10,002 19,602 Financing activities Current liabilities Change in debt from financing activities – – Interest-bearing liabilities 9,600 – Cash flow from financing activities – – Total equity and liabilities 19,602 19,602 Cash flow for the year – – Assets pledged Cash and cash equivalents, 1 January – – Contingent liabilities 7 34,754 31,925 Cash and cash equivalents, 31 December – – Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 105 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amounts in the tables are reported in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK m.), unless otherwise stated. A presentation of the Parent Company’s accounting principles is found in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Taking into account that the operations of the Parent Company consists exclusively of share ownership in Group companies, aside from the notes below, the Scania Group’s Report of the Directors and notes otherwise apply where appropriate. NOTE 1 Financial income and expenses NOTE 2 Appropriations 2015 2014 2015 2014 Interest income from subsidiaries – 29 Group contributions provided to Scania CV AB – –29 Dividend from Scania CV AB – – Total – –29 Other 0 0 Total 0 29 NOTE 3 Taxes Tax expense/income for the year 2015 2014 Current tax – – Total – – 2015 2014 Reconciliation of effective tax Amount % Amount % Income before tax 0 0 Tax calculated using Swedish tax rate 0 22.0 0 22.0 Tax effect and percentage influence: Tax-exempt dividends – 22.0 – 22.0 Tax recognised – – – – NOTE 4 Shares in subsidiaries Carrying amount Subsidiary / Corporate ID number / Thousands registered office Ownership, % of shares 2015 2014 Scania CV AB, 556084-0976, Södertälje 100.0 1,000 8,435 8,435 Total 8,435 8,435 Scania CV AB is a public company and parent company of the Scania CV Group, which includes all production, sales and service and finance companies in the Scania AB Group. 106 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTS NOTE 5 Due from subsidiaries NOTE 8 Cash flow statement Interest received was SEK 0 m. (29). 2015 2014 Current interest-bearing receivable from Scania CV AB 11,167 11,167 Total 11,167 11,167 NOTE 9 Salaries and remuneration to Board of Directors, executive officers and auditors The receivables are in SEK, so there is no currency risk. The Board of Directors, the President and CEO of Scania AB and the other executive officers hold identical positions in Scania CV AB. Wages, salaries and other remuneration are paid by Scania CV AB. The reader is therefore referre­d to the notes to the consolidated financial statements: Note 23, “Wages, salaries and other remuneration and number of employee­s” and Note 25, NOTE 6 Equity “Compensation to executive officers”. Compensation of KSEK 15 (20) was paid to auditors with respect to the Parent Company. For changes in equity, see the equity report, page 105. Under Swedish law, equity shall be allocated between nondistributable (restricted) and distributable (unrestricted) funds. Restricted equity consists of share capital plus statutory reserve. NOTE 10 Transactions with related parties Scania AB has 400,000,000 Series A shares outstanding with voting rights of one vote per share and 400,000,000 Series B shares Scania AB is a subsidiary of Volkswagen AG, corporate ID number outstanding with voting rights of 1/10 vote per share. A and B shares HRB 100484 and with its registered office in Wolfsburg, Germany. carry the same right to a portion of the company’s assets and profit. The consolidated Annual Report of Scania’s foreign parent compan­y The nominal value of both A and B shares is SEK 2.50 per share. is available on the website www.volkswagenag.com. All shares are fully paid and no shares are reserved for transfer of Transactions with related parties consist of dividends paid to ownership. No shares are held by the company itself or its Volkswagen AG and MAN SE. Dividends decided in 2015 amounted subsidiaries. to SEK 8,319 m. (–) to Volkswagen AG and SEK 1,281 m. (–) to MAN SE. NOTE 7 Contingent liabilities 2015 2014 Loan guarantees on behalf of borrowings in Scania CV AB 34,754 31,925 Total 34,754 31,925 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 107 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION OF EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the following earnings at the After implementing the proposed distribution of earnings, the equity disposal of the Annual General Meeting: of the Parent Company, Scania AB, is as follows: Amounts in SEK m. Amounts in SEK m. Retained earnings 6,882 Share capital 2,000 Net income for the year 0 Statutory reserve 1,120 Other comprehensive income for the year – Retained earnings 6,882 Total 6,882 Total 10,002 Shall be distributed as follows: 1 In Scania AB, an Extraordinary General Meeting in December decided on a dividend of SEK 9,600 m. The dividend proposals decided by the board in 2014 and 2015 were never executed To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK per share 1 – by the Annual General Meetings. The dividend of SEK 9,600 m. corresponds to approximately To be carried forward 6,882 50 percent of the net income for the financial years of 2013, 2014 and 2015.This is in line with Scania’s historical benchmark of distributing approximately 50 percent of the net income to the Total 6,882 shareholders. No changes are anticipated in relation to this historical benchmark. The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted for use in the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles respectively, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the Report of the Directors for the Group and the Parent Company gives a true and fair review of the development of the operations, financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Compan­y and describes substantial risks and uncertainties faced by the companies in the Group. The annual accounts and the consolidated financial statements were approved for issuance by the Board of Directors on 2 February 2016. The consolidated income statement and balance sheet and the Parent Company income statement and balance sheet will be subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2016. Södertälje, 2 February 2016 Andreas Renschler Chairman of the Board Helmut Aurenz Annika Falkengren Matthias Gründler Markus S. Piëch Christian Porsche Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member Peter Wallenberg Jr Johan Järvklo Lisa Lorentzon Board member Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative Henrik Henriksson Board member President and CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on 16 February 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Bo Karlsson Mikael Winkvist Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant 108 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 AUDIT REPORT AUDIT REPORT AUDIT REPORT TRANSLATION FROM THE SWEDISH ORIGINAL To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Scania AB (publ), corporate identity number 556184-8564 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS Opinions AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all Scania AB (publ) for the year 2015. The annual accounts and materia­l respects, the financial position of the parent company as of consolidated accounts of the company are included in the printed 31 December 2015 and of its financial performance and its cash version of this document on pages 39–108. flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President for the accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all annual accounts and consolidated accounts material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 The Board of Directors and the President are responsible for the December 2015 and of their financial performance and cash flows for pre­paration and fair presentation of these annual accounts in the year then ended in accordance with International Financial accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Accounts Act. The Report of the Directors is consistent with the other Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the President We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, company and the group. whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual account­s and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audi­t to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual account­s and consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor con­siders internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reason­ableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the President, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 109 AUDIT REPORT AUDIT REPORT, CONTINUED Other information As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed The audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts for appro­priations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined whether the year 2014 was performed by another auditor who submitted its the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. audit report dated February 18, 2015, with unmodified opinions in the As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in report on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and Report on other legal and regulatory requirements circum­stances of the company in order to determine whether any In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated member of the Board of Directors or President is liable to the accounts, we have audited the proposed appropriations of the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of company’­s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors or the President has, in any other way, acted in contra­ Directors and the President of Scania AB (publ) for the year 2015. vention of the Companies Act, the Annua­l Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Opinions Directors and the President are responsible for administration under We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit the Companies Act. be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Report of the Directors and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Auditor’s responsibility President be discharged from liability for the financial year. Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assuranc­e on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Stockholm, 16 February 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Bo Karlsson Mikael Winkvist Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant 110 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS AND FIGURES KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS AND FIGURES KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS AND FIGURES 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Scania Group Operating margin, % 10.2 9.5 9.7 10.4 14.1 16.3 4.0 14.1 14.4 12.4 Equity/assets ratio, % 26.8 31.4 31.2 30.6 31.1 30.2 23.7 19.9 27.1 29.7 Net debt, excl. provisions for pensions, SEK m. 1 42,183 35,780 34,696 31,591 28,213 24,606 39,767 50,112 31,534 23,297 Net debt/equity ratio 1 1.11 0.86 0.93 0.90 0.82 0.82 1.71 2.28 1.27 0.89 Vehicles and Services Operating margin, % 9.1 8.4 8.9 9.7 13.5 16.1 4.3 13.6 13.8 11.7 Capital turnover rate, times 1.99 2.18 2.15 2.02 2.47 2.35 1.77 3.01 2.82 2.35 Return on capital employed, % 19.3 19.9 20.9 21.4 35.9 39.1 9.2 42.8 40.5 29.9 Return on operating capital, % 25.6 24.5 26.0 27.1 44.3 48.7 9.0 47.1 51.2 35.2 Net debt, excl. provisions for pensions, SEK m. 1 –7,579 –12,139 –8,019 –8,026 –8,834 –6,575 4,038 8,364 –1,902 –4,335 Net debt/equity ratio 1 –0.24 –0.35 –0.25 –0.27 –0.29 –0.25 0.21 0.49 –0.09 –0.19 Financial Services Operating margin, % 1.9 1.9 1.5 1.4 1.3 0.5 –0.4 1.0 1.5 1.6 Equity/assets ratio, % 9.8 11.5 10.4 10.3 10.3 11.1 10.4 9.6 10.1 9.6 1 Net debt (+) and net cash position (–). Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 111 DEFINITIONS DEFINITIONS Operating margin Return on operating capital Operating income as a percentage of net sales. Operating income as a percentage of operating capital. 1 Equity/assets ratio Operating margin, Financial Services Total equity as a percentage of total assets on Operating income as a percentage of average portfolio. each respective balance sheet date. 1 Calculations are based on average capital employed and operating capital for the thirteen most recent months. Net debt, net cash excluding provision for pensions Current and non-current borrowings (excluding pension liabilities) minus cash and cash equivalents and net fair value of derivatives for hedging borrowings. Geographic areas Net debt/equity ratio Europe: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Net debt, net cash as a percentage of total equity. Croatia, Cypru­s, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Capital employed Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, the Total assets minus operating liabilities. Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romani­a, Serbi­a, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. Operating capital Eurasia: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Total assets minus cash, cash equivalents and operating liabilities. Moldova, Russia, Turkmenistan, Ukraine. Capital turnover Asia: Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Dem. Net sales divided by capital employed. 1 Republic of Yemen, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysi­a, Mongolia, Oman, Qatar, Return on capital employed Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Syria, Taiwan, Operating income plus financial income as a percentage Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates. of capital employed. 1 America: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Hondura­s, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, the United States, Venezuel­a. Africa and Oceania: Algeria, Angola, Australia, Botswana, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Morocco, Mozambiqu­e, Namibi­a, New Zealand, Nigeria, Rwanda, the Seychelle­s, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabw­e. 112 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 MULTI-YEAR STATISTICAL REVIEW MULTI-YEAR STATISTICAL REVIEW MULTI-YEAR STATISTICAL REVIEW SEK m. unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Delivery value by market area Europe 65,100 53,211 46,712 43,490 47,747 41,533 37,988 60,360 59,553 53,117 Eurasia 2,623 5,319 6,047 5,966 6,084 2,413 1,449 5,267 5,126 2,534 America 1 11,799 17,648 23,552 18,391 20,912 21,725 11,812 12,822 10,573 8,420 Asia 13,044 12,155 7,758 7,853 10,182 9,035 6,097 6,665 5,699 4,603 Africa and Oceania 7,991 6,952 5,925 5,796 5,360 5,403 5,243 4,364 4,511 3,953 Adjustment for lease income 2 –5,660 –3,234 –3,146 –1,894 –2,599 –1,941 –515 –501 –976 – 1,889 Total 94,897 92,051 86,847 79,603 87,686 78,168 62,074 88,977 84,486 70,738 Operating income Vehicles and Services 8,601 7,705 7,736 7,694 11,881 12,575 2,648 12,098 11,632 8,260 Financial Services 1,040 1,016 719 606 517 171 –175 414 532 493 Total 9,641 8,721 8,455 8,300 12,398 12,746 2,473 12,512 12,164 8,753 Operating margin, % Vehicles and Services 9.1% 8.4 8.9 9.7 13.5 16.1 4.3 13.6 13.8 11.7 Total 3 10.2% 9.5 9.7 10.4 14.1 16.3 4.0 14.1 14.4 12.4 Net financial items –532 –399 –47 –19 214 –213 –871 –534 –258 – 170 Net income 6,753 6,009 6,194 6,640 9,422 9,103 1,129 8,890 8,554 5,939 Specification of research and development expenses Expenditures –7,043 –6,401 –5,854 –5,312 –4,658 –3,688 –3,234 –3,955 –3,214 – 2,842 Capitalisation 1,863 1,454 1,123 860 387 351 282 202 289 180 Amortisation –393 –357 –293 –229 –169 –168 –264 –475 –418 – 361 Research and development expenses –5,573 –5,304 –5,024 –4,681 –4,440 –3,505 –3,216 –4,228 –3,343 – 3,023 Net investments through acquisitions/ divestments of businesses 125 154 26 –25 –44 56 118 –61 268 – Net investments in non-current assets 7,612 5,561 5,294 4,480 3,776 2,753 3,031 5,447 4,277 3,810 Portfolio, Financial Services operations 56,486 55,556 48,863 45,038 42,235 36,137 40,404 47,220 38,314 31,841 Cash flow, Vehicles and Services 4,376 4,690 3,231 3,025 6,970 11,880 5,512 1,774 8,229 6,942 Inventory turnover rate, times 4 5.3 5.4 5.8 5.4 6.1 6.4 4.5 6.5 7.5 6.9 1 Refers mainly to Latin America. 2 The adjustment amount consists of the difference between sales value based on delivery and revenue recognised as income. This difference arises when a lease or delivery is combined with a residual value guarantee or a repurchase obligation. Significant risks remain, therefore recognition is based on an operating lease contract. This means that recognition of revenue and earnings is allocated based on the term of the obligation. See also Note 3. 3 Includes Financial Services. 4 Calculated as net sales divided by average inventory (adjusted for divested car operations). Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 113 MULTI-YEAR STATISTICAL REVIEW MULTI-YEAR STATISTICAL REVIEW, CONTINUED 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Number of vehicles produced Trucks 72,382 75,287 75,957 60,647 75,349 60,963 29,573 72,656 71,017 60,867 Buses 6,964 6,921 6,897 6,283 8,708 6,700 6,236 7,709 7,314 5,870 Total 79,346 82,208 82,854 66,930 84,057 67,663 35,809 80,365 78,331 66,737 Number of trucks delivered by market area Europe 43,082 34,008 32,625 27,720 31,443 23,315 18,824 41,184 44,433 40,349 Eurasia 2,583 5,964 6,260 6,798 7,445 2,369 1,084 5,455 5,765 2,877 America 5 8,118 16,150 23,756 15,391 17,632 18,056 9,566 10,775 9,790 7,957 Asia 11,514 12,889 7,400 8,089 12,485 10,179 4,843 6,721 6,061 5,546 Africa and Oceania 4,465 4,004 3,570 3,053 3,115 2,918 2,490 2,381 2,605 2,615 Total 69,762 73,015 73,611 61,051 72,120 56,837 36,807 66,516 68,654 59,344 Number of buses and coaches delivered by market area Europe 1,917 1,361 1,000 1,312 1,916 1,760 1,954 2,412 2,212 2,426 Eurasia 94 105 850 198 84 82 130 194 235 284 America 5 2,123 2,542 2,778 2,738 3,272 2,104 1,421 2,009 2,344 1,679 Asia 1,806 1,620 1,388 1,304 2,065 2,120 1,876 1,721 1,495 879 Africa and Oceania 859 1,139 837 798 651 809 1,255 941 938 669 Total 6,799 6,767 6,853 6,350 7,988 6,875 6,636 7,277 7,224 5,937 Total number of vehicles delivered 76,561 79,782 80,464 67,401 80,108 63,712 43,443 73,793 75,878 65,281 Number of industrial and marine engines delivered by market area Europe 2,664 2,823 2,719 3,664 3,450 2,634 1,834 3,019 3,538 3,578 America 3,180 3,176 2,925 2,582 2,809 3,281 1,775 2,798 2,537 2,245 Other markets 2,641 2,288 1,139 817 701 611 626 854 1,153 723 Total 8,485 8,287 6,783 7,063 6,960 6,526 4,235 6,671 7,228 6,546 Total market for heavy trucks and buses, units Europe (EU28) 6 Trucks 265,769 223,187 237,325 221,188 241,200 178,100 161,100 316,000 326,200 299,300 Buses 27,928 24,815 22,962 21,813 25,200 25,400 26,500 28,700 28,100 25,900 Number of employees December 31 7 Production and corporate units 20,453 19,304 19,069 17,663 17,489 17,006 14,672 16,264 17,291 16,517 Research and development 3,904 3,671 3,596 3,509 3,327 2,930 2,642 2,922 2,528 2,174 Sales and service companies 19,228 18,395 17,549 16,734 16,038 14,987 14,475 15,079 14,797 13,682 Total Vehicles and Services 43,585 41,370 40,214 37,906 36,854 34,923 31,789 34,265 34,616 32,373 Financial Services companies 824 759 739 691 642 591 541 512 480 447 Total 44,409 42,129 40,953 38,597 37,496 35,514 32,330 34,777 35,096 32,820 5 Refers to Latin America. 6 Twenty-five of the European Union member countries (all EU countries except Greece, Malta and Croatia) plus Norway and Switzerland. 7 Including employees with temporary contracts and employees on hire. 114 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX GRI INDEX The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent, network-based organisation that has developed the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. Its voluntary framework sets out principles and indicators for measuring and reporting economic, environmental and social performance. Scania’s aim is to provide our stakeholders with regular and relevant information about our sustainability efforts. We are committed to transparent sustainability reporting. The Scania report, Annual and sustainability report 2015 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines. By containing Standard Disclosures we aim to fulfil the “In accordance – Core” criteria. Use the index below to find out where to find information related to the applicable GRI indicators. On Scania’s sustainability web pages a more comprehensive GRI index is published, including references to Scania’s material areas and UN Global Compact principles. IR: The Scania Report 2015, Annual and sustainability report 2015. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicators Disclosure Requirements Location of Disclosure STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. IR 4-5 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. IR 8-11, 43-47 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization. Scania AB G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. IR 3, 16 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. Södertälje, Sweden G4-6 Countries where the organization operates. IR 2 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. IR 36 G4-8 Markets served. IR 30-31, 71 G4-9 Scale of the organization. IR 113-114 G4-10 Total number of employees. IR 0, 90 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. IR 32, www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-13 Significant changes regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or IR 36-38 supply chain. G4-14 Explanation of precautionary principle addressed by the organization. www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-15 Subscription to externally developed economic, environmental and social IR 1, 4-5, 115 charters or principles. G4-16 Memberships in advocacy organizations. www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statement. IR 102-104 G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries. IR 10-11 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. IR 10-11 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization. Not relevant G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization. Not relevant G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and Not relevant the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Not relevant Boundaries. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 115 GRI INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicators Disclosure Requirements Location of Disclosure STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. IR 10-11, 32-33 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. IR 10-11, 32-33 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. IR 10-11, 32-33 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder IR 8-11, 32-33 engagement. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 1/131/12 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. March 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual reporting cycle G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report. Sustainability manager www.scania.com/group/en/sustainability-contact/ G4-32 The “in accordance” option and GRI content index. IR 115 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Report of the Directors is audited report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. IR 36-38 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior. IR 6-7, 34-35, 36-37 www.scania.com/group/en/ gri-index G4-57 Mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index related to organizational integrity. G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index matters related to organizational integrity. 116 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 GRI INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Disclosure Requirements Location of Disclosure Indicators CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Economic performance. IR 62-68 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. IR 56-57 ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Indirect economic impacts. IR 20-21, 32-33 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services IR 20-21, 32-33 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index supported. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. IR 20-21, 32-33 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-DMA Materials. IR 34-35 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. IR 21, 34-35 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. IR 32, 34-35 ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Energy. IR 34-35 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. IR 25, 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. IR 24, 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. IR 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Water. IR 34-35 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. IR 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Emissions. IR 34-35 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Scope 1). IR 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2). IR 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3). IR 22-29, 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. IR 22-29, 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions. www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 117 GRI INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Disclosure Requirements Location of Disclosure Indicators ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Effluents and waste. IR 34-35 G4-EN23 Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. IR 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Products and services. IR 16-17, 20-21, 30-31 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and IR 22-29, 34-35 services. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Compliance. IR 43-47 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with environmental www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index laws and regulations. ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA Transport. IR 34-35 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products. IR 25, 34-35 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Employment. IR 18-19 G4-LA1 Number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, IR 18-19, 90-91 gender and region. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Occupational health and safety. IR 18-19 G4-LA5 Percentage of workforce represented in formal joint management-worker www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index health and safety committees. G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index number of work-related fatalities. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Training and education. IR 18-19 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee IR 33, www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index category. 118 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 GRI INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Disclosure Requirements Location of Disclosure Indicators ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Diversity and equal opportunity. IR 18-19 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category. IR 90-91 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Supplier assessment for labor practices. IR 34-35 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the IR 34-35 supply chain and actions taken. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-DMA Investment. IR 34-35 G4-HR1 Number of significant investment agreements that include human rights Not relevant clauses or underwent human rights screening. ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Supplier human rights assessment. IR 34-35 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. IR 34-35 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Anti-corruption. IR 34-35 G4-SO3 Number of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the IR 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index significant risks identified. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. IR 34-35 www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Customer health and safety. IR 20-21, 43-47 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant products and services for which health and safety IR 20-21, 43-47 impacts are assessed for improvement. Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 119 FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL INFORMATION On Scania’s website, www.scania.com/group/en, it is easy to follow the company’s performance during the year. The website provides truck registration statistics, key financial ratios and more. You may subscribe to financial reports and press releases via e-mail and it is also possible to order printed reports in single copies. www.scania.com/group/en/subscribe-to-financial-reports www.scania.com/group/en/order-printed-reports FINANCIAL CALENDAR Interim Report, January−March, on 19 April 2016 Interim Report, January−June, on 22 July 2016 Interim Report, January−September, on 19 October 2016 CONTACT You are welcome to contact us: Scania Group, Head Office Telephone: +46 8 553 810 00 Fax: +46 8 553 810 37 Postal address: Scania AB SE-151 87 Södertälje Sweden Visiting address: Scania AB Vagnmakarvägen 1 SE-15187 Södertälje Sweden 120 Scania Annual and Sustainability Report 2015 ABOUT THIS REPORT This Report summarises the financial year 2015 as well as provides an overview of Scania’s business and operations and is prepared in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for sustainability reporting. All of Scania’s business units, subsidiaries and production units worldwide are included in its scope. With this report, another step is taken towards integrated reporting with financial and non-financial (social and environmental) information being reported in the same one publication. This is the English language version of Scania’s integrated Annual and Sustainability Report. The Swedish language Report is the binding version that shall prevail in case of discrepancies. The Financial Reports encompass pages 54–107, and were prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The Report of the Directors encompasses pages 39–53 and 108. The Report of the Directors and accompanying Financial Reports also fulfil the requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and have been audited by Scania’s auditors. Scania Swedish corporate identity number: Scania AB (publ) 556184-8564. Unless otherwise stated, all comparisons in the Annual and Sustainability Report refer to the same period of the preceding year. EN / SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP /JKL/ Vitt Grafiska, 2016 Scania AB, SE-151 87 Södertälje, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 55 38 10 00. Fax: +46 8 55 38 10 37 www.scania.com/group/en
