UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Employee and contractor safety remains a key priority for Pakistan Petroleum Limited Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare and basic civic amenities for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development ACTIONS series of training in both soft and technical areas. Besides, specialized programmes through bringing in expert trainers from abroad has not only benefitted a number of employees but also staff of partner E&P companies. Organizational Surveys The centre’s venue was extended recently to Performance accommodate maximum staff PPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational through parallel training surveys, enabling the company management to review and sessions. adopt best practices from benchmark companies. This 4 To augment company’s capacity proactive approach helps in continuous improvement of building efforts, especially for systems and procedures. technical skills, e-LEARN, PPL’s 4 The company participates in various countrywide Human e-learning portal, was launched Resource (HR) benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and in December 2015 in emergent trends. The findings enable PPL to align its HR collaboration with International system with leading companies and consolidate best practices Human Resources Development Corporation (IHRDC). IHRDC Pakistan Petroleum Limited already followed by the company. offers more than 1000 online 4 An Employee Engagement Survey was conducted by PPL in courses for oil and gas industry December 2015 through a third party consulting firm to professional. Through this determine the level of employee engagement and commitment collaboration, PPL staff has been with the organization and identify areas needing improvement. provided access to IHRDC’s The survey results were shared with the board and comprehensive e-learning management, following which an action plan is being developed modules. to address the identified gaps. 4 Knowledge Base Management System was introduced in November 2015 to help Capacity Building employees capture and share knowledge with colleagues to Performance benefit from the group’s Staff capacity building has been given renewed focus during intelligence and learn from each the last year with development of skills-based matrix other’s successes and lessons according to employee’s job requirement that guides an learned. annual individual training plan to fill-in the gaps. As such, the 4 The company regularly sends its company regularly organizes training workshops on technical head office staff on field visits to and soft skills to fill-in the skills gap and equip employees seek their opinion and with current business trends. Besides, informal learning suggestions for work-related through staff rotation is also streamlined. improvements. Posting of staff 4 A company-wide skill and training matrix was developed for all between fields and head office, disciplines during 2015 to strengthen PPL’s capacity building on a rolling-basis, has been programme. The purpose was to enable staff and line managers streamlined. Also, regular lateral to review competencies necessary for specific position/ job staff rotation within head office group and identify gaps to provide focused training in line with has assisted employees in key performance objectives. diversifying their learning and 4 Based on the matrix, specific training needs according to the job helping the company to benefit requirement were also identified by employees and supervisors from their experiences. in addition to the pre-identified training sessions on soft skills 4 The Extended Internship and quality, health, safety and environment (QHSE) to devise Programme (EIP) which was individual annual staff capacity building plans. started in November 2014 in 4 In order to implement comprehensive need-based individual collaboration with NED 4 training plans, a purpose-built in-house training facility, PPL University of Engineering and Training Centre, was established in November 2015 at West Technology, Karachi (NED) for Wharf, Karachi. The centre has enabled the company to offer a capacity building of local young UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress professionals from a cross section of society with special consideration for marginalized communities, including those living around PPL-and partner-operated assets was successfully completed in November 2015. Over 60 internees completed the EIP programme which included professional 2 Industrial Relations and Employees academic training at NED as well as hands-on-experience while working at PPL. ACTIONS 4 Four PPL scholars are pursuing their master’s degree from renowned international universities under PPL’s Foreign Fair Investigation Scholarship Programme. 4 Over 80 graduates have been selected for a Two-year On-job Procedures Training Programme as Associates which commenced in March 2016. The programme is geared towards development Performance of talent pipeline, maintaining a continuous supply of talent and PPL protects employee rights, skill set aligned with operational requirements for supporting ensuring equitable treatment and the company’s accelerated exploration programme. opportunity for all to voice their views. 4 A Special Two-year On-job Training Opportunity was announced in February 2016 for capacity building of young 4 The company has an effective professional engineers and diploma holders belonging to policy for redressal of staff grievances, if any. company’s producing fields. 4Based on laws relevant to its Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 PPL has a dedicated Exploration Library that subscribes to various locations, PPL follows leading industry journals to keep staff updated with the latest the Standing (Orders) Ordinance trends and use of technology in the Exploration and Production 1968 for official reprimand of sector. staff. 4 Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines 4The company regularly organizes and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest town hall meetings for staff to trends and information. share new developments, 4 The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 60th concern and issues in an open year of publication regularly reports on company activities and communication with the senior industry related news. The Urdu version of Progress was management. initiated in January 2011 to increase reach and update staff and stakeholders who were otherwise not able to get first-hand Benefits information due to language barrier. Performance PPL provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working environment with ample capacity development and career progression opportunities. 4 In line with the Companies Profits (Worker’s Participation) Act 1968, PPL contributes five percent of its net profit to the Workers Participation Fund. 4 PPL follows the Employees Old Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, contributing five percent of minimum basic salary to EOB institutions with employees’ participation of 1 percent. 5 4 The company pays Statutory Bonus under Section 10-C of the West Pakistan Industrial and UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Commercial Employment (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 as facility to keep its employees well as Annual Settlement Bonus to non-management staff. mentally and physically fit. Head 4 Annual Leave Fare Assistance is given to non-management Office Sports Club remains staff in addition to monthly remuneration. available for staff recreation during lunch break and after 4 PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ working hours. The club at Sui renovation and purchase of vehicle. Gas Field (SGF) also has a 4 The company offers 13 annual scholarships to children of jogging track, badminton, tennis permanent non-management staff, with four scholarships for and squash courts and a post-intermediate and professional and 9 for post-matriculation swimming pool for staff use. education. Besides, the company has 4 Free bachelor accommodation along with necessary utilities is proper indoor games/ recreation given to field-stationed staff. facilities at all field locations. PPL 4 Gratis Hajj and Umrah facilities are provided to workers. also organizes indoor games competition among head office 4 PPL provides pick-and-drop transport facility to women staff. and field employees. 4 The company provides a nutritious and balanced lunch facility 4 PPL organizes musical and other for management staff and women employees at the head office. cultural programmes for employees. 4 Company management and staff celebrate religious and cultural Employee Recognition Pakistan Petroleum Limited festivals as well as national days. Performance PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to recognize and reward high standards of performance and Preventing Forcible enhance staff motivation. 4 Performance Awards are given on an annual basis to Displacement employees together with departments, which were included as of Individuals a new category from 2015, in recognition of their outstanding achievements. The company recognizes and rewards individual and department’s efforts for extraordinary performance, Performance innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity gains and Due to its strict adherence to complexity reduction, waste elimination and implementation of prescribed laws, PPL has never best QHSE practices. Besides employee’s notable social had a case of forcible contributions are also rewarded. The scheme also sets out to displacement of employees. establish role models within the organization that other employees can emulate. Employment Policy for 4 PPL considers human capital its premium asset and Handicapped and acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 years, Disabled People through annual long service awards. 4 PPL follows the Disabled 4 The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in appreciation Persons (Employment and of their services. Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 and ensures employment of handicapped personnel. Healthy Entertainment 4 In line with the Workmen for Employees Compensation Act in matters related to disability, alternate job assignments are given to disabled staff. Performance PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities and entertainment for staff. 4 PPL encourages sports among head office and field employees such as Annual Inter-location Cricket Tournaments. Besides, the company has teams for various sports such as cricket and 6 table tennis that participate in contests/ matches with other organizations. 4 The company maintains a fully-equipped health and fitness UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress the use of safety procedures, a 3 Employee Safety and Security specialized mandatory training campaign for all staff has also been initiated to build capacity in fulfilling basic QHSE protocols, ACTIONS including firefighting, incident investigation and reporting, defensive driving, firefighting and Safe Working Conditions first aid, over the period of four years. 4 ‘Hazard Identification, Risk Performance Employee safety and security is one of PPL’s top priorities. Assessment and Management’ The company’s senior management is strongly committed in processes are shared with staff for recognising QHSE as a core value for sustainable business compliance. Field-based QHSE growth and profitability. The company has dedicated representatives provide training for Security and QHSE departments to ensure hazard-free conducting risk assessment of working conditions and taken the following initiatives to help routine and project activities. protect its employees from risky situations and conditions: Moreover, automation of incident 4 To ensure safe plant operations and proactively avoid investigation and risk assessment incidental environmental releases, Process Safety processes have been initiated to Management (PSM) based on OSHA (Occupational Safety Pakistan Petroleum Limited ensure integrated risk reduction and Health Administration Series) 3132 principles has been and improved performance. initiated. To this end, implementation of relevant procedures is 4 Head Count System in the form of in progress. Moreover, PSM Evaluation study is being carried T-Card is implemented at all PPL out, engaging a reputed international consulting firm DuPont fields, drilling sites and regional Sustainable Solutions. As part of the study, a Safety office in Islamabad as a quick and Perception Survey was conducted with all employees while onaccurate estimation of personnel’s site surveys at fields and corporate assessments are being location at various sites, conducted. 4 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 4 To ensure that project activities carried out through contractors has been on a decline over the meet or exceed PPL’s QHSE Management System’s years due to PPL’s commitment to requirements, a comprehensive Contractors’ Safety Review is PSM and implementation of QHSE being conducted, involving brainstorming sessions with procedures. LTIF of the company internal and external stakeholders to ascertain clarity on remained zero 0.3 during the expectations and roles. Besides various pre-emptive measures reporting period. have been undertaken to ensure contractor safety, including pre-mobilisation workshops, pre-spud meetings, audits and placement of additional QHSE human resource on seismic and drilling sites. Employee Travel 4 In order to monitor progress on health and safety measure, Safety especially at fields and facilities, senior management regularly undertakes Safety Observation & Feedback Tour Audit of assets / locations beyond the set target. Performance 4 Various regular measures, including provision of personal PPL regularly arranges training protective equipment (PPE) and clothing according to the programmes on defensive and nature of their job, are undertaken to ensure staff safety at evasive driving and road sense work. and safety for company staff. 4 Safety alerts and travel advisories are regularly sent to 4 Any unsafe driving practices, travel employees. route issues, vehicle or employee complaints regarding transport are 4 Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the reported to the Administration head office and field locations. Department for necessary 4 Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per Health, countermeasures. Safety and Environment (HSE) requirements at head office 4 All company vehicles are regularly 7 and all field locations. inspected for fitness/ tuning/ 4 HSE awareness and training sessions are regularly held. To service at designated workshops/ further focus on increased understanding and improvement in garages. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers and employees using company vehicles. A policy is in place to Basic Health Facilities bind staff to wear seat belts. Performance 4 All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, PPL extends a comprehensive domestically or internationally. health plan and medical policy to 4 Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company employees and their families. vehicles. The company has qualified doctors for providing medical 4 First aid boxes and fire extinguishers are placed in all consultation and treatment in the company vehicles. head office and field locations. 4 The company provides medical assistance to all employees, 4 including their immediate family, and pensioners as per medical Health policy. 4 PPL maintains a city clinic in ACTIONS Karachi, providing services throughout the day and on weekends, to ensure easy Healthy Environment for Employees access for employees and their families. Besides, PPL has a fullPakistan Petroleum Limited fledged hospital located within Performance PPL supports a safe and healthy workplace by enhancing staff health and well-being. the premises of the SGF. At other company fields and locations, 4 Periodic check-ups at all field locations are carried out for fire Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, Adam extinguishers, fire alarms and sprinklers. and Gambat South, proper 4 The company has developed an Occupational Health arrangements for emergency Surveillance Programme (OHSP) to ensure healthy medical care are in place. environment for employees by keeping a check on work4 PPL follows the Factories Act – related illness/ diseases. OHSP was reviewed to bring it par 1934, Mines Act – 1923 and Oil with International Association of Oil & Gas Producers’ and Gas (Safety in Drilling and Guidelines on Health Management. Meanwhile, midterm Production) Regulations –1974, strategic plan is in place for conducting gap analysis across which include employee personal the fields against the revised procedure. hygiene, environment, emergency medical assistance and periodic medical check-ups. 4 Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by company doctors and guest consultants for informing and updating staff on preventive measures and treatment of common diseases and outbreaks. 4 Ex-gratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged sickness. 4 Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Bugti, among these 91 have 5 Corporate Social Responsibility completed studies. For remaining areas, total beneficiaries remained 87, among these 34 have completed their degree PPL stands committed to community development programmes. through provision of education, healthcare, infrastructure, livelihood generation and post-disaster • Four-year scholarship rehabilitation support and has allocated minimum 1.5 programme now offers 40 annual scholarships for students of grade IX to XII from percent of its pre-tax profit for CSR activities. The company spent around Rs. 750 million for Balochistan to study at reputed CSR initiatives during March 2015 to February educational institutions across the country. Starting 20112012, nearly 170 students have 2016, which is over and above its minimum commitment. so far benefitted from the scheme. ACTIONS • In line with a MoU signed between PPL and Lahore University of Management Sciences, the company has Pakistan Petroleum Limited Education created an endowment fund for Performance its National Outreach Programme to finance two As its key CSR priority, PPL promotes educational facilities for rural communities, especially around the company’s deserving students from its operational areas, to improve their quality of life. operational areas each year for a period of four years. Three 4 The company has been providing quality education to students from Balochistan have children of company employees and local communities at Sui so far benefited from the Model School (SMS) since1957. SMS was upgraded to girls’ scheme, among these one has college in 2009. Currently, the college offers education to 64 completed the degree girls and the school caters to nearly 3050 students both boys programme. The scholarship and girls. covers admission and tuition 4 The company constructed and later operationalized fee, accommodation and Computer Training Centre and Library (CTCL) at Sui in 2010 messing facility with an annual for general public and engaged Kalsoft, an Information cost of Rs. 1.85 million per Technology company, to operate the centre. So far, nearly scholar. 780 locals have been trained through three-month basic • PPL is sponsoring 6 students computer courses, offered initially, and, replaced with, sixbelonging to Balochistan and month Certificate in Information Technology since January Khyber Pukhtunkhwa through a 2011. Besides, over 700 residents have been registered as scholarship scheme to study at regular library visitors. Institute of Business 4 The company provides free-of-cost transport facility to Administration, Karachi under students of Taaleem Foundation Grammar School (TFGS) its National Talent Hunt and Federal Government Public School (FGPS), Sui. Programme. Besides, PPL has extends infrastructure and in-kind support 4 The company regularly covers to both schools since inception. operational expenses of its two 4 PPL regularly provides the following scholarships for local adopted schools in District students residing around its operational fields to enable them Kambar Shahdadkot. to acquire quality education at renowned institutions: 4 PPL constructed and • Higher Professional Education Scholarship (HPES) operationalized three primary scheme was initiated in 2005 to support both boys and schools in Kandhkot near its girls in District Dera Bugti to pursue education in renowned operational field in partnership universities/ colleges across the country. The scheme was with The Citizen’s Foundation 9 extended to include students living around PPL-operated (TCF) in 2011. An endowment remaining producing assets during 2009. To date, HPES fund of about Rs. 83 million was has benefited more than 151 students in District Dera created for establishment and UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress operationalization of these schools over a period of 10 years. company regularly supports To date, over 600 students, both girls and boys, are enrolled at R&D initiatives under PPL these schools which has now got a new secondary campus for Geophysics Chair at BUK with grade VI students. The company also established PPL-TCF recent addition of a digital Tando Mohammad Khan campus on the same lines in March laboratory equipped with latest 2014 which currently enrols over 150 students from technology at a cost of Rs. 15 kindergarten to grade IV. PPL provided Rs. 12 million for million. construction and furnishing and Rs. 4.5 million for operational expenses for three years. To further its efforts in promoting education, especially in remote 4 In line with the its effort to strengthen academia-industry areas, PPL has made contribution/ linkages and promote research and development (R&D) in donations and provided support to relevant disciplines, PPL has established chairs at prominent the following institutions, including: universities, including Bahria University Karachi (BUK). The Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2015March 2016 (Rs. in millions) The Centre of Excellence in Marine Biology, University of Karachi for a 0.030 seminar on World Ocean Day NED University to cover air travel for two students to attend a conference 0.130 at Kulalampur Pakistan Petroleum Limited NED University for Annual Project Conference & Dinner 2015 0.150 NED University for International Conference on Advance Material & Process 0.300 Habib University for a fundraiser event 1.000 Academic Blocks Government Girls Elementary School, Adhi, District Rawalpindi 1.500 Government Girls High School, Mohra Noori, District Rawalpindi 2.340 Government Girls Primary School, Chechi Noor, District Rawalpindi 2.320 Government Girls Primary School, Dumali, District Rawalpindi 3.000 Government Girls Elementary School, District Washuk 7.000 Government Girls High School, Jhamat, District Attock 1.000 Six government schools, five in District Rawalpindi and one in 1.500 District Sanghar for provision of furniture Examination hall at Government Boys High School, Naban Janjua, 5.350 District Rawalpindi Shaheen Karachi Grammar School as annual donation 0.025 Government Girls Elementary School, Adhi and Government Primary School 0.98 Mouza Karsal for provision of sanitary facilities 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress to Tehsil Headquarter Hospital, Healthcare Initiatives Karor, District Layyah at a cost of Rs 6.5 million. 4 PPL funded construction and Performance The company has provided extensive medical facilities in furnishing of a 25-bed ward at some of the remotest regions of Pakistan through building Koohi Goth Hospital located in and assisting hospitals, rural health/ mother and childcare Landhi, Karachi at a cost of nearly centres, mobile dispensaries and medical camps. Rs. 5 million. The hospital 4 PPL runs a fully equipped Sui Field Hospital (SFH) at SGF since provides free-of-cost obstetrics the early 1960s. The hospital provides free-of-cost medical and gynaecology services to facilities to a large number of local patients in addition to PPL disadvantaged women, mostly field staff. SFH is equipped with latest medical facilities and a from Sindh and Balochistan. 24-hour emergency ward to cater to trauma and accident 4 The company sponsored patients. establishment of fully-equipped 4 Fully-equipped mobile medical dispensary (MMD) regularly visit state-of-the-art Intensive Care more than 15 villages/ locations around SGF, Kandhkot and Unit and Tuberculosis Ward for Mazarani fields on a weekly/ bimonthly basis to provide free Women at Jinnah Postgraduate healthcare facility to locals residents. Approximately 100 to 150 Medical Centre with an input of patients are reached on a daily basis through each MMD. The about Rs. 29 million to provide dispensary refers cases for further investigation and treatment to free-of-cost treatment. SFH in Sui and relevant taulka hospitals in Kandhkot and 4 A lady doctor has been deputed Pakistan Petroleum Limited Mazarani. by PPL at Medical Dispensary, 4 PPL constructed, furnished and equipped a 50-bed PPL Public Mastala near Adhi Field to Welfare Hospital (PPL PWH) in Sui Town at a cost of over Rs. provide free-of-cost treatment to 350 million on land provided by Government of Balochistan, local woman. Moreover, the which was initially running the facility until it was made company annually provides autonomous with an independent board. The hospital has medicines worth Rs. 0.2 million necessary facilities, including gynaecology and obstetrics, for the dispensary. Earlier, PPL emergency and operation theatres. The out-patient faculty of sponsored construction and PPL PWH commenced operations in December 2013 and furnishing of the dispensary in caters to over 250 patients on a daily basis. 2007. 4 The company holds bi-annual free-of-cost surgical eye camps 4 The company contributed Rs. 5 around its operational fields for treatment of ophthalmic million for purchase of diseases in partnership with Al-Shifa Trust Eye Hospital psychotropic medicines for (ASTEH). Each camp benefits about 1400 patients for Karwan-e-Hayat Psychiatric Care identification, testing and provision of glasses with nearly 150 & Rehabilitation Centre, Karachi patients undergoing onsite cataract surgery. The company also throughout the year. donated a portal phacoemulsification machine and other 4The company provided equipment to ASTEH to assist in carrying out cataract gynaecological, paediatrics, surgeries in line with the latest technique. surgical, emergency equipment 4 PPL has adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple Merger and fixture worth Rs. 8 million to Centres at Turbat and Panjgur in Balochistan and Kandhkot in District Headquarter Hospital, Sindh since 2005. The company provides annual operational Karor, District Layyah. expenses of these centres at a cost of Rs. 3 million. The centres To support viable community extend free-of cost diagnosis and treatment for leprosy, healthcare projects and services, blindness and tuberculosis to local communities. PPL has provided donations/ 4 Surgical and other related equipment and fixtures were provided sponsorships to various institutions/ initiatives, including the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2015March 2016 (Rs. in millions) Ali Hasan Mangi Memorial Trust for their operations 0.300 Association of Children with Emotional & Learning Problems for various activities 0.300 Karwan-e-Hayat for Fundraiser Event 2016 0.200 11 Poor Patients Aid Society, Civil Hospital, Karachi as donation 0.200 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities Infrastructure Performance Development PPL realizes that creating livelihood generation options on a sustainable basis assist marginalized communities to raise Performance the quality of their lives. The company has substantially Provision of meaningful, durable invested in engaging people, both men and women, in infrastructure is a key to earning livelihoods through sustained income sources. development and sustained economic growth, especially in 4 The company set-up a Women Welfare Centre in Sui within the far-flung areas of Pakistan. the premises of FGPS during 2006 to provide skill learning The company has focused on opportunities for local women. The centre trained over 400 developing infrastructure and local women until 2015 when it was shifted to a company civic amenities not only for its sponsored purpose-built facility. Developed at a cost of over own use but also for local Rs. 32 million within the TFGS premises, the new facility, communities. Vocational Training Institute, with a wider scope to provide vocational training to both women and men with access to 4 PPL has constructed and market, is being run by Taaleem Foundation, a renowned civil renovated of 8.5 km long society organization working in Balochistan. road from Indus Highway to Punhal Khan Golo village, 4 PPL is extending infrastructure and maintenance support for District Kashmore at a cost of Technical Training Centre, Sui since the 1990s. Starting 2009, Pakistan Petroleum Limited Rs. 60 million. the company also provides annual scholarships to top 15 graduating students to pursue diploma level studies in 4 Two water supply schemes, recognized polytechnics across the country. To date, 53 surrounding company-operated students have benefitted from the scheme. Kotri North Block, for Budhapur and Manjhand towns in 4 Women Vocational Training Centre (WVTC) in Mastala near District Jamshoro are near company’s Adhi Field was established in 2011 to facilitate local completion with an investment of women in increasing their income potential. The centre is run Rs. 6 million. by Behbud Association of Pakistan, a non-governmental organization. PPL regularly provides resource material and 4 Five water supply schemes are operational expenses with a dedicated budget of Rs. 7 million being developed in remote that included construction and furnishing. WVTC trains women villages of District Washuk, in embroidery, tailoring and basic literacy skills. To date, over Balochistan to address water 500 women from surrounding communities have benefitted. shortage issue at a cost of over Rs. 6 million. 4 Women Vocational and Skills Development Centre, Kotri, District Jamshoro was constructed by PPL at a cost of Rs. 8.5 4 PPL provides free-of-cost gas million to enable local women from Kotri town to increase their and water supplies to over 50000 livelihood generation options. The centre will soon be made residents of Sui town and operational. villages around SGF. An average of 4 to 5 MMscfd free gas and Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2015-March 2016 more than two million gallons of (Rs. in millions) drinking water is pumped daily to Pakistan Society of Training and Development (PSTD) 0.100 Sui town at an annual cost of for Annual Learning Conference 2015 about Rs. 240 million and Rs. Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists for 1.875 105 million, respectively. Annual Technical Conference 2015 4 A new water supply system for Institute of Chartered Accountant of Pakistan for SAFA 0.400 Sui town is near completion in Conference 2016 partnership with GoB to address Petroleum Institute of Pakistan for Oil & Gas 2.500 line losses and pilferages on the Conference 2016 existing PPL water supply line. Excellent Events & Entertainment (Private) Limited for 0.300 PPL contributed Rs. 135 million 1st International Media conference 2015 to construct trunk lines, overhead and storage tanks and pump houses and provided pumping machinery with independent 12 electrification system. 4 PCC road from village Mastala to Adhi, at tehsil Gujjar Khan, UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress District Rawalpindi was constructed at a cost of Rs. 4.15 million. Post-disaster Relief 4PPL constructed water supply scheme for village Dhoong, tehsil Gujjar Khan, District Rawalpindi with an input of Rs. 3.45 Performance million. In times of national emergencies, 4 A water reservoir at Kala Jabal, Jungshahi, District Thatta was PPL has always provided support developed at a cost of Rs.4 million. to victims of disaster-hit areas through substantial donations in 4 A 4 km road from village Maroof Dahri to Mehrab Shah and 2.5 cash and kind. Moreover, the km road from Shahdadpur Road to Dargah Fakir, taluka company also invests in longShahdadpur, District Sanghar was rehabilitated with an input of term rehabilitation of affected over Rs. 15 million. communities. 4 PPL constructed three RCC culverts and cause way and a 4 PPL established and gravel road in Kanyal Bajrana, District Rawalpindi with a cost operationalized a Rehabilitation of Rs. 2.9 million. Centre in Bagh in 2006 for the 4 To provide free-of-cost potable water to over 3000 resident of victims of October 8, 2005 Ghaibi Dero (GD) town and its surrounding villages near Earthquake, needing prostheses Mazarani Gas Field, PPL runs a water supply scheme using a and orthoses treatment. The bowzer facility since 2010 at an annual cost of about Rs. 4 centre is managed by Chal million. Potable water is brought from a safe source and stored Foundation and extends in two storage tanks at GD from where it is collected by physiotherapy and counselling Pakistan Petroleum Limited communities. services for physical and psychological management of the disability besides provision of limbs to affectees. PPL has created an endowment fund worth Rs. 24 million to support the centre’s operational cost since 2010. 4 The company sent a relief consignment, comprising over 600 tents, for affectees in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), following the tragic earthquake of 7.5 magnitude, which devastated major cities in KPK and the Punjab on October 26, 2015. 13 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Performance The company has a diverse, need-based social welfare policy. With a minimum pre-tax profit of 1.5 percent, PPL’s CSR initiatives go well beyond obligatory requirements to support the disadvantage communities. To ensure optimum onground implementation and impact, PPL works through government, local civil society organizations and local communities. 4 The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy Award instituted by the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy for 11 consecutive years from 2004 to 2014. 4 To support organizations providing welfare services, enabling neglected societal segments to prosper and promoting environmental and cultural values, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2015-March 2016 (Rs. in millions) World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Pakistan for Earth Hour (EH) 2016 0.200 Hisaar Foundation for International Water Conference 0.100 TCF for Golf Tournament 2015 0.125 Pakistan Petroleum Limited Distinguished Secretaries Society of Pakistan for 44th Annual Gala 2015 0.010 Islamabad Cricket Club of the Blind for T20 Cricket Tournament 2015 0.100 PSTD for Women in Business and Leadership Conference 2016 0.100 District Football Association Kashmore for Football Tournament 2016 0.300 Employers Federation of Pakistan for a seminar on Occupational Health, Safety 0.020 and Environment & relevant Awards PSTD for 3rd National HSE and Sustainable Development Summit 0.185 St. Patrick’s College for fund raising event 0.010 Commissioner Sibi Division for Sibi Mela 2016 0.500 14 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 15 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 4 In compliance with Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority’s directives ETHICS to implement ‘Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace (PAHWW) Act 2010’, ACTIONS the company took the following measures: • Circulated brochures on salient Adherence to Highest Corporate Values features of the Act, including instructions on compliance, to Performance all employees. PPL’s vision, mission and values are testament to the • Company’s harassment policy importance the company places on corporate ethics. As was prominently placed on the such, the company expects its employees to adhere to the PPL website and portal. following core values: • A three-member committee, 4 Promote leadership, empowerment and accountability including a women staff, was 4 Pursue highest standards of integrity constituted to address staff grievances. 4 Value people as the most important resource 4 Awareness sessions for staff 4 Promote innovation and value creation were organized on PAHWW Act 4 Ensure excellence in all spheres of performance Pakistan Petroleum Limited 2010 and PPL’s harassment 4 Advocate teamwork aligned with business objectives policy. Since January 2016, a 4 Conserve environment by minimizing carbon footprint fresh series of awareness raising sessions on PPL’s harassment policy are being held with a mandatory requirement for each Code of Conduct staff to participate 4 Any suspected violations or Performance actions that create hostile or offensive work environment Ethical commitments and values remain the centre piece of such as sexual harassment or PPL’s Code of Conduct, compliance to which is mandatory insensitive comments for all employees. concerning gender, religion, 4 The Code of Conduct for directors and employees were race, disability or age are revisited by the Board of Directors in line with the changes in promptly reported to the Code of Corporate Governance of Securities and management that ensures Exchange Commission of Pakistan. The revised Code of appropriate actions in line with Conduct, which was disseminated across PPL for compliance, Standard Operating further stresses on professionalism from directors and Procedures. employees. 4 Violations of the Code of 4 All incoming employees and trainees sign and submit an Conduct are viewed seriously undertaking to ensure clear understanding and acceptance and uphold the company’s Code of Conduct. and have often resulted in disciplinary actions and, in some 4 PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free cases, led to termination of from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. service. 16 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company’s operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between management and workers. 17 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Industrial Relations ACTIONS 4 The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. 4 All terms and conditions of employment of workers are Freedom of Association reviewed bi-annually and discussed in a friendly Performance environment with CBA. After bilateral negotiations, a The company believes in the freedom of opinion and handsome increase in wages expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a and other allowances are paid congenial and equitable working environment as per law. through settlement. 4 The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, wherein 4 Policies on salaries and employees are free to join any trade union of their choice. allowances as well as other 4 PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers benefits such as medical, leave Union, of which most workers are members. and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA every two years. 4 The company has not witnessed Pakistan Petroleum Limited Collective Bargaining any strike, legal or illegal, or Performance lockout during the last five years. The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent 4 No cases of unfair labour (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment practices have been filed by the for workers at all field locations. union. 4 The CBA together with stewards and union members, 4 The company provides special coordinates with management to improve working conditions leave to CBA union/employees and redress job-related issues. for appearance in court cases, if it is party to disputes. 4 Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled amicably with CBA representatives. 4 Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the union’s suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 18 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 19 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees 4 Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. 4 Exit notice period for workers is 30 days and for management, ACTIONS professional and technical staff is 90 days. Procedure for Preventing 4 Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective Under-age Employment measures, if necessary. Performance The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. Record of Checking 4 All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Minimum Wage Rate and above) category, in accordance with the law. 4 To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are Against Regulated confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, Amount educational certificates or Form ‘B’ issued by the National Database and Registration Authority. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Performance The company keeps its wage policy in line with governmental directives to ensure fair corporate governance. Procedure for Preventing Forced Labour 4 All workers in the company (both permanent and contract) are Performance employed above the minimum The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced wage rate as specified by the labour. government and paid competitively in accordance with 4 Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of market norms. service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work. 4 Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws. 20 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth without any discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 21 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Recruitment 2 ACTIONS Employees Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance diversified workforce PPL’s employment policy provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee Performance discrimination. As a leading employer and 4 PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal responsible corporate citizen, opportunity to women employees. PPL provides an enabling 4 Women employees are placed at various levels in the environment for professional organization, ranging from non-management to senior growth, with equity, security and management positions. human dignity, irrespective of 4 The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. Pakistan Petroleum Limited standard screening processes based on merit and job 4 PPL has a diversified workforce suitability. and does not discriminate on the 4 There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women basis of race, colour, gender, employees. religion, disability or family status in recruitment, training or 4 To further emphasize equitable participation of working women advancement of its employees. and address their issues at workplace, the company celebrates International Women’s Day and Working Women’s 4 Minorities are given special Day. Dedicated sessions are organized for women employees holidays in accordance with their to increase awareness about their role and responsibilities and religious festivals to ensure an address their issues. open and moderate culture and environment across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance 4 Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 22 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 23 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Environmental Management Precautionary Measures Performance 4 Noise monitoring and abatement is ensured for safe working environment in high noise areas. Health, Safety and Environment For this, enclosures, sound Performance barriers and PPE are provided, 4 The company’s QHSE policy is in place to ensure quality in as appropriate. all company operations with emphasis on ‘embedding green 4 To control accidental leakage, practices, proactive risk management, complying with adequate control arrangements relevant laws and maintaining communication with such as barriers and spill control stakeholders to promote sustainability. The policy is kits are available at all displayed at prominent locations at head, regional and field operational areas. Besides, offices and can be accessed through the company’s designated trained contingency website: http://www.ppl.com.pk/content/policies teams are available to handle 4 PPL has a well-defined HSE Management System incidental spills. developed in line with internationally recognized ISO 14001 Pakistan Petroleum Limited EMS and OHSAS 18001. The system provides continuous assessment and monitoring against standard parameters to ensure the highest level of safety and minimal damage to surrounding natural environment. 4 PPL is an active member of Pakistan Petroleum Exploration and Production Companies Association and participates in its HSE committee meetings. These meetings provide a forum to discuss latest industry practices, use of technology and benchmarking in HSE management system. Environmental Studies Performance 4 Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently undertaken for all development initiatives, including drilling, seismic operations and projects, in compliance with Pakistan Environmental Protection Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim to identify potential environmental impacts at development sites and advise mitigation measures accordingly. The studies are submitted to relevant provincial Environmental Protection Agencies (EPA) for approval. Once approved, IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark for regular internal and external monitoring against suggested mitigation measures. 4 Independent Environmental Monitoring is carried out for seismic and drilling operations in environmentally sensitive areas through reputed specialized consultants to ensure compliance with recommended methodologies, legal requirements and company’s HSE standards to address environmental issues while meeting stakeholders’ expectations. 24 4 All PPL-operated fields are registered with Federal EPA under Self Monitoring and Reporting Programme for monthly testing through external laboratory and reporting against emission parameters prescribed by NEQS. Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL ensures proactive acceptance of its responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives. The company recognizes that operational excellence cannot be achieved without embedding HSE considerations in business decision making processes. PPL remains committed to raising environmental awareness among staff, suppliers and dealers for encouraging eco-friendly practices. 25 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Awareness Raising 2 Environmental Responsibility ACTION ACTIONS Enhancing Environmental Awareness Eco-friendly practices Performance Performance 4 Awareness raising sessions and training, focusing on PPL is adopting eco-friendly environment and sustainability, are regularly held to apprise practices to minimize damage to staff on emerging issues. QHSE safety talk, alerts and bulletin natural resources through its boards are effectively utilized to promote conservation. operations in line with its Besides, QHSE weeks and international days such as World commitment towards Environment Day are regularly celebrated through special sustainability. The following green sessions and activities to foster conservation efforts, green practices are adopted by PPL: practices and safe working culture. 4 Light-Emitting Diode (LED) 4 ‘Sustainable Energy Management’ was introduced in 2011 to technology is used in several promote energy conservation at all fields. Initially, baseline existing projects and promoted Pakistan Petroleum Limited data for consumption pattern at each field was collected. Since for all new projects and then, significant improvement has been achieved against each expansion activities. LEDs has year’s bench mark in conserving electricity, gas, fuel and water many advantages over traditional as well as waste generation, especially at field location. incandescent light sources, 4 PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking Zone’ including lower energy and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. The consumption, longer lifetime, non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and improved physical robustness, locations. smaller size and faster switching. 4 PPL is a corporate member of the Pakistan Chapter of World 4 Tree cutting is avoided during Business Council for Sustainable Development. seismic activities and site restoration is simultaneously 4 PPL is a corporate member of leading environmental carried out for even minor organizations, including WWF, and participates in relevant removal of flora/ vegetation events and campaigns. The company observes as well as through green teams. sponsors EH since its inception in Pakistan in 2010. PPL is an associate of Karachi Water Partnership and supports similar 4 Tree plantation campaigns are initiatives led by key civil society organizations, including undertaken at company-operated Hissar Foundation. fields and exploration assets to off-set emissions and improve 4 The company is currently sponsoring an afforestation drive ambience. over 400-acre forest area in District Kashmore with 300000 sapling to be planted during two years, starting 2014. 4 Water-based mud, which is known for compatibility with natural soil, is preferred over oilbased mud that requires special treatment for disposal for all drilling operations. 4 Biodegradable explosives are used during seismic surveys. 4 Electronic communication together with duplex printing is promoted to reduce paper usage. 26 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Evaluation of HSE Performance Performance 4 Integrated QHSE audits aligned with ISO 14001 EMS, ISO 9001 Quality Management System (QMS) and OHSAS 18001 have been successfully launched in 2015 to optimize cost and operational synergies. Earlier separate audits were conducted for each focus area, creating burden on end user and requiring additional administrative modalities, incurring cost and indirect environmental impact. 4 Internal and external audits/ monitoring of departments/ fields are carried out to assess compliance of standardized procedures at site and implementation of QHSE Management System and performance. Inspections, spot checks and suggestion forms are used during the process with staff participation. 4 11 fields and facilities, including Adhi, Kandhkot and Hala/ Gambat South /Mazarani assets, Sui Purification Plant, Sui Production, Sui Field Gas Compressor Station, Sui Field Pakistan Petroleum Limited Hospital and Drilling and Well Engineering, QHSE and Construction departments have been certified for ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001. 4 Performance monitoring for environmental sustainability data, including emission of Green House Gases, energy consumption and generation of hazardous waste in line with United Nation’s Global Reporting Initiative criteria conducted at field locations. Reduction targets set for year 2015 based on inventories reported in year 2014. 4 QHSE Audit Module in SAP made functional with work in progress to automate processes, including incident investigation, monthly performance monitoring and sustainability reporting. 27 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL believes in the use of emerging environmentfriendly technologies, especially for new projects, to reduce its carbon footprint. 28 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies around its fields/ sites since 2015 to proactively control air pollution. Further, advanced analytical software tools have been applied on stack emissions to conduct ACTION dispersion modelling of significant pollutants such as H2S from hot Waste management and flares and cold stacks to safeguard surrounding emission control community, flora & fauna from its detrimental effects. 4 Process water is contained in Performance The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental ponds lined with pit line for impact of its operations through the use of innovative evaporation. Alternatively, technology. Besides, PPL is focussing on adopting/ wastewater evaporator and forced embedding environment-friendly technology in all new draft evaporation systems are project designs. also utilized for treating effluent 4 PPL has a well-defined waste disposal and management water in order to eliminate soil procedure, which is effectively implemented across the and ground-water contamination. company. This includes minimization, segregation at source, 4 Constructed Wetland, PPL’s recycling and reuse, safe handling and disposal of hazardous pioneering initiative, has been Pakistan Petroleum Limited waste as per standard environment-friendly procedures. recognized at international forum. 4 Effective arrangements such as landfill and incinerators are A paper on PPL’s Wetland Pilot employed for safe disposal of waste, besides acquiring Project for Treatment of Produced services of specialized contractors for disposal of hazardous Water at Mazarani Gas Field was waste and oily sludge recovered from operations. Moreover, well-received at a Conference on composting of food waste is also carried out. Pollutant Dynamics and Control at 4 Corporate procedure on waste management are being UK. The technology saves reviewed to include technological advancements and end user significant amount of carbon feedback for adopting more effective and environmentally safe dioxide emission as compared to processes. effluent deep disposal well, hence qualifying under UN’s Clean 4 Emissions from all equipment at company facilities are Development Mechanism to controlled through in-house maintenance programmes and generate saleable carbon credits. end of pipeline solutions. Going beyond minimum legal compliance, PPL has initiated ambient air monitoring in and 29 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 30 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Employees 2 ACTION External Interface Code of Conduct Credible Disclosure of Information to Performance Investors and The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders 4 All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the time of joining. Performance 4 All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or 4 PPL ensures transparency in other payments intended to influence business decision or business transactions and rejects compromise fair judgment. any business practice, which may deem improper. 4 No employee can give money to obtain business for the company or receive money for giving company business to an 4 All financial reports are properly external agency. audited by external auditors. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, 4 Quarterly briefing on financial contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have a statements is given to business relationship with the company. management. 4 Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. 4 Meeting of PPL’s Board of Directors is held on a quarterly basis. 4 All employees are required to declare their assets on a yearly basis. 4 Media/ press briefings and interviews are given on demand. 4 Consultative meetings with CSR partners are held for social development initiatives. Corporate Governance 4 The company ensures timely Performance payment of taxes. 4 Checks such as annual declaration 4 PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance of assets, notifying the company in with regulatory and legal requirements. case of receipt of gifts above a 4 The company uses internationally acceptable accounting certain value, hospitality and standards to maintain transparency. potential conflicts of interest are in4 All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly built into the system to preempt recorded in the books of the company. corruption. 4 The company complies with regulations of the Security and 4 Similar checks and balances are Exchange Commission of Pakistan. built into organizational processes, 4 Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s governing procurement, materials annual reports. and personnel in accordance with the Manual on Delegation of 4 No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. Authority and Public Procurement 4 All business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. Regulatory Authority, a public sector 4 Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out for entity to monitor procurement in a all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures transparent manner. and ensure course correction, if required. 31 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pk
