SoftSkills Management Consultants Communication on Progress Year: 2015 STATEMENT To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that SoftSkills Management Consultants reaffirms her support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the following areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we have described our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Documented in this report is the summary of the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future Wonuola Adetayo, Managing Director/ CE Contact: Wonuola Adetayo Email: wonutayo2002@yahoo.com Phone: 2348029990258 P 1/3 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Human Rights Year 1. In SoftSkills, we ensure workers are provided safe, appropriate and sterile work facilities 2. All our staff are treated with dignity and given fair and just remuneration for their time at work. 3. We consistently strive to create world class environment for our business processes. 4. Our workforce is gender balanced. 5. Our processes and policies are within the stipulated Human right law in Nigeria. 6. Our terms of engagement and mode of operations are within Nigeria and ILO that guarantees non-violation of human rights of employees in whatever forms. 7. We protect our employees from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Labour Year 1. SoftSkills does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour 2. We are in full compliance with Federal Government minimum wage standards 3. Our job offer letter is well explicit enough for our new staff. Job description, targets , KPI and expectations are jointly agreed and clearly started. 4. We discourage child labour in our work environment. None of our Staff member is below the legal working age – 18 years old. The youngest staff on our payroll is 24 years old. 5. All our staff members have the freedom to join any association of their choice without intimidation. P 2/3 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Environment Year 1. We avoid environmental pollution via regular maintenance of Power generator and sewage system 2. Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health 3. To encourage a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, we have a developed code of conduct for our business operations and it is committed to upholding good health and the environment. HSE Policy in place, HSE meeting and audit are carried out regularly. 4. During on boarding, new staff are taken around the office premises. 5. Our Muster Points are visible and easy approach in case of an emergency Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Anti-Corruption Year 1. It is our standard practice never to give or collect bribes for the jobs we do or the projects we solicit for. Part of the training and HR intervention to clients is hinged on good governance, work ethics, professionalism and good corporate citizenship. 2. We have in place Gift Policy 3. Ethical behaviour are listed as one of our contracts elements with business partners and vendor 4. SoftSkills internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment P 3/3
