Next Generation UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Introduction by the Wienerberger AG Chief Executive Officer UN Global Compact CoP 2015 Introduction by the Chief Executive Officer Ladies and Gentlemen, the prohibition of child labor as well as the right of employees We want to improve people’s quality of life. In pursuing to join a union of their choice and to participate in collective this goal, we focus not only on the present, but also on “Next bargaining negotiations. Generation” issues. With this in mind, we do what we are best at: We develop building material and infrastructure solutions to The safety and satisfaction of our 16,000 employees are address the challenges of the future, such as the need to adapt to top priorities for us. I am extremely happy to report that – climate change, the shortage of resources or urbanization. Our thanks to our efforts to increase the standards of safety throughbuilding materials are resource-efficient, durable and recyclable; out the Wienerberger Group – the frequency of occupational they are well suited for energy-efficient buildings and create a accidents declined from 12 per million hours worked in 2014 to pleasant indoor climate. Our infrastructure solutions are ele8 in 2015; accident severity was even reduced by 39%. Most mentary building blocks for the cities of the future. The crucial important of all, not a single fatal accident occurred in 2015. In issues to be resolved are not only water supply and waste water the years to come, we will not tire in our efforts to reach our disposal in continuously expanding urban agglomerations, but target of zero accidents. also the right to decent housing for people fleeing from war, violence or natural disasters, or for people in financial distress. In a globalized world, faced with an unequal distribution of Wienerberger therefore decided in September 2015 to extend scarce resources, a growing world population and the undeniits partnership with Habitat for Humanity, operational since able consequences of climate change, the protection of human 2012, by another three years. In cooperation with this humanirights, the observance of labor and environmental standards and tarian organization, which provides safe and adequate housing the fight against corruption and bribery are central pillars of a for socially underprivileged people all over the world, Wienerfair and sustainable development worldwide. For a company berger contributes its core competencies and its resources in an with international operations, such as Wienerberger, it is esseneffort to cope with present-day social challenges. tial to position itself as an honest, reliable and calculable partner for external stakeholder groups. When we signed the UN Global It is our goal to be the most highly regarded producer of Compact in 2003, we officially acknowledged our responsibility building material and infrastructure solutions and the preferred as a corporate citizen. We actively promote business ethics, we employer in our markets. This is essential if we want to recruit see to it that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact are and retain the best people – those who share and live our values: consistently implemented and promote “good corporate citizencompetence, passion, integrity and respect, customer orientaship” throughout the Wienerberger Group. In future, we are gotion, entrepreneurship, quality and responsibility. Each of our ing to demand such behavior also from our suppliers. Individual approximately 16,000 employees at our 203 production sites business units have already introduced supplier codes of con(in 2015) in 30 countries of the world is an ambassador of our duct, and we intend to do the same, step by step, on a Groupcompany, and as such deserves our full respect for his or her wide basis. As in previous years, we report on progress achieved performance and commitment. In 2001, with a view to the gloin our Communication on Progress in respect of the ten prin­ balization of the company and its markets, Wienerberger signed ciples of the UN Global Compact. its Social Charter, committing itself to the aim of providing employment and working conditions in production and sales At present, climate change is the biggest challenge – around the world that at least meet the requirements of collecthough not the only one – we face worldwide. In order to mititive bargaining agreements and/or national laws. This includes gate its negative consequences and to limit global warming to a compliance with the relevant conventions and recommendamaximum of two centrigrades greenhouse gas emissions have to tions of the Geneva-based International Labor Organization be drastically reduced in all parts of the world. This will only be (ILO) as well as the Charter of Fundamental Right of the Europossible if we reduce our consumption of fossil fuels, become pean Union from 2000. These instruments refer, inter alia, to more efficient in the use of our resources and change over to Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 Wienerberger AG Introduction by the UN Global Compact CoP 2015 Chief Executive Officer Heimo Scheuch Chief Executive Officer of Wienerberger AG renewable energy sources. Wienerberger is directly concerned, natural gas or liquefied natural gas, led to a significant decline in since the production of building materials – from raw material the consumption of fuel oil (-60%) and coal (-9%). Steinzeugextraction to the production processes in our plants – is enerKeramo converted its entire production to electricity from gy-intensive. For economic as well as ecological reasons, we are renewable sources in 2015. We will continue our efforts to continuously at work to increase energy efficiency and reduce achieve a higher degree of energy efficiency and to lower our the volume of direct CO2 emissions in ceramic production as CO2 emissions in the years to come. well as indirect CO2 emissions in plastic pipe production. Moreover, Wienerberger has set itself the target to reduce specific In the coming years, we will continue working intensively energy consumption in CBME and Pipelife by 20% by 2020 on the achievement of the targets laid down in our Sustainability compared to 2010. In 2016, North America will reduce the Roadmap 2020 and I invite you all to join us on this course. consumption of natural gas at selected production sites by 5% each, compared to 2015. Equally ambitious targets will soon be defined for the other business units. In 2015, the Wienerberger Group’s total energy consumption increased significantly (+15%) over the previous year’s level. This was due, above all, to the first-time integration of the indicators of the Tondach Group in 2015, but also to shifts in the product mix towards more energy-intensive products in almost all divisions and the start-up of a new ceramic pipe production line. At the same time, however, the increased use of low-emission energy sources, such as Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 UN Global Compact: Wienerberger AG Communication UN Global Compact CoP 2015 on Progress 2015 Global Compact Principles – Human Rights UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 The activities of big industrial companies, such as Wienerberger AG, have a strong impact on society and the environment. Such companies therefore bear a special responsibility and should act in an exemplary manner. The minimum standards to be complied with include, above all, the principles of the UN Global Compact regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption 1). Through its accession to the UN Global Compact in 2003, Wienerberger officially committed to the ten principles and undertook to foster their implementation within the framework of the company’s possibilities. Once a year, we report on progress achieved in this respect. The 2015 Communication on Progress in respect of the Global Compact forms part of our 2015 Sustainability Update. In order to ensure maximum transparency and to make it easier for our readers to find the individual examples, we have aggregated the most important statements on the ten principles and, in addition, marked the corresponding indicators in the GRI Index and added references to the pages concerned. Global Compact Principles – Human Rights Principles 1 and 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Within its sphere of influence, Wienerberger guarantees the protection of basic human rights. By adopting the Wienerberger Social Charter, Wienerberger committed itself to comply with the conventions and recommendations of the International Labor Organization (ILO). This includes providing safe and healthy working conditions. The safety of its employees is a matter of top priority for Wienerberger. Progress in 2015 The long-term target pursued by the Wienerberger Group is to reduce the number of accidents to zero. Through the Group-wide Wienerberger Safety Initiative, uniform safety standards were implemented in 2010. In 2014, these were upgraded for the entire Wienerberger Group and activities within the framework of the Safety Initiative were stepped up in order to minimize the frequency and severity of accidents. Every occupational accident is analyzed at Group level; essential aspects and possible Group-wide initiatives are evaluated annually. In 2015, a specific budget was earmarked for further safety measures. The accident frequency within the Wienerberger Group was reduced from 12 occupational accident per million hours worked in 2014 to 8 in 2015. Accident severity, expressed in accident-related sick leave days per million hours worked, dropped significantly from 340 in 2014 to 209 in 2015. Targeted measures were taken by each business unit in order to further increase the level of safety for our employees: 1) Please click here to view the ten principles of the UN Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.at/ungc/site/en/unglobalcompact/10principles Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 Wienerberger AG UN Global Compact: UN Global Compact CoP 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Global Compact Principles – Human Rights • The Clay Building Materials Europe Business Unit (CBME) established its own safety management department in 2015, which is responsible for all safety issues of the entire Division and coordinates its safety measures and safety standards. Moreover, the Safety Alert, a standardized process of dealing with occupational accidents at CBME production sites, was fully institutionalized; as in the previous year, outstanding achievements in the field of safety were again honored through the Safety Award. • North America organized monthly meetings on safety issues and safety reporting between the top management and the local management in 2015. Additionally, a safety officer was nominated at local level for each production site, whose responsibility also includes communication on safety matters. Safety targets to be attained within the coming two years were defined for each production site. • Pipelife has made special efforts in accident prevention with its STOP™ Program (Safety Training Observation Program) for many years. The Safety Call, a new measure introduced in 2014, was implemented in 2015 on the basis of experience gained to date. After every accident, a Safety Call was arranged with the managing directors of all local companies of the Business Unit in order to analyze the cause of the accident, share experience and take the necessary corrective steps. • Semmelrock continued to work with its “Safety@Semmelrock” program and optimized its production processes through technical safety measures. Other safety-related tools employed include the “Accident Investigation Report Semmelrock” (AIRS), which is used to centrally record, analyze and communicate all accidents, and an internal communication platform. • Steinzeug-Keramo appointed safety officers both for the business unit as a whole and for each production site; a new guideline for plant tours was elaborated. Health is a human right. Wienerberger therefore ensures safe and healthy working conditions at all its production sites. In 2015, the average number of sick leave days per employee at Group level (excluding the North America Division) declined slightly (from 9.2 to 9.1 days). We attribute this development, not least, to our regular health screening programs, the availability of company physicians to all employees of the Group, ergonomic workplace analyses and the offer of individual health and fitness programs. Being aware of its responsibility for the health and well-being of its employees, Wienerberger for years has been making every effort to minimize their exposure to potentially hazardous substances. In our core business, i.e. the production of ceramic building materials, attention is focused, above all, on the exposure of employees to particulate matter. At Group level, the target of rolling out particulate matter measurements to at least 95% of all Wienerberger ceramic plants by 2020 was reached already in 2013. Given the fact that Tondach Gleinstätten, the producer of roof tiles that was taken over fully by Wienerberger in 2014 but has only been included in the above indicators since 01/01/2015, we continued to pursue this target in 2015. The Group-wide target of measuring exposure to particulate matter at 98% of all ceramic plants of the Wienerberger Group was reached ahead of schedule in 2015. As planned, North America (excluding the Pipelife production site) rolled out particulate matter measurements to its non-ceramic plants in 2015. Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 UN Global Compact: Wienerberger AG Communication UN Global Compact CoP 2015 on Progress 2015 Global Compact Principles – Human Rights – Labor Standards In 2015, Wienerberger also began to monitor observance of the principles of the Global Compact along its supply chains and will further step up its efforts in this respect. Today already, Pipelife suppliers, for example, have to comply with the “Pipelife Supplier Code of Conduct” (www.pipelife. com/media/com/about_pipelife/Supplier_Code_of_Conduct.pdf). The Clay Building Materials Europe (CBME) Business Unit developed a comprehensive “CBME Supplier Code of Conduct” in 2015, which will be rolled out as a binding instrument to all local companies in 2016. Global Compact Principles – Labor Standards Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment Zero tolerance of child labor and discrimination is an absolute must for Wienerberger. Even before its accession to the UN Global Compact in 2003, Wienerberger committed itself, by signing the 2001 Social Charter, to ensure that employment and working conditions throughout the Group comply with national legislation and/or are based on collective bargaining agreements as a minimum standard. Thus, Wienerberger operates in accordance with the recommendations of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Besides adequate and safe working conditions, fair remuneration and the right of assembly and collective bargaining are high priorities for us. In our effort to combat discrimination in recruitment and employment, we consider it essential to offer our female employees an attractive working environment and the same opportunities as their male colleagues. At the same time, we want to make sure that our male employees benefit from the same flexible solutions that enable them to reconcile work and family obligations as their female colleagues. Progress in 2015 In 2015, the percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement was established at country level, which enabled us to obtain far more accurate figures than in the past. The data collected for 2015 showed that 73% of all Wienerberger employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Agency and temporary workers as well as employees under limited employment contracts accounted for 5% of the total workforce. Companies with a primary focus on the production of building materials traditionally have a high percentage of male employees. In 2015, a total of 1,762 employees were newly recruited, i.e. 273 more than in 2014. Among the newly recruited employees, the number of women rose from 184 to 234 and the number of men from 1,305 to 1,528. In percentage terms, the share of women among the new recruits increased from 12.4% to 13.3%. At Group level, the percentage of women remained constant at 13.5% compared to 2014. While the percentage of women working in production dropped from 4.3% to 4.1%, it increased from 45.9% to 48.1% in administration and from Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 Wienerberger AG UN Global Compact: UN Global Compact CoP 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Global Compact Principles – Labor Standards – Environmental Protection 24.2% to 24.3% in sales, marketing and inventories. The percentage of women in senior management positions in the Wienerberger Group was slightly above 8% in 2015. Enabling our employees to reconcile work and family life is a matter of high priority for us. We therefore offer our employees the possibility of working part-time, an offer which is being taken up by a growing number of female as well as male employees. The percentage of employees working parttime increased from 3% in 2014 to 3.4% in 2015. The share of women in part-time employment was 15.3% in 2015, down from 17.2% in 2014. The percentage of men working part-time increased from 1.0% in 2014 to 1.5% in 2015. Global Compact Principles – Environmental Protection Principles 7, 8 and 9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Our goal is to minimize the environmental impact of our production processes and our use of raw materials. A responsible way of operating our clay extraction sites, the best possible conservation of resources, and an increase in the percentage of recycled materials used: these are the central principles governing our production activity. We are well aware that industrial production processes always involve a certain degree of interference with the natural environment. Therefore, production in harmony with the environment is a matter of great importance to us. Progress in 2015 Specific energy consumption and specific CO2 emissions are two of the essential indicators of environmentally friendly production technologies. Wienerberger has set itself the target to reduce these parameters by 20% each in ceramic production by 2020, as compared with 2010. In 2015, however, the Wienerberger Group’s total consumption of energy increased by 15% over the previous year’s level. This is due, above all, to the first-time integration of the parameters of the Tondach Group in 2015, shifts in the product mix toward more energy-intensive products in almost all divisions, and the start-up of a new ceramic pipe production line. The share of renewable energy sources in total electricity consumption, based on kWh/ton, remained constant at 27%. The first-time inclusion of the indicators of Tondach Gleinstätten in 2015 resulted in an increase of specific energy consumption, based on kWh/ton, in ceramic production by 6% compared with the previous year’s level. In plastic pipe production, a reduction by 3% from the previous year’s level and by 5% compared with 2010 was achieved. Throughout the Group, we will continue to optimize our production processes and progressively integrate the newly included Tondach production sites in all our improvement programs. The development of CO2 emissions, compared with the previous year, also was significantly influenced by the aforementioned factors. We regret to note that the index of specific CO2 emissions from primary energy sources in kg CO2 per ton of products produced also increased Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 UN Global Compact: Wienerberger AG Communication UN Global Compact CoP 2015 on Progress 2015 Global Compact Principles – Environmental Protection – Fight against Corruption by 4% over the previous year’s level. The divergence between the specific CO2 emissions from primary energy sources and specific energy consumption in ceramic production is due to the consistent reduction of CO2-intensive energy sources, such as coal and fuel oil, and the change-over to natural gas. Pipelife has set itself the target to reduce its specific CO2 emissions from primary energy sources in production by 20% by 2020, as compared with 2010. In 2015, CO2 emissions from primary energy sources at Pipelife were 17% below the value reported in 2010. Specific water consumption for plastic pipe production increased in 2015 due to the start-up of a new plastic pipe production line with increased water consumption for test runs as well as one-off events, such as the repair of a cooling circuit. Pipelife aims at reducing the volume of water drawn from public networks to 0.55m³ per ton of products produced by 2020. In support of the precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Wienerberger has, for many years, worked intensively on the drafting of eco-balances and the preparation of environmental product declarations (EDPs) for its entire product range on a voluntary basis. Moreover, all ceramic pipes and fittings produced by Steinzeug-Keramo have been successfully certified according to the Cradle to Cradle® concept. Our initiatives aimed at developing a higher level of awareness for environmental issues include, in particular, the Wienerberger Sustainable Building Academy (WISBA). This international training program for students of architecture and construction engineering was organized in six countries in 2015; 24 students from Austria, Belgium, Italy, Poland, Hungary and Switzerland participated in the program. Global Compact Principles – Fight against Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Wienerberger is committed to fair and free competition; this implies a firm stance against any form of corruption. We have always pursued the target of zero incidents of corruption and expect all our employees to act accordingly. Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 Wienerberger AG UN Global Compact: UN Global Compact CoP 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 Global Compact Principles – Fight against Corruption Progress in 2015 No charges for suspected corruption were brought against Wienerberger in 2015, nor were any penalty payments imposed. No negative findings were reported by the competent supervisory authorities. Wienerberger expects all employees of the Wienerberger Group to act in full compliance with the law. Any infringement constitutes a breach of duty. Should a suspicion of unlawful behavior be confirmed, the employee concerned will be sanctioned under labor law or civil law, depending on the extent of damage caused. In the course of 2015, the internal audit unit audited 27 companies with a special emphasis on organizational structures, purchasing, materials management, sales and human resources as well as corruption and antitrust legislation. Compliance with Group-wide safety standards and IT standards were additional audit priorities. The audits showed that all internal guidelines have been implemented in the companies audited and brought to the knowledge of the employees concerned. Deviations from the guidelines, if any, were reported to the Managing Board and the Audit Committee, and appropriate measures, such as improvements of documentation processes, were taken in cooperation with the management of the company concerned. Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 GRI G4 Content Table Wienerberger AG and UN GC Principles UN Global Compact CoP 2015 GRI G4 Content Table General standard disclosures Indicator UN Global Page in Part of external Compact Sustainability report assurance Principles Strategy & Analysis 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6–7 Organizational Profile 3–9 Name, headquarter, scale, legal form, brands and products, locations and markets 8, 12–13 10–11 Total number of employees by employment contract, gender, supervised employees, regions and any 18–20, 27–28 significant variations in employment numbers 12 Description of supply chain Website, Sustainablity Report 2014 13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, 10–11 or its supply chain 14 Handling of precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organization 57, 67–68, UNGC 7 Annual Report 15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 10, 57, 64–69 to which the organization subscribes 16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) 57–58 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 17 List of all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements 59 18–21 Process for defining the report content, material aspects, aspect boundaries inside and outside Website, Sustainablity 2014 of the organization Report 2014 22–23 Restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 59 and mentioned in the footnotes of respective indicators Stakeholder Engagement 24–27 List of stakeholder groups engaged, basis for identification of stakeholders, organization’s approach Website, Sustainablity to stakeholder engagement and topics, that came up during the stakeholder process Report 2014 Report Profile 28–30 Reporting period, date of most recent previous report and reporting cycle 59 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 69 32 Report of the “in-accordance”-option, GRI-index of the selected option, reference to the external 59 audit report 33 Policies of the organization regarding external audit of the report, scope of audit and relationship 59 to audit company Governance 34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees responsible for decisions regarding the Website, Sustainablity 2014 economic, ecological and social impact Report 2014 Ethics and Integrity 56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct 56–57 and codes of ethics Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 Wienerberger AG GRI G4 Content Table UN Global Compact CoP 2015 and UN GC Principles Specific standard disclosures Indicator UN Global Page in Part of external Compact Sustainability report assurance Principles Economic Performance Aspect: Economic Performance DMA Disclosure on management approach 9 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 11 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 57–58 Environment Aspect: Materials UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 34, 44–48 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 40, Website, Sustainablity Report 2014 Aspect: Energy UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 34, 41–42 yes EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 35 yes EN5 Energy intensity 36–37 yes EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 35–37 Aspect: Water UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 34, 45 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 39 Aspect: Biodiversity UNGC 7 DMA Disclosure on management approach 34, 49 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 40, Website, Sustainablity Report 2014 Aspect: Emissions UNGC 7, 8, 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 34, 42–44 yes EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 37 yes EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 38–39 yes EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 37–39 Aspect: Products and Services UNGC 9 DMA Disclosure on management approach 50–55 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 50–55 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment UNGC 7, 8 DMA Disclosure on management approach 49, 66 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 49, 66 and actions taken Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 GRI G4 Content Table Wienerberger AG and UN GC Principles UN Global Compact CoP 2015 GRI G4 Content Table Specific standard disclosures Indicator UN Global Page in Part of external Compact Sustainability report assurance Principles Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment UNGC 3, 4, 5, 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, 19–20 The aspect diversity and region has not been identified as significant in the materiality matrix for the Wienerberger Group. Therefore the comprehensive information concerning gender or age group is not included in this report. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 20–21, 29–32 yes LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 21–23 The aspect diversity yes number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender has not been identified as significant in the materiality matrix for the Wienerberger Group. Therefore the comprehensive information concerning gender or age group is not included in this report. LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 23–25 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 21 Aspect: Training and Education DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 26 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 26 The aspect diversity has not been identified as significant in the materiality matrix for the Wienerberger Group. Therefore the comprehensive information concerning gender or age group is not included in this report. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity UNGC 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 27 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according 27–28, Annual Report to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination UNGC 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach 18, 27 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 27 Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 Wienerberger AG GRI G4 Content Table UN Global Compact CoP 2015 and UN GC Principles Specific standard disclosures Indicator UN Global Page in Part of external Compact Sustainability report assurance Principles Human rights Aspect: Assessment UNGC 1, 2 DMA Disclosure on management approach Website, Sustainablity Report 2014 HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Reporting in line with GRI or impact assessments requirements is currently not possible. An internal screening of human rights aspects is considered as part of the internal audit Society Aspect: Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach Website, Sustainablity Report 2014 SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Website, Sustainablity Report 2014 Aspect: Anti-corruption UNGC 10 DMA Disclosure on management approach 56–57 SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the 56–57 significant risks identified SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 56–57 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior DMA Disclosure on management approach 56–57 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 57 and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance DMA Disclosure on management approach 56 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 56 with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society UNGC 1, 2 DMA Disclosure on management approach 49 SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Reporting in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. A Code of Conduct for suppliers is already implemented in some business units and will be developed by other business units in the upcoming years. Product responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety UNGC 6 DMA Disclosure on management approach Website, Sustainablity Report 2014 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the Website, Sustainablity health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Report 2014 Part of the Sustainability Update 2015 Next Generation Wienerberger UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 sustainability@wienerberger.com www.wienerberger.com For further information: Christine Vieira Paschoalique Corporate Sustainability Officer Wienerberger AG A-1100 Vienna, Wienerberg City, Wienerbergstraße 11 P +43 1 60 192 10 180 M +43 664 812 11 22 christine.paschoalique@wienerberger.com Part of the Sustainability Update 2015
