UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Messe Frankfurt 2015 / 2016 2 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Acting responsibly Foreword by the Executive Board Trade fairs are marketplaces. They bring people and markets together. And they mirror the success of commercial activity. As trade fair organisers, we are ready to embrace our entrepreneurial responsibility towards the environment in which we operate – towards our customers, employees and society. Creating economic and social value has been a core element of our mission statement since Messe Frankfurt was founded. Respect and fairness in our dealings with business partners, the principles of sustainable business and recognition of our social responsibility are embedded in our company philosophy. Since 2010, we have underscored this philosophy by signing up to the United Nations Global Compact, committing ourselves to its Ten Principles in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We feel it is our obligation to uphold these principles and will continue to adhere to them in the future. Cooperating with our public shareholders, we endeavour to ensure that, as a place of business whose development has always been inextricably linked with Frankfurt’s strengths as a trade fair venue, the Frankfurt/Rhine-Main economic area is fit for the future. This is only possible if we succeed in progressively integrating sustainability approaches into more and more areas of our business. Because this is where responsibility is actively practised. And this is what positions our company positively with both internal and external stakeholders. We therefore initiated a number of innovations and developments during the past reporting period: The Kap Europa congress centre was the first convention building worldwide to be awarded a Platinum Certification by the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB). Messe Frankfurt was also responsible for organising and running the German Pavilion at EXPO 2015 in Milan where, as the central theme, sustainability played a key role. At our exhibition grounds construction got under way on the new Hall 12, which will be our contribution to future development, making careful use of resources and energy-efficient methods. And since last year, Messe Frankfurt has been home to more than 350,000 bees, which will ensure that the tree-lined avenues around the exhibition complex continue to flourish in the years to come. These are just some of the examples of our ongoing activities in the field of sustainability that we would like to present to you in greater detail in this Communication on Progress for the period from May 2015 to May 2016, while also offering a preview of future developments. I hope you find this a fascinating read. Best regards, Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive Officer Messe Frankfurt GmbH 3 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Market leader with responsibility Messe Frankfurt – Company Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Moscow, Chicago or Dubai: at our The Group is divided into two corporate entities under a home venue or worldwide, everything at Messe Frankfurt holding company: Messe Frankfurt Exhibition GmbH, which revolves around encounters – and has done for more than organises trade fairs in Germany and abroad and Messe 775 years. Messe Frankfurt stands for internationally Frankfurt Venue GmbH, which focuses primarily on managsuccessful trade fair concepts. Our stakeholders can rest ing and optimising the exhibition grounds. These two assured that at our events they will find the very best the companies are grouped together under Messe Frankfurt world has to offer from all sectors of industry. This trust is Holding GmbH, which performs all administrative and staff the foundation on which we build dependable and sustainfunctions. The company is publicly owned, with the City of able business relationships. Frankfurt holding 60 percent and the State of Hesse 40 percent. Covering an area of around 592,127 square metres, With our brands, events and social commitment, we are Messe Frankfurt’s exhibition grounds at its home venue as much at home in key international hubs as at our own accommodate ten halls and two congress centres. Frankfurt base. Our employees, partners, associations, exhibitors and visitors all accompany us along the road to * Preliminary figures for 2015 sustainable success. Thus the record sales figure of approx. 645* million euros is directly attributable to the high level of commitment of over 2,297* employees on five continents. At the 132* events held around the world, we welcomed 89,900* exhibitors and more than 4* million visitors. Together we are moving forward into the future. In this >645 million euros context, we are continuously modernising our exhibition grounds at our home base in Frankfurt, strengthening digital SALES business and working around the globe to ensure people happily keep finding their way back to our international marketplaces. With a global network of 29 subsidiaries and some 57 international sales partners, we are ready to 132 support our customers in more than 160 countries around TRADE FAIRS the world. WORLDWIDE Our business activities are focused on the organisation and implementation of trade fairs, exhibitions and conventions. Our activities are grouped into five business segments. In the Consumer Goods & Leisure business segment, Ambiente, Christmasworld and Paperworld are the most important meeting places for the consumer goods sector. When present in >160 it comes to Textiles & Textile Technologies, our Heimtextil, Techtextil, Texprocess and Texcare are the international highlights in the textiles sector. Among the Group’s classic events are its technology-oriented trade fairs from the fields of Technology & Production and Mobility & Logistics: COUNTRIES Automechanika, Light+Building, IFFA and ISH. Musikmesse and Prolight+Sound are leading trade fairs in the Consumer Goods & Entertainment segment. We also offer our customers a wide range of supporting services for all aspects of their event – including logistics, > 2,297 stand construction, catering, cleaning, publishing and digital services. EMPLOYEES 4 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Our philosophy With our trade fairs we create meeting places for not only at our base in Frankfurt, but all around the personal dialogues, business transactions and world. We strive to develop creative trade fair exchanges of ideas. We want to inspire people and concepts and a motivating working environment. provide a platform for their visions, projects and We want to ensure that our staff enjoy working for innovations. us. Social, economic and ecological aspects of sustainability are at the heart of all we do. In all of this, our goal is to provide lasting added value for our business environment, for society and We undertake a commitment to act responsibly for our employees. We feel strong ties to the local and to safeguard the long-term development of our city and region at all of our company locations – company. Acting today for the benefit of tomorrow The foundation of all we do lies in over 775 years centre. The City and the exhibition centre form a of trade fair history and is based on a close associasymbiotic partnership, and this is reflected in tion with the City of Frankfurt and the State of Messe Frankfurt’s commitment throughout the Hesse, today’s shareholders. Time and again, our region. Our trade fairs influence whole industries trade fairs at our home venue have helped to spark and showcase which themes and products are progress, playing a key role in the development of shaping the future. Frankfurt into a prosperous international trading Focus on partnership It is our firm belief that the best way to attain Charter of Diversity initiative. Since 2013, Congress ambitious goals is through joint effort. This is why Frankfurt has been supporting the “fairpflichtet – Messe Frankfurt participates in sustainability right and fair” industry code for the sustainable networks such as the United Nations Global organisation and implementation of events. These Compact, to which it signed up in 2010. As a public efforts are supplemented by continuous company operating in an international arena, stakeholder engagement and by participation in diversity is an integral component of our corporate German and international trade fair association culture. Messe Frankfurt demonstrates its committask groups. ment in this area through its participation in the 5 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 CSR focus areas We group our wide-ranging CSR activities into four special logo, we are able to further increase the areas of activity: Environment/Sustainability, Social focus on sustainability while also raising awareResponsibility, Education/Science and Commitment ness for this issue. In all our initiatives we attach to Culture. By designating our activities in these great importance to long-term impact, transparareas with the “simply sustainable” slogan and a ency and credibility. Social Responsibility Environment/ For Messe Frankfurt, Social Sustainability Responsibility begins at home. We see ourselves as a reliable partner – around the world and on In the field of Environment/Sustain­ our own doorstep. We support ability we are implementing numerous social institutions at our business measures to conserve resources and locations and offer better-thanprotect our environment, such as the average working conditions. energy-efficient development of our exhibition grounds. Education / Science Education/Science is an area in which Commitment Messe Frankfurt has been taking to Culture specific, long-term steps – for example with its endowment of the Messe Frankfurt Professorship for International Commitment to Culture at Messe Economic Policy at Frankfurt’s Johann Frankfurt is expressed in cooperation Wolfgang Goethe University, underscorand support for cultural institutions ing the importance of knowledge and and events. Our focus is on the qualification for our Group. fields of art and music. For many years we have sponsored the Schirn Kunsthalle in Frankfurt as well as the Rheingau Music Festival. 6 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Sustainability in figures Bees | Source – shutterstock, Bjoern Alberts >350,000 BEES ON THE EXHIBITION GROUNDS 350,000 bees for the good of sustainability In 2015, more than 350,000 bees moved into the The beehive is a company-owned city apiary. Messe Frankfurt exhibition grounds. Messe FrankUrban beekeeping is an expression of a conscious furt is now home to six bee colonies residing in urban lifestyle in which public awareness of bees quiet parts of the exhibition grounds. has once again grown. While in rural areas bees are threatened by pesticides and monocultures, Between 40 and 60 kilograms of honey is expected in cities the milder climate and lower pressure to be harvested per colony per year. The extracted on food production provide a suitable habitat. honey is a 100 percent natural product. The honey A further four colonies are planned for the grounds is produced using a self-turning honey extractor soon, bringing the total number of beehives on operated with power from a proprietary wind and the exhibition grounds to ten. solar power system New Hall 12 Today, the Frankfurt exhibition grounds cover an looking for ways to enhance energy efficiency and area of 592,127 square metres, with ten exhibition conserve resources. 2015 saw the start of construchalls and two congress centres, making Messe tion of the new Hall 12. In order to maximise use Frankfurt one of the largest exhibition centres in of more efficient hall technology, Hall 6 and the the world. Nevertheless, in the ongoing developGalleria Entrance have also been modernised. ment of the exhibition grounds we are continually Rendering Hall 12 | Source – kadawittfeldarchitektur 7 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 1,100 kWp GREEN ENERGY 1,100 kWp green electricity production The utilisation of innovative technologies has also grounds since 2009. Their total output of more allowed us to make our own contribution to than 1,100 kWp of green electricity is sufficient to sustainable power generation. For example, as part meet the needs of up to 350 households. It is of a public-private partnership we have been planned to install a further photovoltaic system as operating photovoltaic systems on the exhibition part of the construction of the new Hall 12. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 10 % up to 2020 In order to reduce our consumption of electricity, targets last year that are aimed at reducing pollutant water and heating energy, we use special software emissions by 10 percent up to 2020. Within the to register and monitor all energy consumption at scope of regular energy monitoring, the responsible the exhibition grounds. This provides instant inforenergy team reviews existing processes, identifies mation on current energy consumption and shows potential for optimisation and defines new mea­ where there is room for improvement. The software sures. Under the requirements of the EU directive on is part of a systematic energy management system. energy efficiency, energy audits were performed at In this context, the company defined strategic two locations in the reporting period. 90 % of all waste fed back into the material cycle We try to avoid producing waste wherever possible. cated efforts to separate and recycle waste. We But where waste is unavoidable, we ensure it is ensure that as much as 90 percent of the waste correctly disposed of and, where possible, recycled. generated at the Frankfurt exhibition grounds each Husbanding resources responsibly includes dediyear is fed back into the material cycle. 90% OF ALL WASTE FED BACK INTO THE MATERIAL CYCLE 8 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Sustainability within the company 110 STAFF BIKES Electric mobility | Source – Messe Frankfurt GmbH, Marc Jacquemin Low-emission mobility and logistics One of the foundations of our environmentally to reduce the volume of event-related traffic at friendly mobility is our location, which boasts the exhibition grounds. We also offer a barrier-free optimum transport connections. In addition, access and connection network that provides practical combined tickets allow exhibitors and mobility-impaired visitors with the freedom of visitors to use public transport free of charge for movement they need. many of our events at the Frankfurt exhibition centre. At the exhibition grounds electric rechargIn order to keep the environmental impact of ing points enable our customers to recharge their travelling to and from work to a minimum, Messe vehicles for free. We are also promoting electric Frankfurt subsidises a staff job ticket for use on mobility for our own business travel with the the Rhine-Main public transport system. In 2015, introduction of the first electric cars in Messe Messe Frankfurt was certified by the bike+business Frankfurt’s fleet in 2015. In cooperation with initiative as a bike-friendly company. The company Deutsche Bahn, we encourage environmentally provides more than 110 bikes to assist staff with friendly train travel for journeying to Messe getting around the exhibition grounds. Frankfurt. An integrated logistics concept helps Doing good together One of the focuses of our social commitment to a As part of the KreativArt initiative, over 70 internasustainable future is support of charitable organisational companies – a quarter of all the exhibitors at tions for children and young people. Together with Creativeworld – donated handicraft materials. Children for a better World e.V. we are working to Some 70 child and youth organisations from all combat child poverty in Germany. This initiative has over Frankfurt were invited to choose what they made it possible to provide children from the local need – and often lack the money to buy – from partner organisation in Frankfurt’s Gallus district among the materials donated. with a daily lunch and a balanced diet. 9 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Award-winning work-life balance We want our staff to enjoy working for us, so we and work-related matters as part of the Employee strive to provide them with the best possible support. Assistance Programme. At our Frankfurt base, we work with external partners to deliver professional assistance that Messe Frankfurt’s better-than-average working enables staff to better reconcile a career and family conditions place the company among Germany’s life. Since 2008, working parents have been able to top employers in 2016. This is the result of an fall back on an emergency childcare service – this independent survey conducted by the German service steps in to help if their regular childcare news magazine FOCUS. Parameters for the survey becomes unavailable. Furthermore, since 2012 included an evaluation of the workplace, leadership employees have been able to take advantage of style, atmosphere and career prospects. professional and confidential advice on personal Individual staff development Basic and advanced training plays an important We offer our employees a broad range of basic and role at Messe Frankfurt. We are currently providing advanced training options based on a systematic 24 trainees with comprehensive professional study. In 2015 alone, over 700 employees at our training that will give them a solid foundation for Frankfurt base took part in oneand multi-day their future careers. In addition to three different seminars and workshops. In this way, we not only training occupations, we also offer a dual degree promote identification with the company, but also course in three areas of specialisation in cooperaenhance the quality of the workforce. tion with the Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University. Health comes first Healthy employees are one of the most important exercises and self-defence training to help protect prerequisites for our corporate success. That’s our employees against accidents and diseases. why Messe Frankfurt helps to actively promote its Physical exercise and interaction among colleagues employees’ fitness, physical and personal wellare also fostered in the company’s sports groups. being with the Messe Vital occupational health In the running segment, participation in the J. P. programme. This programme provides a broad Morgan Corporate Challenge and the Frankfurt range of information, prevention and consultation Marathon have become fixed dates on the calendar. services. During the period covered by the present In 2016, a six-month professional running training Communication on Progress, for example, Messe programme is being offered for all employees, Frankfurt offered blood donor registration and setting a benchmark for Group-wide fitness and colectoral cancer screenings. The programme also team spirit. offers seminars on nutrition, massages, back Integrity in day-to-day business Ethical principles and statutory as well as voluntary Messe Frankfurt continued to step up its efforts in commitments are the guiding principle behind all our this area. Employee participation in online offerings, actions. We firmly believe that sustained corporate aligning Group-wide processes and regulations and success can only be achieved by following the ongoing development of the Compliance Managerules. Messe Frankfurt therefore strives to combat ment System raise awareness of this issue in corruption and bribery. During the reporting period day-to-day business. 10 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Sustainability at our events Accente Services | Source – Pietro Sutera Greener trade fair participation We want to support our customers in improving on hand to advise on and monitor waste reduction the green credentials of their trade fair participation. and separation. Ahead of the fair, exhibitors receive We are therefore continuously developing our a GreenCheck brochure with tips on greener trade exhibition grounds and services to make them fair participation. This is complemented by the more resource and environmentally friendly. Green Catering offering from our Accente catering subsidiary. All food is sourced from regional For example, our admission tickets also include free suppliers from Frankfurt and the surrounding use of the local public transportation system. For region. Exact portioning, waste avoidance and use those journeying to Messe Frankfurt by car, we of certified tableand glassware are part of a provide free recharging points to encourage electriregional and seasonal food and beverage solution. cal mobility. At each fair, up to 20 consultants are Sustainability as a trade fair theme With special exhibitions, workshops and publicaIn the Technology & Production business segment, tions we inform visitors and exhibitors of relevant Messe Frankfurt organises nearly 70 events developments in their industries and thus help to world­wide. At Light + Building, the leading internaprovide a platform for all aspects of sustainability. tional fair for lighting and building technology, Eco-fashion has become a fixed focal point in the the focus in 2016 was on smart connectivity and textiles industry. Twice a year within the context efficient energy management. The special E-House of the Berlin Fashion Week, Messe Frankfurt show demonstrated how we will be living in the organises the Greenshowroom and Ethical Fashion future. On an area of 100 square metres, the model Show Berlin for sustainable high-end fashion and house realistically shows how sustainability can be streetwear. Growth in the number of visitors and integrated into the everyday lives of end users. The exhibitors as well as evident interest in these Building Future Award honours personalities from events reflects the increasing importance of, and the world of research and development who have rising demand for, sustainable fashion. helped lay the foundations for the sustainable future of our society. The Award draws the attention Since 2015 we have supported the integration of of society and the media to sustainable, futuresustainability in conventional retail channels by oriented projects. specifically identifying exhibition stands of exhibitors with particularly green and ethical credentials. During Ambiente and Tendence these are listed in the Ethical Style Guide, and for Heimtextil in the Green Directory. An appointed jury decides which companies are included in the Guide. Special tours and brochures guide through the event. The idea is to improve orientation and transparency. More detailed information about current developments is available in the Sustainability & Textiles newsletter, which interested parties can subscribe to free of charge at sustainability-texpertise-network.com. Ethical Fashion Show | Source – Thomas Lohnes / Getty Images 11 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Pioneer of sustainable conventions Messe Frankfurt is also a pioneer of sustainable, received Platinum Certification – the highest possisocially and environmentally compatible conble accolade – for its high ecological and social gresses and conventions. In 2015, 148 congresses standards. The building is run entirely on green and conventions were hosted at our exhibition power. Recyclable materials, ecological cleaning, grounds. A focus on energy efficiency and the energy-saving lighting and event technology are sustainable use of resources has become almost a just some of the aspects worth mentioning. matter of course when organising and implementNo wonder, then, that in early 2015 Kap Europa ing such events. The Kap Europa congress centre played host to the Green Meetings und Events opened two years ago was the first convention Conference. This event showcases the development building worldwide to be sustainably designed of measures and guidelines for entrepreneurial throughout its entire life cycle – from building and responsibility in the event industry. The organisers operation, through to dismantling. Having already of the conference are also the initiators of the been awarded Gold Certification by the German industry code “fairpflichtet – right and fair”. Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) during the Messe Frankfurt is among the signatories of the construction phase, in October 2015 the building statement of support. Kap Europa | Source – Messe Frankfurt GmbH, Pietro Sutera 12 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 Awareness – transcending borders Messe Frankfurt’s global CSR commitment Italy: The theme of EXPO 2015 in Milan was “Feeding the For the entire six months of the Expo, Germany Planet, Energy for Life” and aimed to find answers to presented itself as an active, fertile landscape of the future challenges posed by global nutrition. ideas and solutions – derived from a new and Messe Frankfurt organised and ran the German responsible interaction with nature. As part of the pavilion at EXPO 2015 on behalf of the Federal concept, the pavilion was completely dismantled Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWi). and the site returned to its original state. USA: The social commitment of our employees outside of The subsidiary also organised a walking contest working hours – known as Corporate Volunteering – lasting several weeks. The goal was to do at least was impressively demonstrated in 2015 by our 10,000 steps a day. The goal was achieved in 14 colleagues in Atlanta. As part of a fund raising cam­ weeks, with more than 23 million steps in total. paign to support victims of the floods in South Carolina, our employees organised an entire truckload In the course of the last reporting period, certified of donations in kind. Last year they also actively training courses were also held on anti-discrimination supported HOPE Lodge, an establishment for cancer and anti-corruption. patients. South Africa: Equality and protection against discrimination are equal economic opportunities on the South African basic human rights. We champion adherence to these labour market. Messe Frankfurt’s South African human rights around the world. The broad-based subsidiary, which opened its doors in 2014, therefore economic empowerment programme aims to achieve also implements the programme. 13 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 LED Wall | Source – Light + Building, Marc Jacquemin India: Messe Frankfurt India is supporting the inhabitants the major challenges facing the world in future. of Sunder Nagri, New Delhi’s biggest slum, with a Finding solutions to these challenges demands special training offering for art and handicrafts. innovative ideas and high-impact campaigns. Our Participants have the possibility to acquire new colleagues from the Indian subsidiary initiated two knowledge and skills or brush up on old ones. They campaigns in Delhi and Mumbai during the last produce hand-made cushions or knitted bags. The reporting period aimed at utilising LED lighting and training lasts two months. The results of their work saving water. To bring the message home, bestare being exhibited at a special show within the practice tips and advice were illustrated graphically scope of Heimtextil & Ambiente India in June 2016. on posters. Access to clean drinking water, waste disposal and dwindling reserves of fossil fuels are but a few of Hong Kong: ECO EXPO Asia 2015 took place in Hong Kong for the tenth time and thus underscored the increasing importance of environmental technology. The focus is on the development of technologies and solu­ tions to improve the quality of air and water, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and green building solutions. With more than 70 technology trade fairs worldwide, Messe Frankfurt provides a platform for these cutting-edge fields. ECO Expo Asia | Source – Messe Frankfurt (HK) Ltd 14 UN Global Compact 2015 / 2016 The UN Global Compact’s ten principles Human rights 01: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 02: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Environment 07: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 08: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 09: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour 03: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 04: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 05: the effective abolition of child labour; and 06: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Anti-corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Messe Frankfurt GmbH Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Tel. +49 69 75 75-56 66 csr@messefrankfurt.com www.messefrankfurt.com Responsibility for content under German press law Iris Jeglitza-Moshage Editor-in-chief Lisa Tatjana Fischer
