MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 One MOL , One Goal Top Management Commitment CONTENTS Editorial Policy 1 13 Face up to Social Issues, Expand Business while Reducing Stress on Top Management Commitment 2 MOL Group’s Business Summary 5 CSR Society and the Environment MOL Group’s Management and CSR Initiatives 7 31 CSR Activities Results (FY2015) and Targets (FY2016) 11 Special Feature 1 Making Effective Use of ICT (IoT/Big Data) 13 Critical Issues Safe Operation 37 Safe Operation 15 The Environment Environmental Initiatives 21 Environmental Activities Results (FY2015) and Targets 23 (FY2016) Addressing Environmental Issues with Advanced 27 Technologies Special Feature 2 Environmental Dialogue: Aiming for Editorial Policy 31 Leadership in Environment Protection To emphasize MOL Group’s worldwide leadership in safe operation, it has changed the name of the report's title to Safety, Environmental and Social Report. The report provides a detailed explanation of the Human Resources Development actions taken on those issues and data on the results based on the five critical issues that MOL identified, as well as background Human Resources Development 33 information on the role of ocean shipping and the challenges it faces. The Annual Report and the Safety, Environmental and Social Diversity, Work-life Balance, Development of Work Report have different contents. While the former mainly targets 36 Mitsui O.S.K, Ltd. Environment shareholders and other investors, the latter is for customers and President & CEO Special Feature 3 MOL to Establish Maritime Academy in the other stakeholders. Please refer to QR codes or URLs for related Philippines 37 topics in the Annual Report. Junichiro Ikeda The MOL Group’s Role and Responsibility in Society Social Contribution Activities Period FY2015 (April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016). (Some information is from outside Special Feature 4 Volunteer Activities in Flood-ravaged Area of Joso City 39 the report period and as such will be denoted with asterisks and footnotes.) Scope Contribute to Worldwide Economic Growth by Adding Value MOL Group’s Social Contribution Activities: Connecting with the World 41 In principle, all MOL Group companies that do business in Japan and overseas. (Activities and data that are limited in scope are reported with through Ocean Shipping asterisks and footnotes.) * The MOL Group The MOL Group, with international shipping at its core, has helped people around the world enjoy more Data Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd., 362 consolidated subsidiaries, 76 equity prosperous lives and promoted the growth of local industries by transporting the products and commodities method affiliates and other affiliated companies. essential to daily life. Our company serves as a lifeline to the world economy and global society. In the future, * “The company” in this report refers to Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (MOL). worldwide population growth and economic development in emerging nations will fuel new demand for transport. MOL Group’s Environmental Data 43 Reference Guidelines Thus, with a greater role as the arteries of global commerce, more responsibilities will be required for international • Environmental Report Guidelines 2012, Japanese Ministry of the MOL Human Resource Data 44 Environment shipping services. Our group’s Corporate Principles clearly state that it contributes to global economic growth • Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Japanese Ministry of the and development, anticipating the needs of our customers and the challenges of this new era as a multi-modal Third-party Opinion 45 Environment transport group. We believe that our group’s social responsibility, and indeed our raison d’etre, is to embody • GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) (GRI Guidelines Version 4) those principles. With management focused on this principle, our group continues to create new values through Issue Date External Recognition 46 July 2016 (Previous issue: July 2015; Next issue: July 2017 (scheduled)) leadership of the international shipping industry and sustainable growth in step with society based on the understanding that corporate activities themselves are corporate social responsibilities. 1 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 2 Top Management Commitment MOL Group’s Key Priorities level of security they demand. Year 2016 marks the 10th Human Resources Development Responding to Global Risks and Social Issues year since four serious marine incidents occurred in 2006. We must once again take the importance of safe MOL Group Success Depends on People Face up to Social Issues Identify 5 Key Priorities to Ensure operation to heart, and set our sights on achieving the Since people build long-term trust relationship with Worldwide economic growth, a more borderless Sustainable Ocean Shipping “Four Zeroes” (Zero serious marine accidents, Zero oil society and customers, the human factor is the driving society, climate change, depletion of various resources, Corporate initiatives on social and environmental issues pollution, Zero fatal accidents, and Zero serious cargo force behind our group’s growth, and the source of value human rights issues, poverty and economic inequality, have a greater impact on business and corporate value damage). creation and added value. Since I became president & and political instability — all of these combine to create every year. The MOL Group, which has established a global CEO, I have emphasized creating a workplace where complex, interconnected global risks. More frequent business network centering on international shipping, has Environmental Conservation all employees can maximize personal and professional natural disasters are compounded by these risks. a great variety of stakeholders all over the world. Naturally, development. Thanks to various measures including Economic and social ills also give rise to piracy, which we recognize the importance of doing business while Setting a Course toward More Aggressive diversity and work life balance, and promoting the threatens the safe operation of the merchant fleet, the firmly grasping how our activities affect society. Our group Environmental Management adoption of “MOL CHART,” which was introduced key principle of the MOL Group’s business. Clearly, has identified five issues – “safe operation,” “environmental Ocean shipping is regarded as an environment-friendly in April 2015 to express the MOL Group’s common our group cannot ignore these issues. Generally, conservation,” “governance,” “compliance,” and “human means of mass transport from the standpoints of energy values. I have seen steady progress in reforming our such social issues are considered as obstructions for resources development” – as key priorities to ensure efficiency and prevention of air pollution. On the other organizational climate and building awareness of our corporate activities. However, instead, we believe that the sustainability of the ocean shipping industry and hand, as an industry it generates massive amounts of social responsibilities. I want to continually create addressing social issues is the corporate responsibility promotes corporate activities related to those issues. CO2 through vessel exhaust emissions. In other words, opportunities to think about MOL CHART until it and the absolute minimum requirement for corporations “Safe operation” is the highest priority among all these even as our industry contributes to worldwide economic nourishes employees, body and soul, so they can put to stay in business. issues, a lapse in safety that causes a marine incident has growth by efficiently transporting commodities and the MOL CHART values into practice in day-to-day the greatest impact on society and the environment, as products, it has a significant negative impact on the business operations. I look forward continually nurturing Cooperate with Stakeholders and well as a significant impact on earnings. environment. Thinking about how continued worldwide personnel who fully recognize their social responsibilities economic growth will drive new demand for shipping, it and can create common value with society. Solve Social Issues is indispensable that we continue our efforts to reduce Safe Operation In September 2015, the United Nations General that impact. We consider initiatives on the environment Toward Further Growth of the MOL Group Assembly adopted Sustainable Development Goals Forge Ahead to Become the World Leader in as business opportunities, and as a strategy that gives (SDGs) toward 2030, and in December of the same Safe Operation through Enhancement of BBS us a competitive advantage. We will take the helm and year, the new framework convention on climate change In July 2015, a fire broke out aboard the ferry Sunflower set a course toward truly reducing our impact on the Make More Advanced Use of IT and (the Paris Agreement) was adopted at COP21. The Daisetsu off Tomakomai, Hokkaido. Tragically, this environment by promoting aggressive environmental Other Technologies international community is demanding a cooperation for incident took the life of one of our crewmembers, a management. I think the key to growth in the ocean shipping industry a sustainable society. We must pay particular attention fact that far overshadows the inconvenience to our is get closer to our goals of safe operation and to human rights related issue more than ever before. customers or the impact on our business results. 70% Governance, Compliance environmental friendliness through more advanced The MOL Group is the first shipping group to participate to 80% of marine incidents are caused by human use of the Internet of Things (IoT), Information and in the UN-backed Global Compact, and since then has error, so we are working to enhance Behavior Based Etch the Importance of Ethical Conduct into Our Communication Technology (ICT) such as big data, and supported and practiced its universal principles. The Safety (BBS), a concept we introduced in fiscal 2014, Brains other technologies. So we established the IT Strategy MOL Group must also strive to address the issues to eliminate dangerous behaviors. In addition, safety If corporations are to achieve sustainable growth, I Committee and the Technology, Innovation and raised in the Modern Slavery Act 2015 enacted by the is not the mission for officers and mariners at sea believe that compliance, among all management issues, Environment Committee to focus on those two themes. U.K. We will take a proactive stance to lead the growth alone – all executives and employees including landmust be the first priority. We accepted our responsibility I personally take part in both committees in a proactive of a sustainable society in cooperation not only within based personnel need to pay attention to “safety” and for violating the Japanese Antimonopoly Act in 2014, manner and carry on discussions about our ideal for our group, but among our stakeholders, including “security” first. We think this is the first step in creating and since then we continued to take a comprehensive the MOL Group. We will work swiftly to flesh out these suppliers, as well. a corporate culture that can promise our customers the approach to ensuring that we never repeat such an strategies to push the further growth of the MOL Group. offense. All executives and employees must etch the importance of compliance into their brains until not violating rules becomes second nature, as if corporate Challenge Innovative Changes with governance runs through their veins. Ethical conduct the Spirit of “One MOL, One Goal” must become deeply rooted as our group’s corporate The MOL Group has been tossed up and down by culture, I practice it myself with tenacious determination myriad raging waves, but has overcome each wave continue to urge all group executives and employees with creativity, ingenuity, and the unified efforts of the to do the same. In addition, we worked to improve entire company, and it has grown to become one of our corporate governance through the creation of the world’s largest multi-modal ocean shipping groups. Nomination Advisory Committee and Remuneration In the current era, when it is so difficult for companies Advisory Committee to gain greater trust from our to differentiate themselves, and when we face so many stakeholders. Other approaches to enhanced corporate social issues that must be addressed on a global scale, government include formulating a method to assess the we cannot sit back and rely on past methods and overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors. successful experiences. Our challenge is to realize “an excellent and resilient MOL Group.” Now, with the spirit of “One MOL, One Goal,” we will strive to deepen and expand our trusting relationships with customers and drive innovative changes to create a bright new future. 3 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 4 MOL Group’s Business Summary A Multimodal Ocean Shipping Group Holding One of the World’s Largest, Business summary by segment Financial section MOL Group Japan/overseas networks Most Diversified Business Portfolios MOL Group Fleet Scale The business of the MOL Group centers on international ocean shipping, and supports people’s livelihood and industries around the world through the transport of resources, energy, raw materials, finished products, and other goods. Playing an indispensable role in the sustainable growth of the world economy, the MOL Group meets the needs of the times while carefully addressing environmental issues and social needs in its business activities. 883 vessels (As of March 2016) Bulkships Containerships/Terminal Business Ferries/Coastal Liner Ro-Ro Ship Business Associated Businesses Dry Bulkers Coal Carriers Tankers LNG Carriers Offshore Business Car Carriers The MOL Group containerships Domestically, the MOL Group Cruise ships, tugboats, land Dry bulkers transport large The Coal Carrier Division The very large crude oil Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Taking advantage of the Ever since MOL launched the first ply a worldwide network of routes, contributes to the reduction transport, warehousing, and quantities of ore, grain, wood develops businesses with carriers (VLCCs) that is drawing considerable experience accumulated in pure car carrier in Japan, the MOL transporting a wide array of of CO2 emissions in Japan’s maritime consulting are just a chip, cement, fertilizer, and power companies in Japan, transport crude oil, the attention as a clean energy energy transport with LNG Group has set the pace in operation products and general goods such overall logistics industry, not only few of the ocean-shipping related salt, as bulk cargoes without mainly under midand longproduct tankers that carry source, and demand has carriers and tankers, the of pure car carriers, which can as electric appliances, automobile by supporting livelihoods and business fields the MOL Group any kind of packaging. The term contracts. As a result petroleum products, the been increasing all over the MOL Group is also proactively efficiently transport all kinds of parts and components, clothes, industries, but also by taking is engaged in. Still other MOL MOL Group is enhancing its of the recent restructuring chemical tankers that carry world. With one of the world’s engaged in offshore business vehicles, from passenger cars to furniture, and food. a proactive stance in meeting businesses include travel, marine/ competitiveness to ensure of MOL’s business divisions, liquid chemical products, leading LNG carrier fleets, projects including FPSOs construction machinery. We meet the needs of the “Modal Shift,” civil engineering, office building that we can reliably meet the Coal Carrier Division the LPG tankers that carry the MOL Group ensures and FSRUs for offshore the needs of automakers whose In addition, we are proactively promotes the use of transport leasing, property management, customers’ cargo transport is now part of the Energy liquefied petroleum gas, and the safe transport of this production and storage of production centers and markets developing our terminal business, modes that offer a reduced finance, trading, insurance, IT needs, while significantly Transport Business Unit, so on, are all part of our vital commodity based on crude oil and natural gas, now span the entire world, with which is part of the container environmental impact, through systems and telecommunications, downsizing its fleet. the new organization that tanker fleet, which is one advanced technology and areas where we anticipate safe, reliable transport services. transport value chain, as a tool to Japan’s largest network of car ferry staffing, and supporting a national meets diversified customer of the largest in the world. expertise built up over strong future growth. diversify our services. and coastal services. program to build an emergency oil needs along with MOL The MOL Group serves as decades of successful stockpile. Our group has developed * Photo courtesy: MODEC, Inc. a wide variety of associated Coastal Shipping, Ltd., which a global lifeline to keep the operation. operates bulkship in service world moving. businesses that support our groupin Japan. wide comprehensive strength, centering on ocean shipping. Relationship between MOL and Stakeholders Procurers (shipyards) MOL (crewmembers/employees) Industry (customers) Society (end consumers/communities/government) 5 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 6 MOL Group’s Management and CSR Initiatives Aiming to Become a Company that Grows Sustainably in Harmony with Society MOL’s basic stance toward corporate social responsibility (CSR) is expressed in the MOL Group Corporate Principles. To put the principles into concrete form, the MOL Group meets global transport demand through its daily business CSR activities. We strive to become a company that grows sustainably in harmony with society by moving forward on CSR initiatives to strengthen the business base. In April 2015, to ensure our sustainable growth, we introduced MOL CHART, expressing the core values embraced by all MOL Group employees. Special Feature MOL Group Corporate Principles Objectives and Organizational Structure of CSR Initiatives with the president as the chief executive officer — play a central role As a multi-modal transport group, we will: The MOL Group has a wide variety of stakeholders around the world, since it does business on a global scale, centered on its core business in setting CSR-related policies and measures. actively contribute to global economic growth and development, anticipating the needs of our customers and the challenges of this new era of ocean shipping. CSR focuses on conducting business management Safe Operation strive to maximize corporate value through creativity, operating efficiency and promotion of ethical that appropriately takes into account laws and regulations, social and transparent management ethics, safety and environmental issues, human rights, and other Committees Setting CSR-related Policies and Measures nurture and protect the natural environment by maintaining the highest standards of operational considerations. We believe we can develop our business sustainably, Name Function safety and navigation in step with society, benefiting all or stakeholders and earning their support and trust. Identify priority issues related to MOL Group’s overall CSR Committee CSR (materiality assessment), discuss those policies, In addition, the MOL Group Corporate Principles state that the Group set targets, and review achievements Long-term Vision will contribute to global economic growth as multi-modal transport The Environment Study and discuss basic policies and measures to group. Realizing these principles is the foundation of all MOL Group Operational Safety To develop the MOL Group into an excellent and resilient organization CSR activities. Committee ensure the thoroughness of safe operation on MOLand MOL Group-operated vessels that leads the world shipping industry Three committees under the control of the Executive Committee — Develop the group’ s compliance system and take action on compliance violations, and discuss related policies and Compliance Committee measures related to as well as basic policies and measures covering the protection of personal information. MOL CHART, expressing the core values embraced by all MOL Group employees. Human Resources Development Challenge Participating in the UN Global Compact Innovate through insight 10 Principles of the Global Compact With business activities spread across Honesty H the globe, the MOL Group believes that Principle 1: The support and respect of the protection of international Human Rights human rights; Do the right thing building good relationships with various Principle 2: Social Contribution Activities stakeholders worldwide and contributing Accountability A The refusal to participate or condone human rights abuses. to the realization of sustainable growth Principle 3: WE SUPPORT Network Japan The support freedom of association and the recognition of the Commit to acting with a sense of ownership of society are vital as it seeks to WE SUPPORT right to collective bargaining; realize the ideas set forth in the MOL Principle 4: Reliability R Group Corporate Principles. In order to Labour The abolition of compulsory labor; Principle 5: Gain the trust of customers contribute to an international framework for realizing these goals, The abolition of child labor; MOL became the first Japanese shipping company to participate in Principle 6: Teamwork the United Nations Global Compact in 2005. Since then, MOL has The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Build a strong team worked to support and practice the 10 principles in 4 areas of the UN Principle 7: The implementation of a precautionary and effective program Global Compact, which shares the same values as MOL's Rules of to environmental issues; Conduct, which were established as a set of guidelines for executives Environment Principle 8: The introduction of MOL CHART is aimed at achieving the company's long-term vision — To make the MOL Group Initiatives that demonstrate environmental responsibility; and employees. Data Principle 9: an excellent and resilient organization that leads the world shipping industry — and enhance its corporate value by The promotion of the diffusion of environmentally friendly strengthening and concentrating its comprehensive group-wide efforts. technologies. Principle 10: Anti-Corruption The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 7 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 8 MOL Group’s Management and CSR Initiatives Corporate Governance Thoroughness of Compliance Initiatives on Anti-corruption committee meetings to implement and evaluate efforts MOL established “Mitsui O.S.K. Lines’ Anti-Corruption on human rights issues, discrimination, and harassment Basic Concept On March 18, 2014, the Japan Fair Trade Commission Policy in October 2015 to eliminate bribery and excessive through dialogues between crewmembers and onboard (JFTC) found that the MOL Group had violated Article 3 of business entertaining of public servants as well as those compliance officers. MOL continually strives to bolster its corporate governance the Japanese Antimonopoly Act in certain car carrier shipping outside the government. That ensures that we “Build good to ensure sustainable growth and maximize midand longrelationships based on trust with clients and contractors,” trades. The MOL Group has taken measures to reinforce its Basic Procurement Policy term group corporate value. The corporate value is based as stated in the Compliance Policy. compliance efforts, including reform of its corporate culture on the group corporate philosophy and long-term vision, to ensure that the importance of compliance – as the major MOL also held a new session featuring an overview of To fulfill our responsibility as a corporate group that plays as well as the values set out in the midterm management premise of all corporate activities – is etched deeply into the anti-bribery laws and regulations in Japan and overseas a part in our customers’ supply chains, we introduced CSR plan. minds of all executives and employees. for executives and employees. the “MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy.” That outlines The ocean shipping business environment and risk The Compliance Committee, chaired by the Chief our stance on CSR activities related to MOL Group’s factors change rapidly. As we set our course, we must Compliance Officer, meets every three months to monitor Information Security Measures procurement systems. We strive to contribute to the accurately grasp business environment, always confront our compliance. realization of sustainable societies together by complying Special Feature The MOL Group Rules of Conduct clearly state: “Protect with laws and regulations covering supply chains, as well risks appropriately, and effectively utilize our management Initiatives on Compliance with the Antitrust Act confidential information and respect intellectual property as social norms, protecting the environment, doing our resources in a careful balance of offense and defense. While investigating the cause of the Antitrust Act violations, rights,” and the MOL Group Electronic Information Security utmost to ensure safety, promoting fair trade, and building We believe that the essentials of corporate governance Rules are aimed at putting this into practice. The rules set trust, while instilling this policy throughout the MOL Group it became apparent that we needed to revamp the MOL are fostering sustainable growth and increasing corporate Group’s corporate culture. To analyze the group’s current standards for managing electronic information handled and gaining the understanding and cooperation of our value by making decisions swiftly and boldly. They are corporate culture, we conduct a questionnaire survey of by the group, protecting various types of confidential business partners. guided by appropriate risk management, while ensuring the employees. information, and so on, reinforcing security to prevent MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy the transparency and fairness of management by carefully As a result of the survey, we developed a program leaks of corporate information and unauthorized access Safe Operation considering the viewpoints of our diverse stakeholders. under which the division GMs will foster a corporate from inside and outside the company. In addition, we regularly offer E-learning sessions to increase awareness 1. We comply with applicable laws, regulations and culture aimed at eliminating compliance violations. The social norms, and pay due consideration to the MOL Corporate Governance Organizational Structure program includes planning and executing improvement of this issue among group executives and employees. protection of the environment. At MOL, we believe that the optimal form of governance is measures such as building awareness of compliance within In October 2015, we established the My Number 2. We procure goods and/or services, including the to have the president serve as the chief executive officer to Management Rules as a result of the introduction of delivery or execution of such goods and/or services the divisions under their management and monitoring the My Number System in Japan in January 2016. We that meet high safety standards. execute business operations, backed by the supervisory achievements. assigned the Chief Compliance Officer as the Chief Officer 3. We conduct fair trade, and endeavor to establish function of the Board of Directors and the auditing function To create a more open organization, we hold bimonthly trusting relationships with contractors. for personal information management. The Environment of the Audit & Supervisory Board. dialogue meetings “Cross Talk Wednesday” in the We believe that the essence of corporate governance employee cafeteria, bringing together personnel from all Initiatives on Ship Construction lies not in its structure or organization, but in whether or not it levels – from the CEO to young employees. Initiatives on Human Rights Vessel procurement is one of the most important, MOL also held E-learning sessions about the Antitrust functions effectively. In 2015, we took initiatives aimed at further To build consciousness of human rights, we organize fundamental aspects of the MOL Group's business activities. Act and Competition Act to provide distance learning strengthening our corporate workshops and training sessions about human rightsWhen building ships, MOL asks shipbuilding contractors to targeting overseas group companies. About 9,700 Human Resources Development governance e.g. enhancing [Please refer to the related issues, distribute information about human rights, incorporate specifications compliant with the MOL Safety annual report for employees in Japan and overseas took the E-learning Standard Specifications, which prescribe the company's the auditing function of the participate in lectures inside and outside the company, corporate governance session. We made the Antimonopoly Act course safety and environmental quality standards. In addition, Board of Directors. and risk management.] and seek employees’ ideas for human rights slogans. mandatory for all personnel assigned to a new career level, MOL endeavors to enhance quality by dispatching ship In addition, we participate in the United Nations Global thus continually providing added programs for executives construction superintendents from MOL Group companies to Compact, supporting universal principles regarding human and employees every year. supervise the shipbuilding process, and also collaborates with 1. E  stablished the Nomination Advisory Committee and rights and labor and putting them into practice. shipbuilders to develop and introduce eco-friendly ships. With the Remuneration Advisory Committee E-learning Participation Rate (FY2015) [Please refer to page 8 for information about the Global Compact.] the aim of contributing towards the realization of sustainable Anti-corruption Information In addition, the treaty concerning the Maritime Labor Social Contribution Activities Antitrust Act or  urther vitalized the Board of Directors 2. F Competition Law (Anti-bribery) Internal Control Security societies together, while gaining their understanding of the Convention in 2006 (MLC2006), which stipulates the basic MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy. 3. R  eformed presidential selection process 98.8％ 97.8％ 95.6％ 94.4％ rights of crewmembers, sets forth the following four acts 4. C  hanged time to appoint management executives and * E-learning sessions about the Anti-monopoly Act or competition law and regarding human rights: restructure organizations anti-corruption were presented at MOL Group companies in Japan and Compliance Advisory Service Desks overseas. Sessions on internal control and information security were held only in Japan. 1. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association MOL has two Compliance Advisory Service Desks – Compliance Structure (As of July 2017) and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; internal and external – for group company employees. Executive Committee 2. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Outside attorneys are responsible for the external Report and/or Consult Investigate and report labor; desk, providing consultation and reporting issues to Feedback Chief Compliance Officer 3. The effective abolition of child labor; and the Compliance Committee Office. They handle follow4. The elimination of discrimination in respect of up contacts between persons reporting or seeking General Manager of the Internal Audit Office Compliance Committee employment and occupation. consultation on various issues related to the company. The desks also accept anonymous reports, strictly maintaining Data the confidentiality of anyone reporting an issue. In addition, Internal Compliance Advisory External Compliance Advisory Compliance Officers Service Desk Service Desk (General managers of divisions Our vessels adhere to onboard compliance guidelines, those who report a breach of compliance, and those who (Internal Audit Office) (Outside attorney) and offices) respect the four human rights as mentioned above, cooperate in related investigations are fully protected prohibit discrimination by religion, nationality, age, and from any reprisal. We also accept reports online for those gender, and establish procedures to address complaints of outside the group companies, i.e. business partners in Person reporting or seeking consultation on an issue harassment. They also hold monthly onboard compliance Japan and overseas. 9 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 10 CSR Activities Results (FY2015) and Targets (FY2016) The Midterm Aiming to achieve sustainable growth together with society and to respond to stakeholders’ trust by making Management Plan: all MOL Group executives and employees aware of our social responsibility and putting it into practice. Legend: ◎Achieved ○Generally achieved △Partially achieved ●Did not achieve (target period/content changes) CSR Targets in the Midterm Management Plan FY2015 Targets FY2015 Results Achievement FY2016 Single-year Targets Reference •• Issued reminders before/after the dates when past serious marine incidents occurred to make sure these incidents do not fade from memory. •• Introduced and explained the importance of achieving the “Four Zeroes,” and past cases and corrective measures at the Safety Conference, seafarer seminars, 1. Achieve “Four Zeroes,” i.e., an unblemished record in terms of serious marine incidents, oil pollution, fatal accidents, and cargo and safety campaigns, in the monthly report aimed at sharing information on safe operation, at pre-boarding meetings, and other opportunities. damage. •• Building awareness and establishing a corporate culture in which seafarers voluntarily think about specific ways to continually achieve the “Four Zeroes” and ● increase safe behavior, by promoting group discussions. •• Could not achieve “Four Zeroes” in FY2015 due to fatal workplace accidents that occurred on vessels operated by MOL and MOL Group companies. (FY2015 workplace fatality accidents) 1. Achieve Four Zeros (an unblemished record in terms of •• Work continues to prevent reoccurrence by horizontally disseminating information on reasons for halting operation on MOLand MOL Group-operated vessels, serious marine incidents, oil pollution, fatal accidents, and and measures to address those issues. cargo damage)as MOL group. 2. Achieve KPI targets for vessels owned by MOL ● •• Introduced and explained the past cases and measures at the Safety Conference, seafarer seminars, and safety campaigns, in the monthly report aimed at 2. Further reduce operational stoppage time per vessel (achieve operational stoppage time per vessel of 24 hours/year or less). (1) Reduce operational stoppage time per vessel (achieve sharing information on safe operation, at pre-boarding meetings, and other opportunities. operational stoppage time per vessel of 24 hours/year or CSR •• Building awareness and establishing a corporate culture in which seafarers voluntarily think about specific ways to continually achieve the “Four Zeroes” and increase safe behavior, by promoting group discussions. less) Supplying safe, secure and stable services is the (2) Reduce operational stoppage accident rate per vessel basis for earning stakeholders’ trust and becoming 3. Further reduce operational stoppage accident rate per vessel (achieve target operational stoppage accident rate of 1.00 incident per 1. Thoroughly implement their choice. By reminding ourselves once again that vessel/year or less). Same as above (0.99 incidents/vessel/year, achieved) ◎ (achieve target operational stoppage accident rate of 1.00 incident per vessel/year or less) safe operation and (3) LTIF (0.7 or less) provide safe, secure, marine shipping is a social mission as it supports 4. Improve seafarers’ occupational safety and health. Achieve LTIF (*1) 0.7 or less after making LTIF standards more stringent. Same as above (0.53, achieved) ◎ 3. With both land-based and seagoing employees, continue P.13-20 industries and the daily lives of people around the full-scale efforts to build awareness of the “Return to stable, high-quality services. world, we will strive to supply high-quality services, 5. Share near-miss and incident information using IT tools. Develop measures to prevent incidents by analyzing near-miss information. Promoted use of Shipnet (*2) to managed vessels, remedied problems, and shared near-miss information, which is circulated to encourage measures to prevent such incidents. ○ Basics” and “Behavior Based Safety” messages. which meet the requirements of the new era and 4. Expand use of IT system for effective utilization of data Special Feature contribute to the development of the world economy. •• Implement Safety Campaign at in-house ship management companies and manning companies, led by personnel from the Safety Operation Headquarters and related to incidents, to help prevent similar incidents in the 6. Extend targets of the safety campaign to MOL Group ship management and manning companies. Through visits by vessel inspectors local employees on a case-by-case basis. future. and marine superintendents, explain the background and reasoning behind operation manuals and seafarers’ responsibility to •• Inspectors and superintendents checked every operation manual during vessel visits. Land-based marine engineers also conducted these checks when visiting ○ 5. Fully review the content of Rank Step required duties, position by position, and its operational system. prevent incidents by thoroughly following onboard operating procedures. vessels during the Safety Campaign. This highlighted the importance of operational procedures, and helped explain the background and reasoning behind the manuals. 6. Enhance and ensure comprehensive initiatives on external crises including piracy/terrorism. 7. Strengthen business continuity plan (BCP) system by implementing practical drill exercises along with continuous education to all •• Prioritized issues of each division and office raised by BCP drill implemented, and confirmed future steps. 7. Promote services that meet customer needs and are ahead executives and employees. •• Uploaded updated version of “MOL BCP summary” on company-provided mobile phones. ◎ of their time, with the watchwords “One MOL, One Goal.” •• Revised “Earthquake and other disaster response manual”. •• Sealed shipping deal for transportation of liquefied ethane from the U.S. to India, becoming the first shipping company to launch full-scale transport of liquefied 8. Promote services by meeting and responding to our customers’ needs and to this new era. ethane. 9. Provide high-quality services. •• Met customer needs, while collecting the most up-to-date information on construction plans for new power plants and new ports, in addition to supplying the ○ existing power plants of electric utility companies. •• Developed the world’s first methanol carrier equipped with a low-speed dual fuel (methanol/diesel) main engine. Safe Operation •• Revised antitrust law compliance “Dos & Don’ts Guide” (Japanese/English) (May 2015), 1. Fully appreciate the seriousness of the Japan Fair Trade Commission’s March 2014 ruling that MOL violated the Japanese •• Presented antitrust seminars in level-specific required training programs, organized by the Human Resources Division. (New employees in May, mid-career hire Antimonopoly Act in certain car carrier shipping trades, and continue thorough compliance with antitrust laws on a global scale. employees in July, AMGR appointed employees in August, ◎ 1. Do not let the seriousness of the Japan Fair Trade •• Presented antitrust law E-learning program (MOL Liner: May-Sept, group companies in Japan: August-October, Headquarters and employees seconded to HQ: High Priority September-November, overseas group companies: November-December). Commission’s 2014 ruling that MOL violated the Japanese Each of the MOL Group executives and employees Antimonopoly Act in certain car carrier shipping trades fade 2. Deepen initiatives •• Anti-corruption: (1) Presented the anti-corruption (bribery) E-learning program (Japan/Overseas group companies: from memory, and do everything in our power to prevent a values compliance as a corporate social responsibility, 2. In addition to complying with antitrust laws, build a more thorough compliance structure for anti-corruption, protecting the to ensure thorough •• Compliance Advisory Service Desks provide consultation on discrimination, harassment, and suspicious conduct as well as legal compliance and compliance with reoccurrence. P.9-10 and fosters a company culture that demonstrates confidentiality of customer and company information, and prohibiting discrimination and harassment, and continue implementation rules and regulations. After initiating consultation, the desks determine the facts of the cases and work on solutions while obtaining legal advice. ○ 2. Continue various measures including internal training compliance. compliance in business activities. of various measures including internal training and E-learning. •• Established the new Chief Information Officer (CIO) position in November 2015, with the aim of enhancing cross-organizational systems that plan, develop, and and E-learning on “compliance with antitrust laws, maintain the group IT strategies, and established IT governance guidelines. “anti-corruption,” “information security,” “prohibiting discrimination and harassment.” 3. Foster an open and free corporate culture through roundtable talks, etc., and observe changes by regular and extensive surveys of •• Continued bimonthly in-house dialogue meetings called Cross Talk Wednesdays with the aim of building an open corporate culture. Conducted an organizational the organization culture. atmosphere assessment, targeting the Head Office in August. Provided feedback to division/office GMs on November 9 and executed reforms of corporate culture ○ for FY2015. The Environment Established the Nomination Advisory Committee and the Remuneration Advisory Committee under the umbrella of the Board of Directors, concentrating on and ◎ •• 1. Enhance corporate governance to meet the needs of the times and study the advancement of governance structure. reviewing issues to be discussed by the Board of Directors, to help the board focus on deliberating the direction of long-term vision and strategies. 1. Establish a method to assess the overall effectiveness of the Further enhance corporate governance to ensure that 2. Comply with and put into practice of the revised Corporate Law in FY2014 — the basic policy of establishing an organization •• Held meetings of the Compliance Committee, chaired by the Chief Compliance Officer, every three months, continually monitoring the group’s compliance. The Board of Directors. 3. Strengthen initiatives on MOL gains the trust of stakeholders and achieves to ensure the appropriateness of business operations (internal control system)—to prevent illegal activities and corruptions and committee addressed the requirement that the Board of Directors approve the submission of Q1 and Q3 financial results and the financial statements, and ◎ 2. Confirm appropriateness of group companies’ operations. P.9 corporate governance. operate the organization in sound, effective, and efficient manner. established guidelines for preventing bribery, etc. 3. Enhance the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) system by sustainable growth. •• Aimed to create a deterrent against excessive investment by regularly measuring the magnitude of MOL’s consolidated market risks (fleet, securities, and real implementing practical drills. 3. Provide comprehensive risk management to ensure appropriate investment in management resources. estate) and allowable investment additions and reporting those results to management. Started measurement for every three months from FY2015, ended Mar ○ 2015, striving to firmly establish this initiative. 1. Further enhance training programs to strengthen management capabilities of MOL Group personnel (executives and employees, 1. Enhance management skills of MOL Group employees, and Further improved the content of the “Global Management College” program, which aims to improve management skills in a cross-cultural work environment, and ◎ •• seafarers in Japan and overseas). provided a short-term training program at IMD, an overseas business school for mid-career professionals. expand training with the goal of improving the quality of its Human Resources Development businesses. 2. Instill the concepts of MOL CHART, which reflect ideal MOL Group employees, throughout MOL and MOL Group companies. Foster a •• Explained these concepts at the group executive committee and group company meetings, during visits to overseas subsidiaries and at group workshops, sought 2. Instill the concepts of MOL CHART, established as the corporate environment that allows diverse personnel to play active roles with shared values. contributions from group companies and vessels, streamed video of a message from the president & CEO, distributed posters, and made presentations at various ◎ group’s shared sense of value, and promote the creation Further strengthen human resources development training programs and organized group workshops. of an environment that allows diversified personnel to play 4. Promote personnel active roles with a sense of unity. of the entire MOL Group globally. Improve the training and diversity comprehensive capabilities of the MOL Group by 3. Continue to support women employees to encourage their success and career development. •• Established a division responsible for promoting diversity, presented diversity promotion seminars, and publicized its initiatives in the in-house magazine. ◎ 3. Continue to support women employees to encourage their to strengthen success and career development, toward achieving the P.33-38 facilitating work environment where multinational Rolled out a partial working at home system, presented briefings on the theme “Promoting diversified ways of working” for management class when the system ◎ •• comprehensive Group 4. Promote use of systems that flexibly meet changes in employees’ life stages and lifestyles to improve work life balance. target of 8% of women in management ranks in 2020. and diverse human resources including women can was introduced, and improved pre/post-leave interviews for employees on maternity/childcare leave. 4. Promote use of systems that flexibly meet changes in capabilities. lifestyles to improve work-life balance, and study ways to demonstrate their abilities. improve those systems in the future. •• Installed FBB (*3) or VSAT (*4) fleet broadband with in-house chartered vessels, and confirmed the establishment of an environment in which broadband service 5. Step up preparations to establish a school in the Philippines, 5. Further improve onboard welfare programs. is freely available to seafarers. ◎ with opening slated for 2018, that aims to be one of Asia/ •• Standardized division of business and personal use in onboard LANs and enhanced security measures. Oceania’s largest maritime academies. 6. Further improve onboard welfare programs. Social Contribution Activities 5. Make further progress Further enhance initiatives to reduce environmental on solving social impact as an “Environmentally Advanced Company” issues and promoting with full awareness of the environmental impact of Please refer to page 23-26. Please refer to page 23-26. environment initiatives the business activities of the MOL Group, and protect Please refer to page 23-26. P.21-32 as an environmentally the global environment, which is an issue common to advanced company. the whole world. 1. Proactively disclose information demanded by stakeholders regarding MOL’s solid growth through the execution of the new midterm •• Proactively invited media not only in Japan, but also overseas to publicize the company’s business strategies on a global scale. and accomplished these initiatives. management plan “STEER FOR 2020”. •• Proactively developed public relations activities in close cooperation with relevant divisions/offices centering on the Marine Safety and Technical divisions, and ◎ 1. Proactively disclose the progress of business structural reforms. CSR & Environmental Office in the Corporate Planning Division to disclose information on safety, technology, and the environment in a more proactive manner. 2. Proactively disclose information based on KPI and Foster stakeholders’ trust by proactively disclosing Proactively disseminate the company’s long-term strategies centering on STEER FOR 2020 to investors and shareholders through the Annual Report, etc. achievements on the Web site, Environmental and Social 6. Proactively disclose •• All information to show the sustainability of MOL 2. Earn stakeholders’ trust by proactively disclosing information based on KPI and achievements on the Web site, Environmental and Report, Annual Report, etc. Publicize initiatives on safe operation and diversity using KPI through the Safety, Environmental, and Social Report. ◎ •• sustainability data. Social Report, Annual Report, etc. The MOL Annual Report and Safety, Environmental, and Social Report 2015 received the Award of Merit in Environmental Report section at the Environmental 3. Further increase the transparency of corporate information pages businesses •• Communication Awards, earning praise for their integrated approach to reporting. including negative information, and disclose it in a timely and appropriate manner, as a company trusted by 3. Further increase the transparency of corporate information including negative information, and disclose it in a timely and appropriate Zero serious marine incidents occurred involving MOL vessels (on a non-consolidated basis). One serious accident occurred on a group company vessel, and the ◎ •• stakeholders. manner, as a company trusted by customers and society. information was proactively disclosed through a press conference and press release. Issues Invited 21 university students living in Miyako City to a “One Night Cruise,” boarding the ship NIPPON MARU during a call at the port of Miyako, Iwate Prefecture. ◎ •• 1. Address social issues using know-how accumulated in the company’s main business and drawing upon the company’s resources. Presented onboard dialogue between the youth and the city’s mayor to envision the future of Miyako City. •• Implemented educational support activities in which company employees explained the ocean shipping industry to high school students in Japan. 1. Further enhance social contribution activities by executives •• Invited children to visit TICT and the ship operation simulator in cooperation with “The Project Linked by Sea” organized by the Japanese Shipowners’ Association. and employees in Japan and overseas. 7. Promote social 2. Further enhance social contribution activities by executives and employees in Japan and overseas. Group employees served as guides for the visits. ◎ Data Promote social contribution activities that are highly 2. Address social issues using know-how accumulated in the contribution activities •• In December 2015, presented in-house charity events in cooperation with the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), which helped provide nutritious company’s main business and drawing upon the company’s relevant to MOL’s businesses, and continue our meals to about 4,000 children. P.39-42 related to MOL’s resources. efforts to solve social issues as a corporate citizen 3. Further enhance educational activities that convey the businesses. Transported used wheelchairs and firefighting equipment to the Philippines, a nation that is critical to the development of a highly skilled seagoing workforce, and ◎ •• 3. Further enhance support of seafarer supply areas. important role of the maritime industry. received letters of appreciation from related organizations at local ceremonies. 4. Further enhance support of seafarer supply areas. •• In addition the activity in item No.1, the Head Office cafeteria served a menu of foods sourced from disaster stricken areas, in combination with exchange 4. Respond quickly to disaster-affected areas, and continue activities to support reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake. meetings. ◎ •• Transported relief supplies to quake-stricken areas in Nepal. *1 LTIF: Lost Time Injury Frequency. The number of industrial accidents occurring per 1 million man-hours. Conventionally, occupational injuries and illnesses, which forced seafarers to disembark vessels, were counted. But starting in FY2015, the total *3 FBB: Fleet Broad Band. INMARSAT Satellite telecommunication service, using L Band (frequency range: 1-2 GHz) includes cases in which seafarers did not have to disembark, but were unable to return to work, including light duty. *4 VSAT: Very Small Aperture Terminal system. Satellite telecommunication service, using mainly Ku Band (frequency range: 12-18 GHz). *2 Shipnet : A database system that manages information among vessels and shore, ensuring speedy and accurate transmission of information. 11 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 12 Special Feature 1 Making Effective Use of ICT (IoT / Big Data) <Fleet Monitor> The Challenge of Constantly Improving Safety and Protecting the Environment Vessel operation monitoring system MOL Group has introduced Fleet Monitor, a system Usage of ICT such as the “Internet of Things” (IoT) or big data is expected to developed by Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co., help address societal issues and act as a step toward greater innovation. Ltd., on 60 vessels. The Internet-based ship-to-shore By drawing fully on data gained from operated vessels, up-to-the-minute integrated information infrastructure system manages ship operation while sharing operation information CSR reports on weather and sea conditions, and information from past incidents, from vessels in service. The system is automatically the MOL Group forges ahead to become the world leader in safe operation transmitted to offices on land at regular interval via and strives to preserve and protect the marine and global environments. These satellite telecommunication. efforts also help us offer our customers safe, secure, and reliable services. Special Feature Safe Operation <FMS. Safety> Monitoring system for ies o log The Environment weather information and techn conditions surrounding ew t en vessels in operation. valua Data analysis toe helps detect MOL uses FMS.Safety, which was developed d ata possible engine ing in cooperation with Weathernews Inc. (WNI), Us abnormalities in Human Resources Development to check on the weather, sea conditions, advance. and other conditions surrounding the approximately 880 vessels operated by MOL <ACE> Group companies, 365 days a year, 24 hours New autopilot route control function a day. There is always someone available if a Onboard On shore ship captain requires assistance. Data from Data sensors logger (Please refer to page 18 for details) VDR Social Contribution Activities ClassNK <CMAXS e-GICSX*2> Data center <Captain’s DOSCA > *1 Conventional ACE ec tio n Condition-based engine monitoring system Data Data nn Selecting the optimal course ys on co ClassNK Reviewing data MOL has started a demonstration test of a nextwa <ECDIS> Al for inspection MOL, along with Tokyo Keiki Inc., conducted a generation condition-based engine monitoring system Electronic Chart and e-GICSX performance demonstration test of its autopilot route called “electronic Global Internet Customer Support shipboard DB Display Information System control function, called “Advanced Control for Ecology neXt” (CMAXS e-GICSX) aboard the methanol carrier ClassNX Data Center (Shipping company) Monitoring operation Monitoring operation status MOL Group introduced the WNI-developed Captain’s (ACE)”, onboard a vessel in service. The ACE estimates Mayaro, delivered in 2015. status Performance analysis Monitoring Fuel analysis DOSCA communication system, which makes effective disturbance effects such as wind and tide by setting the Using the vessel operation monitoring system, CMAXS performance Q&A system diagnosis results use of weather data to develop route plans that offer vessel’s course direction. It optimally controls the helm e-GICSX offers early detection of engine abnormalities that Monitoring main Monitoring operation status improved safety, on-time performance, economic to minimize route deviation and reduce the number of crewmembers may not be aware of. Thus, it contributes to engine/auxiliary machinery Reviewing performance analysis results conditions efficiency, and environmental friendliness. MOL will course changes required during a voyage, achieving prevent engine problems and minimizing downtime. Reviewing fuel diagnosis results (Manufacturers of auxiliary machinery) move ahead toward greater safety improvements by significant reductions in fuel consumption compared to a Q&A system Data concurrently adding its own information and using the similar vessel with a conventional control system. *2 CMAXS e-GICSX This advanced engine monitoring system brings together cutting-edge data analysis functions based on joint research between Mitsui Engineering & Electronic Chart and Display Information System (ECDIS). Approximately 1.5% energy-savings effect was Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. and ClassNK. It detects abnormalities onboard, regardless of ship-to-shore telecommunication status, and creates troubleshooting *1 Capt’s DOSCA: Captain’s Dynamic Operation System for Counter confirmed through a verification test using “Fleet displays based on the detected abnormalities. It is different from conventional condition-based monitoring systems and can analyze correlations among planning and Analysis Monitor”. multiple sensors. 13 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 14 Safe Operation MOL’s Approaches Forging Ahead to Become All land-based and ocean-going personnel are united in working to achieve our goals “the World Leader in Safe Operation” including “Four Zeroes.” “Four Zeroes” (zero serious marine Safety Operation Management incidents, zero oil pollution, zero fatal Structure accidents, and zero cargo damage) The MOL Operational Safety Committee, chaired by the Less than 0.25 (till FY2014), Less than CSR president, meets bimonthly to deliberate basic policies, 0.70 (from FY2015) LTIF (Lost Time countermeasures, and other items related to secure and Injury Frequency)*1 completely safe operation of MOLand MOL Group-operated Less than 24 hours of downtime per ship per year*2 vessels, and makes decisions on safety related measures. Less than 1.00 incidents per ship per year that require Special Feature stopping the ship.*3 CSR Targets in the Midterm Management Plan (FY2014 ~ FY2016) Committees Related to Safe Operation LTIF*1 (Lost Time Injury Frequency) Executive Committee 1.8 Thoroughly implement safe operation and provide safe, secure, stable, high-quality services. Supplying safe, secure and stable services is the basis for earning stakeholders’ trust and becoming their choice. By Operational Safety Committee 1.5 reminding ourselves once again that marine shipping is a social mission as it supports industries and the daily lives of FY2015 all industries average (1.61) 1.2 people around the world, we will strive to supply high-quality services, which meet the requirements of the new era and Safety Assurance Ship Standard Ship Manning contribute to the development of the world economy. 0.9 MOL Numerical Goal during/after FY2015 (less than 0.7) Safe Operation Committee Specification Committee Committee 0.6 0.38 0.44 0.53 Safety Operations Headquarters 0.31 0.30 Opportunities and Risks Marine Safety Division 0.3 MOL Numerical Goal during/after FY2014 (less than 0.25) 0 • Earn customers’ trust and create new business opportunities by accumulating a solid record of Ship management divisions 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) safe, secure, and reliable transport services. MOL LTIF Marine technical divisions supporting vessel operations for business divisions *1. Conventionally, occupational injuries and illnesses that forced seafarers to disembark vessels were Opportunities • Increase competitiveness by meeting customer needs and continually enhancing the safety of our counted. But starting in FY2015, the total includes cases in which seafarers did not have to The Environment Ship management companies setting vessel management practices* disembark, but were unable to return to work, including light duty. operations. Reference: Overall industry average (2015): 1.61, water transportation industry: 1.23, transportation machinery and equipment manufacturing industry: 0.41 Risks * MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd., and MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd. (source: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Outline of 2015 Survey on Industrial Accidents”) • Significant impact on society, the environment, and corporate management in the event of an incident. Average Vessel Stoppage Time*2, and Percentage of • Loss of trust from customers and business opportunities due to incidents or decline in service quality. Incidents Resulting in Stoppage*3 (Hours/vessel) (Incidents/vessel) Safety Cost-focus Management 40 2.0 Human Resources Development A well-known oil spill occurred off Spain in 2002, which Average vessel stoppage time 30 (MOL target: less than 24 hours) 28.45 1.5 resulted in the spill of about 63,000 tons of heavy oil after 25.04 25.56 the oil tanker Prestige suffered hull damage and sank. 20 1.0 Victims’ claims totaled about 1 billion euros (about ¥140.0 19.82 19.04 0.99 Initiatives on “Safe Operation” in Value Chains billion). This is typical of a serious marine accident that 10 0.66 0.52 0.5 results in significant damage to the environment. 0.40 0.51 MOL established its unique “MOL Safety Standard Vessel stoppage incident rate (MOL target: less than 1.0) 0 0 Social Contribution Activities Specifications (please refer to page 17 for details).” This 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Average vessel stoppage time (hours/vessels/year) (left) includes the “Fail Safe” concept required to ensure safety Number of incidents causing vessel stoppage (incidents/vessels/year) (right) Human *2. Annual incident-related stoppage hours per vessel Recruiting Ship Cargo resources even at the ship design and construction stages. This *3. Annual number of incidents per vessel resulting in vessel stoppage seafarers construction transport development also includes additional installation of backup equipment and other devices that allow for emergency operations. Incident Aboard MOL Ferry Sunflower Daisetsu Normally, specifications and estimates quoted from In FY2015, a serious marine incident and workplace fatality Recruiting seafarers Ship construction Cargo transport occurred on an MOL Group-operated vessel, so the group shipyards are based on the standard specifications, but did not achieve “Four Zeroes.” MOL Safety Standards Safety Operation Supporting Safety superintendent at MOL is committed to taking additional safety measures (Outline of Incident) 3rd Year Program Specifications, MOL Standards Center (SOSC) loading/unloading operations even though it increases vessel construction costs by 2% On July 31, 2015, an accidental fire broke out on the vehicle deck of the ferry Sunflower Daisetsu operated by MOL Ferry Co., Ltd., Establishment of a maritime Ship inspections targeting all to 3%. This can add up to billions of yen, but all of MOL’s Cooperation with shipyards Fostering safety culture resulting in the death of a crewmember who was fighting the fire. academy in-service vessels vessels offer the most advanced safety specifications. (Prevention of Reoccurrence) Thorough survey by inspectors To prevent the reoccurrence of such an incident, MOL Ferry with superior safety expertise Human resources development installed additional firefighting equipment and facilities and Data Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) provided a more practical firefighting plan. Upon the approval Use of IoT / Big Data (ICT) of the proper authorities, the vessel returned to service on MOL sets the following numerical goals including “Four February 3, 2016. It continues to conduct periodic firefighting Zeroes,” as objective indices to measure safety. training and is sharing its firefighting plan and safety measures with other group companies. 15 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 16 Safe Operation Initiatives on Safe Operation During Ship Construction Initiatives on Safe Operation During Cargo Transport In cooperation with shipowners and shipbuilding companies, MOL continually strives to 24/7/365 Support from the Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC) maintain and improve the quality of all operated vessels. Strong Determination to Safe Operation Gathering Information (Overseas media, or international information agencies*2, MOL Safety Standard Specifications Countermeasure 2: Introduction of Iridium Four serious marine incidents occurred in 2006. After those Maritime security information companies on piracies, etc.) 0:00 Satellite Mobile Phones incidents, MOL thoroughly investigated the causes, and in With the goal of effectively maintaining the safety of our MOL verified the effectiveness of iridium satellite mobile 2007, we established the SOSC, with the motto “Never let CSR 2:00 operated vessels, MOL formulated the first edition of the phones as a backup to existing telecommunication the captain get isolated.” The MOL Group executives and MOL Safety Standard Specifications in the aftermath of equipment when an engine room fire resulted in an electric employees working together, took the lessons learned from serious marine incidents in 2006, and since then has been those incidents to heart, and developed measures “forging 4:00 power outage on an MOL Group-managed vessel. MOL revising it accordingly. Serious incidents such as collisions ahead to become the world leader in safe operation.” Special Feature Safety Standard Specifications now call for iridium satellite *2 International information agencies: IMB Piracy Reporting and groundings, fires, sinking and loss of hull stability, oil Centre, UK Marine Trade Operations, North Atlantic Treaty spills, and other environmental pollution can have a huge mobile phones for telecommunications backup to ensure Risks Are Present Everywhere in the World Organization 6:00 smooth communication in case of an emergency. The Our group vessels navigate the oceans of the world. Not only in impact on both society at large and the group’s profitability, Inform internal divisions of the operating conditions of vessels steaming company decided to retrofit existing vessels with iridium bad weather situations such as winter storms, hurricanes and in the Indian Ocean or the Persian Gulf. (7:00) not to mention the loss of trust from customers and other satellite mobile phones in addition to installing them on typhoons, and frozen river port, but also in places like the Middle Watch coming on apprised of current situation (8:00) 8:00 stakeholders. In FY2016, we decided to expand the scope newbuilding vessels. East and Ukraine, where political situations can be volatile, we of the specifications to include workplace accidents. must always be ready to take appropriate measures. We also MOL Standards systematically compile knowledge and 10:00 go where there is a chance of piracy. In other words, we must Safe Operation expertise—gained through many years of experience in Working Closely with Shipyards appropriately address myriad situations on a daily basis. ship operation—related to countermeasures for issues Global warming is upon us, and that serves to increase There are three shipbuilding supervisors’ duties at a 12:00 such as inferior quality oil, which inhibits ship operation, the power of tropical depressions – winds are stronger and shipyard: quality management, process control, and maintenance procedures, and policies and practices accompanying rains are fiercer, so the linkage between Video conference with the Weathernews. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) management. Confirming the conditions surrounding vessels that might need that contribute to life saving, security, and environmental vessels and shore becomes even more important. In warnings. (12:00) 14:00 Quality management verifies that shipyards reliably meet protection, after technical and economic analysis. addition, ship-to-shore cooperation becomes more crucial Broadcast information on rough weather areas around the world required specifications that contribute to safe operation, Some of these countermeasures are as follows. as deteriorating international conditions require greater as well as coastal storm areas. (15:00) The Environment rules for each ship type, and other requirements. preparation against possible pirate or terrorist attacks. 16:00 Countermeasure 1: MOL Integrated Bridge Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) management Our SOSC grasps these risks in real time, confirming The bridge is the nerve center of a merchant ship. MOL has ensures the safety of employees onboard, for example, that communications between vessels, ship management Broadcast information on typhoon to vessels in harbors/ports adopted the “integrated bridge” approach, which clarifies establishing safety rules prohibiting crewmembers from companies, marine technical teams, and personnel responsible and under way. (0:00, 6:00, 12:00, 18:00) 18:00 the bridge position of officers on duty and ensures their traffic entering an enclosed space alone, or requiring them for vessel operation is clear and constant. The SOSC’s motto Watch coming on apprised of current situation (19:00) flow and communication lines by integrating instruments to must warn each other when they encounter unsafe is “Never let the captain get isolated,” and its initiatives are Human Resources Development 20:00 and gauges in one central location. In addition, they can behavior onboard. built on that premise. There are always two people on watch obtain updates on ever-changing conditions surrounding MOL assigns two to three personnel – marine engineers at the SOSC, one of whom must have experience as a captain of a vessel. Information on weather, reports from overseas Video conference with the Weathernews. the vessel more quickly than with a standard bridge layout, from the group company and MOL engineering personnel Confirm observation of vessels that need warning. (22:00) 22:00 allowing them to make swifter, better decisions regarding – to the shipyard during the construction of a vessel. They media, and other things that might have something to bear work on-site at the shipyard for one to two years from on vessels under way is gathered. Thus, the SOSC is always vessel operating safety. ready to offer timely information and advice, and help prevent 24:00 Officers can see 360o around the vessel, enhancing the initial stage (about a month after steel cutting) to the serious accidents before they happen. completion of the vessel. Social Contribution Activities visual watch-keeping. Traffic flow and communication lines of the officers on duty Frozen river ports Earthquake/Tsunami (all sea areas) Sea ice/Icebergs can be secured without inhibiting the forward visibility of Around Newfoundland/Okhotsk Sea) (Great Lakes, Baltic Sea, Yamal, Nakhodka) Alert vessels for evacuation as needed based on tsunami forecasts following earthquakes. the helmsman. Everyone on duty – the captain, pilots, Winter storms Experimental and officers can independently operate and monitor (High latitude sea areas such as North Pacific missile launches (North Korea/India) nautical gauges and instruments, strengthening Bridge Ocean and North Atlantic Ocean) Resource Management (BRM)(*). Political instability Hurricanes (Ukraine, Middle East, etc.) Typhoons Integration of nautical gauges and instruments also Northeast Pacific Ocean/Atlantic Ocean (Northwest Pacific Ocean) Find an evacuation route based on the allows their wiring to be integrated. This helps prevent a hurricane course and vessel Ebola Find evacuation route based on typhoon course and vessel movement. movement. reoccurrence of a past incident in which wires to nautical (West Africa) instruments burned out. Stormy weather by seasonal winds Data Cyclone (Indian Ocean/South China Sea) (*) Bridge Resource Management (BRM) (Indian Ocean/South Pacific Ocean) Find evacuation route based on cyclone course and vessel movement. BRM prevents human errors or remedies the effects of those errors at an early stage. The Piracy concept is based on making the best use of Stormy weather (Strait of Malacca-Singapore, Gulf of Aden off Somalia/Indian Ocean, human resources (captain, officers, and other Gulf of Guinea off West Africa) (All sea areas) Give advice to vessels in areas where piracy occurs, not to close to piracy within 100 miles crewmembers on deck) and resources such as information available on the bridge. 17 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 18 Safe Operation Multinational, Diversified Seafarers Hone MOL Seamanship, Initiatives on Safe Operation During Cargo Transport to Address Any Situation Ship Inspection Activities Targeting Fostering a Culture of Safety Human Resources Development Yamal LNG Project All Operated Vessels Safety Campaign In order to achieve safe operation, we must have highly qualified MOL supports groundbreaking development to meet MOL conducts periodic ship inspections, based on our crewmembers, which means recruiting and developing the world’s continually expanding demand for energy, MOL launches a biannual Safety Campaign with a different unique safety standards, targeting all group-operated the very best people we can find. MOL employs the best contributing to the world with our advanced transport theme each time, during which executives and employees personnel, regardless of nationality, and gives them the high vessels, regardless of whether they are owned or chartered. services. In May 2016, construction of our first vessel for the conduct an extensive series of visits to MOL-operated level of education and training required to cultivate high morale, These inspections verify that the vessels are properly Yamal LNG project (and the fifth overall to serve the project) CSR vessels and exchange information and opinions about ways technical skills, and knowledge. The MOL Training Center started at the Okpo shipyard of Daewoo Shipbuilding & maintained and can operate safely. to prevent incidents. Proposals and ideas gained through Marine Engineering Co., Ltd.in Korea. The first vessel built for provides not only the basic skills necessary for vessel operation, With chartered vessels, we communicate closely with this campaign are shared throughout the MOL Group but also operational techniques specific to ship types. Thus, the the project will be delivered in early 2017, and then undergo the shipowners and assigned ship management companies, and among group-operated vessels to further enhance center holds a wide variety of training programs from theoretical an ice-breaking performance test in the Kara Sea in Russia, in the presence of all the shipping companies participating Special Feature to make sure they have a full understanding of the safety the group's safe-operation structure. Since FY2014, the studies in the classroom to practical training that uses actual in the project. After it is confirmed that the vessel can safely standards we require. We also cooperate with them to pursue theme of the Safety Campaign is “Behavior Based Safety equipment and various types of simulators. navigate the Arctic Ocean, it will start transport service. safety measures while building mutually trusting relationships. (BBS)*.” And starting in FY2015, we provide background Training Highly Competent Crewmembers on a Global Scale (MOL Training Centers) information on recent incidents and near miss cases, and Thorough Investigation by Highly hold discussions about measures to eradicate incidents Skilled Ship Inspectors caused by overconfidence that stems from complacency A team of two ship inspectors, who have a thorough and carelessness. Land-based executives and employees MOLTC (MSU-Russia) MOLTC (Japan) MOLTC Safe Operation knowledge of MOL’s safety standards through onboard also think about what goes into each onboard task and the (Montenegro) experience as a captain or chief engineer, visit ships in person role and importance of safe operation. In these ways, we MOLMC* (Japan) and conduct a detailed investigation based on a checklist of strive to build company-wide safety awareness and create * MOL Marine Consulting, Ltd. about 500 items, such as qualifications and career experience a sense of unity among all executives and employees, MOLTC of crewmembers, records of the hull’s maintenance status, whether they work on shore or at sea. (MOL MI-India) CG provided by Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., Ltd. and engine inspection and maintenance records. Safety Campaign Attendance in total (unit: persons) MOLTC (MANET-India) MOLTC (STIP-Indonesia) MOLTC (Philippines) The Yamal LNG terminal faces the Kara Sea, which If they spot an unsafe condition, they make sure the FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 The Environment Crewmembers Receiving Instruction at MOL Training Centers completely freezes during the winter. The average vessel and concerned ship management company take 584 464 780 (unit: persons) temperature is about minus 30oC in winter, and in some appropriate corrective measures so the ship meets MOL’s * Behavior Based Safety (BBS) is the concept that increases “safe behavior” 2013 2014 2015 situations dips below minus 40oC. Our crewmembers strict safety standards. and ensures the safety of the vessel by thinking of background factors The Philippines 7,983 8,511 6,114 are the most critical link in ensuring safe operation, so it when people select “safe behavior” or “unsafe behavior” and working on India 3,004 2,067 1,405 Their completed report, which covers the entire inspection the factors behind the selection process. is important to develop an environment where they can Europe 508 1,046 1,035 fully demonstrate their skills and abilities under a harsh and is illustrated with photographs, is circulated among Safety Conference In addition, MOL has introduced its unique systems such natural environment. Our ship management company in Human Resources Development relevant divisions including the responsible business division. As a part of the MOL Group’s measures to ensure safe as “Cadet Actual Development for Education with Tutorial London will play the main role, while cooperating with ship Thus, the quality of the vessel is confirmed. In case of charter management companies working with other shipping lines operation, we have held Safety Conferences every year since (CADET Training),” a practical training program aboard vessels, the shipowner involved. We are currently evaluating the operational risks. 2007. In February and March 2016, Safety Conferences its-operated vessels, and the “OJT Instructor System,” in receives any corrective [Please refer to the website for details of the YAMAL LNG project.] were held in Tokyo, Manila, Croatia, and India and attended which experienced captains and chief engineers go aboard http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/safety/yamal/index.hetml guidance through the a vessel and provide direct advice and instruction. These by 540 crewmembers who were on leave. They actively business division. This are just a few of our initiatives to hone the seamanship skills exchanged opinions during presentations and group consistent, professional of mariners throughout the MOL Group. discussions focusing on two main themes: “lessons from Social Contribution Activities approach ensures the We also plan to open a new marine university, MOL incidents” and “preventing the occurrence of onboard fires.” safety of both owned and Magsaysay Maritime Academy Inc., in Dasmariñas City, the chartered ships. Beach Cleanup at Kashima-nada Beach Philippines, in June 2018. This year marks 10 years since the grounding of the MOL[Please refer to P.37-38 for details on MOL Magsaysay Maritime Academy Inc.] Steel cutting Safety Supervision during Loading/ operated Giant Step in 2006. To prevent the memories and Unloading lessons of this incident from fading with time, MOL Group A Message from Director General, Safety Operations Headquarter MOL assigns captains or former captains to supervise the executives and employees meet every year at Kashima-nada safety of loading/unloading operations in port. They arrange beach, where the incident occurred, and conduct a beach In the same way that a food company must absolutely never sell unsafe food to its cleanup. In 2015, 86 people participated in the cleanup activity. customers, an ocean shipping company must never provide its customers with service communication between the foreign crewmembers and that is not safe. That would be completely unforgivable. However, it is difficult to accurately terminal (port), and offer Captain’s Comment predict the kinds of crises that may occur due to natural causes or other vessels. No matter guidance for crewmembers When training my crewmembers, I put how carefully we operate these huge vessels and all their machinery, something can break to improve their unloading/ special emphasis on the concept of or malfunction. Data loading skills. They maintain BBS: “Think Twice” that your behavior Our initiatives are patient efforts with the long-term goal of eradicating any incidents, and improve the quality of is correct; and do not depart from Masaaki Nemoto but many of them are not immediately linked to results. Thus, there are many days in which prescribed procedures to save time or Senior Managing Executive Officer, operations, ensuring safety we must regret the occurrence and reoccurrence of incidents or trouble that we could have Director General, work. Prasanth.M.E.Manuel at every step. been able to avoid. There are still many things to do to create a true “safety culture.” Safety Operations Headquarter Captain 19 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 20 Environmental Initiatives MOL’s Approaches Further enhancing initiatives to MOL identified the highest-priority environmental issues and set about addressing those issues in a proactive manner. reduce environmental impact as an MOL Group Environmental Policy Statement Philosophy “Environmentally Advanced Company” As one of the world’s leading multi-modal transport groups, the MOL Group is committed to protecting the health of our marine/global environment and therefore promotes and supports the following policies. Policies 1. Protect all aspects of the marine/global environment and foster safe operation; CSR 2. Comply with all environmental legislation and regulations required by law, and all relevant standards and other requirements that we subscribe to. And, whenever possible, further reduce the burden on the environment by setting and achieving even tougher voluntary standards; 3. Periodically review and revise our environmental protection measures on the basis of our framework for setting and reviewing environmental objectives and targets; Special Feature 4. Conserve energy and materials through recycling and waste reduction programs; 5. Purchase and use environmentally safe goods and materials; 6. Promote the development and use of environmentally safe technology; 7. Educate and encourage group employees to increase their focus on protection of the environment through enhanced publicity efforts, and communicate our Environmental Policy to group employees; 8. Publish our Environmental Policy Statement and disclose our environmental information on a regular basis; 9. Always strive to ensure that our business activities contribute to and adequately support worthy environmental protection activities Key Environmental Issues Safe Operation the CSR and Environment Committee, we identified the Environmental Targets in the Midterm Environment Plan (FY2014 ~ FY2016) In March 2014, we identified the highest-priority following five issues. Fully aware of the environmental impact of its business activities, the MOL Group will lead environmental issues and set about addressing those ❶ Comply with environmental regulations the world shipping industry by proactively responding to environmental regulations and issues in a proactive manner. To identify these priorities, ❷ Utilization of technologies to reduce we analyzed issues from international conditions regarding environmental impact differentiating our performance by actively adopting superior environmental technologies for about environmental issues, the opinions of stakeholders ❸ Disclose environmental data protecting the global environment. including customers, investors, and so on, as well as our ❹ Ensure safe operation The Environment own internal viewpoints. Finally, through discussions in ❺ Contribute to conservation of biodiversity Ocean Shipping’s Impact on the Organizational Structure for Opportunities and Risks Environment Environmental Initiatives • Use technology to differentiate the MOL Group and gain a competitive advantage, while meeting Compared to other modes of transport, ocean shipping Establishing Technology, Innovation, Human Resources Development the needs of customers who have especially high standards regarding environmental performance. can transport larger volumes of cargo at once and is rather and Environment Committee Opportunities • Environmental measures help reduce fuel consumption and result in lower operating costs. an environment-friendly mode, with lower emissions per To effectively promote environmental initiatives based on ton-mile of CO2 and other air pollutants. the MOL Environmental Policy, the CSR Committee, a subRisks • Environmental laws and regulations covering the shipping industry have become more stringent, However, with a growth of the world economy spurred committee of the Executive Committee, oversees planning and companies that do not respond quickly enough risk losing business opportunities. by the development of emerging markets, the overall world and promotion of environment-related measures under the • Delaying the response to laws and regulations also results in higher costs. ocean cargo traffic continues to increase. Seaborne trade direction of the president. The CSR Committee assesses has exceeded 10 billion tons, and we anticipate further environment-related risks and opportunities involving Environmental Impact of Business Activities and Initiatives increases in the future. As seaborne trade increases, CO2 Social Contribution Activities MOL, identifies the highest-priority issues in the group’s emissions will rise in step with growing energy consumption. environmental management, and sets environmental targets, This can exacerbate pressing environmental issues. CO2 striving to achieve environment-friendly business activities. emissions from merchant vessels account for about 2% In addition, MOL formed the new Technology, of global emissions, and the shipping industry must do Innovation, and Environment Committee in February Ship Cargo Ship more to protect the environment. MOL strives to control 2016, to more effectively promote initiatives that fulfill our construction transport Recycling emissions of pollutants through ongoing initiatives, such as environmental policy. We continue to take a proactive the adoption of advanced technologies and slow steaming. approach to reducing the burden our business activities In FY2015, we reduced CO2 emissions per ton-mile by place on the global environment. Environmental impact Ship construction Cargo transport Ship Recycling 3.0% in comparison with the previous year. Organizational Structure to Promote Environmental Management Global warming Measures to address CO2 emissions Executive Committee Air pollution Measures for NOx/SOx emissions Measures to address particulate matter (soot and dust) emissions Technology, Innovation, Data Comparison of CO2 Emissions from Aircraft, Trucks, and Ocean Vessels (Unit: grams/ton-km) CSR Committee and Environment Committee Marine Initiatives to protect the marine environment environmental 18,000 TEU 3.0 Director responsible for environmental management (Chairman of CSR Committee) pollution Initiatives on biodiversity 80,000 ~ 119,999 dwt or higher 5.9 Director responsible for environmental countermeasure (Vice Chairman of CSR Committee) 100,000 ~ 34,999 dwt 7.9 (Secretariat Office: Corporate Planning Division, CSR and Environment Office) 80 Division/Office General Managers 435 Source: ICS Divisions/Offices (Personnel responsible for environmental management) 21 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 22 Environmental Activities Results (FY2015) and Targets (FY2016) Every fiscal year, MOL Sets Environmental Targets related to each important issue, and works steadily to achieve those targets. Midterm Fully aware of the environmental impact of its business activities, the MOL Group will lead the world Environment shipping industry by proactively responding to environmental regulations and differentiating our Plan: services by aggressively developing and adopting the best technologies to protect the environment. Legend: ◎Achieved ○Generally achieved △Partially achieved ●Did not achieve (target period/content changes) Objectives FY2015 Environmental Targets FY2015 Environmental Activities and Results Achievement FY2016 Environmental Targets Reference Study R&D of advanced environmental technology, creation of new environmental businesses, and taking part in logistics that contributes to the environmental protection. Major Environmental Indicators CSR 1 MOL established the Technology, Innovation, and Environment Committee to promote the development and adoption of innovative Build environmental technologies that increase corporate value and enhance the effectiveness and profitability of our businesses. environmental (1) Build a system that promotes internal sharing, extension, and review of information, and allows us to tap into and discover MOL Group CO2 Emissions business, which needs, including potential ones, from our customers’ viewpoint. P.22 (%) contributes to (2) Create a system that sets midand long-term targets for environmental technologies, creates road maps, and introduces new technologies in the MOL Group owned and operated fleet. 100 sustainable society (3) Explore and review issues in the maritime industry and formulate solutions. Special Feature Reduce environmental impact through overall optimization and protect the global environment by engaging in company-wide efforts including ballast water management, ship recycling, prevention of global 92.5 91.4 warming, prevention of atmospheric pollution, and response to diverse environmental regulations. 80 85.9 83.3 1. Further promote installation of the ballast water treatment system prior to the enforcement of new regulations, while monitoring developments in the ballast 1. Appropriately installed ballast water treatment systems, while monitoring developments in the ballast water convention. water convention. Number of vessels equipped with the system in FY2015: 30 ◎ 1. Further promote installation of the ballast water treatment system prior to the enforcement of new regulations, while monitoring Test the effectiveness of the ballast water treatment system installed on a Evaluated effects of ballast water treatment systems installed on the vessels, and provided feedback and suggestions for 60 developments in the ballast water convention. vessel, and provide the manufacturer with feedback on defects/malfunctions/ improvement. 2012 2013 2014 2015(FY) Test the effectiveness of the ballast water treatment system installed on a vessel, and provide the manufacturer with feedback failures and requests for improvements. on defects/malfunctions/failures and requests for improvements. 2 2. Continue to consider installation of SOx emission reduction systems (scrubbers). Comply with SOx Emission Control Area (ECA) rules, which took effect in 2. Continued to consider installation of SOx emission reduction systems (scrubbers). Started research on retrofitting car 2. Jointly collect information on scrubbers and fuel supply, with an eye toward retrofitting vessels with SOx emission reduction Emissions per unit load (ton-mile: Ocean-going vessels) (Comparison with FY2009*2 ) Comply with carriers with SOx scrubbers. systems (scrubbers). January 2015. ◎ *2 Reduction target benchmark year Environmental Began comparing functions of manufacturers’ equipment such as SOx scrubbers. Collect information on supplies of low-sulfur fuels, which produce fewer SOx Continued to collect information on supplies of low-sulfur fuels, which produce fewer SOx emissions. 3. Collect and verify data on installed NOx reducing systems and complete the demonstration test. P.27-30 Regulations emissions. 4. Develop and implement specific reduction measures for complying with domestic environmental regulations such as the Safe Operation 3. Continue to verify NOx reducing system (Selective Catalytic Reduction; SCR), Amended Energy Conservation Act and Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. 3. Continued to verify NOx reducing system (Selective Catalytic Reduction; SCR) while using heavy fuel oil. ○ and make a final evaluation. 5. Select environment-friendly scrapping yards. 4. Develop and implement specific reduction measures for complying with 4. Developed and implemented specific reduction measures in cooperation with MOL Engineering Co., Ltd., to comply with 6. Prepare the inventory related to the Hong Kong International Convention, and promote its use on vessels. domestic environmental regulations such as the Amended Energy Conservation domestic environmental regulations such as the Amended Energy Conservation Act and Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental ◎ MOL Group NOx Emissions Act and Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Security Ordinance. Has reduced unit energy consumption by 15.9%, compared to the 6% target for FY2009 . 7. Maintain the same level of paper, water, and electricity consumption as in FY2015. (%) 5. Establish the selection criteria for environment-friendly scrapping yards in 5. Conducted a wide range of inspections in scrapping yards. Discussed the scrapping yard selection criteria based on ○ 100 preparation for the enforcement of the Hong Kong International Convention. international interpretation of the Hong Kong International Convention. Promote energy-saving innovations for ships and eco-sailing through active utilization of refined energy-saving technology that MOL acquired in the ISHIN project for the next-generation vessel concept. Reduce CO2 emissions 11.5%* per ton-mile by FY2016 compared to FY2009. 92.5 91.4 1. Continued efforts by business divisions on further enhancement and increased use of slow steaming operation. 80 85.9 83.3 1. Reduce environmental impact Installed systems to improve propeller efficiency such as PBCF on all 15 newbuilding vessels delivered during FY2015. The Environment (1) Reduce CO2 by 1% in FY2015 compared to FY2014. Studied adoption of the optimal trim system and vessel operation support system and conducted demonstration tests on ◎ (2) Reduce NOx by 1% in FY2015 compared to FY2014. the vessels in operation. (3) Reduce SOx by 1% in FY2015 compared to FY2014. Reduced CO2 emissions by 3.0% compared to FY2014 (by 17.9% compared to FY2009); Reduced NOx emissions by 60 3.0% compared to FY2014; Reduced SOx emissions by 5.2% compared to FY2014. 2012 2013 2014 2015(FY) 2. Install and verify the low-temperature waste heat recovery system (Variable 1. Reduce environmental impact 2. Started to order and assemble VPC system. Continued review of equipment layout. 〇 (1) Reduce CO2 by 1% in FY2016 compared to FY2015. Emissions per unit load (ton-mile: Ocean-going vessels) Phase Cycle : VPC) on an actual vessel. (2) Reduce NOx by 1% in FY2016 compared to FY2015. (Comparison with FY2009*2 ) 3. Finished a verification test of the methanol-fueled engine. Conducted test sailing with the new engine (tested at the end 3. Develop and build methanol-fueled vessels. ◎ (3) Reduce SOx by 1% in FY2016 compared to FY2015. of March). 2. Install and verify the VPC system on an actual vessel. 4. Conduct feasibility study of positioning the engine room for installing LNG fuel 4. Conducted feasibility study of the specification changes required to equip containerships with methanol-fueled engines. and SOx scrubbers for the new building containership. ◎ 3. Deliver 3 of methanol-fueled vessel series. Human Resources Development 5. Continued study of the design, tank, and engine of an LNG-fueled tugboat. 3 5. Begin planning and design of an LNG-fueled tugboat. 4. Continue deeper feasibility study of the specification changes required to equip containerships with methanol-fueled engines. 6. Promote projects that use wind power, such as Power Assist Sail and Wind 6. Power Assist Sail: Conducted Hazard Identification (HAZID*1), which is currently under evaluation. 5. Study the design, tank, and engine of an LNG-fueled tugboat. Proactively Utilize Challenger Project. Window Challenger Project: Continued the study with the project participant organizations. Study the conversion of other types of vessels to LNG-fuel. MOL Group SOx Emissions Technologies 7. Verify feasibility of a car carrier with teardrop-shaped stern (design a smoother 7. Determined the basic vessel shape and layout based on the effects of different loading capacities. Started verification of ◎ P.13-14 to Reduce stern shape). wider-breadth type of vessel. 6. Promote projects that use wind power, such as Power Assist Sail and Wind Challenger Project. P.23-26 (%) Environmental 8. Verify wind pressure reducing technologies on containerships. 8. Installed a windscreen on the bow of a containership, and started collecting in-service data. 7. Promote R&D on ways to reduce wind resistance on car carriers. P.27-30 100 Impacts 9. Continue to verify and develop DPF <PM (particulate matter) removal system> 9. Conducted durability test of heavy fuel oil on a vessel that is already installed with Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). Tests to 8. Continue to verify wind resistance reducing technologies on containerships. 〇 100.0 97.9 installed on a vessel. verify the effectiveness are under way. 9. Continue to verify and develop DPF <PM (particulate matter) removal system> installed on a vessel. 10. Develop technologies to improve combustibility of vessel fuels at the MOL 10. Continued joint R&D on a special spray nozzle with a manufacturer, university, and research institute. Verified test data, 90.8 〇 10. Fully practice Eco Sailing/Continue research on the use of big data for vessels. Technology Research Center. using the test engine. 80 86.0 11. Thoroughly implement Eco-Sailing and promote development of an advanced 11. Reduce unit energy consumption at offices and on domestic coastal vessels for the medium to long term. Reduce by 1% in 11. Started research aimed at using big data for vessel, while taking into account joint use of data with manufacturers. ◎ FY2016 compared to FY2015. operation supporting system that improves operation efficiency. Social Contribution Activities 12. Continue to examine environmental concept vessels in consideration of internal 12. Move ahead with construction of four ferries, which will offer improved environmental performance (two slated for delivery in 12. Studied environmental concept vessels. 〇 2017, two in 2018). 60 needs and seeds and refine the concept of the environmental business. 2012 2013 2014 2015(FY) 13. Reduce unit energy consumption at offices and on domestic coastal vessels for 13. Reduced unit energy consumption at offices by2.7% compared to FY2014 but on the domestic coastal vessels side, 13. Promote more energy-efficient vessel operation through the use of improved power management systems. ◎ Emissions per unit load (ton-mile: Ocean-going vessels) the medium to long term. Reduce by 1% in FY2015 compared to FY2014. consumption increased by 0.1% due to factors including stormy weather. (Comparison with FY2012*3) 14. Consider introduction of a wide variety of leading-edge environmental impact14. Introduced a variety of leading-edge environmental impact-reducing technologies on the world’s largest 20,000 TEU ◎ reducing technologies on the world’s largest 20,000 TEU containership. containership. *3 Reduction target benchmark year 15. Begin preparations to build two ferries that feature both high speed and 15. Started construction of two ferries with delivery slated for 2017. ◎ excellent environmental performance. *1 HAZID stands for Hazard Identification, which systematically identifies and documents risks. Reduction of CO2 Emissions by CO2 Measures (Unit: thousand tons) FOCUS ① Main Engine: R&D on System to Recover Waste Heat from ② Next-generation Car Carrier FLEXIE FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 432 303 280 FY2014 348 FY2015 303 Low-temperature Sources The name is derived from the word “flexible,” which refers Progressively Adopting Variable Phase Cycle (VPC) to features such as the newly designed liftable decks, and Cost Reduction by CO2 Measures (Unit: ¥ billion) Technologies to Reduce VPC is a technology we have worked on from the viewpoint of making effective expresses not only the ship’s flexibility in boosting loading FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Environmental Impact use of exhaust gas after fuel is burned in the engine, as well as heat generated efficiency, but also in fulfilling MOL’s sales and marketing 7.3 5.3 5.5 5.5 3.1 Compared to other modes ocean shipping from the engine itself. In general, on-board energy recovery systems rely on strategy aimed at meeting diverse customer demands. • The amounts are estimated with reduced Data is an environmentally friendly means of The rounded bow shape of the FLEXIE, which is slated CO2 emissions and reduced cost based transport with lower CO2 emissions per unit high-pressure, high-temperature exhaust gas from the engine, but VPC mainly on increased use of slow steaming, collects heat generated when the engine is in operation. MOL, in cooperation to be delivered in 2017, will minimize wind resistance and is load. The MOL Group continually takes an The new shape is the result installation of PBCFs, and the fuel-saving active approach to technological innovation with Nippon Kaiji Kyokai (ClassNK) and Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co., expected to reduce CO2 emissions by about 2% compared of joint research by MOL, effects of low-friction paint. MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd., and aimed at further reducing the environmental Ltd., plans to select a test vessel, equip with a VPC system, and conduct a to today’s car carriers. Akishima Laboratories (Mitsui • The calculations do not include cases in impact of its operations. Zosen) Inc. which it is difficult to measure the effects. demonstration test to determine its effectiveness in reducing CO2 emissions. 23 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 24 Environmental Activities Results (FY2015) and Targets (FY2016) Legend: ◎Achieved ○Generally achieved △Partially achieved ●Did not achieve (target period/content changes) Actively Disclose Environmental Objectives FY2015 Environmental Targets FY2015 Environmental Activities and Results Achievement FY2016 Environmental Targets Reference Data Respond to stakeholders’ interests in MOL’s environmental policy by disclosing KPI for transport with low environmental impact and various environmental data using the Web site and Safety, Environmental and Social Reports. Clean Shipping Index (CSI) Proactively promote calculation, analysis, and disclosure of following data The Clean Shipping Index is an CSR 4 and disclosure of reduction effects. 1~4: Disclosed environmental data through the Environmental and Social Report, the company Web site, and other various external 1. Proactively promote calculation, analysis, and disclosure of following data and disclosure of reduction effect through the Environmental and Social Report, the company website, and various other external media. environmental assessment tool for ships Actively Disclose 1. Energy consumption volume media. Recognized in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). In addition, MOL Liner made its own disclosure of CO2, NOx, ◎ (1) Energy consumption volume P.26 and shipowners, used by a network of Environmental 2. GHG emission volume (Including Scope 1–3) and SOx emissions on its Web site. (2) GHG emission volume (Including Scope 1–3) Data 3. SOx, NOx emission volume P.43 cargo owners and forwarders (customers) 4. Consumption volume of other resources (3) SOx, NOx emission volume P.46 (4) Consumption volume of other resources when buying sea transport. Ship owners 5. Accept third-party verification of CO2 emissions to improve accuracy ◎ 2. Continue third-party verification of CO2 emissions. present the environmental performance on Special Feature 5. Accepted third-party (SGS) verification of CO2 emissions and improved accuracy and transparency. and transparency. emissions of CO2, sulfur oxides, particulate Ensure safe operations to prevent unexpected environmental impacts, and pursue zero ocean pollution caused by marine incidents. matter and nitrogen oxides and the use 1. Held the company-wide biannual safety campaign twice, and held division-by-division safety operation meetings to enhance safe and handling of chemicals, waste and 1. Prevent serious marine incidents by improving MOL’s safe operation operation. In addition, regularly visited vessels. Serious marine incidents occurred despite these efforts to raise safety awareness of △ waste water. Vessels are then ranked from system. 5 employees both on land and at sea. 1. Prevent serious marine incidents by improving MOL’s safe operation system. ‘low performance’ to ‘good performance’. Ensure Safe 2. Reported problems to manufacturers/held information exchange meetings with them. With the information collected, the cargo MOL and its group companies conducted shipyard assessment visits. 2. Further improve the quality of new vessel design and construction through health, safety, and environmental (HSE*) activities at P.13-14 Operations 2. Further improve the quality of new vessel design and construction. ◎ shipyards. P.15-20 owners and forwarders evaluate the ship Checked the shipyards’ HSE* manuals to share safety standards among MOL and shipyards. Validated health/hygiene/safety management methods of workers and superintendents. 3. Continue to adopt the MOL Safety Standard Specifications on newbuilding vessels. owner in the procurement process. In line 3. Continue to adopt the MOL Safety Standard Specifications on 3. Adopted for all 15 newbuilding vessels delivered. ◎ with MOL’s target to “Actively Disclose Safe Operation newbuilding vessels. Environmental Data”, MOL started Raise awareness of biodiversity protection, promote waste reduction from vessels, and participate in volunteer activities for conserving biodiversity on a company-wide level. reporting in CSI in 2013. 1. Continue to reduce waste from vessels such as on-board waste, waste 1. Continued to reduce waste from vessels such as on-board waste, waste oil, and bilge. ◎ Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) oil, and bilge. 6 2. Prevent cross-border transportation of foreign marine organisms 2. Disseminated Ballast Water Management Report, which is the new requirement concerning ballast water management in the U.S., to The global nonprofit organization 1. Continue to reduce waste from vessels such as on-board waste, waste oil, and bilge. through ballast water exchange in the open sea, and implement vessel vessels. Shared case study information on problems caused by ballast water exchange operations and issued warnings of dangers ◎ “Business for Social Responsibility Contribute to cleaning to remove organisms on vessels to help conserve biodiversity. related to the use of ballast water. 2. Prevent cross-border transportation of foreign marine organisms through ballast water exchange in the open sea, and Conservation of implement vessel cleaning to remove organisms on vessels to help conserve biodiversity. Web (BSR),” which works with containership Biodiversity 3. Support volunteer activities to help conserve biodiversity in Japan and owners, container shipping customers, 3. Conducted beach cleanup in Kamakura and Kashima in Japan, and in Hong Kong and Malaysia overseas. ◎ 3. Support volunteer activities to help conserve biodiversity in Japan and overseas, such as tree planting. overseas, such as tree planting. 4. Promote navigation with special consideration in the areas with high populations of large-sized marine life. and non-vessel operating common The Environment 4. Circulated the information about sea areas with high populations of large marine, on the Port and Navigation Information. 4. Promote navigation with special consideration in the areas with high Especially containerships, which frequently sail in sea areas with high populations of large marine life, continued to operate along ◎ carriers, has established the Clean populations of large-sized marine life. the North America East Coast and in other areas in conformity with laws and regulations. Cargo Working Group (CCWG) in 2003. CCWG measures, evaluates, and 7 Proactively make recommendations so that environmental policy promotes utilization and reinforcement of the high environmental efficiency of shipping as transport mode, and contribute to environmental impact reduction and sustainable growth. reports the Ship owner environmental Advocate Transport 1. Make various efforts to encourage the modal shift, which has a low 1. Promoted the Modal Shift, which aims at reducing the environmental impact of transportation, in cooperation with Japan’s Ministry performance including CO2, NOx, SOx environmental impact, to industry groups, government agencies, and ○ Policies and relevant ministries. of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. and Environmental Management System. Measures Aimed 1. Make various efforts to encourage the modal shift, which has a low environmental impact, to industry groups, government MOL has been participating since 2012. Human Resources Development at Contributing agencies, and relevant ministries. to Reduction of 2. Proactively made recommendations through the Japanese Shipowners’ Association and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to 2. Actively participate in energy-saving policies. 2. Actively participate in energy-saving policies. ◎ CDP Environmental develop a more feasible Monitoring, Reporting, and Verification (MRV) system, which is to be introduced in the near future. Impact CDP is a U.K.-based non-profit organization that represents 827 institutional investors all Make environmental investment of 20 billion yen in 3 years, 60 billion yen in 6 years to respond to environmental regulations and to promote energy-saving innovation for vessels. over the world. It holds about $100 trillion in 1. Environmental Investments in FY2015 was 4.63 billion yen. Recalculated again after results were finalized. total (about one-third of the total invested 1. Make proactive investments in new environmental technologies such as (Details) Environment-related R&D activities: High-efficiency waste heat energy recovery system, Methanol-fueled vessel etc. 8 methanol-fueled vessels. 0.28 billion yen 1. Make proactive investments in new environmental technologies such as methanoland LNG-fueled vessels. capital in the world). It sends specific Environmental 2. Further improve waste heat energy recovery systems for vessel main Utilization and expansion of existing environmental technologies: PBCF, Electronically controlled engine, Onshore power supply 2. Develop a low-temperature waste heat recovery system (VPC). questionnaires asking about strategies engines. system, Low-friction hull paint, etc. 0.91 billion yen ◎ P.23-30 Investment 3. Promote installation of ballast water treatment systems prior to Compliance with environmental regulations: Ballast Water Treatment System, Ship Recycling Regulation and SOx Regulation 3. Promote installation of ballast water treatment systems prior to the enforcement of new regulations, and respond to on climate change and on greenhouse Social Contribution Activities the enforcement of new regulations, and respond to environmental related etc. 2.19 billion yen environmental regulations. gas emissions to companies. Answers regulations. Initiatives to save bunker fuel: Fuel additives, optimal trim, vessel operation support system 0.99 billion yen Initiatives of Group companies: International Ocean Shipping group companies’ environment investments 0.26 billion yen and scores of the results are publicly * HSE: Health, Safety & Environment. announced, and the scores are becoming a key indicator in measuring corporate value. MOL has responded to CDP’s inquiries every year, and was recognized for Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) ③ Power Assist Sail ④ Hybrid PCC Solar Power Generation System in FY2015. The Power Assist Sail provides supplementary propulsion force for the vessel by The world’s first newbuilding hybrid car carrier Emerald Ace is equipped with a hybrid [For details of CDLI: Page 46] using the lift force of crosswinds, similar to the wings of an airplane, and drag from electric power supply system that combines a 160kW solar generation system with [For details of third-party verification of CO2 emissions: Page 43] tailwinds. Major Total height: 27.5m specifications Sail width: 10.0m lithium-ion batteries that can store some 2.2MWh of electricity. On board the vessel, Taking advantage of the sail’s small size, the goal is to install the sail rig without Sail area: 300m2 electricity is generated by the solar power system while it is underway and stored making major design changes to existing vessels. It is estimated to reduce CO2 Power Assist Sail in the lithium-ion batteries. The batteries provide all the emissions by 2-5%. Onshore demonstration electricity the vessel needs while it is in berth, resulting in Data test of system Sailing ship zero emissions at the pier. We are also currently verifying the durability of solar panels at sea in the four years since It is a joint research project by MOL, MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd., and Akishima Laboratories (Mitsui Zosen) Inc. under ClassNK’s “Joint R&D with Industries and Academic Partners” the vessel was delivered in 2012. program. 25 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 26 Addressing Environmental Issues with Advanced Technologies Preventing Air Pollution Viewing environmental regulations as a business opportunity Air Pollution Issues and a strategy for differentiation, MOL proactively develops and NOx and SOx cause acid rain and air pollution. As industrialization has grown, air pollution has become even adopts advanced technologies that reduce the environmental problematical, affecting the daily lives of people and damaging the natural environment. impact of our business and set the stage for real solutions to Example of Initiatives SOx Scrubber global environmental issues. MOL launched a study to equip its in-service fleet with SOx scrubbers in SOx scrubber main unit CSR advance of a revised international treaty that places stronger restrictions SOx It is not really possible for a single nation to regulate merchant vessels, because they move all over the world, so international on vessel exhaust emissions. It targets car carriers, because their initiatives are indispensable. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in the Kyoto Protocol Funnel structure makes it more technically challenging to add scrubber systems, directs the International Maritime Organization (IMO) to study measures to control greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in compared to other types of vessels. It also focuses on ships already in Special Feature international ocean shipping. Currently, IMO studies, adopts, and issues various international conventions and regulations. service, which are more difficult to equip with scrubbers than newbuilding MOL continues its company-wide efforts to ensure compliance with a wide variety of environmental regulations. (Please vessels. We will promptly develop detailed specifications for the scrubber refer to the website for details.) system and use the latest technologies such as 3D scanning to promote Exhaust stream operational efficiency in installation process, aiming for results that will Main engine streamline the development of ship class rules and guidelines. Preventing global warming Example of Initiatives Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) Water Safe Operation Selective Catalytic (H2O) Reduction (SCR) NOx is generated by bonding nitrogen in fuel oil and the oxygen in the air Global Warming Issues under high temperature during combustion in the engine. MOL equipped SCR Urea water (NH3) Nitrogen gas (N2) Along with global warming caused by the increased atmospheric emissions of CO2, forecasts say tropical lows will SCR systems, which eliminate NOx emissions from vessels, to three Exhaust gas gain intensity, wind forces will gain power, and rainfall amounts will increase. Unstable weather may cause catastrophic power generators on its-owned/operated large-scale iron ore carrier. (NOx) events that make safe ocean transport impossible. We confirmed that its denitration performance for diesel oil conforms to Engine IMO’s NOx Tier 3 regulations, which will be valid in 2016. Engine The Environment MOL, in cooperation with ClassNK and Yanmar Co., Ltd., has been SCR catalytic reaction: (Selective reduction formula) Example of Initiatives Development of New Windshield operating the system since the vessel was delivered in December 2013. 4NH3＋4NO＋O2 →4N2＋6H2O Flow of exhaust gas MOL has moved ahead in developing new wind shields to reduce wind Its verification using marine diesel oil (MDO) as fuel and about 3,100 NH3 NOx NH3 NOx N2 H 2O resistance, especially on a new, larger vessels, and thus improve fuel efficiency Decompression hours of operation (total operation hours of three SCR systems) have Ammonia NOx Urea NH3 Catalysis Nitrogen Water and reduce CO2 emissions. The wind resistance-reducing windshield installed been completed. Verification using heavy fuel oil (HFO) is now in progress. N2 H 2O NOx NH3 NH3 on a 6,700TEU containership sailing the north Pacific route at 17 knots (about Human Resources Development NOx Urea injection unit 31km/h) is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by about 2%. Windshield on the containership MOL Marvel Social Contribution Activities Regulations to Prevent Global Warming Regulations to Prevent Air Pollution 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2025 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 EEDI Phase 0 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 SOx General sea area Sulfur content 3.5% Sulfur content 0.5% (sulfur oxides) SEEMP Mandatory ECA Sulfur content 1.0% Sulfur content 0.1% MRV, MBM (under consideration) NOx General sea area Tier 2 regulation (nitrogen oxides) In 2013, conventions related to energy efficiency (EEDI and SEEMP) were adopted as measures to reduce GHG emissions ECA Tier 2 regulation Tier 3 regulation from international ocean shipping. SOx emissions regulations: Regulate the sulfur content in fuel oil to control SOx volume in exhaust emissions. From 2015, the ratio level in the Emission Control EEDI: Energy Efficiency Design Index. Requires that CO2 emissions in theory conform to the regulations at the design stage of a newbuilding vessel. Target of reduction rate in each phase: Phase 0 = 0; Phase 1 = 10%; Phase 2 = 20%; and Phase 3 = 30%. Areas (ECAs) was reduced to 0.1%. Another regulation soon to be introduced will limit fuel sulfur content in general sea areas to 0.5% Data or less. The year of adoption, either 2020 or 2025, will be decided by 2018 after a survey of demand and supply for relevant fuel oil. SEEMP: Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan. Requires the selection of an operational method for each vessel to improve energy efficiency, NOx emissions regulations: Regulate NOx in exhaust gas from engines in a step-by-step manner. Tier I regulates emission levels by rated engine rpm, targeting the documentation of the action plan, and adoption of method aboard the vessel. It targets newbuilding vessels and existing vessels. vessels built between 2000 and 2010. Tier II requires the vessels built in 2011 or later to reduce a further 15.5-21.8% from the Tier I level. In addition, MRV and MBM have been studied for adoption as measures to further reduce emissions. Tier III applies to vessels built in 2016 or later, in specific Emission Control Areas (ECAs), requiring a reduction of 80% from Tier I. MRV: Monitoring-Reporting-Verification system. Preceding the Market-Based Method (MBM), MRV is a system to monitor, report, and verify * ECA-designated sea areas: (1) North America Coast – within 200 nautical miles (NOx/SOx), (2) United States Caribbean Sea (NOx/SOx), operational data concerning actual fuel consumption. (3) Baltic Sea and North Sea (SOx) 27 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 28 Addressing Environmental Issues with Advanced Technologies Contributing to Conservation of Biodiversity Safe, Environment-friendly Ship Recycling Transfer of Aquatic Organism via Ballast Water Ballast Water Issues 1. Leaving port 2. While underway 3. Arriving in port 4. While underway Ship Recycling Issues Ballast water, which is discharged while loading Aged vessels need to be scrapped from the viewpoints of both safe operation and marine environmental protection. cargo, carries marine organisms around the world and In May 2009, the IMO adopted the Hong Kong International Convention, which sets objectives for solving issues can have a negative impact on marine ecosystems related to vessel scrapping, and is moving toward ratification. This convention prohibits and limits the content of Unloading Cargo Loading Full and biodiversity. Accordingly, IMO adopted the Ballast cargo hold cargo cargo hold stipulated harmful substances aboard throughout the life of the vessel and requires to create, maintain, and update an inventory list including the amounts of harmful substances and their locations aboard, and to provide that list CSR Water Management Convention in February 2004, Taking on Discharging and its ratification is under way. ballast water Full ballast tanks ballast water Full ballast tanks when handing the vessel over to a recycling yard. Ship Recycling Special Feature Example of Initiatives Installation of Ballast Water Treatment System before Convention Took Effect Example of Initiatives MOL developed a ballast water treatment system in cooperation with manufacturers. And in FY2014, we set a When a vessel is to be scrapped, we select an environment-friendly recycling company-wide policy to install the system on our vessels before the convention took effect, and began the process yard in conformity with the Hong Kong International Convention. We also of selecting target vessels and preparing them for system installation. As of May 31, we have installed the system on check a broad range of items including the yard's ISO certification status, a total of 57 ships—25 newbuildings and 32 in-service vessels. conduct site inspections to confirm that the yard's environmental management standards conform with ISO 14001 or its equivalent, and that its scrapping Ballast Water Treatment System FW Cooler with pump methods and procedures meet acceptable standards for environmental MOL has developed the technology to install a packaged ballast water treatment Safe Operation protection, occupational safety, and human rights. system that takes up the same space as a standard container and can fit in the Currently, the MOL Group was one of the first to start providing these cargo hold of a containership, and acquired approval in concept from Nippon inventory lists to ensure a smoother response to the requirements of the Kaiji Kyokai (ClassNK) for the first time in Japan. The system makes the most of UV treatment system convention. We also provide thorough explanations of the convention’s limited space availability and is designed for easy accessibility and maintenance. Flow meter requirements, and share information related to recycling as well as conditions Further, installation time is reduced by about seven days compared to installing Outlet Filter in recycling yards. a system in the engine room. MOL has installed the system on some of its Inlet * This is a joint technological development with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Scrapping operations at an MOL-selected safe, containerships and is now conducting demonstration tests. The Environment Ltd. and Nippon Kaiji Kyokai (ClassNK). environment-friendly recycling yard Human Resources Development Regulations to Protect the Marine Environment Environmental Initiatives in Business Activities Social Contribution Activities 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Environmental Impact Environmental Initiatives Ship Construction Cargo Transport Scrapping of Business Activities Ballast Water General sea area Adopted in 2004: yet to take effect Expected to be mandatory Main engine: Research and development of a system that Management Convention recovers waste heat from sources of low-temperature heat USCG regulations Enforced in 2012 Mandatory Improve transport efficiency by adopting larger vessels Introduction of Propeller Boss Cap Fins (PBCF) Ship Recycling Convention Adopted in 2009: yet to take effect, effective year undetermined Introduction of low-friction ship bottom paint Expansion of Eco Sailing Measures to reduce CO2 Introduction of high-efficiency waste heat recovery system Convention on biofouling on Hulls Adopted guidelines in 2011 Global Warming emissions Research of special rotation nozzles Use of optimal operation support System Use of optimal trim calculation system Adoption of wind-pressure resistance-reducing design Ballast Water Management Convention: A convention to prevent cross-border transfer of foreign marine organisms through ballast water of vessels. It was Introduction of hybrid car carriers Research on Power Assist Sail adopted in 2004 and there is an increasing possibility to be effective in 2017. Vessels are mandated to install ballast Participation in Wind Challenger Project water treatment systems by the stipulated year, depending on the age of the vessel and ballast water capacity. Study of LNG-fueled Vessels USCG Ballast Water Management regulations: United States Coast Guard ballast water regulations took effect in 2012. The regulations for the relevant sea Measures to reduce NOx Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) areas cover the same level as the BWM Convention. However, the USCG regulations require a specific type of emission ballast water treatment system approved by the USCG. As of 2016, all vessels calling at ports in the U.S. are Development of methanol-fueled vessels required to use ballast water treatment systems within 12 miles of the coast. Measures to reduce SOx Study of SOx scrubber Air Pollution emissions Use of low-sulfur fuels Ship Recycling Convention: A convention to prevent workplace accidents in ship recycling and minimize environmental pollution. It was Data Study to introduce LNG fuel adopted in 2009, and will be issued 24 months after the requirements for the issues are satisfied. It stipulates Measures to reduce particulate Self-cleaning particulate matter (PM) Filter rules for ship recycling facilities and recycling procedures, and requires recyclers to create, maintain, and update matter (soot and dust) System a list of hazardous substances (inventory list) for existing vessels. emissions Use of on-shore electricity in berth Convention on biofouling on hulls: As marine organisms attached to the bottoms of ships and crossing national borders has emerged as an Double hull structure on tankers Initiatives on marine Proper treatment of waste, waste oil, and Initiatives on Double hull structure on fuel tanks environmental issue, IMO is holding discussions on formulating guidelines to address this problem. The Marine Environmental environmental conservation Adoption of NSafe™-Hull with improved collision safety bilge ship recycling Guidelines for the Control and Management of Ships' Biofouling to Minimize the Transfer of Invasive Aquatic Pollution Installation of ballast water treatment system before convention takes effect Species, which was adopted in 2011, was voluntarily implemented during the review period (five years). It may Initiatives on biodiversity Prevention of biofouling become a convention after a comprehensive review in 2017. 29 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 30 Special Feature 2 Environmental Dialogue Aiming for Leadership in Environmental Protection Yanagihara) Our corporate slogan is “Value from Innovation,” so the innovation is deeply rooted we transport various products for export and import. But the past concept was that carrying the product The MOL Group believes that responding to environmental laws and regulations and initiatives on reducing internally as the watchword. Then, this is because from point A to point B without changing its value was environmental impact as business opportunities and strategies for diversification. We have proactively employees share our history of success in the face the value. In other words, we accepted the cargo on adopted advanced environmental technologies and moved boldly to promote the development of even of big changes and severe competition. Currently, we the condition that we would fully maintain its quality more sophisticated ones. And we believe that novel, innovative initiatives are indispensable if we are to develop market-oriented businesses, but we were and keep it safe during the month or so that it was achieve targets of Paris Agreement adopted at COP21 in December 2015 and for further growth of our completely the product-centered until after 2000, when in transport. But today, if we cannot create value by CSR group. In this report, we visited Fujifilm Corporation, which consistently expands its range of businesses global demand for color photo film reached its peak. transport alone, what about ways to add value during and grows by developing innovative technologies, to take part in a dialogue on the theme of “innovation.” We faced a crisis with the advent of today’s digital the transport process? For example, if we sent the society, but what we did at the time was taking stock product from point A, and a customized product was of the technologies we owned and could use as the completed when it arrived at point B, the value would Special Feature seeds of future development. This effort revealed many be increased, wouldn’t it? If such things are actually technologies that were applicable for other industries. possible, there are many things vessels can do to make A typical example is a cosmetic product based on the peoples’ lives more comfortable and prosperous. technology accumulated by long-term technological Kawagoe) In a way, time stops during transport, so that development of photo films, such as collagen research, would be a way to use time more effectively. In addition, antioxidation, and nanodispersion. we can make beneficial use of the environment, such Safe Operation Kawagoe) I can see that as generating electricity through wind power, during a you faced many challenges voyage. and difficulties. Was the Naoto Yanagihara Yanagihara) When we sense of crisis at the root Corporate Vice President, General refer innovation, what Yoshikazu Kawagoe Manager Research & Development of your technological Management Headquarters, comes to mind is usually Date and Place Managing Executive Officer, development personnel’s Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. General Manager Innovation & technological innovation, Wednesday, June 15, 2016 Strategy Planning Headquarters, creativity and ability to The Environment FUJIFILM Open Innovation FUJIFILM Corporation but we think the key Hub execute? is to create value for Yanagihara) We were pressed to transform our the customer by first, taking stock of the company’s business model as we entered the digital era, so I think technologies and other advantages, next, offering a Kawagoe) First, I will briefly explain the characteristics regulations will become even more severe, but which there is no doubt that a sense of crisis is a driving force solution that is really responsive to the world’s needs of the ocean shipping industry and its environmental direction will you take in your initiatives from now on? behind creativity and ability to get things done. Also, while being adaptable to potential needs, and then Human Resources Development regulations. Emissions per unit load of CO2 and other we can say innovation came to us just because we newly integrating the technology and everything else it Kawagoe) In recent years, customers have a remarkably air pollution substances in the ocean shipping industry had to face the fact that the photo film business was takes to provide that solution. One of our challenges higher environmental awareness, and their transport are lower than other transport means. On the one disappearing. For example, in case of Mitsui O.S.K. is the “Open Innovation Hub,” which was opened in needs are also more diverse. Some customers select hand, ocean shipping is far superior to other modes of Lines, what would happen if vessels went away, or if January 2014. This is a place where we work closely us as their shipping partner just because they trust us transport in terms of environmental friendliness. On the the seas disappeared? From a different viewpoint, what with other industries to exchange information and to respond appropriately to environmental regulations. other hand, the CO2 emissions from ocean freighters if factories were eliminated and replaced with vessels, generate sources for new innovation. So to proactively meet customer needs and promote account for about 2% of the total global emissions. for example? Social Contribution Activities further technological innovation, we established the Kawagoe) Thank you very much for giving us so many This is roughly equivalent to the emissions generated new IT Strategy Committee and the Technology, Kawagoe) The idea that vessels would be eliminated is novel ideas and opinions during today’s dialogue. Our by the entire nation of Germany. Currently, the world Innovation, and Environment Committee in February unimaginable for us. However, the development of 3D group has taken a proactive stance in developing and population is 7 billion, and annual international ocean 2016. The committee will build an internal organization printers, for example, might imply that finished products adopting superior environmental technologies. But this cargo trade is 10 billion tons. As population is projected that allows us to move forward in cross-divisional way. would not need to be transported. So that could bring dialogue with Mr. Yanagihara made us more confident to increase to 9.7 billion in 2050, and we expect cargo In the future, we will look for new values that we can us drastic changes. that there are still many things we can do to create new trade to grow in line with that projection. offer our customers, while fully leveraging our collective values, and received some tips on how to cultivate Continued efforts to reduce the industry’s Yanagihara) It takes lots of hard work for individuals capabilities. This gives us a competitive advantage as a creativity. Our group is united as a team to move ahead environmental impact are critical to balance worldwide to actually purchase raw materials and provide a 3D group that owns a variety of ships and provides a broad and create value through technological innovation. economic growth and environmental conservation. printer. So for example, when we order a product range of services. Against that backdrop, the ocean shipping industry online, the raw materials could be loaded on the vessel However, it is not easy to create new values and faces stricter environmental regulations every year. and the product could be manufactured onboard using diversify, so we think it’s indispensable to make use of all 3D printers, while the ship is on the way to its delivery Data Yanagihara) I am surprised that CO2 emissions from our creative powers for innovation, free from preconceived destination. This is one way to imagine adding value ocean freighters are equivalent to the total amount concepts. Therefore, I would like to ask you about Fujifilm’s in the transport process. From the viewpoint of value, produced by Germany. It is likely that environmental system and culture that foster innovations. 31 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 32 Human Resources Development MOL’s Approaches Maximizing the Potential of Human Resources: Aiming at development of global human resources — personnel who channel the Driving Force behind Growth and Value the group’s common sense of values, MOL CHART, to our corporate culture, recognize our social responsibility, and can create shared value with society Creation Moving ahead to Create a Working Environment that Allows Diversified Personnel to Play Active Roles with a Sense of Unity To strengthen and concentrate the MOL Group’s During the past year, we developed training programs to comprehensive efforts, we are pushing forward with grouppromote broader understanding and acceptance of the CSR wide initiatives on development of independent-spirited MOL CHART values and presented them in places where personnel who are committed to acting with a sense of employees gathered. This ownership and playing an active role in global markets. In allowed them to hold April 2015, we introduced MOL CHART to express the core deep discussions on the Special Feature values that all group executives and employees continually meanings of MOL CHART, pass on to new generations as the group’s business MOL’s strengths, and CSR Targets in the Midterm Management Plan (FY2014 ~ FY2016) globalizes and diversifies. their own views on work regardless of their positions. Personnel System A scene of MOL CHART training events at Promote personnel training and diversity to strengthen comprehensive Group capabilities. aboard operated vessels Further strengthen human resources development of the entire MOL Group globally. Improve the comprehensive Human Resources Management Group (land-based personnel) Human Resources Division A Message from the Human Resources Division GM capabilities of the MOL Group by facilitating work environment where diverse and multinational personnel including Seafarers & Labor Relations Group (seagoing personnel) Safe Operation women can demonstrate their abilities to the fullest. Our group, which develops businesses on a global scale, has Human Resources Planning Group always proactively recruited diverse, multinational personnel. Counseling and Aid Center • Human Rights Coordination Center Today when the business environment is showing significant changes, we think that creating a working environment that Opportunities and Risks Global Human Resources Unit brings together people who have not only external differences such as nationality and gender, but also with different Diversity Management Unit The driving force behind any company’s growth and value creation is the power of its people, so perspectives and philosophies, enables each of them to flower Health Care Management Unit into their potential and to work with vigor and enthusiasm. That employees’ growth and development are essential in expanding our business and differentiating the The Environment in turn creates a stronger corporation. We need to align on MOL Group from its competitors. Putting the responsibility for decision making in the hands personnel Human Resources Development Unit the same vector and share the direction with various backgrounds and characteristics makes it easier for everyone to accept a more diversified the company will take and what it will sense of values. This gives the MOL Group an edge in adapting to market changes and risk tolerance. Penetration of MOL CHART emphasize. That is the reasoning behind Opportunities The introduction of MOL CHART is aimed at achieving MOL CHART, which we introduced last • If we face a shortage of skilled seafarers, we will lose competitiveness and miss business opportunities. the company’s long-term vision and enhancing its year. We look forward to it taking root in our Risks • MOL’s brand image and trust are backed by our people, and failing to adequately develop human corporate value, by strengthening and concentrating its group’s corporate culture, fully understood Human Resources Development resources, accumulate know-how, and create an effective working environment will hamper the MOL comprehensive group-wide efforts while encouraging and appreciated by employees, and Group’s growth MOL Group employees to keep the MOL CHART values guiding them in their day-to-day business Miwako Ando General Manager of activities. Human Resources Development Division foremost in mind as they execute business operations. Initiatives to Maximize the Potential of Employees To strengthen and concentrate the MOL Group’s comprehensive efforts, we are pushing forward with group-wide initiatives on development of independent-spirited personnel who are committed to acting with a sense of ownership and playing an active role in global markets. Social Contribution Activities Human Development Resources of an Effective Global Human Resources ■ Comments from the Participants Diversity Development Working Development Environment MOL Global Management College 2015 gave me a golden opportunity to meet and Launch of Global Management College learn from each global participant about MOL’s diversified business activities and created opportunities to network with MOL colleagues worldwide. Professionally, I MOL has held the MOL Global Global Human Resources Development of an Effective have gained immensely in the following specific areas: a) It enlightened Diversity, work-life balance Management College since FY2014 me to realize my “leadership core” and learn how to use it in my Development Working Environment to improve management skills in our workplace, and b) Learning effective communication and utilizing it in Penetration of MOL CHART Promoting women’s Initiatives Seafarers’ Family Day cross-cultural working environment today’s multicultural, diversified business world. and cultivate the next-generation of Captain Animesh Hore Global Management College Childcare/nursing care support systems Elimination of industrial accidents executives. In FY2015, it took place MOL Ship Management (Hong Kong) Company, Limited from September to December, bringing MOL POWER Program Mental health It has been an epic journey, one of the greatest experiences of my life. I together 18 employees from group Data learned all the time from my colleagues and facilitators, and I left MGMC MOL POWER Training to EnhanceProgram Frontline Capabilities companies around the world. They 2015 with new friends and with the firm intention to apply what I learned shared an awareness of the issues in my daily job. MOL to Establish Maritime Academy in the Philippines and a sense of value that transcended Diego Morandi differences in divisions, nations, and MOL(PERU)S.A.C. cultures. 33 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 34 Human Resources Development Diversity, Work -life Balance, Development of Work Environment MOL POWER Program Striving to develop an environment where multinational, diversified personnel can maximize their MOL Liner, Ltd., an MOL Group company, presents a ■ Feedback from New Employees Who Participated personal development global human resources development program called I visited Tokyo International Container Terminal, which is “POWER” aimed at fostering the skills, knowledge, and managed and operated by Utoc Corporation. During the Promotion of Diversity Work-life Balance abilities needed for management positions. Over the visit, I was impressed with the operation of the 51m-high gantry crane, and actually went inside it. If the part that holds The MOL Group, which develops businesses globally, has In consideration of changes in life stages and lifestyles of course of the four-year program, trainees are given various the container is even a few centimeters out of alignment, it business tasks in their regions. They are also allocated to about 20,000 employees and crewmembers of various employees and crewmembers, MOL has promoted efforts could tear a hole in the container, or even cause the crane to different regions and involved in actual operations. nationalities. We have worked to develop an environment to enhance the work-life balance. We also recognize that CSR collapse. This operation requires a great degree of precision. It was miraculous to look through the glass floor of the cab that will increase our group-wide comprehensive strength employees and crewmembers must be in excellent health, and watch the container being moved around with the and allow multi-national, diversified personnel including both mentally and physically, to do their jobs effectively. We ■ Comments from the Participants meticulous operation of a steering wheel. women to play more active roles. strive to help them manage their health and to provide working The POWER programme is a great opportunity to environments that comply with laws, regulations, and treaties. Special Feature experience our liner business from all aspects. Employment by Region Being part of a department for a short period gives ■ Voice of an Employee Group A B C D E F G H you unrivalled possibilities to broaden your knowledge employees extensively. After a while knowledge gained in one A Japan: 54% B Thailand: 9% C China: 8% D U.S.: 7% In August, I took a short two-week childcare leave to look department can be extremely useful in others and gives an Emika Hatasaki E The Netherlands: 4% F Singapore: 5% G Hong Kong: 5% H Other: 8% after a baby born in February. Even though it was a short MOL Information Systems, Ltd. time, I was able to spend time with my wife, caring for the opportunity to tackle the challenges we face today with a B baby during the daytime. It was a great experience since my non-standard approach. A C D E F G Crewmembers job does not allow me to be involved in raising my children On a personal level you are given A The Philippines: 62% B India: 17% C Europe: 5% D Japan: 5% every day. It is still rare for men to opportunities to work on your competencies Safe Operation E Indonesia: 4% F Russia: 3% G Other: 4% take childcare leave, but it is a great and develop skills that will help you in any opportunity for men who want the future role. Establishment of Diversity Management Unit chance to be more involved in MOL positions diversity management as one of its important raising their families. It helps build Michiel Warnes management strategies, and is moving ahead to create a closer ties with the children, too. MOL (Europe)B.V. working environment that allows multinational, diversified personnel including women, to make full use of their talents Nobuhiro Nishii I would say POWER is challenging but at the same time Dry Bulker Supervising Office rewarding to one’s career. One of the crucial aspects in and reach their full potential. To further encourage them to The Environment Assistant Manager (1st Officer) this program is to rotate key-role sections and develop play more active roles, we established the new Diversity knowledge of business on a fast track. You’ll be exposed A view of operations from inside the gantry crane Management Unit in July 2015. During FY2015, we conducted to dynamic Liner business and expand and deepen your programs to promote women’s engagement in the company, Development of Work Environment insight with knowing the connectivity and impact of the I had the chance to visit various vessels at the Port of Nagoya business in different ways. For me, POWER is impressive in such as holding internal seminars and formulating an action as part of my agency training program. It was also a good MOL recognizes that employees and crewmembers must its features that trainees can exchange their own opinions experience to visit the fully automated terminal, but during plan, In addition to fulfilling systems centering on childcare Human Resources Development with colleagues no matter they are junior or senior through and nursing care. We will continue our push to develop a be in excellent health, both mentally and physically, to do the training program, I was especially impressed when I on-the-job-training. If you’re eager to their jobs effectively. We strive to help them manage their went aboard a tugboat and watched it assist the arrival and working environment where people from all nationalities and learn MOL Liner deeply and widely and departure of an LNG carrier. I had a close-up look at the health and to provide working environments that comply backgrounds can play active and essential roles in the group. make innovation together, I recommend important role a tugboat plays in on-site operations. I do my with laws, regulations, and treaties. POWER to you. best to give the optimal instructions as an operator while Please refer to the website for initiatives on mental health and eradication of thinking from the vessel’s viewpoint. Promoting Women’s Initiatives industrial accidents. Maki Tsujii Mitsui O.S.K.Lines(Japan),Ltd. To encourage women to play more active roles in the ■ Family Day for Crewmembers Social Contribution Activities company, we have worked not only to fulfill systems In consideration of crewmembers who are separated from centering on childcare support, but also to expand support their families for long periods of time, and their families who Training ‌ to Enhance Frontline Hidetoshi Takano for female personnel in pursuing their career paths. In must cope with their absence, MOL worked to develop an onboard Internet environment, and took various other Capabilities Tanker Division, Crude Oil Tanker Group addition, female managers receive various kinds of support measures including holding Family Day events. We placed including seminars to increase motivation. consultation service desks for crewmembers and their To raise our group-wide safety consciousness, it is important families in our local offices, providing detailed services for all executives and employees, including those who work reflecting regional cultures and needs. ■ Voice of a Woman Marine Officer on land, to go on-site aboard vessels and learn to understand In the Philippines, our main source nation for When I first came on board, I was disappointed in my lack crewmembers, annual Family Day events are held and appreciate vessels and their role in our business. We of physical strength, and I had a hard time understanding throughout the nation. Particularly in Manila, this is a major present various programs intended to strengthen bottomthe natural order of things at the port where I arrived. I event – an entire theme park is reserved for the enjoyment up management in our human resources development. This can’t count how many times I have felt of some 4,000 participants. fiscal year, 26 new land-based MOL employees spent seven frustrated. But still, when I can complete The purpose of this event is to build bonds between my job with no problems, or overcome a Data working days training at seven agencies all over Japan. MOL and its crewmembers and their families. Through this difficult situation, I am happy. So I always activity, the dedicated seafarers can head out to sea with Along with observations of loading/unloading operations do my work with a positive attitude. peace of mind, knowing that their families are supported and vessels, they visited customers’ plants and logistics and cared for. These bonds are made even more solid as Port call by an LNG carrier Saori Shiokawa centers, and gained firsthand experience in ensuring safe MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd. they are key factors behind MOL’s safe operations. operation throughout the supply chain. 35 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 36 Special Feature 3 MOL to Establish Maritime Academy in the Philippines — With the aim of recruiting and training top-quality seafarers, who play a vital role in helping the MOL Group become the world leader CSR in safe operation — MOL will inaugurate a new maritime academy, MOL Magsaysay Maritime Academy Inc. (MMMA), in Dasmariñas City, Cavite State in June 2018. With its local partner Special Feature Magsaysay Maritime Corporation (MMC), it plans to recruit about 300 graduates every year, providing continuous training programs to develop top-quality seafarers who can hit the ground running through a four-year curriculum that encompasses basic education and specialized coursework. MMMA Background of Establishment of MMMA Safe Operation MOL develops competent seafarers in cooperation with seven local maritime universities in the Philippines. Currently, Filipino seafarers serve as the core of the workforce serving aboard our operated vessels, and we expect them to play an even more critical role as Social Responsibility as an Ship in Campus Develops Seafarers technology advances. Educational Institute who can Hit the Ground Running To meet our need for seafarers, in terms of both quality MOL has established training centers and placed a MMMA is the first in the Philippines to introduce the The Environment and quantity, we must nurture top-quality seafarers by Milestones of MOL’s Seafarer Education and high priority on seafarer training. These facilities are Ship in Campus, which simulates an actual vessel. getting deeply involved at the educational stage. That’s Training Programs in the Philippines critical in helping seafarers learn about vessel operating The Ship in Campus provides practical training so why, in January 2016, we acquired governmental Starts manning containerships and crude oil tankers with technology and providing pre-boarding training. graduates can hit the ground running when they 1980s approval to establish an academy in the Philippines, in Filipino seafarers. Starts assignment from MMC. What sets MMMA apart from other training centers is complete their education. The facility enhances the cooperation with MMC, Jointly establishes Magsaysay Institute of Shipping (MIS) that it will provide students with a basic education before drills conventionally provided at AILP, not only by they become seafarers. To carry out their duties on the Human Resources Development our local manning 1993 with MMC, and starts education for new graduate cadets replicating the exterior of the vessel, but also with in addition to internal training for officers and crewmembers. front lines of safe operation, they must have a solid, basic partner. cutting-edge ship equipment and systems. This Establishes Magsaysay MOL Marine and starts seafarer knowledge of the mechanism and structure of vessels. ensures more realistic training for tasks such as 1997 manning operations through an in-house manning company. They will complete a general education curriculum launching lifeboats and mooring with adjacent pool, so focusing on physics and chemistry to help them build a 2005 Establishes MOL Training Center (Philippines) in MIS they can complete their entire education and training greater understanding of advanced technologies. except boarding practice right on campus. This is one Starts onboard seafarer training with dedicated instructors MMMA aims to become an educational institute 2007 on the Spirit of MOL. (Over 2,200 cadets graduated from of the key advantages of MMMA. that nurtures the personnel who will play key roles in Social Contribution Activities MOL Chairman Koichi Muto delivers this program before the ship was retired in 2013.) The academy will also invite MOL Group officers a speech at the groundbreaking ceremony the Philippines, by providing a solid academic education 2009 and engineers who are currently in active service at sea Establishes Magsaysay MOL Ship Management. and honing logical thinking skills, in addition to training in and on shore, to the campus to talk about our group’s Outline of MOL Magsaysay Maritime Academy Inc. vessel operating technology. Introduces the Third-year Program under the Academesafety culture and preparedness from the point of view Industry Linkage Program (AILP)*1 promoted by the Name MOL Magsaysay Maritime Academy Inc. (MMMA) 2011 government of the Philippines. Provides education and of those entrusted with onboard operation, as well Salitran, Dasmariñas City, Cavite State, the Philippines training at MIS, targeting third-year students selected from as career and life plans. MMMA will turn out highly Planned partner maritime schools. construction (about 30km south of Manila) competent seafarers who have a thorough knowledge site and Total site area: About 13.2 ha, Total floor area: About scale 30,000m2 Starts a cadet education program, which provides practical of MOL Group safe operation systems and standards, training on MOL-operated vessels in service, which 2013 have been specially equipped with training facilities and by providing the education, from the first-year stage, No. of Max. 300 per year students (150 each for navigation school and engine school) accommodations for trainees. required to realize MOL Group’s goal: becoming “the world leader in safe operation.” Scheduled 2018 MOL Magsaysay Maritime Academy scheduled to open. June 2018 (plan) And, those high-competent seafarers, accumulating Data opening *1  Academe-Industry Linkage Program (AILP): A program to help schools boarding experiences on our operated vessels for Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. : 40% upgrade the education of students and enhance employment opportunities for Ownership Magsaysay Maritime Corporation : 35% top-quality students, based on cooperation between academia and industry. many years, lead to support of safe operation. Magsaysay Institute of Shipping : 25% Ship in Campus at the practical training building 37 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 38 Special Feature 4 — MOL Group’s Social Contribution Activities: Highlights — Volunteer Activities in Joso City 3 Volunteer activities in disaster-stricken areas Activity 1: Cleanup at noodle factory affected by disaster Flood-ravaged Area of Joso City At the request of the owner’s spouse, the new MOL employees helped to clean up a local noodle factory that was severely damaged in the flood. Wearing dust-protective masks, Many of MOL’s social contribution activities center on relief efforts to assist areas hit they split up into teams to rearrange household goods and by storms, earthquakes, and other natural disasters. While it is critical to provide swift CSR furnishings that were hastily moved to the second floor as the Inside the noodle factory transport of aid supplies in the immediate aftermath of a disaster, we believe it is also floodwaters approached and clean up floors and ceilings. They before cleanup important to follow up with additional assistance even afterwards. This special feature took everything outside for a thorough cleaning and removed introduces relief activities by 26 new MOL employees in the flood-stricken area of garbage from the site. “The place has been cleaned beyond New employees clean and Special Feature Joso City in April 2016. recognition,” said the owner’s spouse. “We are so happy.” rearrange household goods. Activity 2: Sharing a tea break with local residents Many restaurants, which served as meeting places for community associations and gathering places for local residents, Flood in Joso, and MOL’s response were damaged in the flood, so the sense of community in the flood-ravaged area is rapidly disappearing. To prevent The Kinugawa River overflowed its banks on September 10, 2015, leaving a huge section of the city’s eastern district elderly residents from feeling isolated, which could aggravate their physical and underwater – an area measuring 18km north-south and 4 km east-west. Three people died, and more than 5,000 mental health problems, it is essential to find spots where people displaced by homes were flooded. Today, the flood-ravaged area still faces a host of problems such as delays in repairing the Safe Operation the flood can get together. As part of that effort, eight flood-displaced residents flooded houses, a decline in agriculture, the area’s major industry, a weakening of the local economy, and a worsening were invited to the NPO office to chat with new MOL employees and enjoy tea, sense of distress among those affected by the disaster. Government agencies and non-profit organizations are both cookies, and other snacks. working to assist in the reconstruction efforts. In light of the current situation, employees who joined MOL in fiscal 2016 visited the area as a part of the new employee training program, and conducted support activities in cooperation with the Tasukeai Center Juntos Tea and conversation at the NPO office operated by the non-profit organization Ibaraki NPO Center Commons. The Environment 4 Voices of New Employees after the Visit About Ibaraki NPO Center Commons The authorized non-profit Ibaraki NPO Center Commons, established in 1996, provides Japanese language education for foreign children in its Joso • I could clearly appreciate the huge difference between learning about disaster-stricken areas through the media office. In September 2015, it established the Tasukeai Center Juntos to conduct relief activities for those affected by the disaster and to serve as an and actually seeing it with my own eyes. Before this, I had a vague knowledge of such things through the news, information center during the disaster. Juntos is working to restore homes damaged by the flood, help displaced people move, and support the local community. but now I will be more conscious about disaster-stricken areas and think about what I can do to help. Human Resources Development • I experienced how the perceptions of flood damage and the degree of reconstruction required vary so much even among people who suffered Relief Activities similar damage. I realized anew that I don’t have to talk to community members with incorrect, preconceived notions about their positions. 1 Bus trip to disaster-affected area • From talking with those affected by the flood, I learned that safety The area affected by the flood is large, and different areas face depends on awareness of risks. I will take care not to fall into different obstacles to recovery. MOL new employees toured the ignorance and lack of consideration when thinking about safety, and Social Contribution Activities area by bus, and learned about the diversity of difficulties facing I realize that when I say things like “I don’t know” and “It has nothing A group shot of new MOL employees with NPO staff and the the community by looking closely at the collapsed banks of the to do with me,” I can be opening myself up to unnecessary risks spouse of the noodle factory owner Kinugawa River and the area that suffered the most serious flooding. Examining traces of the flood damage on a hedge 5 Comment from NPO 2 Eating emergency rations for lunch As time passes since the flood, fewer volunteers come to the disaster-stricken areas. New employees ate a lunch of emergency There are still many homes that have not yet been cleaned up. Thanks to MOL employees, rations such as canned bread and rice, the reconstruction has started on the noodle factory. Thanks to their visit, we know we are not same foods served at evacuation shelters forgotten, and we have people who support us. This encourages us more than anything. during the flood. This allowed them to see the Thank you very much. aftermath of the flood from the point of view of those most impacted by the tragedy, and Yoshihiro Yokota Representative of Tasukeai Center Juntos reminded them how important it is to make Data preparations for a disaster. The MOL Group continually takes a proactive stance to assist in disaster relief and reconstruction New employees eat a lunch of emergency rations. Heating water to prepare emergency rations activities in Japan and around the world. 39 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 40 MOL Group’s Social Contribution Activities: Connecting with the World As a corporate group that strives for sustainable growth in step with society, we take a proactive stance in social ~ Education Activities to Convey the Significance of Japan’s Maritime Industry ~ contribution activities that are unique to an ocean shipping company with a global network. The group also emphasizes MOL continues activities to convey the maritime industry’s importance to Japan as activities that get employees engaged and involved. an island country. In fiscal 2015, we presented lectures to about 230 young people. The MOL Group expresses its heartfelt sympathies to all those afﬂicted by the recent Kumamoto earthquake, and wishes ▶ Head Office Visit by Marine Technology Grad Students from Delft University for their safety and the swiftest possible reconstruction and restoration of the quake-stricken areas. MOL welcomed 34 graduate students from the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands in a visit to the Tokyo Head Office. We showed them the Safety Operation ~ Activities Involving Executives and Employees, ~ Addressing Social Issues in a Way Unique to Supporting Center (SOSC), and MOL employees enjoyed an active exchange of opinions in Japan and Overseas ~ an Ocean Shipping Company ~ about our response to environmental issues. MOL plans various programs for executives and MOL supports local communities in need of relief CSR ▶ Presenting Marine Day Event to let people come in contact with the employees to implement on their own initiative. It also supplies and NPOs that work to assist them, by Sea and the Ships believes participation in social contribution activities providing containership and car carrier transport MOL presented tours of a containership, container terminal, cruise ship, and ferry, and presents an opportunity for personal growth. at no cost. offered guests the opportunity to experience the ship operation simulator, in cooperation with the Japanese Shipowners’ Association and the Japan Captains’ Association. Special Feature ▶ Charity Event Draws Attention to Child Hunger ▶ Transport of Used Shoes to Zambia/ MOL held a charity event to help the World Food Providing Secondhand Containers ~ Voices of Participants ~ Programme (WFP(*))’s school meal initiative. The event MOL has transported used shoes to Zambia since 2010 in gave executives and employees the chance to taste the cooperation with the Japanese Organization for International “It was a rare opportunity to see the inside of the ship.” same kind of meals provided through the aid program Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP (*)). Shoes are collected at Sogo and Seibu department stores and Ito“It was amazing to see how big the containership was.” and purchase WFP charity merchandise, with all the proceeds going to the WFP. More than 300 people took Yokado supermarkets. MOL also donates secondhand part in the event. Their contributions through the event will containers to Zambia to serve as Maternity House, a standby Safe Operation help provide about 4,000 children with nutritious meals. facility to help expectant and nursing mothers. * The Japanese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning * The World Food Programme (WFP) is part of the United Nations system and the world’s largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide. It (JOICFP) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) that contributes to the welfare of local residents by conducting research related to family planning ~ Supporting Disaster-stricken Areas ~ implements school meal programs to ensure that every child has access to and maternal and child health in developing nations. education, health, and nutrition. MOL is always ready to support reconstruction efforts in areas affected by disasters, including the Great East ▶ Lights-off Hour Event and Blood Donation Japan Earthquake, as well as swift emergency aid relief right after a disaster. Program at MOL Global Offices MOL Presents Dialogue between Miyako City Mayor and Local Youth The Environment MOL, Hong Kong-based MOL Liner, Ltd., and other MOL ▶ Group companies — 17 in all — joined the lights-off hour aboard Nippon Maru event called “Earth Hour 2016” organized by the World MOL invited Miyako City Mayor Masanori Yamamoto and university students Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) to promote environmental and adults living in the city to a dialogue event aboard the cruise ship Nippon protection. MOL Liner and other group companies in Maru during a call at the port of Miyako, Iwate Prefecture. Hong Kong also participated in a blood donation drive that resulted in more than 50 employees giving blood. Human Resources Development Comment from Miyako City Mayor Masanori Yamamoto * WWF is one of the world’s largest leading conservation organizations, working in more than 100 countries. Its efforts focus on promoting biodiversity and preventing global warming. “Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. created the program, which invited 21 university students and adults living in the city to exchange ~ Supporting Source Nations of Our Seagoing opinions and ideas. The visit provided an opportunity for the Workforce ~ younger generation, which will create the future of the region, to MOL offers ongoing support to the nations and rediscover the attractiveness of the area and strengthen their ties with each other. During the dialogue, the participants shared their regions that develop our seafarers, such as the ideas of “My Favorite Miyako,” and discussed ways to promote Social Contribution Activities Philippines, and works to deepen ties with these the region’s attractions to more people.” areas. “We received comments from university students who took part in the dialogue such as: ‘For me, who grew up in an urban city, Miyako’s nature itself is very attractive,’ ‘I was moved to find out that scenes ▶ Transporting Wheelchairs to the Philippines we see every day are amazing to people coming to Miyako from outside the prefecture,’ and ‘I usually MOL provided free transport of 90 used wheelchairs have few opportunities to meet people of my generation, so it was very good to have an opportunity for for children in the Philippines. The wheelchairs were exchange. I want to continue this.’ donated to the non-profit organization The Volunteers “I heard some very valuable opinions, too. Everyone has the same feeling about wanting to promote Group to Send Wheelchairs to Overseas Children, Miyako City. I hope the young people come up with a lot of ideas and measures to do this.” Masanori Yamamoto which recognized our contribution at a ceremony in the Miyako City Mayor Philippines, and in a letter of appreciation. ▶ Effort to Aid Quake-stricken Areas in Kumamoto, Japan To provide group-wide support after the Kumamoto Earthquake in April 2016, MOL established an aid relief task force in the immediate aftermath of the quake. We launched a charity donation drive, collecting about ¥4.3 million within the group to help people impacted by the disaster and to start reconstruction of the affected areas. It has also made a donation of ¥30 Data million as a group. ▶ Effort to Aid Quake-stricken Areas in Ecuador MOL contributed secondhand cargo containers to serve as emergency shelters for those left homeless after a severe earthquake in Ecuador, and arranged for the transport of drinking water and other critical relief supplies 41 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 42 MOL Group’s Environmental Data (As of March 31, 2016) MOL Human Resource Data (as of March 31, 2016) Employees C oil/A oil: Used mainly for Energy Consumption Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 vessel fuel. Fuel oil (C oil) thousand tons 5,895 5,837 5,631 Number of employees Land Sea Land Sea Land Sea Energy consumption: The Excludes expatriate employees, loaned Male 444 269 438 277 465 277 MOL vessels thousand tons 4,796 4,547 4,375 energy equivalent of heat employees, contract employees and partFemale 162 7 168 7 177 6 Group company vessels thousand tons 1,099 1,290 1,256 originated from C oil, A oil, timers. etc. Total 606 276 606 284 642 283 Diesel oil (A oil) thousand tons 108 157 312 electricity, municipal gas and Number of employees by position Male 23 11 21 10 22 8 MOL vessels thousand tons 59 93 210 other energy consumed General Excludes loaned employees, contract Female 0 0 0 0 2 0 managers Group company vessels thousand tons 49 64 102 employees and part-timers, etc. / Includes Subtotal 23 11 21 10 24 8 Electricity expatriate employees CSR thousand kWh 92,672 107,383 99,294 Male 178 103 171 113 175 116 Municipal gas thousand m3 1,542 1,545 1,626 Group leaders Female 8 0 8 0 5 0 Energy consumption (equivalent) thousand GJ 260,967 259,996 258,290 Subtotal 186 103 179 113 180 116 Male 162 108 150 101 143 97 Scope 1: CO2 emissions Managers Female Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 9 0 12 0 11 0 originating mainly from A oil and Scope 1: CO2 emissions thousand tons 18,860 18,803 18,676 Subtotal 171 108 162 101 154 97 C oil used as fuel in vessels Special Feature Male 278 259 289 262 286 271 MOL vessels thousand tons 15,268 14,547 14,380 Below Scope 2: CO2 emissions Female 200 9 196 11 200 12 Group company vessels thousand tons 3,569 4,216 4,229 originating mainly from electricity manager level Subtotal 478 268 485 273 486 283 Others thousand tons 23 40 67 consumption Total 858 490 847 497 844 504 Scope 2: CO2 emissions thousand tons 53 62 56 Scope 3: Estimated value of Ratio of females in managerial positions*1 (%) 4.5 0 5.5 0 5.0 0 Scope 3: CO2 emissions thousand tons 9,960 8,038 7,306 CO2 emissions originating mainly Male 19 22 19 20 18 25 from A oil and C oil used as fuel New hires Female 7 1 6 2 8 1 NOx and SOx Emissions Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 in vessels MOL has chartered Total 26 23 25 22 26 26 out to other companies; NOx emissions thousand tons 504 503 499 Ratio of employees with disabilities (%) 1.9*3 2.0*3 1.9*4 calculated from FY2012 Safe Operation MOL vessels thousand tons 408 389 385 Average years of continuous service*2 16.0 11.0 16.0 11.0 16.1 11.0 Job turnover rate within 3 years of continuous service*2 (%) Group company vessels thousand tons 96 114 114 Calculation method: (New graduate hires resigning within 3 years of joining the company) / 1.3 3.0 2.6 1.5 3.9 1.4 SOx emissions thousand tons 332 335 319 (New graduate hires over past 3 years) *1. Excludes loaned employees, contract employees and part-timers, etc. *2. Excludes expatriate employees, loaned employees, contract employees and part-timers. etc. MOL vessels thousand tons 269 260 247 *3. The number of employees with disabilities meets the statutory employment number of employees with disabilities *4. 2.07% as of April 2016 Group company vessels thousand tons 63 75 72 Employee Support Systems Waste: Mainly vessels sold to be Other Resources Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 scrapped; recycled at scrapping FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Waste tons 135,597 114,576 180,983 yards Number of annual leave days taken*5 Days 11.6 12.8 13.3 The Environment Recycled tons 134,601 113,940 179,974 (including summer vacation) Percentage (%) 43.7 47.4 50.3 Water: The volume of water Non-recycled tons 995 637 1,009 used in offices. Most of the Number of employees 3 7 13 Maternity leave (preand post-childbirth)*6 Recycling rate (MOL Head Office Building) % 67 66 64 water used in vessels is made Ratio (%) 100 100 100 Water m3 721,574 637,694 632,174 from seawater and recycled. Number of takers 23 21 19 Paternity leave usage*5 Ratio (%) 45 100 73 Tap water m3 721,574 637,694 632,174 Number of users (males shown in brackets) 9(1) 9(1) 14(3) River water m3 − − Child-care leave system*6 Usage rate (%) 100 100 100 Human Resources Development Seawater tons (cyclic usage) m3 − − Short-time work shift to allow for child-care Number of users 1 1 3 Office paper thousand sheets 77,887 72,075 65,873 Retirement reemployment system after spouse transfer Number of users − 0 2 Introduced in FY2014 Eco Sailing Initiatives Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Working mothers*6 Number 39 43 33 Ocean-going vessels Nursing care leave system Number of users 0 0 0 CO2 emissions per unit load (ton-mile) FY2009 = 100 91.4 85.9 83.3 Re-employment system for mandatory retirees Number of employees 1 2 0 MOL FY2009 = 100 94.0 88.7 84.7 Care Support Systems System Application Period and Details Other Support System Domestic coastal vessels 8 weeks of leave before and after childbirth “Refresh” Leave: Employees are allocated extra Unit energy consumption FY2009 = 100 101.2 101.6 101.7 Childbirth Pre-and post-childbirth leave Social Contribution Activities (Of those weeks, 6 weeks are paid) holidays after 15 years and 25 years of continuous Child-care leave Until a child becomes 2 years old service. Onshore Initiatives Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Short-time work shift 1 hour shorter work day Unit energy consumption Child-care Industrial Accidents (on land) FY2009 = 100 83.6 78.3 76.1 Overtime work exemption Until a child becomes 3 years old (MOL, Daibiru, Shosen Koun) System for partial work at home Can work at home for 6 hours Industrial Accidents (on land) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Solar power generation thousand kWh 257 252 203 Nursing care leave Up to 2 years leave Industrial accidents Number of (excludes commuting 0 6 5 Data scope • MOL Group consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. Excludes some small offices Nursing Care cases Short-time work shift 1 hour shorter work day accidents) • Noted areas such as “(MOL)” are limited to that scope Number of Special working arrangements Flexible working hours Industrial accident leave 0 55 5.5 *5 Excludes personnel working onboard, loaned employees, contract employees and part-timers, etc. days *6 Excludes expatriate employees, loaned employees, contract employees and part-timers, etc. * Days of Industrial accident leave for FY2014 have increased due to employee falls, broken bones, and other injuries during business trips. Number of MOL Group Employees Employee Education Third-party Verification of CO2 Emission Data Number of Employees (person) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 MOL acquired third-party verification by SGS Japan, Co., Ltd. to ensure the fairness, accuracy, and transparency Bulkships 1,307 (118) （121） 1,342 1,357 (139) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 of FY2015 CO2 emission data included in this report. The verification was conducted based on ISO14064-3:2006. Containerships 5,348 (348) （350） 5,534 5,456 (354) Land¥/person 80,000 130,000 120,000 based Data Ferry & Domestic Transport 878 (89) 858（86） 845 (62) Education / Through the third party verification, we will identify issues and enhance our efforts to further reduce CO2 Training cost Oceanemissions. Associated Businesses 2,099 (1,503) （1,468） 2,123 2,160 (1,489) ¥/person 374,000 327,000 301,000 going Verification target • Scope 1, 2 (energy originated carbon dioxide emissions) and Scope 3 (downstream leased assets). Others 364 (81) （78） 351 355 (71) (Note 1) The cost to the Human Resources Division (including part of Company-wide (common) 293 (65) （71） 300 327 (66) the costs for English language training programs taken by Total 10,289 (2,204) （2,174） 10,508 10,500 (2,181) ocean-going employees) (Note 2) Education and training costs for ocean-going employees do (1) The number of employees includes the entire labor force, and the approximate average number of temporary not include travel and accommodation expenses. employees is indicated in parentheses. (2) The employees indicated as Company-wide (common) belong to administrative departments, which cannot be classified in any specific segment. 43 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 44 Third-party Opinion External Recognition Eiichiro Adachi has established training centers in the Philippines, and Overall, CSR Related (Including Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index) A Director has focused on training of seafarers, based on the idea Earns inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability Indices A The Japan Research Institute, that a workforce of highly skilled, committed seafarers MOL has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Asia Pacific thanks to its highly regarded efforts Ltd. is fundamentally important to maintain and enhance its in the areas of environmental protection, CSR, and IR activities. The DJSI identifies companies expected to show longterm sustainable growth. (Since 2003) B Biography leadership in safe operation and environmental protection. Earns inclusion in FTSE4Good Index B Currently serves as Head of ESG I expect that this school, which is slated to open in June FTSE is a global index company owned by the London Stock Exchange. FTSE has included MOL in one of its major Research Center, via Corporate socially responsible investment indices, the FTSE4Good Index. (Since 2003) Strategy Research and Technology 2018, will play a key role in the MOL Group’s infrastructure. and Research divisions. Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) C Engages mainly in industrial The fourth is establishment of the new position MOL has been included in the MS-SRI for its superior CSR efforts. The MS-SRI is composed of stocks that have been C research and corporate assessment responsible for diversity in the MOL Human Resources selected by Morningstar Japan K.K. on the basis of their superior performance in CSR. (Since 2003) from the viewpoint of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Division. It is now driving initiatives to promote larger roles for MSCI Global Sustainability Index MOL has been included in the MSCI Global Sustainability Index for its superior efforts on measures taken for risks and women in the workplace. Considering that the company now opportunities related to environmental, social, and governance (ESG). (Since 2010) D This year marks the fourth time I have contributed a thirdhas major offices in 36 countries and regions, establishment SMBC Sustainability Assessment Loans D party opinion on the MOL Group Safety, Environment and of a global human resources development system is a major MOL has received the highest rating for SMBC Sustainability Assessment Loans from Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and earned the highest mark for its comprehensive information disclosure and efforts to promote sustainability. (2016) Social Report. Reading through this year’s report, I paid objective in developing a workplace environment that allows particular attention to some new challenges in FY2015 on SMBC Nadeshiko Loans for multinational, diversified personnel to maximize their MOL became the first company in the ocean shipping industry to receive SMBC Nadeshiko Loans from Sumitomo which the MOL Group is taking a proactive stance in social own abilities. In addition, I believe this will directly connect Mitsui Banking Corporation. It was also recognized as a leader among major corporations for its initiatives aimed at creating a workplace where women can play more active roles. (2016) responsibility. to MOL’s competitiveness as a world-leading multimodal E Cruise of the Year 2015 Awards The first is the establishment of the IT Strategy ocean shipping company. I hope the company continues to The Nippon Maru: Tonde (“fly to”) cruise packages to Okinawa, Kyushu, and Hokkaido, which were planned and Committee and Technology, Innovation and Environment promote these measures over the long term. marketed by its group company Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger Line, Ltd. won the Grand Prix in the Cruise of the Year 2015 awards sponsored by the Japan Oceangoing Passenger Ship Association (JOPA). The company’s efforts to develop Committee. It is a natural step for the MOL Group to Looking back at events in the past year, the Paris new cruise markets and its leading role in the promotion of regional tourism were key to its selection for this award. focus on safe operation and environmental conservation Agreement adopted by the 2015 United Nations Climate Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2015 Honored at Environmental Communication Awards as critical challenges facing the ocean shipping industry, Change Conference (COP21) marked a new step in The MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2015 took home the prize for excellence in the environmental F report category of the 19th Environmental Communication Awards, jointly organized by Japan’s Ministry of Environment and further, it underscores how both are intertwined. I was international cooperation toward addressing global and the Global Environmental Forum, and won favorable reviews for its description of technologies intended to reduce especially interested in evaluating the group’s stance on warming. The MOL Group’s CO2 emissions per unit the environmental impact of MOL Group businesses, its detailed look at the group's compliance structure, and an integrated approach to reporting in combination with the MOL Annual Report. (February 2016) advancing safe operation and environmental conservation load (ton-mile) (merchant freighters) shows a steady by using ICT (IoT/big data) in this report. downward trend, but considering the various treaties and IR Related The second is establishment of the new “guidelines guidelines under examination by the International Maritime Internet IR Commendation Award E G for prevention of bribery, etc.” Payment of port fees for MOL received the Internet IR Commendation Award from Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. (2015) Organization (IMO), we must accept the possibility of loading/unloading, customs clearance, and so on, mainly in measures to limit business activities and place additional Safe Operation Related (Including Recognition of Seafarer Training) developing countries, has shown a tendency to become a financial burdens on ocean shipping companies. So please Certification from DNV GL AS for Seafarer Training Related to Liquefied Gas Transport F problem among overseas ocean shipping companies. There continue to focus on initiatives to stay a step ahead of MOL’s training programs for seafarers serving on LNG carriers and LEG/LPG carriers, held in Japan and overseas, have is criticism that ocean shipping companies are involved in earned certification from DNV GL AS, as a program that satisfies the crew competency standards advocated by Society changing environmental regulations. of International Gas Tanker & Terminal Operators Ltd. (SIGTTO). (LNG carriers: since 2007) (LEG/LPG carriers: since 2016) illegal trade with local corporations in Africa and other regions. Furthermore, Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs), H Certification from DNV GL AS for Seafarer Education and Training Management Program G In FY2015, MOL presented seminars outlining laws and comprising 17 goals and 169 targets set out in “Transforming MOL’s tanker and LNG carrier divisions have acquired certification from DNV GL AS, in recognition of the effectiveness of its unique seafarer training and education management program and its conformance with the Competence regulations in Japan and overseas and points to remember our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” Management System (CMS). (Since 2012) for executives and employees. I expect the company to adopted by the United Nations, clearly shows the social maintain and sharpen its focus on expanding this initiative to Environment Related issues that various countries, corporations, citizen’s groups its overseas companies and group companies to establish a and other organizations must address in the future. I hope ISO 14001 Certification H MOL has used its own environmental management system MOL EMS21 since April 2001, and it holds ISO 14001 I more solid framework of business ethics. MOL Group will internally discuss how it can help fulfill the certification, an International standard for environmental management. (Since 2003) The third is gaining approval to establish MOL Magsaysay SDGs through its main business. ISO 50001 Certification Maritime Academy Inc. in the Philippines. The MOL Group MOL acquired ISO 50001 certification for its energy management system and ISO 14001 certification for its environmental management system. Certified companies: MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd. (2014), MOL Ship Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (2014), MOL Ship Management (Hong Kong) Company Ltd. (2014), and Magsaysay MOL Ship Management, Inc. (2015) J Management’s Response to the Third-party Opinion Recognized as leader in Climate Change Transparency I We appreciate your objective analysis and your praise for the new initiatives aimed at fulfilling our group’s social MOL was recognized as a leader for the depth and quality of the climate change data it has disclosed for independent responsibility. The four initiatives that were appraised in this report are integrated to realize our group’s corporate assessment through CDP, an international non-governmental organization, and included in the Climate Disclosure principles, meet our social responsibility as a multimodal ocean shipping group, and enhance our competitiveness. Leadership Index for the third time, and for two consecutive years. (2015) We have worked steadily and consistently to implement these measures, acknowledging that we cannot achieve Coal Carrier Soma Maru Honored as 'Bulk Ship of the Year' J The vessel was named the Bulk Ship of the Year at the IBJ Awards 2014 for its versatility and environmental sustainable growth unless we meet the challenges of this new era. In addition, we will hold further internal discussions performance as a state-of-the-art coal carrier with a wide-beam/shallow-draft design, various safety features and K on the MOL Group’s initiatives aimed at achieving the SDGs you pointed out, as another issue that we need to address. energy-saving specifications. (2014) We will continue to promote highly transparent business management, draw upon the activities of the CSR and Kenichi Nagata Commendations from the Port Authorities of Los Angeles and Long Beach, U.S.A. K Environment Committee to build group-wide awareness of CSR, and maintain our tireless efforts to earn even greater Executive Vice President and MOL received the Green Flag Award and Vessel Speed Reduction Award from the ports of Long Beach and Los Executive Officer Angeles, respectively, for its efforts to ensure compliance with standards that call for vessels to slow down within 40 trust from stakeholders as a corporation that takes a proactive stance in contributing to society. Chairman of CSR Committee nautical miles (nm) of the shore. (2015) 45 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 MOL Group Safety, Environmental and Social Report 2016 46 http://www.mol.co.jp Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2016) The MOL Group discloses CSR and environmental information in: Name: Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Safety, Environmental and Head Office: 1-1, Toranomon 2-chome, Minato-ku, Social Report 2016 Tokyo 105-8688, Japan President & CEO: Junichiro Ikeda Capital: ¥65,400,351,028 “CSR/Environment” section (Web site) Number of shares issued: 1,206,286,115 Number of shareholders: 104,202 Share listings: Tokyo and Nagoya stock exchanges Business: Multi-modal transport, mainly by ocean-going vessels Branches and offices in Japan: Nagoya, Kansai, Hiroshima, Kyushu Overseas network: 35 nations and regions Number of Group companies: 65 in Japan, 374 overseas; Total: 439 (The parent company and consolidated subsidiaries) “CSR/Environment” section (Web site) Number of MOL Group employees: 10,500 (The parent company and consolidated http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/index.html subsidiaries) More detailed information not included in this report can be found on our Web site. Group fleet: 883 vessels, 63,472 thousand DWT (including vessels on short-term charter contracts and those owned by joint ventures) Other communication tools Annual Report Explains detailed investor relations information such as management strategy, business environment, financial reports, and financial data, primarily for shareholders and other investors. MOL Investor Guidebook (http://www.mol.co.jp/ir-e/data_e/ig_e.html) Explains the MOL Group’s management plans, key financial indicators, characteristics of business activities, market position, and operating For Inquiries environment by business division, primarily for shareholders and other investors, with charts and figures in an easy-to-understand way. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. CSR and Environment Office, Corporate Planning Division Web site 1-1, Toranomon 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8688, Japan (http://www.mol.co.jp/en) Provides an overview of businesses and the latest information through Tel: +81-3-3587-7063 Fax: +81-3-3587-7702 press releases for all stakeholders. The Web site also has links to the sites Email: plemo@molgroup.com of MOL Group companies. This Safety, Environmental and Social Report is printed on Forest Stewardship CouncilTM (FSC)-certified paper made of wood from responsibly managed forests. It was also printed using waterless printing and vegetable oil inks.
