Lodam report on social responsibility, 2016 Social responsibility WE SUPPORT Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Lodam at a glance 102 2012 13 & 17 No. of employees on date of issue of this report. Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012. The two Global Goals that Lodam supports in particular: 13. Climate action Management statement We are pleased to present Lodam’s veloping our cross-organisational and 17. Partnerships for the goals. new report on social responsibility. collaboration, which is decisive to The report provides an overview of succeeding with complex develop1.180 80% 9 our internal and external activities ment and production projects. from May 2015 to April 2016. The aim is to provide our customers, In May 2015, Lodam entered into a employees and other stakeholders partnership with the technical huTonnes of CO2 per employee Accomplished and agreed No. 9 on the Great Place to with insights into Lodam’s work manitarian organisation Engineers in 2015. competence development. Work® Institute’s list of the best workplaces in Denmark with social responsibility as well Without Borders Denmark with the 2015. as our ambitions to contribute to aim of contributing to advancing a social responsibility. number of broader societal goals such as the Sustainable DevelopAnna Marie Damgaard Kristensen People responsibility is important ment Goals, ref. page 6. Managing Director to us, and we keep measuring employee well-being via the Danish Lodam joined the UN Global “Great Place to Work” employee Compact initiative in 2012, and we survey, organised by the Great continue to support the UN Global Lodam’s values Place to Work® Institute. In NoCompact and its ten principles on Contents Professionalism We strive to be a competent, vember 2015, Lodam was ranked no. 9 in the category of mediumhuman rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. These Management statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 reliable business partner. A partner sized companies in the Best Workprinciples reflect our continued Lodam electronics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 that keeps its promises and consistplaces in Denmark list, which reprecommitment to running our busiLodam and social responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 ently delivers above the bar in terms sents an advancement on the year ness in a responsible and serious UN Global Compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 of quality, service and value. before. Lodam also received the way. Environmental responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Inclusiveness Communication Award and was Lodam’s energy-efficient products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 We believe in individualism with a nominated for the Diversity Award, Heat pump controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 respect for diversity and the many clearly reflecting our commitment Lodam Management, Case: Green heat pump controller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 cultures that come together to work to being a great workplace for our Henning Højberg Kristensen under our roof. We are driven by employees. Managing Director Ventilation controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 good attitudes, the mutual desire Remote caretaking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 to achieve job satisfaction and our In the past period, we have been Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, Case: Prevent unhealthy indoor climate . . . . . . . . . . . 21 preparedness for change. busy tailoring our organisation and Managing Director Lodam Star Cool controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 strategies to meeting the require“The aim is to provide our Good business acumen Supplier responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 ments of our customers. We have Supplier code of conduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 We are driven by sound business customers, employees and practices in all daily decisions, both focused on setting the direction of People responsibility.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 the company and communicating other stakeholders with internally and externally. All deciAnti-corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 sions should be ethical and to the it to all our employees, and we Henning Højberg Kristensen, insights into Lodam’s work Final words and facts.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 benefit of the company as a whole. have focused, in particular, on deManaging Director with social responsibility.” Page 2 Page 3 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Lodam electronics Lodam possesses extensive know• OEM solutions for heat pump ledge and know-how about develand ventilation systems oping, producing and implementing • Compressor electronics Lodam in short innovative and efficient electronic • Frequency converters for • Danish company owned climate control solutions. Lodam’s air-conditioning and refrigeraby the German company most important asset is its staff in tion compressors BITZER. the form of more than 100 dedicat• Transport refrigeration for sea ed employees who work either at and land transport. • Lodam produces electronic Our mission is to be a global player within our modern facilities at our headcontrol devices for OEM intelligent electronics products within the for HVAC&R. We provide quarters in Sønderborg, Denmark, cost-effective and HVAC&R* industry. high-quality solutions, or at a branch office in Aarhus, Mission enabling our customers to consistently outDenmark. Energy efficiency through intelliperform their peers in • Products are developed usability, serviceability gent controls. and energy efficiency. in-house and produced by Lodam is a member of the BITZER Our mission is to be a global player global partners. Group, one of the largest groups within intelligent electronics for in the global refrigeration and HVAC&R. We provide cost-effective • Our export share is about air-conditioning compressor and high-quality solutions, en75%. industry. abling our customers to consistently * Heating, Ventilation, Air Condioutperform their peers in usability, tioning & Refrigeration Employee satisfaction is imporserviceability and energy efficiency. tant to preserving an inspiring and creative working environment and Vision the commitment which is essential Our vision is to be the preferred to securing the future development company in the eyes of our cusof innovative and energy-efficient tomers and employees solutions. • Lodam wants to continuously grow through innovative soluLodam’s control solutions are tions. important and reliable integrated • Lodam wants to improve cusparts of our partners’ total systems tomer satisfaction, as meas– and help create a perfect climate ured in our annual surveys, by for humans as well as optimised having a Net Promoter Score storage conditions for foods and (NPS) exceeding 25. other commodities. • Lodam wants to be one of the best places to work in Today, Lodam’s innovative climate Denmark with a trust index of control solutions are used all over 95% as measured by the Great the world, for instance in the folPlace to Work® Institute. lowing areas: Page 4 Page 5 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Lodam and social responsibility Looking outwards the UN, Danida and a number of in a sustainability status interview As an international company, we Danish NGOs; Lodam has contribin order to learn about Lodam’s also look outwards when it comes uted to spreading the news that experiences. to human rights and social responthe Millennium Development Goals sibility. In 2015, Lodam entered into are a success: The developing These are some of Lodam’s experia three-year partnership with Engicountries are making real progress. ences from participating in Maersk neers without Borders – Denmark See www.worldsbestnews.dk. Container Industry’s responsible (EWB-DK), www.iug.dk, which are procurement programme: part of Engineers without Borders Participating in customer’s “Maersk Container Industry’s International. EWB-DK is a techresponsible procurement prorequest was a chance to look at nical humanitarian organisation gramme our work with CSR from a strategic that, through the vision “building Lodam supplies Maersk Container point of view. At the time, we were a better tomorrow”, aims to help Industry with controllers, which are already adhering to the principles the world’s poorest in building a used in the Star Cool refrigerating of social responsibility, but hadn’t better and more sustainable future units, and has done so since the formalised our CSR activities. in their local environment. EWBlaunch of the units in 2006. It made sense for Lodam to take DK supports projects in developing One of Maersk Container Industry’s this step. Not only because we countries using technical skills to sustainability targets is to reduce are engaged in business activities support local development and energy consumption, which is worldwide but also because we fight poverty. EWB-DK’s core areas one of the reasons why they have were going through a phase of The Global Goals are environment (including renewchosen Lodam’s energy-efficient substantial growth – which meant In September 2015, world leaders 13. Climate action: Take urgent Lodam is a partner of Engineers able energy and waste), water, cooling control solutions for their doubling the number of employees. committed to 17 Global Goals to action to combat climate change Without Borders Denmark, which sanitation, hygiene and health reefer containers, ref. page 22. The programme triggered a strong achieve three extraordinary things and its impacts. is a technical humanitarian organi(WASH), food security, and emerfocus on our CSR activities, and we in the next 15 years: End extreme Lodam contributes through the sation that aims to help the world’s gency and disaster relief. In 2011, Maersk Container Industry also decided to join the United Napoverty, fight inequality and injussupply of energy-saving electronic poorest in building a better and invited Lodam to take part in its tions Global Compact as a natural tice and fix climate change. Ref. climate control solutions. Read more sustainable future. In 2015, Lodam again participated Responsible Procurement propart of this process”. www.globalgoals.org. about our products and how they in the ‘World’s Best News’ initiative, gramme, and in November 2015 save energy on pages 16-22. a Danish campaign conceived by they asked Lodam to participate Lodam is committed to supporting the 17 Global Goals. Given the na17. Partnerships for the goals: ture of our business and our prodStrengthen the means of impleucts, we contribute, in particular, to mentation and revitalise the global achieving two out of the 17 goals: partnership for sustainable development. Page 6 Page 7 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Social responsibility partnerships and networks Lodam is member of a number and organisations that support the ees or their children are active. The Results goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) of networks, supporting social local communities in which we are employees can apply for sponsorGoal: responsibility activities together present. ships once a year. Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of the annual employee satisfaction survey (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. with other companies and organResult: isations. The list below illustrates Lodam also supports a number of 96% of all Lodam employees answered “I feel good about the way we contribute to society” in the Danish Great Place to Work 2015 survey, organised by the Great Place to Work® Institute. Lodam’s commitment to human local clubs and associations, e.g. rights, environmental innovation sports clubs in which our employGoals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of the annual employee satisfaction survey (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Human rights • Dansk HR, www. danskhr.dk (in • SPM, www.spm-erfa.dk • UN Global Compact, www. Danish) • Delta – EMC Klub, www.emcunglobalcompact.org • Cabi, www.cabiweb.dk (in klubben.dk (in Danish) • World’s Best News, www. Danish) • Delta – Wireless Klubben, worldsbestnews.dk • cleantech.talentattractiondenwww.wirelessklubben.dk (in • Engineers Without Borders mark.com Danish) Denmark / Ingeniører uden • Fachverband Gebäude-Klima, grænser, www.iug.dk Education www.fgk.de (in German) • Cooperation agreements with • ASERCOM – Association of Environment University of Southern DenEuropean Refrigeration Com• Project Zero, www.projectzero. mark and Aalborg University ponent Manufacturers, www. dk • Energy sponsor programme at asercom.org • CO2-neutral websites, www. Aalborg university CO2neutralwebsite.com • The panel of employer repreIndustrial cooperation sentatives at the University of • Confederation of Danish IndusLocal cultural branding Southern Denmark, www.sdu. try (Dansk Industri, DI), www. • Cultural and sports sponsordk di.dk ships: Kultur i Syd, Sønderborg • Guest lectures in e.g. techno• Member of DI’s CSR network Hus, Sønderjyske Elite Sport logy and innovation, sales and and Conflict Minerals network, and Dybbølhallerne marketing and CSR www.di.dk • Sponsorships for local clubs • Industrigruppen Sønderborg and associations in which Innovation and technology • Member of Sønderborg VækstLodam employees are active • TEGnology, www.tegnology.dk råd, vaekstraad.sonderborg.dk • CLEAN, Danish cleantech clusEmployer branding and attraction ter, www.cleancluster.com • Great Place to Work® Institute, • Member of Mechatronics Cluswww.greatplacetowork.dk ter Denmark, www.mechatron• Work Live Stay, www.workicscluster.com (in Danish) live-stay.dk • Partner in local project “Green • Career in Denmark, www.caPower Electronics Test Lab”, reerindenmark.com supported by e.g. Green Labs dk Page 8 Page 9 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 UN Global Compact The world’s largest corporate susThe UN Global Compact strategy: tainability initiative By encouraging companies to operate responsibly and take straThe ten principles of the The UN Global Compact is a call to tegic actions that support society, United Nations Global Compact companies to align strategies and the UN Global Compact works to operations with universal principles ensure that business activity adds Human rights on human rights, labour, environvalue not only to the bottom-line, 1. Businesses should ment and anti-corruption, and but also to people, communities support and respect the take actions that advance societal and the planet. protection of internationgoals. ally proclaimed human rights; and The UN Global Compact asks Lodam supports the UN 2. make sure that they are Global Compact and its The UN Global Compact believes it companies to take a comprehenten principles on human not complicit in human rights, labour, the enviis possible to create a sustainable sive approach to sustainability, and ronment and anti-corrights abuses. ruption. and inclusive global economy that lays out 5 essential elements of delivers lasting benefits to people, corporate sustainability which the Labour communities and markets. UN Global Compact helps business 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of associput into practice: ation and the effective To make this happen, the UN Globrecognition of the right to al Compact supports companies Foremost companies must (1) collective bargaining; to: operate responsibly in alignment 4. the elimination of all 1. Do business responsibly by with universal principles and (2) forms of forced and comaligning their strategies and take strategic actions that support pulsory labour; operations with ten principles 5. the effective abolition of the society around them. Then, to child labour; and on human rights, labour, envipush sustainability deep into the 6. the elimination of discrimronment and anti-corruption; corporate identity, companies must ination in respect of emand (3) commit at the highest level, (4) ployment and occupation. 2. Take strategic actions to adreport annually on their efforts, and vance broader societal goals, (5) engage locally where they have Environment such as the UN Sustainable a presence. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Development Goals, with an approach to environmenemphasis on collaboration and tal challenges; innovation. 8. undertake initiatives to Source: www.unglobalcompact.org promote greater environReporting to stakeholders in a mental responsibility; and transparent and public manner 9. encourage the development and diffusion of is fundamental for companies environmentally friendly committed to sustainability. Each technologies. company’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) is a key comAnti-corruption ponent of the company’s commit10. Businesses should work ment to the UN Global Compact. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 10 Page 11 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Environmental responsibility Lodam takes an environmenproducts close to the markets Refurbished spare parts, pilot Air and heating in our consumption figures next tally responsible approach to for which they are destined. Our project Lodam’s main building is heated year. the running of our business, and strategy is an efficient logistics Lodam has completed a pilot proby water-borne floor heating. The we focus on the areas with the approach, which we call “in the ject that involved looking into introheat comes from (ground-to-waEnergy savings for employees greatest potential for minimising area, for the area”. The purpose ducing refurbished spare parts. ter) heat pumps, which we have For our employees, we have inenvironmental impact. One such of Lodam’s localisation project is Apart from following developdeveloped and produced ourselves. troduced a number of initiatives area is our products that reduce to ensure that our manufacturers ments in national legislation on the When the temperature drops bethat may help them save energy at energy consumption for end-users, are sited near our main customers. recycling of electronic waste, we low freezing point, we supplement home. We have two energy meters, ref. pages 16-22. We also require Furthermore, Lodam is working looked into whether spare parts for this heating solution with natural which the employees can borrow that our suppliers take care of the to find quality-conscious subsupone of our products could be regas. We have seasonal control to check the energy consumption environment, ref. our Supplier Code pliers which are located near the furbished, and to what extent. The of our heating to ensure a more of various types of electrical equipof Conduct, pages 25-27. manufacturers. All in all, transport pilot project was a success, and homogeneous indoor temperature ment at home. It is also possible to In-house, we look at optimising our and logistics are minimised, saving following evaluation by the cusand save energy. borrow a thermal imaging camera facilities. We keep a list of ideas for money, time and energy. tomer, it was included in our regular Lodam has rented a set of pavilto help identify insulation probenvironmental improvements. The In the past period, we have focused scope of supply. ions, which we use as extra meetlems. In addition, we have a site list is available to all employees, on reducing air transport as this is Based on our experience from the ing rooms. However, these pavilon our intranet for discussing and who are welcome to add ideas to both the most expensive, and also pilot project, we are now considerions are heated by electricity, which exchanging ideas on how to save the list. The ideas are evaluated at the most energy-intensive mode ing extending the concept to other is not ideal, neither from a cost nor energy at home. regular CSR meetings, where it is of transport. We have specifically customers. We see considerable from an environmental point of In March 2016, we held an afdecided which ideas to look further focused on monitoring and relong-term potential. view. However, we have concluded, ter-hours meeting for employees, into or implement. Many ideas have ducing our use of air transport of Apart from the obvious environthat initiating new activities will be where one of our employees gave already been implemented, and product parts and components. mental benefits, our aim is for the too expensive as our present plans a talk on energy logging at home, new ideas are constantly being Furthermore, we have looked into refurbishment of spare parts to are only to keep the pavilions for a based on experience from Lodam’s added to the list. and evaluated potential subsupbring considerable advantages for few more years. own product development departThe ideas that have been implepliers which are located near the customers in terms of both cost-efVentilation systems are installed in ment. mented since the last report range manufacturers. In particular, we ficiency and quality. all buildings (except the pavilions). from insulation of a building to have been looking for subsuppliThese are very energy-friendly serving tap water to guests instead ers of heavy components, which Environmental certification solutions, which also improve of bottled water (which makes perhave the greatest impact during air Lodam has looked into the process the indoor climate. From January fect sense in Denmark as we have transport. of obtaining ISO 14001 certifica2016, all ventilation systems are some of the cleanest tap water in The result is a considerable fall in tion in terms of scope, costs, risk again controlled by week programs the world). use of air transport, and in general analyses and strategy, and we have (active on working days from 6 am These are some of the other areas a decrease in sea and land transestablished a detailed overview of until 6 pm). The week programs we focus on: port. the steps involved. An actual plan have been switched off for some The project continues, and our for the certification process will be time due to internal testing in our Localisation focus will now be on the implemade, either if requested by one of development department (the Localisation is about streamlinmentation of the processes in the our customers, or if Lodam believes ventilation systems are controlled ing logistics, increasing transport long term. that this would be a good idea and by Lodam software), so we expect efficiency and manufacturing our in line with Lodam’s strategies. the energy savings to be reflected Page 12 Page 13 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Energy consumption figures 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy audit according to The recommendations will be paper. We always print a limited kWh per sq m, total 110 152 127 122 142 137 143 2012/27/EU added to Lodam’s list of initiatives number of copies. Our current supThe tables on this page shows our energy consumption and kWh per sq m, 93 122 119 128 As part of the BITZER Group, a and will subsequently be evaluplier of printed matter is located ordinary facilities CO2 emissions for the past and activities large international group, Lodam is ated and implemented where it very close to Lodam, which saves years relative to floor area and kWh per sq m, 29 20 18 15 subject to the EU Energy Efficiency makes sense. Lodam’s facilities are energy for transport. product testing Directive (2012/27/EU). Therefore, generally energy-optimised and in See www.fsc.org. number of employees. kWh per employee 5601 6801 5485 4649 5301 4649 4648 an external consultant performed a good condition. Notes: an energy audit of our facilities in In 2010, we extended our facilities with during the winter period in 2013. January/February 2016. Printed matter approx. 1,000 sq m. During the period of The low figures for 2014 are partly due to The audit resulted in a report with a All printed matter, including this construction, our ground-to-water heata very mild winter and partly to the insufew recommendations for improvereport, is printed using environmening system was switched off. lation of the building acquired in 2013. ments to the existing installations. tally friendly ink on FSC-certified In 2012, we split the measuring of energy In the 2015 report, we based the 2014 consumption into energy used for prodfigures “kWh per employee” and “Tonnes uct testing and energy for our ordinary of CO2 per employee” on the wrong facilities and activities in order to monitor number of employees. Instead of using how energy is used. the average number of employees for the Results goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) In 2013, we extended our facilities with a year, our calculations were based on the Goal: new 396 sq m building. This building was number of employees in December. The Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. not as well-insulated as the other buildfigures have been restated in the 2016 ings, and thus more energy was used report. Result: Lodam has a list of proposed initiatives. This list is evaluated at all regular environment meetings, and new initiatives are added while decisions are made as to which initiatives to look further into or implement. In the past period, we have pointed and insulated all our windows in one of our buildings, we have started serving tap water to guests instead of bottled water, and we have run a “print-onboth-sides” campaign. The list is available to all Lodam employees on the intranet. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Tonnes of CO2 per 0.040 0.043 0.050 0.039 0.043 0.043 0.036 Goal: sq m Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture products close to the markets for which they are destined. We will especially monitor our use of air transport. Tonnes of CO2 per 2.043 1.921 2.167 1.493 1.609 1.448 1.180 employee Result: The result so far has been a considerable fall in the use of air transport, and a general decrease in sea and land transport as well. Notes: Some of our energy consumption relates The above CO2 calculations are made Goal: Prepare a stepwise plan in 2015 on how to obtain ISO 14001 certification. to natural gas, which is weighted more using a tool on www.klimakompasset.dk. highly in the CO2 emission calculations. Result: Lodam has looked into the certification process, and we have established a detailed overview of the steps involved. However, a detailed stepwise plan for a certification process has not been prepared. An actual plan will be made, and certification will be initiated, either if requested by one of our customers, or if Lodam believes that this would be a good idea and in line with our strategies. Environmental inspection Goals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) The Danish local authorities inNovember 2008: 1 remark Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking spect local companies to ensure (paper sorting handled incorrectly). into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. that they comply with environMarch 2012: 0 remarks mental regulations governing the Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture products close to minimisation of pollution. Due to The next inspection is due to take the markets for which they are destined. Our focus will be on anchoring the processes in the long term. the nature of Lodam’s business acplace in 2016 (it has yet to be tivities, inspections are only carried carried out at the time of release of out about every three years. this report). Page 14 Page 15 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Lodam’s energy-efficient products Heat pump controller Lodam develops innovative conVentilation systems Controlling domestic hot water and heating trol solutions for climate system Lodam’s ventilation control soluapplications. Today, the solutions tions are key to creating perfect Lodam’s heat pump controller You can remotely control and monHow does the Lodam heat are used all over the world, for comfort and climate for people – pump controller save energy makes it possible to gain total itor the heat pump via the internet, instance in the following areas: e.g. in homes, industrial buildings compared to other products? control of domestic hot water and and download a data log for serand schools. heating for domestic comfort. The vice and diagnostic purposes. • The unit cuts energy conOEM solutions optimised control ensures low sumption and costs through • Heat pumps Frequency converters energy consumption and is comFurthermore, with the Lodam heat intelligent capacity control • Ventilation systems Lodam’s converter solution elecbined with a user panel for easy pump controller, you can make via a frequency converter. tronically controls compressor operation. your heat pump Smart Grid-ready. Compressor electronics capacity to match actual cooling • It includes intelligent • Compressor protection and demands by changing the comdefrost scheduling, which monitoring pressor speed. The result is imsaves energy and ensures • Frequency converters proved part-load performance, low capacity waste. thus saving energy and cutting CO2 • Pre-programmed outside Transport emissions. temperature compensation • Reefer containers curves adapt to the fastest • Truck & Trailer units Accessories control/better comfort. “Innovative control Multiple accessories are availsolutions used all over able for all Lodam controllers to • The controller can be used the world.” Heat pumps add extra value to the solutions: for heat pumps with air or Lodam’s heat pump controllers Innovative and user-friendly user water/brine as source. Supplementary heat sourcing ensure COP (coefficient of perforpanels with colour displays, remote from solar panels or electric mance) optimisation of individual communication devices, sensors heaters is possible. systems and add knowledge about and data loggers, web modules additional aspects such as anti-leand Windows-based multi-tools gionella control of domestic hot for communicating with the conwater. The controllers can be used trollers. in both domestic and industrial heat pumps. Page 16 Page 17 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Case: Green heat pump controller Ventilation controller LDH 105 Green heat pump controller complies A perfect climate everywhere with minimum energy consumption with new EU requirements for standby power With Lodam’s ventilation controller, goal is to ensure optimised comfort One of Lodam’s very good cusThe Lodam heat pump controller a perfect climate can be created using as little energy as possible. tomers for many years, the Danish controls and monitors the heat everywhere with minimum energy Lodam’s ventilation system has a How does the Lodam venticompany Vesttherm A/S, producpump to ensure intelligent control consumption due to demand-drivnumber of features that contribute lation controller save energy en ventilation. The ventilation conto that goal. Some of the features compared to other products? es heat pumps for single-family of the heat and minimise energy houses. Lodam has supplied the consumption and cost. In complitroller operates in both household include remote access, which al• The ventilation controller LDH 105 heat pump controller for ance with the new regulations, the and industrial units. lows support and service from the controls the supply and Vesttherm’s heat pumps for many LDH 105 Green now also ensures office, as well as advanced status exhaust air with energy-savyears. that the heat pump uses less than 1 The supply of fresh, filtered air to alarms to facilitate fault finding. ing EC fans or AC fans with watt when in standby mode. maintain air quality is key to an converters. Torben Lauridsen and Vesttherm heat pumps. As from 2015, Vesttherm had to optimised indoor climate and comcomply with new limits for energy Torben Lauridsen, Managing Direcfort. As ventilation costs energy, the • The controller ensures demand-driven ventilation consumption when the heat pump tor of Vesttherm, says: As soon by means of CO2 and is in standby mode. as we became aware of the new humidity sensors; if the regulations, Lodam set to work on Vesttherm is a Danish manuhumidity and CO2 values Having been contacted by Vestthe redesign, delivering the new facturer of hot water heat rise above a stipulated level, therm, Lodam immediately set to controller on time, at the same pumps. ventilation is stepped up, work redesigning the heat pump price level and to the same high and as soon as the humidity The company has supplied controller to produce a new version standards as before. and CO2 values are accepthigh-quality heat pumps to which complies with the new able, the level of ventilation the European market for more regulations – the new controller is is reduced again. In this way, than 30 years. www.vesttherm.dk called LDH 105 Green. The LDH 105 only an absolute minimum Green controller had to be tested of energy is consumed to and approved by the Danish aumaintain a given level of thorities (Danish Energy Agency). comfort. • The ventilation can be adjusted according to The Energy Labelling Directive outside temperature and (2010/30/EU) establishes a day-and-night or weekly framework for labelling and requirements. consumer information regarding energy consumption. Page 18 Page 19 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Remote caretaking Case: A perfect indoor climate at all hours Remote monitoring prevents unhealthy indoor climate With Lodam’s remote caretaking • By ensuring that the systems You can prevent mould in flats by Lodam’s remote caretaking service service, it is possible to monitor and run efficiently at all times, it is installing ventilation systems – but offers surveillance of both central How does the Lodam reconfigure all ventilation systems in possible to prevent outbreaks only if they are switched on and and local ventilation systems by Mould facts: mote caretaking service save a building or a block of flats from of mould in flats. Mould is work. means of advanced status alarms energy? Moulds are simple, microa central location via a web-based unhealthy for those living in which quickly alert the landlord if scopic organisms that can application on a PC or via a smartthe flats and expensive for the An average person produces about a system is not running properly or • Optimising the operation of grow virtually anywhere. phone application. landlord to remove. 2.5 litres of water/humidity a day. has been turned off – either due to ventilation systems ensures A family of four would thus easily technical problems or by a tenant. Moulds thrive at the same a perfect indoor climate with minimum energy conRemote access to ventilation • In case of fire near a building or produce 10 litres of water in one Swift action can thus be taken temperatures that humans sumption. However, if one systems is a unique opportunity block of flats, it is possible to day. Lack of proper ventilation to restart the ventilation system, prefer. To grow, most moulds or more systems are turned to ensure optimised operation of remotely turn off all ventilation can result in a bad indoor climate thereby avoiding the formation of require the presence of conoff, either due to technical the ventilation systems level at all systems in order to prevent and, in a worst-case scenario, in mould. siderable moisture. errors or by a tenant, there times. smoke from entering the buildmould. A ventilation system in The presence of a lot of will be an instant increase ing or flats and causing smoke a flat prevents the formation of In addition to saving time in conmould can be a health hazard in energy consumption. The caretaking service has three inhalation injuries. mould, but only if it is switched on nection with the monitoring of to humans. With the remote caretaking significant advantages: and in proper working condition. the ventilation systems to avoid service, it is possible to A remote monitoring service of the formation mould, the landlord monitor that all systems are • By remote-controlling all ventithe ventilation systems in a block also saves money in connection running in the most optilation systems, you do not have of flats, which alerts the landlord with the servicing of the systems. mised way, receive alarms to arrange service visits to each if a ventilation system in a flat is Through remote access to the venif one or more of them individual flat. This is convenswitched off, will both help guartilation systems, the manufacturare not, and subsequently ient and saves time for both antee a healthy indoor climate for er’s service division can access and remotely reconfigure and restart them. landlords and tenants. the residents and save the landlord support all systems from the office the trouble of visiting the flat – and or, if necessary, plan a service visit ultimately the costly removal of for much swifter fault finding. mould. Page 20 Page 21 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Lodam Star Cool controller Reefer container operators depend by an average of 30%, but savings on reliable and economical equipof up to 50% are possible comLodam’s transport cooling ment. pared to using conventional reefer control solutions cater for a containers. range of applications: Maersk Container Industry produces the Star Cool reefer container, The Star Cool controller features • Reefer containers which features a controller dea unique humidity control system, • Truck & Trailer Units veloped by Lodam. The Star Cool which minimises weight loss and reefer container controller meets guarantees even higher product the increasing demands for high quality upon delivery. Furthermore, quality and low operating costs, the Star Cool controller sets new easy and user-friendly functionstandards for user-friendliness and ality and optimised serviceability. safety. In fact, customers using Star Cool reefer containers have cut operating costs and energy consumption Lodam develops innovative control solutions for climate system applications. Page 22 Page 23 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Supplier responsibility Supplier code of conduct Lodam’s suppliers are our close suppliers’ production facilities. For of those materials, e.g. tin, tungPreface partners. They have been carefully the time being, these registrations sten, tantalum and gold. These selected based on their quality, are used for monitoring purposes minerals are part of our electronic Lodam strives to select suppliers The purpose of Lodam’s Supplier innovation and flexibility. We strive only. products through the components who are committed to maintaining Code of Conduct is to outline in to select suppliers that are comprocured for our solutions. At preshigh ethical standards. We are a greater detail the standards we mitted to maintaining high ethical For some of our suppliers, we also ent, we do not have the full picture signatory to the United Nations’ expect our suppliers to adhere to. standards in the same way that perform audits of their suppliers, of the origin of these materials, Global Compact, and we expect Lodam views these requirements we are. The incorporation of social i.e. at the next supplier level, using but we have started requesting the our suppliers to share the fundaas an integral part of our business responsibility into our supply chain the same supplier audit templates. necessary information from our mental principles of the UN Global relationship with individual suppliis an ongoing process, and we genThis is the case for selected, stratesuppliers. Due to the complexity of Compact initiative, whether signaers. We believe that ethical, social erally experience a positive attitude gic suppliers, or suppliers where we our supply chain, this is an ongoing tories or not. and environmental standards will and approach from our partners in know from experience that it would process. provide competitive advantages this matter. be a good idea. The main purpose The Supplier Code of Conduct for the benefit of Lodam and our is to ensure the right quality of their comprises the following specific suppliers. Lodam performs regular audits deliveries; however, the audits also areas: of our strategic suppliers, and our cover environmental, health and • Remuneration and employThis Code of Conduct applies supplier audit templates include safety issues. ment conditions to suppliers doing business with environmental, health and safety • Working hours Lodam. Suppliers must comply issues, ISO 14001 certifications and Conflict minerals • Freedom of association and with this code of conduct in all deviations, if any. The templates Conflict minerals are raw materials the right to collective bargainaspects of their operations that realso include the use of solvents, that come from particular parts ing late to their business with Lodam. discharge of waste water and of the world where conflicts occur • Discrimination Supplier companies must ensure disposal of waste in general at our and affect the mining and trading • Harassment and disciplinary that their employees comply with measures this code of conduct in all activities • Child labour related to the suppliers’ business • Forced labour with Lodam. • Health and safety Results goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) • Environment We expect our suppliers to ensure Goal: • Corruption and bribery that their subsuppliers are aware Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. • Conflict minerals of and comply with the principles b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a expressed in this code of conduct. regular basis. Furthermore, our suppliers are Result: a. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the supplier contracts that we are working on with our strategic suppliers. Some contracts required to comply with all relevant have been signed, while others are still in progress (April 2016). b. We still introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers. national legislation and regulations. Goals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) Goal: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Page 24 Page 25 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Supplier code of conduct Specific requirements Discrimination If a child is found working, the supThe supplier must comply with all minimise damaging effects to the We expect the supplier’s hiring and plier must act in the best interest of applicable local legislation and regenvironment. Remuneration and employment employment practices (including the child, and any measures taken ulations to prevent accidents and conditions promotion, training and rewards) must aim to improve and not worsinjury to health arising out of, linked Corruption and bribery We expect the supplier to comply not to be discriminatory on the en the child’s situation. with, or occurring in the course of We expect the highest standards of with all legislation and regulations grounds of race, colour, ancestry, work or as a result of the operation integrity in all business interactions. governing pay and working hours, religion, gender, gender identity or Forced labour of the employer’s facilities. The supplier must not engage including those pertaining to miniexpression, sexual orientation, age, Forced, bonded or indentured lain any form of corrupt practices, mum pay, overtime pay, sick leave, physical or mental disability, health bour or involuntary prison labour is We expect the supplier to continincluding extortion, fraud or bribery, piece rates and other compensatocondition, pregnancy, political not to be used. uously improve working conditions whether direct or indirect. ry elements. opinion or affiliation, national, soand reduce workplace-related risks cial or ethnic origin, union memHealth and safety and hazards by e.g. setting tarConflict minerals Working hours bership, marital status, citizenship We expect the supplier to progets and conducting appropriate We expect the supplier to initiate a We expect the supplier not to restatus or veteran status. vide safe and healthy working training. process to ensure delivery of “conquire employees to work more than conditions and take appropriate flict-free minerals” products and 60 hours per week including overHarassment and disciplinary precautionary measures to proEnvironment to implement a conflict minerals time, or more than the limits on measures tect employees from work-related We expect the supplier to meet all policy that prohibits the purchase regular and overtime hours permitWe expect the supplier not to use hazards and anticipated dangers in relevant local and national environand use of conflict minerals. ted under local law, whichever is or permit the use of corporal punthe workplace. mental regulations and to strive to the lower. Workers must be entitled ishment or other forms of mental to at least one non-working day in or physical coercion, disciplinary every seven-day period. actions or sexual harassment. Particular employees with unusual Child labour working conditions may be exWe expect the supplier to ensure empted from this general requirethat no person is employed at an ment when covered by specific age younger than 15 (or 14 where national or international legislation; the law of the country permits) however, in the course of 12 weeks or younger than the age for comno employee must be required to pleting compulsory education in work more than an average of 60 the country of manufacture where hours per week, including overtime. such age is higher than 15. Freedom of association and right The supplier must protect young to collective bargaining workers of legal working age, up We expect the supplier not to preto the age of 18, from any type of vent employees and other workers employment or work which, by from associating freely with any its nature or the circumstances in lawful workers’ association or which it is carried out, is likely to collective bargaining association of jeopardize their health, safety or their choice. moral. Page 26 Page 27 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 People responsibility Lodam is still one of the very best From a top-level perspective, we Other tools include value stream • Two to three students write workplaces in Denmark. In 2015, have focused on setting the direcmapping projects and the design of their thesis at Lodam every our trust index was 93%, and we tion of the company and coma detailed project model to serve year Lodam’s values are ranked no. 9 among mediummunicating it. At the beginning of as a common basis for cross-or• We always have one PhD Our values are the foundation sized companies in Denmark by 2016, the managing directors met ganisational collaboration. student of our organisation. They help the Great Place to Work Institute®, with the individual departments • We always have at least one us to make business decisions which represents an advancement to present the strategy, focusing in Dialogue and communication are apprentice. At the moment, and influence all of our interfrom the year before. Furthermore, particular on the 2016 goals. The thus key to everything we do. Rewe have two, one of them an actions within the company – we received the Communication various departments then focus ceiving the Communication Award apprentice from a new uppersonal and professional. Award and were nominated for the on converting the strategy into from the Great Place to Work Instiper-secondary school proDiversity Award. relevant actions, based on contute® in 2015 is a sign that we are gramme (EUX) in electronics Professionalism tributions from individual departon the right track, but we still have • We take on new graduates, We strive to be a competent, In this report, we have chosen to ments and employees. The stratework to do. if possible, most recently a reliable business partner. A present some of the areas that we gy process also involves follow-up, university graduate who was partner that keeps its promhave focused on in particular since focusing on leadership and co-opCross-organisational collaboration employed by Lodam on normal ises and consistently delivers the last report in order to meet our eration guidelines. is very much supported by a strong conditions as part of a job rotaabove the bar in terms of vision, which is to be one of the sense of team and family spirit, tion arrangement quality, service and value. Trust index: best places to work in Denmark Cross-organisational collaboraand we are therefore continuously • We accommodate employRefers to the overall average Inclusiveness with a trust index of 95% as meastion working to improve this. ees with special employment result of the Trust Index® We believe in individualism ured by the Great Place to Work Cross-organisational cooperation needs. At the moment, one of Employee Survey by the Great with a respect for diversity Institute®. and knowledge sharing is decisive In the years to come, improved our young production workers Place To Work® Institute. and the many cultures that to the success of our complex cross-organisational collaboration comes from a school for young come together to work under Management and leadership development and production prothrough improved organisational people with special mental our roof. We are driven by We have improved our employees’ jects. We have worked to strengthcohesion will remain a focus point. health challenges. good attitudes, the mutual view of the management’s ability en our ability to match and align desire to achieve job satisfacto manage and delegate, see goals expectations, including our diaDiversity tion and our preparedness for and results on page 31. A particular logue skills, with a view to meeting Inclusiveness is one of our values. change. focus point has been the allocation our goals. This value is multifaceted and also by individual managers of more includes training and educating Good business acumen time to leadership. As part of our cross-organisationpeople to become strong members We are driven by sound al collaboration, agreements are of the workforce. business practices in all daily decisions, both internally Focus has also been on increasing made on specific issues between and externally. All decisions the empowerment of the organisatwo departments. One example These are examples of how we should be ethical and to the tion, i.e. delegating decision-makof this is an agreement between contribute: benefit of the company as a ing power from the management Sales and R&D on how to strength• Under an agreement with the whole. level into the organisation. Manen relations between customers local university (SDU), we offer agement seminars have been and R&D, under which the two four student jobs each year for held for the management, which departments have agreed to use students of engineering has also discussed the issue with the same terms and definitions – in • Every year, we offer four internLodam’s Advisory Board, which other words, to speak the same ships for students of engineercomprises both employees and language. ing managers. Page 28 Page 29 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 People responsibility goals The indicators below relate to Furthermore, they give an idea of The goals set out below relate Lodam wants to improve in all Lodam’s ability to maintain and Lodam’s ability to retain employto our overall goals and vision of areas measured by the Great Place improve employee well-being, ees, recruit new employees and being one of the best places to to Work® survey; however, the motivation and job satisfaction. create new jobs. work in Denmark with a trust index goals set out below are specifically of 95% as measured by the Great important to us. Place to Work® Institute. Description 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 2016 Comments No. of 82 employees 91 employees 102 employ101 employAn increase of employees at 1 January at 1 January ees at 1 Januees at 1 Janu7-8% 2013 2014 ary 2015 ary 2016 Description 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goals An increase of An increase of An increase of Target was an Significantly improve the management’s 66% 81% 79% 71% 81% Above 90% 26% 11% 14% increase of ability to manage and delegate the work. less than 5% Significantly improve the employees’ 80% 81% 84% 88% 88% Above 90% Staff turnover 2.66% 6.9% 6.8% 11.9 An increase of Measured as the no. experience of team and family spirit. (3% of whom 3% of employees who left retired) the company compared Trust index: 89% 93% 93% 92% 93% 95% to the average no. of Refers to the Trust Index® Employee SurAbove target, employees. vey, which measures employee engagewhich was ment by surveying employee opinions, below 5% attitudes and perceptions on the level of trust between colleagues and between Sick leave 1.52% 1.31% 1.7% 1.66 Not to exceed Including long-term sick management and employees. 1.8% leave. The target was not to exceed Notes: 1.5% These goals follow the GPW calendar. The survey is carried out in September, and the results are available in November. No. of physical 0 0 1 0 0 Lodam focuses on preinjuries ventive activities. No. of psycho0 0 0 1 case of 0 Lodam focuses on prelogical injuries, stress-related ventive activities. e.g. stress sick leave All managers have attended a course on how to prevent and spot stress at an early stage. Agreed and 85%: 86%: 80% 80% accomThe final 20% (of the accomplished plished and target figures) are competence 67% accom67% accom61% accomscheduled courses that cannot development plished and plished and plished and (1 May 2017) be accomplished for 18% sched19% sched19% schedvarious reasons (canuled uled uled (1 May celled by the organiser, (1 May 2014) (1 May 2015) 2016 postponed etc.). Notes: These indicators follow the calendar year, except for the competence development goal. Page 30 Page 31 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Anti-corruption Lodam strives to maintain strong Gifts from Lodam, including busiethical standards and to be a comness partner care, are also based pany of good standing and integrion the reasonability principle. We ty. Lodam’s anti-corruption policy do not give individual Christmas is based on the UN’s Convention gifts, but we may give gifts to show against Corruption as well as our our appreciation of special efforts, obligations under the tenth prinalso based on the reasonability ciple of the UN Global Compact principle. Moreover, we prefer to initiative: Businesses should work give gifts to a group of people inagainst corruption in all its forms, stead of just one person. The gifts including extortion and bribery. that Lodam or a Lodam employee Corruption is defined by Transparmay receive are accepted only if ency International as “the abuse of they comply with the reasonability entrusted power for private gain.” principle; if not, they are returned. Furthermore, all the gifts received Within our supply chain, we ensure are donated to Lodam’s Christmas that our partners work against lottery, in which all employees can corruption as well, by asking our participate. “Lodam has an internal suppliers to comply with our Supgift policy based on the plier Code of Conduct (see pages Our focus area has been and will reasonability principle.” 25-27), which includes a paragraph continue to be on awareness and on corruption and bribery. understanding of this issue. The instruction held for all employees Lodam has an internal policy includes information on grey areas regarding gifts. Gifts to and from between corruption and building Results goals and actions (May 2015 April 2016) external partners must respect a relationships and what the reasonGoal: reasonability principle, whereby ability principle means. Continued communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: they do not act as a means of pera. An annual general instruction to all employees. b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). suading someone to do something c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. which is dishonest, illegal or repreResult: a. An annual general instruction was held in January 2016. The instruction is part of Lodam’s general internal training programme. sents a breach of confidence. b. Special annual instructions to employees with many external contacts were held in January and February 2016. Participation is registered. c. No incidents have been registered (as per 1 May 2016). Goals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) Goal: Continued communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Page 32 Page 33 Lodam report on social responsibility 2016 Final words and facts Lodam’s report on social responefforts within the framework of UN sibility is one of five accountings Global Compact and to demonFacts that Lodam accomplishes each strate our social responsibility year. The other four are our finantowards customers, suppliers and Date of issue of this report on cial statements, our quality assuremployees. social responsibility (Commuance accountings, our customer nication on Progress, ref. the UN satisfaction survey and the Great As a socially responsible company, Global Compact): 2 May 2016 Place to Work® employee survey. Lodam will continue to implement These are accountings in which we and incorporate the ten principles Company name and address: measure ourselves in relation to our of the UN Global Compact initiaLodam electronics a/s targets and goals. tive into our strategies and our daily Kærvej 77 work. DK-6400 Sønderborg The overall purpose of the report on social responsibility is to report VAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 on Lodam’s continued, prioritised Bank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: DK12626509 96% of all Lodam employees feel good about the way Lodam contributes to society. No. of employees on date of issue: 102 Management: Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, Managing Director Henning H. Kristensen, Managing Director Board of Directors: Christian Wehrle Gianbattista Parlanti Rainer Große-Kracht Frank Hartmann Kristian Strand Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012 This report has been printed using environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified paper in a limited number of copies. See www.fsc.org. Page 34 Page 35 Copyright ® 2016 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Innovative and energy saving climate control When it comes to climate control Lodam is one of the most experienced you can turn to. For more than four decades we have developed, produced and implemented electronic solutions dedicated to optimising applications like: • Compressors • Condensing units • Heat pumps • Air conditioning • Refrigerated truck and trailer • Reefer containers Ver. 6.0 02.05.2016 We know the importance of reliable, energy-efficient operation – and constantly push technological boundaries to bring you the most innovative and forward-thinking solutions. As part of the BITZER Group we are backed by one of the world’s leading players in the refrigeration and air conditioning industry. This alliance provides us with extensive network and application knowhow and allows us to stay at the forefront of climate control innovation. And to help ensure comfortable surroundings for humans and reliable protection of valuable goods anywhere in the world. Lodam electronics a/s For more information visit: Kærvej 77 Tel. +45 7342 3737 6400 Sønderborg Fax +45 7342 3730 www.lodam.com Denmark lodam@lodam.com
