Connected. By KPN. Integrated Annual Report 2015 in facts, figures and people. Connected. By KPN. We believe that communication technology enriches life. It is our mission to provide safe, reliable and future-proof networks and services, enabling people, businesses and organizations to be connected anytime, anywhere, adding value to their lives. This Integrated Annual Report is about facts and figures, but moreover about 100 different people. About their plans, dreams and ambitions. These 100 persons have one thing in common: on a daily basis they use the services and networks of KPN. They are the inspiration for all our plans and are therefore at the center of this Integrated Annual Report. View their different stories on www.kpn.com/annualreport Contents Connected. KPN Report by Report by the By KPN. at a glance the Board of Supervisory Management Board 4. Introduction by the CEO Group performance 68. Supervisory 6. Our main achievements 28. Financial and Board Report in 2015 operational 72. Remuneration Report 8. Review of the year 2015 performance 10. Our organization 32. Innovation 12. The value we create 34. Privacy & Security 14. Our strategy 38. Quality and reputation 16. The world around us 42. Our people 46. Our suppliers Governance 48. Environmental 18. Corporate Governance performance 22. Composition of the Boards Segment performance 52. Consumer Mobile 53. Consumer Residential 54. Business 58. NetCo 61. iBasis 62. Risk Management and Compliance 66. Regulatory developments 2 Financial Appendices Integrated Statements Annual Report 2015 82. Consolidated Appendices in report 189. Colophon Financial 174. Appendix 1: Statements Analysis of adjusted results YTD 2015 156. Corporate Financial 176. Appendix 2: Statements Overview of CSR targets and achievements 163. Other Information 178. Appendix 3: Scope, reporting process and materiality determination 185. Appendix 4: Glossary of terms Digital appendices For an overview of our social and environmental figures, stakeholder dialogue, GRI index and main risks and countermeasures, please see kpn.com/annualreport 3 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Introduction by the CEO Investing in an innovative future Eelco Blok CEO KPN With innovative products and services that to updating, improving and maintaining our fixed and mobile networks. We invested substantially in our copper and fiber are increasingly valued by our customers, networks, as a result of which more than two thirds of all we are acquiring a strong reputation as households in the Netherlands could benefit from internet speeds of at least 100 megabits per second by the end of the the integrated ICT service provider in year. More than three million customers now use our 4G mobile the Netherlands. network and in May we launched an even faster version (4G+), which is available in the bigger Dutch towns and other parts of For KPN, 2015 is a year we look back on with satisfaction from the Netherlands. We continued to further integrate our fixed a commercial, operational and financial perspective. Once again, and mobile networks. With our high-quality infrastructure, our Net Promoter Score (NPS) – the yardstick for customer loyalty we make it easy for our customers to use our products and and customer satisfaction – increased across all segments. services everywhere. In consumer markets (both residential and mobile) and the business market, NPS was at an all-time high. This shows Simplification we are on the right track as far as the quality of our service is Our appealing commercial and operating results are boosted concerned. Customer numbers are growing; on the one hand by simplifying our processes, IT and other systems, and our because we have acquired more new customers and on the product and services portfolio. After 20 years, we said farewell other because more of our existing customers have remained to our youth brand Hi and transferred our Hi customers to the loyal to us. Growth figures in the consumer segment were KPN brand. In April, we announced the sale of our Belgian impressive. The business market remained challenging in 2015. subsidiary BASE to Telenet. We obtained regulatory approval We saw a slight improvement at Business in comparison with from the European Commission in February 2016. recent years. As in previous years, the results of our sustainability efforts were most satisfying. Thanks in part to simplification and greater efficiency, we reduced our costs to a fundamentally lower level. However, Upgrading our networks for our customers we realize, this is not yet enough. A new organizational We are responding to the growing customer demand for structure, characterized by fewer management tiers, greater continuous accessibility, and fast and reliable fixed and mobile flexibility and more direct involvement by the Board of connections – whether for internet, calls, TV or business – by Management, will enhance our service by making it further improving our infrastructure, which is the foundation on easier for our frontline employees to meet and respond which our service is based. In 2015, we again gave high priority to customers’ wishes. 4 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Improved financial results New partnerships for new products Our financial performance improved in 2015, on the back of We are eager to form partnerships with talented, innovative positive operating results and our simplification and efficiency companies, to foster outside-in innovation and enhance our campaigns. Although sales in the business market dipped involvement with start-ups. To that end, we set up KPN Ventures, slightly, our cost base improved, partly because we succeeded an investment fund that enables us to partner with start-ups. Such in systematically reducing our operating expenses. Our solid interaction speeds up the development and commercialization of financial performance is also apparent from the strong growth innovative applications. Another promising partnership is with in Free Cash Flow, which enabled us to grow our dividend in French Actility, which is helping us realize a cost-effective and a sustainable way. sustainable connection to the Internet of Things. We launched the so-called LoRA network in November in The Hague and On the right sustainable track Rotterdam and will implement it incrementally throughout Our aspiration to become the best service provider can only the Netherlands up to June 2016. be achieved if we continue on a sustainable path. KPN became a climate-neutral company in 2015, five years earlier than we ICT is the driver of innovative services had initially planned. Our listing in the Dow Jones Sustainability The Internet of Things will create a world in which everyday Index – for the fourth consecutive year – confirms once more objects and appliances – even animals – are connected to that sustainability is firmly and permanently embedded in our the internet and can share information with each other. strategy and execution. Our new data center in Eindhoven In just five years, there will be an estimated 50 billion of these received the Dutch ICT Environment Award. Opened in the connections, although it’s not clear how soon markets and summer of 2015, it is the first Tier IV and cradle-to-cradle data society will adopt the technology or recognize its far-reaching center in the Netherlands. Moreover, innovative technologies, opportunities. This is the world that KPN is investing in. and smart and efficient IT applications will increasingly We help our customers in their digital transformation. New contribute to making society more sustainable. technology applications create new economic opportunities and contribute to a safer and cleaner world, thereby addressing Sustainability is only one aspect of our corporate social one of the greatest challenges of our time. responsibility and involvement. We also carry out activities under the banner of the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, which I firmly believe we will succeed, as long as we embrace the enables vulnerable groups in society to maintain social development and implementation of innovative, advanced contact, such as chronically ill children and the elderly. In 2015, technologies, making ICT the driver of progress and the we enabled more than 800 sick children to stay in touch with catalyst for a better climate. their classroom from home or hospital via a communication set and keep up with their schoolwork. And we launched the Confidence in the future Zilverlijn project with the National Foundation for the Elderly, Our good operational and commercial performance and where KPN volunteers call lonely seniors for a friendly chat. stabilized financial performance give us great confidence in We are also working with the Dutch Kidney Foundation the future, in which sustainability and innovation will play an (Nierstichting) to make portable artificial kidneys a reality, increasingly important role. KPN will persistently do its utmost thereby improving the lives of kidney patients. best to make a difference for our customers and Dutch society as a whole by connecting them in a reliable and sustainable Privacy & Security remains a top priority manner, thus making their personal and working lives more The role that we play in society involves a certain vulnerability free, more simple and more fun. to security threats. We do our utmost to protect our customers and networks, and, moreover, enable our customers to protect themselves. By offering security services and being transparent about how and why we use certain data, we show our customers that we respect their privacy and safeguard their digital security at the same time. “Our good operational and Proud employees We have high ambitions to improve the quality of our service commercial performance and the even further. We create a work environment where inspiring improved financial performance leadership is the norm and our employees feel appreciated, having opportunities to develop their talents for the benefit of give us great confidence” our customers. Our employee engagement was the best in three years and rose by seven percentage points to 77%. More than 80% of employees are proud to work for KPN. This gives rise Watch Eelco’s story: to a business culture with high employee involvement. kpn.com/annualreport/eelcoblok 5 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Our main achievements in 2015 Improving our performance Adjusted EBITDA1,2 Capital expenditures1 Free Cash Flow1 In billions of EUR In billions of EUR In billions of EUR Adjusted EBITDA margin1,2 5 1.75 1.60 4 1.40 1.20 32.9% 34.5% 3 36.6% 1.05 0.80 2 0.70 0.40 1 0.35 0.0 0 2.8 2.4 2.4 0 1.4 1.2 1.3 -0.4 0.4 -0.2 0.7 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Customer satisfaction Consumer customer Reputation Net Promoter Score base growth RepTrak pulse score in the Netherlands In thousands 3 450 139 75 0 360 60 -3 270 33 45 -6 180 30 -9 90 44 15 -12 -10 -3 3 0 10 220 289 0 62.6 69.7 69.2 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Mobile Postpaid Fixed Broadband Realized cost savings Energy consumption Households with Simpliﬁcation program3 In petajoules 100Mbps coverage In millions of EUR 300 5 75 240 4 60 180 3 45 2.28 2.53 120 2 30 60 1 15 0 ~140 ~280 0 3.69 3.50 3.48 0 22% 50% 68% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Energy consumed Estimated energy by KPN consumption avoided by KPN customers4 1) Based on continuing operations. 3) For more information, please see p25 of this report. 2) EBITDA adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. 4) E  stimated avoided energy consumption by customers from the use of our Reconciliations for 2014 and 2015 to be found in Appendix 1. ICT solutions compared with K  PN own energy consumption. For more information, please see p49 of this report. 6 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 KPN connects. 99.8% of the Dutch population has network Connecting is our core business. During accessibility. KPN invests to connect rural areas. More information on pages 58 2015, we achieved to connect even more to 60. people with various activities. On this page, we display some of the highlights. 68% of Dutch households have access to KPN high-speed 1,500,000 KPN SIM card subscribers at the end of 2015 for machine-to-machine communication. internet of 100 Mbps or faster. More information on pages 58 to 60. 56% of fixed internet traffic currently consists of video streaming ~80,000 physical workspaces provided by December 2015. through Google, Netflix and others (46% in 2014). 50 Mbps is the average 4G 837 children were connected through KPN KlasseContact download speed in cities by the end of 2015. KlasseContact end 2015, compared with keeps chronically ill children 20 Mbps end 2014. More connected to their classrooms information on pages 58 and friends. More information to 60. 720 on page 40. 811,000 vulnerable elderly and chronically ill children were accompanied by 450 KPN volunteers in the Rijksmuseum during the ‘Mooiste Contactfondsdagen’. More information retail customers connected in fixed-mobile bundles. on page 40. More information on page 52 to 53. 7 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Review of the year 2015 From TV Everywhere to the use of next generation small cells in crowded areas January February March •• Introduced KPN TV Everywhere for •• Reached agreement on the sale •• Hi rebranded to KPN; iTV on smartphones and tablets; of German contact center business •• KPN’s ‘Royal’ designation renewed •• KPN’s Olympic speed-skating SNT Deutschland; for 25 more years by Dutch King marketing campaign named Best of •• Boosted the 4G network by Willem-Alexander; Europe at the European Sponsorship aggregating three frequencies •• Launched KPN ÉÉN campaign Association Excellence Awards; for faster data-download speeds; for the corporate market. •• Frank van der Post appointed •• Interactive website made ‘Late as Chief Commercial Officer. Rembrandt’ exhibition accessible to a broader audience. July August September •• Acquired Dutch hosting and •• All top-five spots in the sustainability •• Joined the United Nations initiative cloud services provider monitor of ‘Rank a Brand’ held by Global Goals for a better world; Internedservices Group; KPN brands; •• Listed in the global Dow Jones •• Won the 2015 IT Environment Award •• Introduced SmartLife, an app-based Sustainability Index (DJSI) for fourth for new data center in Eindhoven, home security service using consecutive year; the first in the Netherlands with a smartphone or tablet; •• Started testing high-quality a Tier IV certification, the highest •• Biggest temporary mobile network ‘Voice over LTE’ (VoLTE); rating for accessibility; set up at SAIL Amsterdam 2015 •• Chief Information Security Officer •• Fined EUR 8 million by Dutch tall ship event. Jaya Baloo awarded Cyber Security Consumer and Markets Authority, Executive of the Year 2015 by Accenture. ACM; an appeal is pending. 8 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 April May June •• Initiated improvements to mobile •• 4G+ high-speed connections became •• Set up KPN Ventures, a dedicated coverage in less-populated areas; available to KPN customers in venture fund to accelerate innovation •• Duco Sickinghe appointed chairman seven Dutch cities; with start-ups; of the Supervisory Board; •• Kicked off TEAMKPN Sports Fund, •• Increased mobile data bundles •• Jolande Sap and Peter Hartman a sponsorship initiative to support for business customers up to 20 GB; appointed members of the lesser-known sports in the Netherlands; •• First new-look retail store opened Supervisory Board; •• Introduced a choice of free TV in The Hague where customers can •• Agreed to sell BASE Company packages for KPN Compleet customers. try out KPN products and services. to Telenet. October November December •• Launched MKB Veilig, a security •• KPN’s new LoRa network launched •• ACM decided that KPN has to keep package to protect small and mediumin Rotterdam and The Hague to offering access on its fixed networks size businesses against cybercrime; boost the Internet of Things; to competitors for another three years; •• KPN’s ethical hacking team •• Fixed network outage caused •• KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds organized ‘Sector C’ runners-up at the problems for internet-, TVand Christmas dinner for about 800 elderly; 2015 Global Cyberlympics; telephone customers; •• KPN first in the world to use the •• Added Netflix to KPN’s interactive •• KPN sold 150 million shares in next-generation small cells (Ericsson TV menu, making it even easier Telefónica Deutschland for total RBS2203) in crowded areas. for customers to stream movies proceeds of EUR 805 million; and TV shows. •• Launch of Play. by KPN: TV and on-demand content anytime, anywhere. 9 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Our organization The only integrated access provider in the Netherlands Our people 14,077 FTEs As of December 31, 2015 Our activities Consumer Mobile Business We offer customized mobile services We offer our small-, medium-, and products, ensuring that people large-size and corporate business are connected anytime, anywhere. customers a wide range of both standard services and customized business solutions. Services range from fixed and mobile telephony and internet to a variety of data network and IT services such as cloud workspace management and hosting. Consumer Residential NetCo We provide a broad portfolio of services The beating heart of KPN, where for households, such as internet, infrastructure and IT coincide. (interactive) TV and fixed telephony. This segment, which is responsible for the fixed and mobile networks, and fixed wholesale customers, makes it technically possible for KPN to run its services and deliver its products. iBasis Provides wholesale network services to third parties and operates an IP-based infrastructure for international wholesale customers. 10 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 How we connect As ‘integrated access provider’ we continuously invest and innovate in order to enable customers to access services and data anywhere, anytime, on the best possible fixed and mobile networks. These networks are increasingly integrated and enable us to provide our customers with all-in-one packages. Next to that, we develop new applications that can be used via of our networks, in cooperation with various partners. mobile network home cabinet antenna fixed network business upgraded fiber to copper to home and home and business business housing data storage IPTV Voice datacenter ICT Solutions service platforms internet 11 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance The value we create Connecting you, anytime, anywhere Inputs Business activities Strategic choices Skilled employees Provide a positive Strengthen our focus customer journey on customers and sustainable operations Financial resources •• Provide the best service; •• Differentiate through innovative products; •• Continue environmental strategy; •• Improve financial stability and sustainability. Key partnerships and customer insights Connect by providing products and services, and running infrastructure Simplify our portfolio Network and and operations customer equipment •• Provide integrated fixed and mobile services; •• Reduce costs. Mobile licenses Develop innovative products and services, and upgrade Grow our business infrastructure continuously •• Best network through continuous improvements; •• Generate new revenue streams. Green electricity Inputs Business activities Strategic choices 12 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Integrated products and services Value: connected anytime, anywhere Mobile voice and data Data broadband services Connected customers, Smarter living climate-neutral operations, and working profitable business IPTV services Fixed-line telephony Satisfied and loyal customers Engaged employees Datacenter storage Workspaces and data network services Other networkrelated ICT and Secure connectivity Sustainable Consulting security solutions shareholder returns Integrated products and services Value: connected anytime, anywhere 13 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Our strategy Strengthen, Simplify, Grow Strategic What we did Result What we will do What we want choice in 2015 going forward to achieve Provide the best •• Aligned our customer •• NPS increased to +3 •• Improve customer •• Being the best service processes further •• Employee service and stimulate service provider •• Invested in a diverse engagement score customer loyalty •• Top employer workforce that is fit for increased to 77% •• Take targeted actions the future to improve employee engagement Differentiate •• New TV features: •• IPTV NPS increased •• TV content •• Improve customer through innovative Play. by KPN, TV Méér, to +16 aggregation through preference for KPN products Netflix on iTV •• Connected 4,387 new partnerships (bundles and services) Strengthen •• New partners and ZorgCloud locations •• Further develop •• Improve healthcare value added to •• Improved voice quality ZorgCloud with through ICT KPN ZorgCloud •• First customers partners •• Extend service •• Nationwide test of Smarthome •• Introduce new services into homes voice-over 4G in growth markets •• Contribute to •• Introduction of •• Keep pace with a safer internet Smarthome service security developments Continue •• Realization cradle-to•• An environmentally •• Continue to •• Economical growth environmental cradle and Tier IV friendly data center reduce our own without a rise in strategy data center •• Climate-neutral environmental CO2 emissions •• Continued energy business operations footprint and •• Make the transition reduction the footprint towards a circular of our customers company Provide integrated •• Made multi play/quad •• 141,000 new multi •• Further develop •• Reward existing fixed and mobile play available for play customers and market quad customers and services more customers •• 258,000 new quad play offerings stimulate customer Simplify play customers loyalty Reduce costs •• Further •• Realization of •• Continue cost-savings •• A more simple implementation ~280 million cost program organization and of Simplification savings compared •• Continue better processes program to end 2013 Simplification program for our customers at lower costs Best network •• Introduced LoRa •• LoRa live in •• National roll-out •• Provide the best through continuous •• Further upgraded Rotterdam and of LoRa network quality improvements copper network The Hague •• Increase fiber •• Further roll-out of •• 68% of households penetration and fiber network have access to speeds upgrade copper •• Increased capacity of at least 100 Mbps network further of core networks •• >2 million FttH •• Further invest in Grow •• Adding and stacking passed capacity of 4G frequencies •• 2.5 times increase in 4G download speed in cities Build new •• Extended Cloud, •• Exposure of KPN •• Selectively invest •• Grow our business revenue streams Security and in new business in growth companies IoT services community, initial •• Set up KPN investments in Venture Fund growing companies 14 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 We combine the input from the world around us, our stakeholders and our own insights to identify potential areas for growth as well as areas where there is a need for improvement. The value we create Our strategy in action Our market position The world around us is the outcome of: which is based on: and: Our market position What makes us stand out Points to improve •• The only integrated access provider in the Netherlands; •• Several legacy generations of systems, processes •• Largest scale of operations of the telecommunications and services that require high maintenance and swift infrastructure in the Netherlands; development, and increase complexity; •• Only Dutch Telco able to offer a wide range of ICT services; •• Complex operations due to broad range of products •• High competence in network and cyber security; and services; •• Well recognized and trusted partner for critical •• Ability to quickly adapt to changing market conditions. communication services; •• Strongly improved customer satisfaction than past years; •• Strong consumer base growth. Opportunities for growth Challenges we face •• Exponential growth in customer demand for connectivity •• Competitive market conditions; resulting from data and network bandwidth; •• Keeping our networks safe from information•• Customer needs for new ways to communicate security threats; (technology push) and collaborate (demand pull); •• Data volume growth requiring high investments, •• Innovate with strategic partners; combined with challenging market conditions •• Technological developments in networks, software for monetizing; development, virtual networks and artificial intelligence; •• Continued asymmetric regulation; •• Recovering Dutch economy. •• Disruptive technologies and new market entrances by Over The Top players. The combination of our external and internal analysis help us to sharpen our strategy. The pillars – strengthen, simplify and grow – have been the basis for our strategic decisions over the past few years. See the table on the previous page for our strategic choices, the results in the past year and our goals for the future. 15 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance The world around us The forces that impact our strategic choices We continuously look at the world Sector developments in the Netherlands •• Consumers are increasingly choosing integrated bundles with around us to analyze trends, stakeholder both fixed and mobile modules, instead of separate services; expectations and relevant topics, •• Connectivity is becoming more extensive, high-speed and IP-based. With new, integrated and more comprehensive considering our impact, influence and the services such as cloud computing and the Internet of Things, value we can create being an ICT provider. the dependency for customers and society on these connections is following a similar curve; •• Political and regulatory pressure is increasing on the subjects of cyber security and privacy. Phishing, identity theft, viruses Developments and hacking activities are growing both in number and in impact, also working their way from personal computer Macro-economic and political developments systems and laptops towards mobile devices; •• Global social challenges are becoming ever more important. •• The amount of digital data is growing at an exponential rate, The United Nations presented the world’s most essential doubling every two years. A large amount of value can be challenges in their Global Goals list reaching from added just by identifying efficiencies created by the the reduction of global famine and poverty to better convergence of machines, data and analytics; healthcare, education and climate action; •• Dutch telecom markets have become more mature and •• Geo-political developments on Europe’s borders and in the are no longer growing at the same rate as in recent years. Middle East create uncertainty levels. On a national level, the Dutch economy is recovering, although the unemployment rate remains high; •• In addition, the number of freelancers and independent contractors in the Netherlands is rising. The number is currently more than 900,000 on a total labor force of 8.9 million. Dutch societal and social developments •• Leading societal values are shifting from wealth to wellbeing, from competition to cooperation, and from possession to usage. Demands from customers no longer primarily focuses on products but rather on services; •• There is a growing attention and urgency in society around climate change and its effects because of leading new research around the 2015 climate conference in Paris; •• Information is more comprehensive and easier to access. The information era makes for more critical citizens, consumers and society as a whole; •• Transparency, fairness and open communication are therefore becoming a necessity; •• The Dutch population is growing older and ageing altogether. People live longer to a more care-intensive age, which puts a higher customer demand on healthcare and a greater societal need for innovation; •• Relations and boundaries within society are becoming President VNO-NCW Hans de Boer: increasingly flexible. For instance, the importance of the work-life balance to employees, their work relations in “The physical infrastructure of terms of temporary contracts and the increasing number of freelancers. Work itself is becoming more flexible as well: fiberglass, cables and connections working anytime, anywhere. is the key to the future prosperity of the Netherlands” Watch Hans’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/hansdeboer 16 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Stakeholder expectations The topics that define our CSR themes Throughout the year, we are in constant interactive dialogue Besides the dialogue with our stakeholders, we annually assess with our stakeholders. We ask them about their expectations our strategic themes based on several sources. We define the of us, and these are the most important topics they mentioned. priority of CSR topics and the impact we can have. We rank the results in three categories: high-, mediumand lowRetail customers priority topics. High priority topics are reflected in our six •• The best networks with the lowest number of disturbances; CSR themes and in the themes ‘employees’, ‘suppliers’ and •• Value for money: good quality and properly functioning ‘sponsoring’. These topics are included in this report. The products and services; mediumand low-priority topics are included in the annexes •• High-quality TV, mobile, and internet services; of this report, the GRI index or on our website. •• Sincere and proactive advice about the best possible subscriptions. High priority CSR topics (out of 30 topics in total) 1. Direct economic value 9. Indirect economic impact Business customers 2. Privacy & Security of products and services •• Professional service and advice; 3. Customer loyalty 10. Impact of products and •• Guidance to a Cloud environment; 4. Energy-use operations services on social and •• Privacy and a secure network; 5. Emissions operations environmental issues •• New ways of connectivity and collaboration. 6. Quality and reliability 11. Remuneration of network 12. Compliance Employees 7. Innovation and 13. Diversity and equal •• Work that reflects their stage of life, well balanced with investments opportunity their personal life; 8. Sustainable employment 14. Sustainable suppliers •• Support in job continuity, especially for the 40+ and 55+ employee groups; The assessment we performed in 2015 reconfirmed •• Leadership that guides them into the new work processes our CSR themes: needed for KPN. Government and regulators •• Running the Dutch critical infrastructure and contributing to national (cyber) security; •• Fair competition. Investor community Transparent, reliable Best-in-class networks •• Best-in-class networks and benefits of integrated services; service provider •• Continuing good operational trends leading to further improving financial performance; •• Growing free cash flow leading to increased financial flexibility and attractive shareholder returns. Suppliers •• Long-term cooperation; sustainable cost reduction •• Acceptable payment terms Community Privacy The New Way of •• Enable customers to be in control of their data; & Security Living & Working •• Serve as a facilitator, source of inspiration and catalyst in applying ICT for a more sustainable society; •• Offer the best quality, the best privacy and highest quality in data storage; •• Create value chains that include start-ups. Healthcare Energy efficient of the Future 17 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Governance – Corporate Governance Stable steering in a dynamic environment  he corporate governance framework T Shareholders of KPN is based on our strategy and in line Share capital, Listings and indices with the requirements of the Dutch Civil KPN authorized capital stock totals EUR 720 million, divided into 9 billion ordinary shares of EUR 0.04 each and 9 billion Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance preference shares B of EUR 0.04 each. As of December 31, 2015, Code as well as applicable securities laws. a total of 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares were outstanding. Furthermore, the company is governed Since June 13, 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have been by its Articles of Association and internal listed on Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has a procedures, such as the by-laws of the Board Level I ADR program, which allows investors to trade KPN ADRs in the United States on the Over-The-Counter market of Management and the Supervisory Board. (ticker symbol: KKPNY). KPN shares are included among others in the following leading indices: AEX, EURO STOXX Telecommunications Index and STOXX Europe 600 Telecommunications Index. Legal structure of the company General Meeting of Shareholders Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company established The General Meeting of Shareholders holds the powers that under the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary shares listed have not been granted to other company organs, has the on Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of Association authority to appoint members of the Supervisory Board upon of KPN were last amended on September 11, 2015. binding nomination by the Supervisory Board and to dismiss the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders KPN has a two-tier management structure with a Board is also entitled to approve the remuneration policy and share of Management and a Supervisory Board. KPN qualifies as (option) plans for the Board of Management. Furthermore, a ‘large company’ (structuurvennootschap) within the meaning a number of decisions are subject to the approval of the of the Dutch Civil Code and applies the relevant rules of Dutch General Meeting of Shareholders, including decisions on corporate law. The Board of Management is entrusted with the company-transforming transactions, adoption of annual management of the company. The Supervisory Board oversees accounts and dividend proposals, and various corporate strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board of matters such as proposals to amend the Articles of Association Management and the way in which it manages and directs of the company, to (de)merge or to dissolve the company, or KPN’s operations and affiliated/associated companies. In the to issue shares or reduce the issued capital of the company. performance of their duties, the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are guided by the Within four months from the end of every fiscal year, the Board interest of the company and the enterprise connected therewith. of Management prepares Financial Statements accompanied The Board of Management is accountable to the General Meeting by an Annual Report. The Financial Statements are submitted of Shareholders in accordance with Dutch legislation. to the Supervisory Board for approval. The Supervisory Board submits the approved Financial Statements to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption together with Shareholders the Annual Report for discussion. At the same time, the Board Shareholders appoint Supervisory of Management submits the approved Financial Statements to Board members, the Central Works Council for information purposes. Adoption upon nomination of of the Financial Statements does not automatically discharge Supervisory Board the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board from liability. This requires a separate resolution by the General Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Meeting of Shareholders. appoints Board of Management members Board of Management Please see the section ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 22, for information on the composition of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. 18 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to discuss the The General Meeting of Shareholders also resolved to reduce Annual Report and to approve the Financial Statements is held the issued capital through cancellation of own shares held by within six months of the end of a fiscal year. Other General the company in accordance with the Articles of Association, Meetings of Shareholders are held as often as the Supervisory with the aim to further optimize the equity structure of the Board or Board of Management deem necessary. The Board of company. The number of shares to be canceled following this Management and the Supervisory Board determine the agenda resolution will be determined by the Board of Management and of the General Meetings of Shareholders. Shareholders who is limited by the maximum of 10% of issued capital as per April individually or collectively represent at least 1% of the issued 15, 2015. The General Meeting of Shareholders has designated capital or who, according to the Official Price List of Euronext the Board of Management as the body authorized to issue Amsterdam, represent at least a value of EUR 50 million have the ordinary shares and to grant rights to subscribe for ordinary right to propose items for the agenda. Every shareholder has the shares and to restrict and to exclude statutory pre-emptive right to attend a General Meeting of Shareholders in person or rights of existing shareholders upon the issuance of ordinary through written proxy, to address the meeting and to exercise shares or the granting of rights to subscribe for ordinary shares voting rights. (for a period of 18 months, until October 15, 2016), with the aim to ensure continuing financial flexibility of the company. Obligations to disclose holdings This authority is limited to a maximum of 10% of the issued Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet op het capital as per April 15, 2015. financieel toezicht’ or ‘Wft’), legal entities as well as natural persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for Resolutions by the Board of Management to acquire the company’s Financial Markets (‘AFM’) when a shareholding equals or own shares, to issue ordinary shares, to grant rights to subscribe exceeds 3% of the issued capital. The AFM must be notified for ordinary shares, or to restrict or exclude pre-emptive rights are again when this shareholding subsequently reaches, exceeds subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. or falls below a threshold. This can be caused by the acquisition or disposal of shares by the shareholder or because the issued capital of the issuing institution has increased or decreased. Supervisory Board Thresholds are: 3%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 75% and 95%. A natural or legal person holding a net The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial short position in the issued capital of a company is to notify the policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in which AFM on each occasion that the position reaches the threshold it manages and directs KPN’s operations and affiliated/associated of 0.5% of the issued capital of the company concerned and on companies. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by each occasion that it reaches 0.1% above this level. The AFM the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders upon binding incorporates these notifications in the public register, which is nomination by the Supervisory Board. The Central Works Council available on its website. See page 31 for the KPN shareholding has an enhanced right to recommend persons for nomination as at December 31, 2015. to the Supervisory Board for up to one-third of its members. The Supervisory Board must nominate the recommended Purchase of shares in the company’s own capital persons unless it is of the opinion that any such person would and issue of new shares be unsuitable to fulfill the duties of a Supervisory Board member, The General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Board of or such appointment would cause the Supervisory Board to be Management (for a period of 18 months until October 15, 2016) improperly constituted. to purchase shares in the company’s own capital with the aim to support KPN’s management and employee incentive plans in accordance with the Articles of Association of the company. KPN mechanic Harold Smit: “Finding and solving technical problems gives us a good feeling” Watch Harold’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/haroldsmit 19 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Governance Corporate Governance According to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board who is responsible for the overall reporting, approach must consist of at least five and not more than nine members. and coherency. Four times a year, CSR data is collected Members of the Supervisory Board resign according to a and compared with targets. The CSR Manager reports to the schedule set by the Supervisory Board. A member steps down Director Corporate Communication & CSR, who is responsible at the first Annual General Meeting of Shareholders following for the communication to the Board of Management. his four-year term in office. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, members can be reappointed twice, leading To ensure business commitment, managers of all departments to a maximum term in office of 12 years. involved in one of the themes, take part in the Steering Committee for that CSR theme. Those departments, headed The Supervisory Board has determined its ‘profile’, defining the by the theme-owner, coordinate activities and report the basic principles for its composition. All nominees for election CSR data to the CSR Manager and the responsible member to the Supervisory Board must fit this profile. According to this of the senior management. profile, the Supervisory Board must be composed in such a way that members of the Supervisory Board are able to operate In order to obtain sufficient outside reflection, an Advisory independently of each other and of the Board of Management. Board consisting of external experts discusses CSR issues The profile is available on KPN’s website. and communications four times a year, since 2011, with the Steering Committee ‘KPN in Society’. The by-laws of the Supervisory Board contain, among other things, rules regarding the members’ duties, powers, working methods and decision-making, what decisions by the Board of Compliance with the Dutch Corporate Management it must approve, training and conflict handling. Governance Code The by-laws are available on KPN’s website. As a Dutch listed company, KPN applies the Dutch Corporate Committees of the Supervisory Board Governance Code. Four committees assist the Supervisory Board: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating The current Dutch Corporate Governance Code entered into and Corporate Governance Committee, and the Strategy force on January 1, 2009. KPN fully endorses the underlying and Organization Committee. These committees assist the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which Supervisory Board in its decision-making and report their is reflected in a policy that complies with all best practice findings to the Supervisory Board. The tasks of these provisions thereof. Until November 27, 2015, KPN deviated committees are laid down in charters, which are available from the best practice III.2.1: “All Supervisory Board members, on KPN’s website. Further information on the activities with the exception of not more than one person, shall be of the committees in 2015 can be found in the section independent within the meaning of best practice provision ‘Supervisory Board Report’ starting on page 68. III.2.2.” On April 10, 2013, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske Solis were appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. Both are officers of KPN’s major shareholder, Board of Management América Móvil, and are therefore not independent within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Since The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, Mr. Von Hauske Solis stepped down as a member of the commercial, financial and organizational matters, and Supervisory Board on November 27, 2015, KPN complies appoints senior managers. The Supervisory Board appoints with all the best practice provisions. and discharges members of the Board of Management and establishes their individual remuneration within the The text of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as boundaries of the remuneration policies approved by the well as KPN’s application thereof in accordance with the General Meeting of Shareholders and the recommendations “apply or explain” principle is available on KPN’s website. by the Remuneration Committee. Conflict of interest Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) governance The handling of conflicts of interest between the company CSR is embedded in accordance with the hierarchical structure and members of the Board of Management or Supervisory within KPN. Our CEO carries final responsibility. Every CSR Board is governed by Dutch law, the relevant provisions theme is assigned to a member of the senior management of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the by-Laws who is responsible for stakeholder dialogue, targets, progress of the respective Board. and results. Operational activities are delegated to a themeowner, who reports back to the responsible member of the A Board member is required to immediately report any conflict senior management. Every five weeks, these theme-owners of interest or potential conflict of interest that is of material come together in the Steering Committee ‘KPN in Society’ in significance to the company and/or to the member concerned, order to align initiatives and review progress against targets. to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board (or, in case of the This Steering Committee is chaired by KPN’s CSR Manager, 20 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Chairman, to the Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board). Annual General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the external The relevant Board member shall not take part in any auditor on a yearly basis, upon recommendation by the Board discussion or decision-making on a subject in which he has of Management and the Supervisory Board. For the role of a conflict of interest. Decisions to enter into transactions in internal audit see page 63. which there are conflicts of interest with members of either Board that are of material significance to the company or such member require the approval of the Supervisory Board. The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (‘Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN’) During 2015, no conflicts of interests occurred. KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation), to External auditor acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN, which have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exceeding the total The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the financial issued amount of ordinary shares, minus one share and minus statements. The external auditor reports to the Board of any shares already issued to the Foundation. Upon exercise of Management, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board the call option, 25% of the nominal value of EUR 0.04 per Class B to discuss findings pertaining to their agreed upon procedures preference share needs to be paid by the Foundation. The Board or audit of the quarterly and annual financial results. The of Management can decide to request the Foundation to pay external auditor attends the Annual General Meeting of the remainder. Such decision is subject to the approval of the Shareholders to answer questions pertaining to the auditor’s Supervisory Board. According to its Articles of Association, the report as included in the Annual Report. The Audit Committee statutory goal of the Foundation is “to protect KPN’s interests approves every engagement of the external auditor, after (which includes the interests of stakeholders, such as customers, pre-approval by the internal auditor in order to avoid potential shareholders and employees), by, amongst others, protecting breaches of the external auditor’s independence. The internal KPN from influences that may threaten the continuity, auditor attended part of the Audit Committee meetings, all of independence and identity”. Consequently, in the event of any the meetings were attended by the external auditor. The circumstances where the company is subject to influences as described above and taking public security considerations into account, the Board of the Foundation may decide to exercise the call option, with a view to enabling the company to determine its position in relation to the circumstances as referred to above, and seek alternatives. The Board of the Foundation is of the opinion that under normal circumstances it should not exercise its voting rights for longer than a limited period. The members of the Board of the Foundation are J.H. Schraven (Chairman), P. Bouw (Vice-Chairman), M.W. den Boogert, H. Zwarts and J.E.F. Klaassen. The Board of Management and the members of the Board of the Foundation share the view that the Foundation is independent from KPN in accordance with parts c and d of the first subsection of article 5:71 of the Dutch Act on financial supervision. The views of the Board of the Foundation, summarized above, have been published on the Foundation’s website (www.prefs-KPN.nl). See Note 20 Equity of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN. Kickboxer Jacintha Risamasu “I Skype people in Mexico to show how I train and see their fights.” Watch Jacintha’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/jacintharisamasu 21 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Governance Composition of the Boards Supervisory Board All members of the Supervisory Board comply with clause 2:142a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number KPN’s Supervisory Board currently consists of seven members. of positions in a supervisory or management board that The composition of the Supervisory Board changed in 2015. a director may hold. At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of April 15, 2015, Mr. P.F. Hartman and Ms. J.C.M. Sap were appointed A vacancy will arise at the closure of the Annual General as members of the Supervisory Board. Meeting of Shareholders in 2016. Mr. Van Bommel will step down since he will have reached the end of his four-year term On November 27, 2015, Mr. Von Hauske Solis stepped down of office. as a member of the Supervisory Board. Mr. Spanbroek, General Counsel and Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Supervisory Board. Composition of the Supervisory Board Committees Nominating Strategy & & Corporate Year End of Organization Governance Audit Remuneration Name of birth Start of term current term Committee Committee Committee Committee D.W. Sickinghe 1958 April 9, 2014 2018 X X X (Chairman Supervisory Board) P.A.M. van Bommel 1957 April 12, 2012** 2016 X C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 1957 April 10, 2013** 2017 X D.J. Haank (Vice-Chairman) 1953 April 7, 2009 2017 X April 10, 2013* P.F. Hartman 1949 April 15, 2015 2019 X X X J.C.M. Sap 1963 April 15, 2015 2019 X C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 1962 April 9, 2014 2018 X X X X Chairman X Member * Reappointment ** Financial experts within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code D.W. Sickinghe D.J. Haank Mr. Sickinghe was appointed Mr. Haank is currently CEO of Chairman of the Supervisory Board SpringerNature. He is a member of on April 15, 2015. the Supervisory Council of the Dutch broadcast association AvroTros. Mr. Sickinghe is Managing Director of Fortino (Belgium). He furthermore Before his appointment at Springer, is Chairman of the Supervisory Board Mr. Haank was the CEO of Elsevier of Van Eeghen & Co (the Netherlands) and member of the Science and Executive Board Member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Board of uniBreda (Belgium) and member of the board of Mr. Haank is a Dutch citizen. Guberna (Belgium). Mr. Sickinghe was previously Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Telenet N.V. (Belgium) in the period 2001-2013. Prior to that, he has held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard (Switzerland), NeXT Computer (France), Wolters Kluwer (the Netherlands) and was founder of Software Direct (France). Mr. Sickinghe is a Dutch citizen. 22 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 P.A.M. van Bommel J.C.M. Sap Mr. Van Bommel is currently a member Ms. Sap dedicates herself to making of the Board of Management and CFO the business world and society at of ASM International N.V. Mr. Van large more sustainable. She is Bommel is also non-executive director sustainability ambassador for the of ASM PT (Hong Kong) and a member Dutch textile and clothing sector of the Supervisory Board of Neways. and occupies several supervisory and other functions, including Before his appointment as CFO at ASMI, Mr. Van Bommel was chairing the Supervisory Boards of the GGZ affiliate Arkin, CFO at Odersun, CFO at NXP and CFO at various divisions of the Netherlands Public Health Federation, Fairfood Philips. Mr. Van Bommel is a Dutch citizen. International and KPMG N.V. (member). In addition, she is a partner at Camunico, a consultancy firm P.F. Hartman in the field of sustainable management. Between 2008 and Since 2013, Mr. Hartman has been 2012, Ms. Sap represented the Dutch Green Party, GroenLinks, vice-chair of the Supervisory Board in the lower house of the Dutch parliament, the last two years of Air France/KLM Group. Before that, of which she was party leader. Before that she worked as an he spent 40 years working for KLM, economist in the fields of science, policy and business. the last seven of those as CEO. He is She was, among other things, head of the Incomes Policy a chairman of the Supervisory Board department at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, of Fokker Technologies Group and and director of the LEEFtijd center of expertise, a consultancy a member of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ten Cate, for sustainable employment issues. Ms. Sap is a Dutch citizen. a non-executive director of Constellium and a member of the Supervisory Board of Wageningen UR. C.J.G. Zuiderwijk In addition, Mr. Hartman is chair of the Advisory Council for Mrs. Zuiderwijk is chairman of the Aeronautics Research in Europe (ACARE) and a member of the Board of Management of the Chamber Advisory Boards of Space Expedition Corporation and the of Commerce. She is currently a Nederlands Luchten Ruimtevaartfonds (Dutch Aviation and member of the Supervisory Board Space Travel Foundation). Mr. Hartman is a Dutch citizen. of APG and member of the Board of PubliQ. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo In the years 1993 to 2003, Mrs. Zuiderwijk worked for Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is PinkRoccade in various management functions. Thereafter, currently CFO of América Móvil. Mrs. Zuiderwijk was the chairman of the board of the Hilversum He holds several supervisory hospital and, following the merger with the Gooi Noord hospital, and advisory positions, including the chairman of the Board of the Tergooi hospitals. Mrs. those of member of the Supervisory Zuiderwijk also was a member of the Innovation Platform Board of Telekom Austria Group, of the Dutch government (from April 2007 to May 2010) and member of the Boards of and a member of the Care Innovation Platform of the Dutch Grupo Financiero Inbursa and Nacional Financiera. Ministry of Health (from April 2008 to May 2010). Mrs. Zuiderwijk is a Dutch citizen. Prior to joining América Móvil, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo held amongst other positions at the Mexican Ministry of Finance as the Director General of Public Credit and at the Swiss Bank Corporation Warburg as executive director and managing director. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican citizen. 23 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Our main achievements Review of the year 2015 Our organization The value we create Our strategy The world around us Governance Governance Composition of the Boards Board of Management Composition of the Board of Management All members of the Board of Management comply with Currently, the Board of Management consists of four clause 2:132a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number members. As per March 1, 2015, Mr. Van der Post was of positions in a supervisory or management board that appointed as a member of the Board of Management a director may hold. and Chief Commercial Officer. Year of End of Name Position birth Start of term current term E. Blok Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer 1957 June 2006 /2010/2014* 2018 J.C. de Jager Board member and Chief Financial Officer 1969 September 2014 2018 F.H.M. van der Post Board member and Chief Commercial Officer 1961 March 2015 2019 J.F.E. Farwerck Board member and Chief Operating Officer 1965 April 2013 2017 * Reappointment E. Blok J.C. de Jager Mr. Blok is the Chairman of Mr. De Jager is member of the Board of the Board of Management Management and Chief Financial Officer. and Chief Executive Officer. In the period from 2007 to 2012, Mr. Blok was appointed as a member Mr. De Jager was a member of the of the Board of Management on June 1, Dutch Cabinet, first as State Secretary 2006 and was responsible for KPN’s for Finance (from 2007 to 2010), Fixed division until January 1, 2007. Until February 1, 2010, he thereafter as Minister of Finance (from 2010 to 2012). As Minister was Managing Director of the Business, Getronics and Wholesale of Finance, Mr. De Jager was responsible for, among others, the & Operations Segments (including iBasis). As of February 1, 2010, budget, general financial and economic policy, supervision of Mr. Blok assumed responsibility for KPN’s international operations, financial markets and cooperation with international financial comprising Mobile International and iBasis, KPN’s wholesale institutions. As State Secretary for Finance, Mr. De Jager was international voice traffic carrier. He assumed the additional responsible for many change processes, among others within the role of Chief Operating Officer in October 2010. Dutch Tax Administration. In the period 1992–2007, Mr. De Jager founded and was Managing Partner at ISM eCompany, an Mr. Blok joined KPN in 1983 and has had various management eBusiness solutions company, for which he has acted as special positions, including as director of KPN’s Carrier Services, advisor since his resignation from the Dutch Cabinet until his Corporate Networks and Fixed Net Operator, and he was employment on the board of KPN. responsible for Corporate Strategy & Innovation. More recently, he was Chief Operating Officer of KPN’s former Fixed division. He is co-chairman of the National Cyber Security Council. F.H.M. van der Post J.F.E. Farwerck Mr. Van der Post is member Mr. Farwerck is a member of the Board of Management of the Board of Management and Chief Commercial Officer. and Chief Operating Officer. He began his career in the hospitality Mr. Farwerck started working sector in 1985. His positions included at KPN in 1994 and held senior that of general manager at the management positions in various American and Amstel Hotels in Amsterdam for InterContinental divisions. He had been responsible for all KPN’s activities Hotels where he worked in variety of international assignments. in the Netherlands as Managing Director Netherlands since In 2005, he joined the Jumeirah Group in Dubai, a chain of February 2012, and in September 2014 he became responsible luxury hotels in the Middle East and Asia. In 2008, he was for the operating activities of KPN as Chief Operating Officer. appointed Chief Operating Officer for the group. In 2011, Mr. Farwerck is a member of the executive committee of he switched from the hospitality to the aviation industry, VNO-NCW and a member of the Board of Nederland-ICT. becoming executive director and board member of British He is Chairman of the Board of the KPN Group company iBasis. Airways, where he was responsible for brands & marketing, products and the customer experience, including cabin crew and the London Gatwick BA unit. 24 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Insider transactions KPN employees that have access to inside information through employees. Members of the Board of Management and the exercise of their employment, profession or duties, including Supervisory Board are furthermore subject to reporting all members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, obligations to the AFM. are subject to the Subcode ‘Inside Information’. This Subcode, which is connected to the Company Code, contains rules for The following table provides an overview of transactions possession of and transactions in KPN securities by such in 2015 by members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board. Date Name Transaction Price per share February 4 J.C. de Jager Bought 49,430 ordinary KPN shares EUR 2.86 February 4 D.W. Sickinghe Bought 250,000 ordinary KPN shares EUR 2.84 February 4 J.F.E. Farwerck Vesting of 24,741 restricted shares awarded within the KPN Restricted Share Plan 2012–2015 EUR – into 11.876 ordinary KPN shares1 February 4 J.F.E. Farwerck Bought 27,000 ordinary KPN shares EUR 2.85 March 1 F.H.M. van der Post Award of 194,763 conditional KPN shares as compensation payment as approved by the EUR – General Shareholders Meeting on January 9, 2015 April 16 E. Blok Award of 347,454 conditional KPN shares EUR – April 16 J.F.E. Farwerck Award of 156,695 conditional KPN shares EUR – April 16 J.C. de Jager Award of 170,320 conditional KPN shares EUR – April 16 F.H.M. van der Post Award of 190,759 conditional KPN shares EUR – April 23 E. Blok Cancellation of 156,693 conditional KPN shares due to non-fulfilment of performance criteria EUR – April 23 J.F.E. Farwerck Cancellation of 53,606 conditional KPN shares due to non-fulfillment of performance criteria EUR – April 30 E. Blok Bought 25,000 ordinary KPN shares EUR 3.35 April 30 J.C. de Jager Bought 46,000 ordinary KPN shares EUR 3.33 June 4 C.J. García Bought options for 40,810 KPN shares EUR 5.02 Moreno Elizondo July 29 J.C. de Jager Bought 48,980 ordinary KPN shares EUR 3.57 July 29 F.H.M. van der Post Bought 25,250 ordinary KPN shares EUR 3.56 July 29 J.F.E. Farwerck Bought 25,000 ordinary KPN shares EUR 3.51 August 5 E. Blok Bought 4,978 ordinary KPN shares EUR 3.62 October 27 E. Blok Bought 4,630 ordinary KPN shares EUR 3.45 1) After sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax. 2) 2 AMX bonds with a nominal value of 100,000 each, convertible into 20,405 KPN shares each. Prior to his appointment as member of the Board of Management as per March 1, 2015, Mr. Van der Post held 25,750 ordinary KPN shares. This transaction was notified to the AFM upon his appointment. Stock ownership Board of Management1 Number of ordinary shares December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 E. Blok 634,717 600,109 J.C. de Jager 206,410 62,000 F.H.M. van der Post 51,000 – J.F.E. Farwerck 91,071 27,195 1) Shares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). 25 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Report by the Board of Management 26 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Contents Group performance 28. Financial and operational performance 32. Innovation 34. Privacy & Security 38. Quality and reputation 42. Our people 46. Our suppliers 48. Environmental performance Segment performance 52. Consumer Mobile 53. Consumer Residential 54. Business 58. NetCo 61. iBasis 62. Risk Management and Compliance 66. Regulatory developments CCO KPN Frank van der Post: “We can help customers make the digital transition” Watch Frank’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/frankvanderpost 27 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance – Financial and operational performance Financial and operational performance Note: All KPN Group figures presented are based on KPN’s Our Simplification program delivered run-rate Capex and Opex continuing operations and do not include the financial results savings of approximately EUR 280 million and approximately of BASE Company, unless stated otherwise. 1,450 FTE reductions, both compared with the end of 2013, the start of the program. Following the good progress in 2015, the run-rate Capex and Opex savings target has been increased from Group financial results more than EUR 400 million (as announced in February 2015) to approximately EUR 450 million by the end of 2016 compared In 2015, we achieved strong customer base growth in our with 2013. consumer segments as a result of our focus on excellent customer experience driven by our best-in-class networks and innovative services. The continued uptake of our fixed-mobile Revenues and other income bundles has driven a significant reduction in churn. For more details of the financial and operational performance per Adjusted Group revenues and other income were 4.5% (EUR 334 segment, see Segment performance and Note 3 of the Financial million) lower compared with last year. KPN continued to grow Statements. Appendix 1 to this Integrated Annual Report its Consumer base but this was offset by the impact of the includes KPN’s adjusted analysis which explains the bridge ongoing decline of business market size. The negative impact between the reported and adjusted results per segment. of incidentals on revenues and other income for 2015 (EUR 10 million) was due to changes in revenue related provisions and deferred revenues at Business. Revenues Adjusted revenues A settlement with the Dutch tax authorities, for excess taxes in millions of EUR in millions of EUR paid by KPN in the period 2013–2014, led to a reimbursement of EUR 74 million in Q4 2014, of which EUR 30 million related to 2013 (classified as an incidental) and EUR 44 million related to 2014. Other incidentals in 2014 included a release of 7,008 7,018 revenue related provisions of EUR 17 million and income from the sale of fixed assets of EUR 5 million. EBITDA 2014: 7,409 2014: 7,352 Adjusted Group EBITDA increased by 0.1% (EUR 2 million) compared with 2014. Customer base growth and the positive EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA impact of cost savings offset lower EBITDA at Business. in millions of EUR in millions of EUR EBITDA was impacted by restructuring costs of EUR 100 million (2014: EUR 80 million). The net positive impact of incidentals on EBITDA in 2015 amounted to EUR 5 million (2014: net positive impact of EUR 529 million). Incidentals in 2015 2,324 2,419 included a release of the asset retirement obligation at NetCo (EUR 6 million) and a change in provisions at Other activities (EUR 10 million), partly offset by changes in revenue-related provisions and deferred revenues at Business (EUR 11 million). 2014: 2,866 2014: 2,417 Incidentals in 2014 included (among others) the release of pension provisions (EUR 477 million), the release of incidental EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA margin provisions of EUR 17 million and a positive impact from the tax settlement benefit (EUR 30 million). Operating profit 33.2% 34.5% Group operating profit (EBIT) decreased by EUR 504 million compared with 2014 (-42%) due to EUR 542 million lower EBITDA, of which EUR 477 million related to the release of pension provisions, offset by lower depreciation, amortization 2014: 38.7% 2014: 32.9% and impairment charges (EUR 38 million). 28 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Financial income and expenses mainly due to recognition of liquidation losses in 2015 and Total financial income and expenses decreased by EUR 796 settlements with the Dutch tax authorities in 2014 related to million to EUR 105 million (net finance costs) compared with previous years. Also, KPN continues to qualify as an innovative 2014, mainly caused by book gains and dividends related to company and therefore benefits from the innovation box KPN’s shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland in 2015 and tax regime, a facility under Dutch corporate income tax law expenses in 2014 related to a bond tender and Reggefiber. whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 5%. For KPN, this facility is a driver to reduce Finance income included the EUR 146 million dividend received the effective tax rate in the Netherlands. on the shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland (2014: nil). Finance costs decreased as a result of the lower gross debt position in Without one-off effects, the effective tax rate for KPN’s continuing 2015 (EUR 120 million) and the bond tender costs recorded in operations would have been around 21% in 2015. The effective 2014 (EUR 236 million). Other financial results in 2015 include a tax rate (continuing operations) is expected to gradually increase realized book gain on the sale of shares of Telefónica Deutschland to approximately 22% in 2017. See Note 9 of the Consolidated (EUR 184 million), whereas 2014 included expenses related to Financial Statements for further information on KPN’s tax position. Reggefiber (refer to Note 29). Net Profit Income taxes Net profit increased by EUR 263 million (>100%) compared with In 2015, KPN recognized a tax expense of EUR 81 million last year mainly as the lower net finance costs and depreciation, (2014: EUR 45 million). The effective tax rate for KPN’s amortization and impairment expenses offset the lower EBITDA. continuing operations for 2015 is 13.4% (2014: 14.6%), Our main CSR achievements KPN’s achievements are also reflected in the value that we add to society. Here we present a summary of those achievements. In Appendix 2, we present the complete set of KPIs that measure our societal impact. Transparent, reliable Best-in-class networks Privacy & Security service provider •• Improved mobile coverage •• Privacy Waarborg (2014) extended •• NPS NL: +3; in less-populated areas; with Security check – Level Gold; •• Simplified Consumer Mobile •• Pilot 5G; •• 2nd place in international ethical portfolio by 73% and Business •• Launch of LoRa; hacker competition Cyberlympics. portfolio by 36%. •• 2 million homes passed FttH. The New Way of Healthcare of the Future Energy efficient Living & Working •• 25,489 healthcare customers provided •• Climate-neutral; •• Campaigned to encourage people to with comfort services; •• First Tier IV datacenter in NL; travel less and meet virtually instead; •• 4,387 chemists, practitioners, •• Switched off old equipment and •• Developed theme on the future hospitals and IPSs connected saved over 75,000,000 kWh in 2015. of work. to ZorgCloud. 29 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance – Financial and operational performance Financial and operational performance Cash flow, Free Cash Flow Tax Free Cash Flow for 2015 was EUR 849 million higher year-onThe corporate tax department is responsible for KPN’s year at EUR 698 million. Excluding the EUR 146 million overall tax position and optimal use of subsidy opportunities. dividend received from Telefónica Deutschland, Free Cash Flow KPN adheres to KPN’s tax strategy and policy (available at for 2015 was EUR 552 million, EUR 703 million higher year-onwww.kpn.com/taxstrategy). year. The increase was mainly driven by EUR 172 million lower interest paid as a result of the lower gross debt level and EUR In line with aforementioned tax strategy and policy, our Tax 574 million of non-recurring items impacting 2014 Free Cash Control Framework is continuously monitored and optimized. Flow, partly offset by EUR 61 million higher Capex. Excluding In 2015, we redesigned the key controls for among others the non-recurring items, the 2014 Free Cash Flow would have corporate income tax. Furthermore we provide a (internal) been EUR 423 million. These non-recurring items in 2014 Tax in-control statement. Herewith, KPN secures that we included EUR 242 million payment related to reduced supplier maintain compliant with our tax strategy and policy (see Risk payment terms, EUR 235 million payment related to pension Management section on page 63). In The Netherlands KPN agreements and settlement of legal claims (EUR 80 million). participates in a co-operative compliance program: KPN signed a covenant with the Dutch tax authorities to self-assess and Capex transparently discuss KPN’s current and potential future tax Capex increased to EUR 1,300 million in 2015 compared with issues (enhanced supervision, ‘horizontal monitoring’). EUR 1,239 million in 2014, mainly due to consolidation of This covenant is based on mutual trust and transparency. Reggefiber. Capital intensity is still relatively high due to investment programs in network capacity and speed, and The following Tax KPI’s apply for 2015: Simplification. In fixed, FttC/FttH investments will drive fiber penetration to approximately 80% of Dutch households at EBIT tax rate Normalized ETR the end of 2016, which is expected to result in approximately 85% coverage of households with access to speeds of at least 100 Mbps. In mobile, additional investments to increase available download speeds via carrier aggregation with 1800 MHz are expected to be largely completed by the end of 2016. Finally, IT investments related to Simplification 23.7% 20.6% were higher in 2015; these will drive Capex savings in 2016 and beyond. Capex In millions of EUR Effective tax rate (ETR) Cash tax rate (CTR) 1,500 1,440 Customer driven Fixed access 1,300 1,200 258 284 Mobile access Simplification 13.4% -3.0% Other 900 683 Geographical tax overview (in millions of EUR) for 2015: 551 Total KPN 600 Segment continuing Netherlands iBasis Other operations Total revenues 6,176 920 -88 7,008 132 103 Operating profit 771 12 -75 708 300 Profit/loss before tax 668 12 -75 605 282 286 Corporate Income Tax expense -76 -5 – -81 0 85 76 Corporate Income 2014 2015 Tax cash flow 20 -2 – 18 30 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Disposal group held for sale: KPN Shareholding BASE Company Estimated Estimated geographic geographic breakdown breakdown per December 31, 2015 On April 20, 2015, KPN announced that it reached an agreement (based (based ononinstitutional institutional holdings) holdings) to sell BASE Company to Telenet. BASE Company is classified as United Kingdom ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of April 15, 2015. On February Mexico 11, 2016, KPN sold BASE Company to Telenet for EUR 1,325 United States million. See Notes 19 and 32 of the Financial Statements for 20% 20% Rest of Europe further information. The Netherlands Canada In 2015, the profit from discontinued operations of EUR 135 Other million comprised of the positive result of BASE Company (EUR 148 10% million) and remaining expenses related to E-Plus (EUR 13 million). 20% Outlook 20% 5% 5% •• Adjusted EBITDA in line with 2015; •• Capex ~EUR 1.2 billion; •• Free Cash Flow (excluding TEFD dividend) > EUR 650 million; •• Additional cash flow via expected dividend from 15.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland. Share ownership •• On March 21, 2014, Discovery Capital Management, LLC Shareholder returns and remuneration notified that it held 3.77% of the voting rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital; KPN intends to pay a dividend per share of EUR 0.08 in respect •• On October 1, 2014, Franklin Mutual Series Fund, Inc. of 2015. An interim dividend of EUR 0.03 per share was paid in notified that it held 3.63% of the shares and voting rights September 2015. In respect of 2016, a dividend per share of related to KPN’s ordinary share capital; EUR 0.10 is intended. Dividends are intended to grow in line •• On April 30, 2015, BlackRock, Inc. notified that it held 5.01% with KPN´s Free Cash Flow growth profile. of the shares and 5.87% of the voting rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital; On May 13, 2015, KPN received a dividend from its stake in •• On February 9, 2016, América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. Telefónica Deutschland of EUR 146 million over 2014, which KPN (‘AMX’) published that it held 21.1% of the shares and has distributed to KPN shareholders as an additional interim voting rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital as cash dividend (EUR 0.034 per share). at December 31, 2015. In November 2015, KPN reduced its stake in Telefónica To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more Deutschland from 20.5% to 15.5% by selling 150 million shares of KPN’s issued share capital as at December 31, 2015. of Telefónica Deutschland for an amount of EUR 805 million. These proceeds are considered excess cash. In February 2016, KPN sold BASE Company to Telenet for EUR 1,325 million. After Financial calendar 2016 compensating for loss of EBITDA generated by BASE Company, EUR 900 million is considered excess cash. KPN intends to February 3, 2016 April 29, 2016 distribute approximately 70% of the combined excess cash Publication of full-year Publication of first-quarter obtained through these transactions to its shareholders in 2016 2015 results 2016 results in the form of a EUR 1.2 billion capital repayment (EUR 0.28 per share). This capital repayment is subject to shareholder approval February 25, 2016 July 27, 2016 at the AGM on April 13, 2016 and is expected to made payable Publication of 2015 Publication of half-year in June 2016. Integrated Annual Report 2016 results KPN remains committed to an investment-grade credit March 7, 2016 October 27, 2016 profile and expects to utilize excess cash for operational Capital Markets Day Publication of third-quarter and financial flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or 2016 results shareholder remuneration. April 13, 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Note that these dates may be subject to change. 31 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance Innovation At the forefront of innovation It is important that KPN is at the forefront innovative start-up companies, technology experts and thought leaders. In the ‘qualify’ stage, the team assesses of innovation to become the best service whether the selected ideas fit our strategy, are relevant to provider. We continuously innovate and our customers and represent a feasible business case. Once an idea is approved and a business plan is drafted, it enters invest in our networks, products and the ‘incubate’ stage. We set up a small, dedicated ‘incubator’ services, so our customers can benefit start-up business that works with partners to execute the idea and grow the business until these initiatives can become a from emerging trends and technologies freestanding new business line within KPN. that will enhance user experience. KPN Ventures In 2015, we introduced an investment fund called KPN Ventures. KPN Ventures is an initiative by KPN to empower disruptive innovation by enabling entrepreneurs to foster Launch of Internet of Things Introduction of the development of their start-ups. In the current fast-pacing (IoT) Academy KPN Ventures economic environment, we strongly believe that gamechanging innovations are more and more developed outside the corporate office, in innovationand venture business around the world. Our venture fund is able to support and boost the development and commercialization of new innovations in order to make them accessible for customers early on. The KPN Venture Fund has an initial amount of EUR 35 million available for selected investments for the coming years to invest both directly in start-ups as well as indirectly. KPN New Business aims to stimulate an entrepreneurial culture % reduction of propositions % reduction of propositions among KPN’s employees and is always open to receiving ideas in the consumer mobile in the business segment* from people inside and outside our company. segment* Responding to trends 73% 2014: ~65% 36% 2014: ~20% Stakeholder feedback plays an important role in our innovation process. Trends in society and technology also guide the way we approach innovation. Products and services we develop based on these trends can contribute to resolving issues in society. One trend where we see concrete opportunities is the Internet of Things (IoT). Connecting millions of objects *The reduction of propositions is compared with 2013, to the internet and with each other is relevant to KPN as a the reference date of our simplification program ‘connectivity’ expert. We also see opportunities in the data generated by connected objects. KPN can provide secure and Our vision on innovation safe data storage services and enable the intelligent use of IoT generated data. With these capabilities, we aim to be With innovation, we can improve our existing products and the IoT enabler in the Netherlands. services and develop a steady stream of new ones that give us an edge in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving industry. We set up an IoT Academy in 2015 to explore IoT-related business Creating value for our customers is fundamental to who we are opportunities. We organized workshops and ‘hackathons’, where and what we do. We want to be an innovative partner for all start-ups, technology providers and corporates could explore our stakeholders. ways in which the IoT can address business challenges. We firmly believe the IoT can help resolve issues in society. Examples include using location sensors in cars to reduce traffic jams in cities, or KPN New Business enhances innovation using sensors to improve waste management by indicating when a public bin needs to be emptied. We work with partners to To capitalize on our unique position in the market and be at develop innovative products based on the ‘open innovation’ the forefront of innovation, we established ‘KPN New Business’ concept, meaning we share insights and technology that allow in 2015. This new department manages innovation through us and our partners to develop innovative products and services a proprietary three-step process: search, qualify and incubate. faster and more efficiently. ‘Search’ means the KPN New Business team is continuously looking for promising ideas, talking to customers, suppliers, 32 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Executing new ideas Security Cyber security is an issue of growing concern in the Netherlands In 2015, ideas in four areas reached the incubator stage and we are exploring ways to enhance security. In addition of our innovation process and we took steps to start their to our portfolio for the corporate market, in 2015 we started implementation. These were LoRa, ‘smart city’, SmartLife offering a service to help small and medium-size enterprises and security. (SMEs) identify weak spots in their systems and defend against hackers. Based on this analysis, we can propose measures to LoRa improve their security and help these companies safeguard LoRa is a network that enables ‘long range’ communications their business continuity. In addition, we are developing a using very low power levels. Sensors with only a very small solution that will allow banks to offer secure mobile payment battery can be connected to the internet for five to 15 years applications to their customers. We have applied this technology using LoRa, enabling a wide range of applications. For in a Dutch pilot to test the use of smartphones to pay for public instance, sensors placed in industrial plants and cities can transport instead of the current smartcards (OV chipkaart). detect CO2 -emissions and pollution emitted by cars, helping policymakers to monitor and improve air quality; or LoRaconnected sensors in bridges and roads can monitor vibrations Simplifying existing products and send data on the condition of building materials, enabling more efficient maintenance. Other possible uses include using Digitization and simplification are the main measures of our sensors to track and trace bicycles or shopping carts. Working efforts to improve our internal processes, leading to a shorter with our business partners, we aim to become the leading time to market and higher customer satisfaction. Uniform, enabler in the Internet of Things market in the Netherlands simplified processes also improve employee satisfaction. using LoRa and M2M-networks such as 2G/3G/4G. With digitization, we want to offer our customers the same excellent service and seamless customer experience across all Smart city our channels, with a special focus on online sales and services. Smart city refers to IoT-based products that make city living With simplification, we meet customers’ demand for simple, more convenient and environmentally friendly. For instance, easy-to-use products and services. The steps we take to we are investigating the use of movement sensors to turn on digitize and simplify are based on customer feedback and street lighting only when a vehicle or person passes, saving a longer-term plan to realize IT improvements. electricity. Another smart city concept is using sensors to show where there is an available parking space. This could reduce In 2015, we introduced KPN ID, a new simplified log-in vehicle emissions in cities because cars won’t have to drive procedure that enables customers to use the same ID and around looking for parking. It is our preference to work with password to log in to our different services and products, partners in developing opportunities like these. such as TV, internet, mobile and telephony accounts. We continued to migrate customer data to our new, improved KPN SmartLife IT domain; 64% of our residential base has been migrated KPN SmartLife is the new Smart Home-services category towards a future-proof IT domain per end 2015. We choose that KPN launched in October 2015 with the introduction of IT applications based on their customer friendliness. In 2016, SmartLife Veilig, a home security solution. Consumer research we expect to continue to improve and rationalize our IT has shown increasing interest of consumers in connected applications portfolio and realize a further reduction of services within and around the home. Users want services that approximately 11% in applications. provide peace of mind and are easy to use. KPN believes that end-2-end Smart Home services that are relevant to users can improve the quality of life of these users. KPN SmartLife offers Dilemmas integrated services and aims to make life within and around the home easier. SmartLife can be remote controlled through A challenge we are dealing with is that innovation can only be the secure SmartLife-app, wherever the user is and whenever managed and controlled to a certain extent. The outcomes of he wants. KPN is working with partners in order to offer innovation processes are often unpredictable, while significant end-to-end solutions to its users. For SmartLife Veilig, KPN is investments and efforts need to be made. To make sure we working with security company Trigion for alarm follow up. don’t lose a lot of time and money, we want to be more like Furthermore, KPN integrates point solutions such as Philips a start-up and move fast for innovation to be effective. Hue to its SmartLife offering in order to offer users a richer experience. The line-up of SmartLife Veilig offers customers freedom of choice and customization to a user’s personal situation. The SmartLife portfolio will be built further in 2016, leading to a rich and user-customizable portfolio that consists of multiple modules. 33 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance Privacy & Security Leading the way in cyber security and privacy The more we work, shop and socialize Information security includes organizational, technical and process measures to protect our customers and networks online, the harder it becomes to keep against cyberattacks. Privacy is about assuring customers they information private and the more vulnerable can trust us to keep their digital data safe. This trust goes hand-in-hand with being transparent about why and how we we are to cybercrime. We believe that use their data (for example, to improve our services based on we should be able to enjoy the benefits customer roaming patterns), and giving customers the choice of whether or not to share their data with us. of global connectivity without worrying about the privacy and security of your In 2015, 73% of the Dutch people believed that their data was safe with KPN . In 2014, this was 69%. 1 communications. We continuously strive to secure our systems, products, and services to create a safe digital environment Our security approach that, in turn, guards customer privacy. Keeping our systems safe demands continuous vigilance and rapid adaptability, especially since we must counter attacks that are increasingly sophisticated. Our security model is based on % of Dutch people that # of customers that the security lifecycle approach: prevent, detect, respond and verify. feel their data is safe choose opt-in for We have a strategy and a policy team to prevent security attack, with KPN1 sharing personal data a REDteam of ethical hackers to pro-actively detect vulnerabilities, a Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) to respond to incidents and a Senior Security Officers team (SOC) to verify and embed security in the business. The SOC & CERT monitor our systems and networks 24/7. They detect vulnerabilities 73% 330,851 and incidents, and provide a rapid response and resolution. We continue to invest in multi-level public private partnerships to safeguard and strengthen the digital domain and cyber security. KPN works closely with the Dutch National Cyber 2014: 69% 2014: 156,677 Security Center on an operational (CERT), a tactical (Telecom 2nd place in international Introduction of KPN ethical hacker competition SmartLife Veilig Cyberlympics 2014: 3rd Chief Information Security Officer KPN Jaya Baloo: “KPN is the Netherlands. The Netherlands is KPN” Watch Jaya’s story: 1) Measured as ‘top 3 companies where my data are safest’ from a list of 12 key ICT and social media companies in the Netherlands. kpn.com/annualreport/jayabaloo 34 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 ISAC) and a strategic (Cyber Security Council, NCSC Council) providers share information about possible malware infections, level. Because of our close cooperation with other CERTs, NCSC, enabling us to alert and inform our customers better. It is our software and hardware vendors, we have been able to take rapid belief that, the joined approach has contributed to a decline measures to protect our network and that of our customers. in the overall infection rate. An example of a cyber threat we have defended against this year was the ‘Stagefright’ bug. We have also warned Enhancing digital security customers about false emails via kpn.com. We implemented four initiatives in 2015 to increase trust In the summer of 2015, there was an allegation that the and improve the security of our infrastructure. NSA had tapped KPN transit connections in Germany via the Bundesnachrichtendienst. Since this tapping allegedly 1. In 2014, we achieved the Dutch ‘Privacy Waarborg’. In 2015, happened 10 years ago on the Deutsch Telekom transit part of we furthermore achieved a gold standard for security from the connectivity, it was not possible to thoroughly confirm nor the committee of Privacy Waarborg. deny these allegations, despite intense effects investigations. 2 KPN signed and implemented the Mutually Agreed Norms Ethical hacking for Routing Security (MANRS), a global industry initiative Our REDteam once again proved its ethical hacking expertise, to improve internet security. The measures enhance trust advancing to the finals of the 2015 Global CyberLympics. KPN between providers to create a safer and stronger internet became second in the final round amongst the world’s top for all users. Implementing MANRS shows KPN’s ethical-hacking teams. Furthermore, in 2015, we asked commitment to providing secure and trustworthy the REDteam to launch an internal attack exercise in order communications for all. to match the advances of new attacks and thereby strengthen our network accordingly. We also further developed CERTteam's 3. We improved kpn.com security and were upgraded from so-called ‘honeypots’. These are servers that appear to be part an F to a B rating by independent body SSL Labs. SSL is the of our network but are used to attract hackers so we can standard protocol for encrypted network communication. observe their tools and methods, and by doing so hopefully prevent real attacks. 4. KPN believes true strength can be achieved through cooperation. To that end, we developed an open-source In recognition of her outstanding leadership and excellence application to provide our security policy as well as multiple in cyber security, our Chief Information Security Officer, tools so that others can benefit from our efforts in the field. Jaya Baloo, was named Cyber Security Executive of the Year This application will be launched in the first quarter of 2016. by Accenture. Thought leadership Improving internet safety With our knowledge, we can help other companies improve Making the internet safer for children is a key focus area their own security practices, making the Netherlands more for KPN. In 2015, a study of emerging trends among young secure overall. Our experts share their insights at both national internet users was commissioned by the European ICT Coalition and international conferences, in publications, and through for Children Online. KPN is a member of the coalition. The campaigns such as Alert Online. It was the third year that we study was outlined in June and the ICT Coalition invited all partnered with this national campaign to raise public awareness stakeholders (NGOs, the European Commission) to share their of online privacy and security issues. In 2015, the focus was on comments, feedback and ideas to help members shape their doing business responsibly in a digital environment, especially future actions. The outcomes were presented and discussed for small and medium enterprises. For the first time, we involved with stakeholders at the ICT Coalition forum event in January KPN customers and other interested parties and live-streamed all 2016. KPN will use these outcomes to plan its future actions. events via YouTube. We also blogged on the Alert Online website. In three days, we had about 700 participants who signed up for Fighting malware our three sessions on Advance Persistent Threats, IoT security The KPN Abuse team was able to help on average 72% of and the future of cryptography. customers resolve malware infections within eight hours in 2015. This was well below our 98% target, largely due During the Cyber Security Week in April 2015, the NCSC One to several incidental system issues at the start of the year. conference and Global Conference on Cyberspace (GCCS) took Repeated manual synchronizations of customer contact place. The CISO of KPN gave the opening keynote at the NCSC information database have improved the score over the last One conference and led the discussion about ethical hacking at quarter to 91%. The automation of this process will clear the the GCCS. Our CEO prominently featured during a stakeholder last gap towards 98% and is completed by the end of January panel on emerging security threats. During the GCCS, the Cyber 2016. Another (continued) KPN initiative to fight malware Security guide for business was launched, which we sponsored infections is the Abuse Information Exchange. Here, internet and helped to create. 35 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance Privacy & Security The changing privacy landscape New initiatives Data protection and privacy laws in the Netherlands and KPN is developing more products with enhanced privacy as Europe are changing. This will have consequences not just a built-in feature. In November 2015, we released Play. by KPN, for KPN but for any business that gathers and stores digital an app that allows users to watch films and TV shows on their information. For example, if there is a data breach, companies smartphone or tablet. Unlike existing on-demand services, will have to notify their users and the authorities within Play customers have to give us permission before we can 24 hours or risk a fine of up to EUR 820,000. Once the new monitor their viewing behavior, for example to recommend General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) takes effect, related content. companies will have to appoint a data protection officer to oversee how they process data and they will have to delete The Dutch government is looking to introduce an electronic information about individuals if requested to do so under identity system (eID) in the Netherlands by 2017. We aim to the right to be forgotten. They will also have to design become the leading player in this area. We are working with privacy into new products and assess the impact of those the government to develop the system, known as Idensys, products on users’ privacy. which will become the standard way for people and businesses to access government services and provide personal information. Preparations are being made to comply with these future We did not meet our target for 8,000 Dutch citizens to use requirements. KPN already fulfills a number of the new GDPR a KPN eID by the end of 2015, due to the introduction of the requirements. We have a data privacy officer, we only process national eID (in a public private cooperation) was delayed traffic data for marketing and sales activities if the subscriber from Q4 2015 to Q1 2016. has given his prior consent, we are developing ‘privacy by design’ products, and we carry out privacy impact assessments, Furthermore, we introduced new security products last year, although not yet consistently across the company. While we will such as a security scan for SMEs, and Smart Life, a home honor a customer’s right to rectification and delete their data at automation security system. their request, there is certain information about customers and product use that we are legally obliged to keep. We have to keep invoices for tax purposes, for example. Raising awareness In 2015, we took the first steps to simplify KPN’s privacy We launched a national consumer-awareness campaign to statement. We want to be more transparent and make it clear promote safe internet behavior including the tools consumers and easy for our customers to understand how and why we use can use to clean (remove) possible infections from their home their data and what we do with it. We will continue this in 2016. computer systems. The campaign was run in cooperation with the Dutch government’s ‘safe internet’ website (veiliginternetten. Stakeholder expectations nl). Its content and graphics were designed so every internet Ongoing discussions with our stakeholders show a growing service provider could use the material in their own customer awareness of privacy issues among customers, politicians, communications, maximizing the campaign’s effectiveness. policymakers and the general public. In dialog with multiple Dutch business customers, KPN is acknowledged for its A new internal classroom-training program aims to educate neutrality and the trust that is very closely related to it. They employees about subjects such as privacy. 528 people attended mention a need for a trusted party to facilitate the exchange the mandatory sessions in 2015, building on the previous year’s of information and acknowledge KPN as a partner who could ‘Get the Code’ e-learning modules. And to raise awareness fulfill this role. Transparency, neutrality and security are the among staff about hacking, we held a ‘capture the flag’ key success factors. They advise us to take a neutral position: event, where participants could learn to think like a hacker. no interference in the contents of communication. Our Golden Rules and strategic positioned Data & Analytics organization are there to govern this. Dilemmas It is our policy to tell our customers how we use their data We respect our customers’ right to privacy, in line with national to develop our business, and to give them the option of regulations and international human rights. At the same time, sharing their information with us. This makes it harder for we have to comply with national laws requiring us to disclose us to compete with companies that process their customer information to the national investigation agencies. This is part data without explicitly asking permission. of our license to operate, meaning we are obliged to facilitate this in our infrastructure and cooperate with lawful interception At the end of 2015, 331 thousand customers opted to let orders as specified in the Telecommunication Act. We treat these KPN process their data so we can improve and personalize warrants with the utmost care and responsibility. We have a what we offer those customers. This was above our target liaison office available 24/7 to facilitate interaction with law of 300 thousand. Opting in is a signal that customers trust enforcement for all KPN brands. We assess incoming warrants us to treat their information with care. and check on various aspects to filter out any uncertainty. 36 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 If we note a deviation, we reject the warrant, inform the agency Privacy involved and follow relevant procedures. In 2015, we have KPN aims to be the most trusted operator in the Netherlands. rejected 1.3% of the warrants received. To increase trust, we want to give our customers more clarity about how and why we process data and how data can help us In 2015, 99.3% of the interception orders concerned telephone improve our services to benefit them. numbers, 0.1% regarded email addresses and in 0.6% of the cases we were ordered to intercept IP addresses. We will create more awareness about digital ethics, which are changing as a new generation of users comes online. Younger Dutch telecom data retention law users who are growing up in an online and digital world are A Dutch court ruling in March 2015, found the Dutch telecom already behaving differently online. This raises questions data retention law of 2009 to be invalid. This set in motion about how the internet affects young brains, the levels of a process to destroy data that had been retained under this acceptance and risk, and how we should approach these law. A month after the ruling, the regulator carried out an youngsters who are interested in explicitly choosing whether inspection and verified the data had been destroyed. or not their data is used. Proposals for a new data retention law and a new Dutch intelligence and security law are actively being reviewed and KPN has provided its comments on both initiatives in public consultation. The proposed changes include non-specific bulk interception powers for any form of telecom or data transfer and require mandatory cooperation by providers of communication services. The direct impact on our customers’ privacy, the impact on our network integrity, and the lack of sufficient oversight and transparency are key elements of our comments. In addition, the measures our industry must take to comply with the proposed laws are regarded as a cost risk for the providers. KPN will continue to contribute to the public debate in a bid to improve the proposed conditions. Looking forward Security We will continue to proactively detect and defend our systems and products against rapidly evolving and persistent cyber threats, as well as investing in our people and in technology to keep pace with security developments. We want to improve our capability to detect and stop virus and malware, and create better mechanisms to detect and stop email spam and phishing for both ourselves and our customers. We want to contribute to a safer internet, not just for KPN customers but for all users everywhere. We will seek to work with other internet service providers to make routing infrastructure more resilient and secure by actively participating in projects such as the router resilience manifesto, as well as coming up with our own innovations. This will help prevent Manager Calamities Be Alert KPN Richard Ricke: BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) hijack attacks, where large blocks of internet traffic are illegally redirected. “Incidents only close when customers can use the We see the need for cryptography that can withstand the computing capabilities of quantum computing – a new type of service again.” computer that will be powerful enough to decrypt all current cryptography. This will leave secure services everywhere vulnerable. KPN has to prepare for a post-quantum world Watch Richard’s story: so we can continue to protect our customers and their data. kpn.com/annualreport/richardricke 37 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance – Quality and reputation Becoming the best service provider It is our ambition to become the best Reputation telecom service provider in the Netherlands. Our efforts to strengthen our reputation focus on improving Our reputation and the extent to which the quality of our products and services and on increasing customer satisfaction. Crucially, we also focus on the value people recommend us are good indicators we create for society. We connect millions of people in the of how well we are doing. More importantly, Netherlands every day. More than this, we use our fixed and mobile networks, and IT expertise to help society in other it’s a part of our core company strategy to ways, from using technology to connect sick children to their further strengthen our quality and reputation. classrooms, to brighten the day of a lonely elder person with a friendly phone call. Because reputation is part of our core company strategy, our reputations goals are part of the Long-Term Incentives. rd +3 3 RepTrak results Over the past three years, we have seen an increase in the reputation of KPN, resulting in a reputation score around 70. This is much better than the average RepTrak score in the telecom industry. KPN’s reputation showed a marked improvement in 2015, climbing to third place among Overall Third place among RepTrak European telecoms in the Reputation Institution’s annual NPS KPN NL European telecoms pulse score RepTrak ranking of the world’s most reputable companies. 2014: -3 in the RepTrak of 70.8 In the Netherlands, RepTrak monitors the 30 largest Dutch ranking 2014: 67.1 companies, including KPN. For several years, our reputation target has been based on three RepTrak attributes. Our performance in all three areas in 2015 indicates our initiatives to enhance our reputation are having a positive influence. We put this down to our focus on 837 the quality, simplicity and clarity of our products and services, our customer service, value for money, carbon-neutral footprint – we became carbon neutral in 2015 – and contribution to society. All of these factors are building a stronger KPN brand. Children 2,270 times 563,000 visits provided with employees to Late Rembrandt Customer loyalty a KPN Classmate volunteered exhibition online 2014: 540 for KPN Mooiste In 2015, we again concentrated on simplifying our products Contact Fonds and processes, and improving our customer service, to make 2014: 1,955 KPN more attractive to our new and existing customers. We introduced simpler mobile propositions with higher data bundles. For our business customers in the corporate and large business segment, we launched KPN ÉÉN, an integrated fixed, mobile and internet package. We also offered business customers free mobile data upgrades, which were well received and led to higher recommendations of KPN. In addition, we improved our existing portfolio for the business market. For example, we implemented a site survey that led to a higher Net Promoter Score (NPS) for KPN ÉÉN among medium-size companies from -35 to -8. The NPS for OPIB, our internet and phone package for businesses, also improved due to the introduction of real-time cleaning. 38 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 In the Consumer segments we simplified and improved our Customer feedback product portfolio and merged our copper and fiber propositions. We listen to our customers to improve our service. We apply We introduced Play. by KPN, an on-demand TV and movie ‘closed loop feedback’ (CLF), which means we survey customers service, and made it possible for people living at the same immediately after each interaction (in call centers, retail shops address to share data MBs with each other. Based on acquired or with engineers in the field) to get their feedback and, if insights, we introduced several other initiatives that improved necessary, act to improve their satisfaction. NPS scores the customer experience and increased customer loyalty among increased, especially at our Business Market contact centers consumers. These include offering music-streaming service for middle-size, large and corporate business customers. Also Spotify; Begin Gemist, which allows TV viewers to restart a customer satisfaction for Consumer Mobile contact centers rose. program; and TV everywhere for iTV online, an app for watching television on a tablet or smartphone. Based on our customer research, we can conclude that access to the network is more important for customers than network We are especially proud of our results in transitioning and speed. Without access, they feel they are missing a ‘lifeline’. retaining customers of our former Hi brand to the KPN brand. We therefore made a real effort to improve the accessibility This was the result of mapping the customers journey to see of our network. from their perspective where and how we could help them, thereby improving our service. In response to customer research, we initiated a project to create a single-user identity for all KPN services. This allows Results 2015 customers to log in to all their fixed line and mobile services Our efforts to establish KPN as the best service provider helped with the same user name and password. The first phase, to lift the average NPS for KPN in the Netherlands to +3. NPS implemented at the end of 2015, gave customers one identity is the method we use to measure the loyalty our customers, for their fixed services. The second phase will extend to mobile based on whether or not they will recommend KPN to others. services in 2016. Our NPS score rose in all segments, shown in the infographic below. This positive trend shows we are doing the right things One area we are looking to improve is billing, where there to improve customer loyalty. is still high customer dissatisfaction. We have initiated projects to address this and expect to see the results of this in 2016. NPS scores NPS overall NPS Business 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 -10 -3 +3 -18 -13 -10 NPS Consumer Mobile NPS Consumer Residential 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 -6 +2 +9 -5 +2 +9 39 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance Quality and reputation Sponsorship KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds Our charity program, the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, aims to KPN connects people in the Netherlands. This is the leading use KPN’s people and technology resources to connect isolated principle of our sponsorship activities. Like our core business people who are in need of social contact. These include the activities, the projects we support connect people, either elderly and chronically ill children. We provide both long-term through technology or through sports and cultural events. support for initiatives and help to start up new projects. Notably, the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, which connects In 2015, employees and partners volunteered 2,270 times socially isolated people; we sponsor Dutch speed skating, for various projects. a much-loved sporting tradition; the Rijksmuseum, home to the national art collection; and a new initiative, the Our ‘Hello, anybody out there?’ corporate marketing campaign TEAMKPN Sports Fund. successfully raised the program’s public profile and more than 20% of Dutch people are now aware of the fund and its purpose. The campaign was perceived as KPN’s most sympathetic yet, and contributed to raising awareness of our efforts to be a good corporate citizen. We made progress in 2015 on our KlasseContact project with partner EDventure, enabling 837 chronically ill children at home to stay in touch with their school friends via our KPN Classmate digital device. To stimulate social interaction in 2015, we organized four communal dinners for socially isolated people in partnership with the Dutch National Elderly Fund and the Salvation Army. These were attended by 720 guests and 450 KPN volunteers. And for our Mooiste Contact Day, we partnered with the Salvation Army to arrange a social outing to the Rijksmuseum. We started a new project in 2015 with the National Foundation for the Elderly. Zilverlijn is a phone service that aims to combat loneliness among the elderly. This is a major social issue that affects about 1 million Dutch people. Through the Zilverlijn project, KPN volunteers engaged with elderly people in a personal telephone chat. We also collaborated with the Dutch Kidney Foundation in helping to free patients from frequent and lengthy hospital stays, which can be socially isolating, by setting up a trial for mobile kidney dialysis at home. Our common goal is to ultimately develop a wearable artificial kidney in which mobile technology will play a vital role. School pupil Brett Koelewijn: “I hope for the future that I don't need to use KPN Classmate anymore” Watch Brett's story: kpn.com/annualreport/brettkoelewijn 40 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 KPN main sponsor of Dutch speed skating (KNSB) TEAMKPN Sports Fund KPN has sponsored the Royal Dutch Skating Association (KNSB) In 2015, we launched the TEAMKPN Sports Fund. This is since 2010. Speed skating is an immensely popular Dutch a social initiative to support lesser-known sports in the sport, and sponsoring the national team and related activities Netherlands. Although Dutch people participate in many help us strengthen our reputation among fans and gain their different sports, often with great success, not all sports share loyalty, goodwill and preference for our brand. Following the same opportunities. The TEAMKPN Sports Fund was set up the success of the Dutch team at the last Winter Olympics, to provide financial support for teams from sports that can KPN invited 25,000 customers to attend the national speeduse a helping hand. These must be sports recognized by the skating championships in 2015. Netherlands Olympics Committee*Netherlands Sports Federation (NOC*NSF) but not mainstream. KPN main sponsor of Rijksmuseum As part of our ongoing relationship with the Rijksmuseum, The first two teams we are supporting are the Dutch Men’s we use technology to connect more people to Dutch art Basketball team and the Dutch Men’s Water Polo team. and culture. In 2015, we were the main sponsor of the 'Late With our financial support, the national basketball team can Rembrandt' exhibition. For the first time, more than 100 of compete in the European Championships in Zagreb, while Rembrandt’s later works from collections around the world the water polo team is going to the European Championships were displayed together in Amsterdam. We created and built and can even qualify for the Olympic Games in Rio 2016. a digital platform to connect the new with the old world, where art lovers could view the Late Rembrandt exhibition online. The platform attracted 563,025 visits – even more than the number of visitors that attended the exhibition itself. We are proud of our contribution to the exhibition’s online and offline success. Speed skater Ireen Wüst: “I nearly have 112,000 followers on Twitter” Watch Ireen's story: kpn.com/annual/ireenwust 41 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance – Our people An engaged and confident KPN team Our people are the driving force of our Our people strategy customer experience and ultimately our In 2015, we set about transforming into a simpler, more focused business success. We want them to be organization that is ready for the future: one that is increasingly digitized and automated, with new ways of working, and in confident about the future, at a time which the population is ageing. We concentrated our HR characterized by fast and radical change activities on four areas we identified in 2014 to align our people strategy with our corporate strategy: being a connected and less job certainty. As an employer, we organization, being a future-proof employer, simplifying our help them develop and give them the tools organization, and simplifying HR processes and tools. to develop their skills, stay healthy and ÉÉN KPN: a connected organization enhance their value as an employee. A connected organization starts at the top. We want inspirational leaders who can guide their employees, both in terms of what they are expected to deliver and the skills they need to do so. Our performance management system looks at the value people create. Managers set the strategic direction for their teams, but each individual defines their contribution to realizing this. We provide personal development tools such 25% 83% as the KPN Academy, where employees can develop their skills and learn new ones. Each employee has a budget for job-related training, as well as a personal employability budget. Being an attractive employer % of female % of redeployment of To attract and retain talented people with the right competencies, employees employees < 1 year after we initiated a project in 2015 to build KPN as a strong employer 2014: 24% leaving KPN brand. Sentiment towards KPN among employees improved and 2014: ~80% 69% said they would recommend KPN as an employer. Our annual employee survey also showed 82% of people are proud to work at KPN and of our contribution to society, and 71% states KPN is a front runner in the Netherlands regarding its contribution to society. Overall engagement rose to 77% in 2015 from 4.3% 4.3% 77% 70% in 2014. Externally, our image as a top employer improved too. KPN jumped 17 places to number 15 in an independent survey of top employers in the Netherlands, and ranked number one among employers in the Dutch telecoms sector. % of absenteeism1 Employee engagement The brand image survey is carried out annually among readers 2014: 3.8% 2014: 70% of Intermediair magazine for professionals with a higher education. In IT functions, where KPN is ranked third as an employer, people especially valued the pleasant atmosphere among colleagues, the challenging nature of their work and the good work-life balance. 1) This percentage is excluding KPN Corporate Market BV and other participations 42 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Simplified HR We are currently working to improve the placement rate To simplify our HR processes, we switched to a new personnel among the remaining 17% by raising their awareness of the information system in 2015 – a mammoth task we expect to importance of continuously developing their professional skills complete by the end of 2016. With simpler processes, we and of the tools we have available to equip them for a new can shorten our value chain in building the organization career. It is important to continuously develop knowledge and and competences KPN needs to achieve its strategic goals. skills, as this is one of the main contributions in finding a new Simplification also means using simpler, clearer language job. The success of our work-to-work program was recognized when we communicate with our people. by Dutch Social Affairs & Employment Minister Lodewijk Asscher, who selected KPN for a visit and talked with our Simplified organization people about the possibilities in development and our To prepare our company for the future, we reorganized our work-to-work program. business around our core activities and customer service. This makes us more agile and better able to respond to changing markets, trends and customer expectations. Simplification mostly means integrating or stopping activities – leading to job losses. In 2015, we reduced net 436 FTEs in our Business segment, but grew net 197 FTEs employees in our Consumer Residential segment to connect new customers and extend our service. Redeployment We develop our people and enable them to gain skills that are transferable, whether to another position inside KPN, or to another employer. When jobs become redundant, we work with two external partners to help these people move into new jobs. This outplacement program has a very high success rate: 83% of the participants who ended the program in 2015 found a new employment within a year, in line with our target. In 2015, a study conducted among 190 participants who ended the program in between June 2013 and June 2015 showed that 180 of them (95%) still have a form of employment. In 2015, 29 moved to new jobs within KPN, we placed 210 people externally of which 14 started their own companies. Chief Human Resources Officer KPN Janine Vos: “In planning for the future, we stress three things: professionalism, vitality and willingness to change” Watch Janine’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/janinevos 43 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance Our people Diversity expanding the services of our absenteeism expert in areas with the highest rates. We introduced ichange2, a more Our workforce should reflect our society. This means employing user-friendly version of our interactive coaching program. people from different age groups, backgrounds and beliefs, as well as more women. We believe diverse viewpoints and Stress-related illnesses are rising in our 24/7 society and perspectives help teams achieve better results. We can also we encourage our people to take care of their mental health serve our customers better if we can identify with each other. through initiatives such as stress-management workshops and mindfulness training. We have a community of active Despite our efforts to employ more women, especially in employees who represent KPN in football, hockey and other senior management positions, we fell short of our 30% target. sports tournaments. This gives us a base from which to In 2015, 25% of our workforce comprised of women. Among promote healthy lifestyles. middle managers, this was 17%, and among top managers 18%. We intend to sharpen our focus in this area in 2016. At least half of candidates put forward for vacant positions The New Way of Living & Working have to be women. We have the necessary female talent in our organization, the challenge is promoting these The way we work at KPN is changing. We are equipping women into senior positions. our people with tools that allow them to work at any time and from any location. These include cloud computing, Ageing society video and teleconferencing and collaborative platforms The Dutch population – and our workforce – is ageing. such as Skype for Business and TEAMKPN, our social network We help our older employees to plan for their next life phase, connecting colleagues. This helps our people to better balance offering financial advice, pension planning and skills training their work and private lives, with the aim of increasing their for people aged 55 years and older. As part of our diversity satisfaction and productivity. There is also an environmental approach, we help to make our managers aware of the specific benefit because it reduces the need to commute, cutting qualities that each life stage offers. To increase understanding carbon emissions. and collaboration between the different age groups, our young potentials coach senior managers in digital competencies. Our aim is for 90% of our people to feel they can adopt this We employ older people in our call centers to help elderly ‘New Way of Living & Working’. In 2015, 80% did so, a slight customers with queries that tech-savvy youngsters may not improvement on 78% in 2014. relate to. % of our people feel they Social return can adopt The New Way We are committed to employing people with a disability and of Living & Working those in a weak position in the labor market, especially young 80% people. This is in line with Dutch law on work participation and youth unemployment. We made huge strides on social return in 2015 – a prerequisite to participate in government tenders. We helped 40 people with a labor market disadvantage 2014: 78% to improve their position with on-the-job training. This also had a positive effect on KPN colleagues, who took pride in helping them gain work experience. The project was run in collaboration with recruitment agency Randstad, who will Changing behavior place these trainees in other positions. Interviews with managers, our annual employee survey and a poll on TEAMKPN helped us identify some of the reasons we are still falling short of our target. We found that not everyone Health and vitality knows how to use the technology. People in new or different roles after an internal reorganization are more reluctant to We believe healthy workers are more engaged and can cope work this way and some managers have a more traditional better with day-to-day work stresses. It also helps to reduce management style. absenteeism. In 2015, absenteeism was 4.3%1, which is above our 3.9% target. This follows two years of falling absenteeism. These are issues that we will address as we prepare our people In response, we stepped up our efforts to combat absenteeism, for the future of work, which will be increasingly flexible and offering extra facilities through HR, such as weekly progress remote. Looking to 2016, we will introduce more ‘hot desking’, updates, e-learning and a single point of contact, and which means reducing the number of desks available so our people will share workspaces rather than having their own permanent desks. 1) This percentage is excluding KPN Corporate Market BV and other participations 44 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 In 2015, based on feedback from managers, we started drafting guidelines for remote and flexible working. These include considerations on whether our people can work after hours (evenings and weekends) instead of during ‘normal’ working hours, whether it’s acceptable to work at home while caring for children and whether people have to physically attend meetings. Once agreed upon by the Steering Committee, the guidelines will be distributed to managers via our Lead by Example management program. Employee productivity In 2015, we introduced a dashboard that measures the technology our people use to work, where they work and their travel behaviors. We are initiating a study into labor productivity in conjunction with Tilburg University. Furthermore, we are looking at ways to stimulate the use of video conferencing, for example, and encourage our people to collaborate more online. Customer Expert KPN Nadia Salem: Dilemmas “KPN has a good balance We are transforming the way we work and encourage our between young and old. people to take more initiatives from the bottom up. But how can we in HR stimulate bottom-up behavior without We all fit together” instructing people from the top down? Watch Nadia’s story: And should we first implement all our policies and programs, kpn.com/annualreport/nadiasalem for example culture and leadership initiatives, before we create new ones, or can we move away from those that seem to become less relevant as our business evolves? Not everyone in our company is ready yet to adopt the ‘New Way of Living & Working’. This raises the question whether we should leave the choice up to our people and their managers, or whether remote and flexible working is the KPN norm – something it is already perceived to be, and which is included in our collective labor agreement. 45 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance – Our suppliers Long-term supplier relations through sustainability and trust We cooperate closely with our business Sustainable developments in 2015 partners and suppliers to improve quality, Cooperation with suppliers led to initiatives to improve stimulate innovation and reduce costs. efficiency, lower costs, and make equipment and products more environmentally friendly. In 2015, we met our target When we procure goods and services, to initiate and implement six ‘sustainable solutions’ projects we look for partners who share our with our suppliers. The three foremost are: commitment to deliver sustainable •• Replacing on-street telephone and internet street cabinets with a smaller version that requires no cooling. The new street products and services, and who comply cabinets look better, emit less CO2 and, in combination with with laws and regulations related our fiber network, are expected to provide fast 100 Mbps internet connections to 85% of Dutch households by the end to good working practices. of 2016. The project will save 8.6 GWh in energy per year, the equivalent of the electricity consumption of 2,780 households; •• We introduced energy-efficient company vans into our car fleet for about 200 new KPN engineers; next to that we replaced the existing 250 vans. In total, these 450 vehicles consume less fuel than previous versions and emit 10% fewer 8.6 58% CO2 -emissions. We will also pilot the use of fully electric cars GWh for our regional managers; •• We worked with a supplier to analyze how we order and distribute company laptops. Based on this, we were able to bundle these orders, rather than shipping each laptop energy savings per year of improvements individually on demand, reducing transport costs and through new street cabinets realized after 2014 audits emissions. Centralizing stock supplies at our main office locations will lead to extra savings. Partnering on sustainability with our suppliers has become business as usual. We are improving on carbon emission 6 and energy consumption gradually. After 2016, we aim to introduce a target that supports becoming a circular company. ‘sustainable solutions’ audited 46% of high-risk Raising standards in our supply chain implemented suppliers on site KPN is a member of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), an 2014: 5 2014: 41% industry initiative of 10 telecom operators to monitor and raise social, environmental and ethical standards within the supply chain. One way JAC does this is by conducting on-site audits of high-risk suppliers. Currently, a new online JAC platform is being created for members to share information about on-site audits and corrective action plans. We expect this will make it easier for JAC members to monitor suppliers and ensure they comply with our standards. The JAC supply chain guidelines were developed in consultation with telecoms stakeholders and cover topics such as child labor, fair remuneration, health and safety, the environment, and ethics. JAC members intend to develop key performance indicators to accompany the guidelines; another key topic is having dialogs with suppliers about the working hours. 46 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 We audited 46% of high-risk suppliers on site. These on-site Dilemma audits are conducted by independent experts on behalf of KPN and the other members of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). KPN is a relatively small operator in the global telecom sector, In 2015, together with JAC, we expanded these audits to the compared with the large producers of electronic equipment. suppliers of our suppliers for the first time, reflecting our Our experience shows that our purchasing position, even as ambition to engage with the entire supply chain. In 2015, part of JAC, is sometimes not as strong as we would like it to we audited 12 high-risk Tier II and Tier III suppliers. We are be. A few large producers of electronic devices and mobile willing to increase the number of Tier II supplier audits in 2016, phones are not willing to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct by cooperating with the JAC. or cooperate with the on-site audit process. Facing the widespread popularity of their products and comparable On-site audits help to raise sustainability standards and market shares in the consumer and business markets, it would working conditions in the supply chain. When non-compliance be difficult to consequently terminate our relationship with or other issues are detected at a supplier, we draft a corrective these suppliers. However, all suppliers that sign our contracts action plan and monitor the supplier’s progress. Our high-risk are aware of our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is included suppliers realized 58% of the required improvements identified in our associated contract documentation, or have their own during the 2014 audits. In three cases, we re-audited the equivalent code. suppliers to assess whether improvements were made. Conflict minerals In 2015, we strengthened the criteria for our suppliers around the minerals they use and they now have to comply with international guidelines on conflict minerals as well as JAC standards for sustainable mining as part of the JAC supply chain guidelines. This is particularly relevant for tin mines in Indonesia. When our high-risk suppliers are not transparent about how they mine tin, we try to convince them to become more transparent by joining the ‘tin working group’ of the Sustainable Trade Initiative, an international organization promoting sustainability in international trade. Two major suppliers joined the tin working group of the Sustainable Trade Initiative in 2014-2015. Other initiatives We continue to raise awareness of sustainability among our buyers and suppliers, for instance by making information available in an external trade magazine and via the Partner Board, the platform where we consult our preferred suppliers. Our top 135 suppliers attended our third annual Supplier Event in December, which focused on innovation. We discussed ways for us and our suppliers to increase and facilitate cooperation with innovative suppliers. During the Supplier Event we announced the Procurement Innovation Hub, to encourage Independent consultant Human Rights@Work collaboration across all business segments and suppliers Liesbeth Unger: to accelerate innovation within KPN. “KPN has a good overview of its risk suppliers” Watch Liesbeth’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/liesbethunger 47 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance – Environmental performance Reducing the environmental impact of society Our environmental efforts are not only Strategy focused on our own activities. We also Our environmental and climate strategy is based on help our customers to emit less CO2 and use a two-fold approach: 1. Enabling the energy-saving and environmental less energy with our products and services. impact reduction of ICT We believe ICT is the key to unlocking a 2. Reducing our impact on the environment. better future for our planet and its people. Climate change is an important and growing issue worldwide. KPN takes responsibility to reduce its own carbon footprint and energy consumption, and we help our customers to do Reduced energy Climate neutral for so too. We want to decouple business growth from emissions consumption compared own operations growth – not just for us but also for our customers. In this, with 2010 information and communication technology (ICT) will be crucial. On one hand, the demand for ICT products and 18% 0 kTon services is fueling our business growth, while on the other hand, ICT enables us – and our customers – to work more 2014: 17% 2014: 12kTon energy efficiently, for example via the cloud rather than CO2 commuting to the office, so CO2 -emissions don’t increase. The role of ICT in separating business and emissions growth is supported by the findings of the Global e-Sustainability Initiative’s SMARTer2030 report, to which KPN contributed. It found that the use of ICT can contribute to a 20% reduction of global CO2 -emissions by 2030, holding emissions at 2015 Energy saved in First Tier IV cradle-tolevels. In 2016, a KPN and Dutch version of the SMARTer2030 networks NL cradle datacenter in the report will be realized. Netherlands opened We are convinced that our environmental strategy and 77 GWh performance give us a competitive edge. Our business benefits from lower operational costs as a result of our energy savings, and we help our customers to save money and lower their 2014: 41GWh own environmental impact by using ICT products and services. Given that KPN is a major Dutch energy consumer – we use about 0.8% of the Netherlands’ total electricity consumption – our activities in this area have a real impact. The steps we have taken to reduce our environmental footprint strengthen our credibility as a responsible company. Car fuel reduction Estimated avoided energy Although energy consumption accounts for most of KPN’s compared with 2010 consumption for our environmental impact, we also have an impact in other areas. customers by using our These include the use of scarce natural resources in devices products and services such as mobile phones, and managing the disposal of old and discarded electronic equipment (e-waste), as well as other waste, dust and smoke emissions from cars. We seek to limit 38% our impact on the planet’s finite resources and to help our customers do the same. To assess how we are doing in this, we initiated a project with the Cor Wit Fund, which sponsors 2.5 PJ: research into the value telecommunications add to society. 3.5 PJ: avoided 2014: 34% The project evaluated whether and to what extent KPN products own and services help people to limit their impact on the environment, 73% of our own energy for example by flex-working or teleconferencing. consumption The impacts of the scope in the project were the avoided GHG emissions and the reduction effects on fossil fuel depletion, agricultural land use and particulate matter emissions. These reductions are largely due to consuming less fuel for 48 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 commuting and less natural gas and electricity consumption energy consumption of cloud storage. The cloud is not only in offices, while using less paper requires less agricultural land. more energy efficient but also prevents multiplication as it The findings include rebound effects such as using more only stores a link to the original film or program. For our energy at home and the energy used by IT equipment. For business customers, we added KPN Werkplek. In 2016, we details, see full report (http://corporate.kpn.com/voorhope to add some effects of IoT and new services using LoRa. nederland/energie.htm). See also the graph on page 6 in our main achievements. Enabling customers to reduce Reducing our own environmental impact their environmental impact Climate-neutral operations Our products and services help our customers avoid In 2015, we reduced net CO2 -emissions in our own operations energy consumption and carbon emissions. For instance (scope 1 and 2) to zero. We achieved this by switching to 100% Teleworking (internet access needed), videoconferencing and green electricity generated in the Netherlands. The other audioconferencing result in a significant reduction in traveling. CO2 -emissions were compensated for by Gold Standard For 2020, our aim is that this avoided energy consumption projects and specific forest compensation projects. Green equals KPN’s own energy consumption. To measure this, we electricity has the most important impact on our emissions calculate the impact of certain products and services for our (88%). Other emissions such as fuel for our car fleet account consumer and business customers. The total enabling effect for 9% of our emissions and gas for 3%. for customers was calculated based on measured data, publicly available statistics, internationally recognized studies and Net CO2-emissions KPN Group expert judgments. For 2015, we calculated an estimated kTon CO2 avoided energy consumption of 2.53 PJ and 177 kTon CO2 500 avoided emissions. The 2.53 PJ represents 73% of our own energy consumption. In 2014, we calculated 30%. The most 400 important reason for the increase is that we have better and more reliable figures on the number of Teleworkers. We also 300 applied this new approach to our 2014 calculation which resulted in an increase from 30% to 65%. See appendix 3 for 200 more information about the calculation method. For our consumer customers, we added the effect of hard-drive-free 100 TV modems to our calculations and dematerialization (reduced use of CDs and DVDs). This includes the impact of additional 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net CO2-emissions Gold Standard certiﬁcates Forest compensated gas Green Electricity Environmental impact of our operations Although we are carbon neutral, we have a robust energyefficiency program that aims to keep reducing the absolute energy consumption in our operations. We continued the trend of absolute energy reduction in our operations although the volume of our ICT services continues to grow. We introduced new innovations in our operations to improve the quality of our service and at the same time reduce our environmental impact. The effects of these improvements (more than) compensated for the impact of additional equipment in our datacenters and the expansion of our fixed and mobile networks, as is shown in the graph below. In the following paragraphs, we show Manager Energy Management KPN Marga Blom: examples and results of the energy-efficiency programs for our networks, datacenters, offices and cars. “We can share our experiences Net CO2 Net CO2 with customers” Energy consumption and Net CO2 -emissions 2015 Petajoules (PJ) scope 1 (kTon) scope 2 (kTon) KPN the Netherlands 3.462 0 0 Watch Marga’s story: KPN non-NL entities 0.019 0 0 kpn.com/annualreport/margablom KPN Group 3.481 0 0 49 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Group performance Environmental performance Network Datacenters Given that our fixed and mobile networks account for 75% In petajoules of our electricity consumption, we are focused on improving their energy efficiency, especially as we increase their capacity 0.6 to meet the demand for fast and reliable telecommunications. 26% 27% Our structural energy reduction program is based on two 0.5 pillars: 1) continuously improving and innovating to improve 20% 19% network capacity and quality without using more energy; 0.4 17% and 2) switching off or replacing old equipment with more energy-efficient versions. In the past years, this second pillar 0.3 11 % has resulted in a year-on-year saving of 30–50 GWh. In 2015, we intensified this program and saved 77 GWh (the annual 0.2 0.486 0.510 0.516 0.521 0.516 0.532 0.536 electricity consumption of about 25,000 households). These energy programs helped us to reduce the absolute electricity 0.1 consumption in our networks, although Reggefiber was added 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 to our network in 2015 and data communication is growing, Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) as illustrated in the graph below. Growth electricity consumption ICT equipment customers compared with 2010 Networks In petajoules Cooling is a very important issue in datacenters and we are investigating more sustainable ways to keep the equipment 2.5 cool without using more electricity or more water. We are also 1,064% looking into ways to reuse heat that would otherwise be wasted. 2.0 This includes a project in Rotterdam to reuse heat generated from waste disposal to cool our datacenter in the summer. 1.5 Another project in Flevoland is exploring options for reusing 2.368 2.294 2.216 2.146 2.090 2.077 2.034 heat from data centers in the local community, for example to 1.0 heat a local swimming pool. These projects not only reduce our own energy consumption but also in the whole value chain. 0.5 263% 439% 159% 79% Offices 0 27% The energy efficiency of several of our office buildings 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 improved in 2015. The Borg building in Groningen was Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) upgraded from an E to B label. Our office in Amersfoort Growth datavolume (GB/s) compared with 2010 will be upgraded from a C to A label. In 2015, we renovated our building in Apeldoorn, reusing Datacenters many of the construction materials and most of the old We have several innovative programs to improve the energy furniture. Applying these circular economy principles stems efficiency of the datacenters where we host equipment and from our participation in the Dutch government’s Green Deal services for our customers. In June 2015, KPN opened the first for Circular Buildings, which we joined in 2014 to encourage Tier IV-certified datacenter in the Netherlands. Tier IV is the sustainable construction. most secure and reliable rating for a datacenter, indicating it is guaranteed to be available 99.995% of the time. The new Vehicle fleet datacenter in Eindhoven is constructed and certified according We are well on track to realize our 2016 target to reduce carbon to cradle-to-cradle principles, using reusable and recycled emissions by 40% compared with 2010. In 2015, we realized a materials. It can be easily transformed for other uses and at 38% reduction in our fuel consumption compared with 2010 the end of its lifespan, the building materials can be reused excluding Reggefiber. Which is above our 2015 target of 37%. again or recycled. The heat it generates is used to improve Including Reggefiber, we realized a reduction of 35% compared climate control on the entire high-tech campus of the TU with 2010. Therefore, we restated our 2016 target to 38% fuel Eindhoven. In this way, the data center not only uses less reduction in 2016 including Reggefiber. energy in its own cooling process, it contributes to the energy efficiency of the campus as a whole. We also started migrating our fleet to electric vehicles and, from 2025, we aim to purchase and lease zero-emission cars only. However, electric cars still have a fairly small driving range and take time to recharge, which limits their use at present. We are also exploring the introduction of a ‘mobility budget’ to give our employees, especially younger people, more options to meet their evolving transport needs. 50 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Car fuel consumption accountability and preparedness for changing market demands In petajoules and emissions regulation. Our policy to exclusively use power generated in the Netherlands has been recognized in the Dutch 0.6 media and we see other large energy consumers starting to switch to locally generated renewable energy too. We are also 0.5 recognized by developmental organization HIVOS as a front runner in the use of 100% Dutch renewable energy. In the 0.4 run-up to the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris in December 2015, KPN discussed options for customers 0.3 to reduce their emissions on the official ‘train to Paris’. 0.2 At our annual meeting with stakeholders, we discussed the possible role of KPN in accelerating CO2 reduction and moving 0.1 0.592 0.572 0.538 0.474 0.396 0.373 0.355 to a circular economy in the Netherlands. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dilemmas CO2 -emissions in the chain (scope 3) Although we can only partly influence the CO2 -emissions We are struggling to find a way of making customers aware of in our value chain, from production to the disposal of our the energy their electronic devices use, and how they can reduce equipment and devices, we are taking responsibility for their environmental impact. At present, there is no visible way identifying where we can potentially reduce the impact. of showing them how much energy it takes to store data in the The first step is to measure and assess our impact in the chain. cloud, or to stream a film from the internet, for example. Nor is Since 2014, we have therefore reported our Scope 3 CO2 there an energy label that rates how efficiently they use data or emissions for all 15 categories of greenhouse gases (GHG). their devices. We are working with our business partners to find ways of measuring this. We would like our customers to become Managing waste and materials more aware of their influence and the opportunities to reduce Our environmental strategy also addresses other areas, their environmental impact. such as the materials we use in our products. Here too, we take responsibility to reduce our own impact as well as the impact of customers who use our products, and Looking forward to adopt a more circular approach. As we have achieved our target to reduce our CO2 -emissions To reduce our own and our customers’ electronic waste, we by 100%, we have redefined our targets and set 2010 as the recycle equipment and use fewer materials in our products. baseline for all KPIs. Our long-term KPI for our own energy For instance, most of our TV modems no longer have hard consumption is defined as a 25% absolute energy reduction disks because recorded programs are stored in the cloud. in 2020 compared with 2010. This will be realized by reducing Similarly, the modular design of the new Fairphone makes the absolute energy consumption in our networks by 25% it possible for customers to exchange or upgrade individual compared with 2010, and improve energy efficiency of parts, such as the camera, rather than replacing the whole datacenters by 19% compared with 2010 and switching to 100% phone. In 2015, 95% of our new mobile phone models have CO2 neutral cars by 2025. In 2016, we intend to calculate the an eco-rating that tells customers how sustainable they are. benefits to the Netherlands of the SMARTer2030 report and use We introduced eco-rating in 2014 to better inform customers that to set our own ambitions for 2030 for the enabling effects about the impact of their mobile equipment. The eco-rating of our products and services. We have defined a new ambition is supported by many of our suppliers. to migrate to circular operations and services by 2025. In 2016, we will work with our partners and suppliers to define KPIs for To recycle user equipment, we collected 28% of the mobile our operations, products and services to realize this ambition. phones we sold and 62% of the fixed equipment that was exchanged. Methodology: In this chapter, we describe the way we improve our environmental performance and further our ambitions. Detailed figures of our targets and results are shown in the highlights and laid down in Appendix 2. Our environmental figures for energy consumption, External recognition emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3), carbon intensity and other environmental figures can be found in Appendix 6. Calculation methods are explained KPN has been identified as a world leader by CDP, scoring full in Appendix 3. marks (100 points). CDP benchmarks thousands of companies Note: Environmental performance is reported for continued operations. worldwide at the request of 822 investors representing USD 95 This excludes BASE Company in all figures. Additionally, all group trillion in assets. Top scores indicate a high level of transparency KPIs and targets have been adjusted for BASE Company. Reggefiber in the disclosure of climate-change-related information, figures are included for the full year 2015. This influences the KPI results. providing investors with a level of comfort to assess corporate KPIs were not adjusted. 51 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Segment performance Consumer Mobile Adjusted revenues Adjusted EBITDA ARPU postpaid We remain well positioned in the mobile market with in millions of EUR in millions of EUR in EUR nationwide 4G, attractive data-centric propositions and unique fixed-mobile bundles. Continued strong customer intake drove the improving service revenue trend. We rebranded Hi to KPN and now have a simpler brand strategy with more focus in the high-value segment. Simyo and Telfort 1,461 282 27 continue to focus on the no-frills segment. Adjusted revenues increased by 3.8% compared with 2014, mainly driven by service revenue growth and higher hardware revenues. The continued high postpaid net adds were the main 2014: 1,407 2014: 192 2014: 27 driver of the service revenue growth. KPN’s total Dutch mobile market share rose to 43%. Adjusted EBITDA increased by Data usage growth 47% compared with 2014 due to increasing service revenues, in petabyte 2015: partially supported by a tax benefit, lower subscriber retention 47.9 Pb and acquisition costs and lower employee expenses. We see positive results from the increase in fixed-mobile bundles, ,593 2010: 2.2 Pb which successfully reduces churn. Research shows that our customers appreciate the speed, stability and quality of our 4G network. Mobile data usage increased significantly since 4G was introduced. Consumers 47.9PB 2014: 22.8 PB increasingly watch online videos and stream music. We have therefore introduced new larger data bundles in 2015, which positively impacted our results. The new mobile subscriptions for the KPN brand offer up to 10 GB. Existing customers also Mobile market share Postpaid retail base benefited: the data bundles of most existing customers were in thousands automatically increased up to 5 GB extra at no additional cost. Customer satisfaction (NPS) rose from +2 in 2014 to +9 in 2015. 52 Hi shops were closed down in 2015 and we started redesigning our remaining KPN stores so our customer can 3,593 better experience our products and services. KPN’s websites have an improved usability. 43% 2014: 42% 2014: 3,304 Bundled KPN is a clear leader in convergence as the number of mobile were merged, without our customers noticing any other than customers in a fixed-mobile bundle continued to increase positive impacts from additional benefits such as MB sharing. during 2015. This growth had a positive impact on customer experience and the number of SIMs per household while In 2015, we further extended the range of possible reducing churn. combinations for fixed and mobile services. Our KPN Compleet customers can now choose from a selection of free TV packages We have simplified our customer loyalty program by merging and change them each month. Telfort customers can now also the ‘FamilieVoordeel’ plan for mobile customers into ‘KPN qualify for Telfort CombiVoordeel with a single-play fixed Compleet’. Previously, our customers had to register subscription, making the benefits available to more customers. separately for both programs, which meant twice as many processes and procedures. In only two months, both programs NPS for KPN Compleet rose from +14 in 2014 to +25 in 2015. 52 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consumer Residential Adjusted revenues Adjusted EBITDA ARPU We strengthened our market position as the leading in millions of EUR in millions of EUR in EUR converged operator in the Netherlands by generating strong growth in our fixed-mobile base. Differentiating through innovative services has driven an improved customer satisfaction, resulting in an NPS of +9 in 2015 (2014: +2), continued high customer intake and a growing market share. 1,938 419 44 Adjusted revenues increased by 1.1% in 2015, supported by continued customer base growth and the price increase implemented on July 1, 2015, partly offset by the ongoing decline of traditional services. Adjusted EBITDA increased by 2014: 1,916 2014: 412 2014: 43 1.7% as a result of higher revenues, only partly offset by higher operating expenses resulting from the large number of customer additions. At December 31, 2015, 56% of our broadband RGU Triple play bundles customers have a triple play package (broadband, IPTV, VoIP). per customer in thousands We are a challenger in the TV market. We have a leading IPTV product and, in 2015, we introduced TV Everywhere. We meet our customers’ need to watch TV at home or on their mobile device, at a time that suits them. We have added new content on all devices 2.29 by entering into partnerships with leading content providers, such as Eredivisie and Endemol Shine. Endemol Shine will produce a 1,621 new Dutch TV series ‘Brussels’. With ‘Play. by KPN’, we have taken the next step in the shift to on-demand TV consumption. This unique TV service offers our customers the freedom to watch 2014: 2.18 2014: 1,378 content in a new personal way. As of October 2015, we also added the streaming service Netflix to our IPTV menu. TV market share Broadband market share In Q3, we launched KPN SmartLife Veilig, the first in a range of connected home services protecting the home against 41% break-ins with sensors throughout the home. It includes door and window contacts and remote control of the alarm with a 24/7 monitoring service. 29% We continue to focus on First Time Right, so that a single visit is sufficient to help the customer install equipment or solve technical problems. Engineers are of key importance 2014: 26% 2014: 40% for further improving the quality of our services. Moreover, we employed 197 new engineers last year. Fixed-mobile Of which quad play Households in Mobile customers bundles customers fixed-mobile bundles in fixed-mobile in thousands in thousands bundles 615 28% 811 33% 2014: 485 2014: 357 2014: 17% 2014: 21% 53 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Segment performance Business Adjusted revenues Adjusted EBITDA Simplification to mitigate revenue pressure in millions of EUR in millions of EUR KPN operates in a business market environment where customer needs are changing from traditional services towards multi play and new services. KPN continues to focus on the ongoing transformation of the Business segment by 2,669 2,669 489 rationalization and standardization of our product and service portfolio, as well as the implementation of the Simplification program. Combined with growth in multi play and new services, this is expected to deliver an improvement in customer satisfaction, opportunities to capture growth 2014: 2,910 2014: 606 in new services and a structurally lower fixed cost base. Adjusted revenues declined by 8.3% compared with 2014 Single-play Wireless Traditional voice ARPU driven by lower revenues from traditional services being ARPU in EUR in EUR gradually phased out and repricing of the mobile base, partly offset by growth in multi play and new services. Adjusted EBITDA declined by 19% compared with 2014 driven by the decrease in revenue, investments in new services and simplification of the organization, only partly offset by 34 52 lower personnel costs. Challenging environment in Business 2014: 38 2014: 52 The wireless customer base increased to 1,790 thousand in 2015 (2014: 1,726 thousand). The wireless single play ARPU decreased to EUR 34 in 2015 (2014: EUR 38). Number of multi play seats Multi play revenues in thousands in millions of EUR Our best-in-class 4G network supported the increase of mobile data usage of our business customers including the use of cloud and hosting services. In response to increasing mobile data usage, we have introduced larger data bundles (up to 20 GB) for our business customers. Existing business customers 111 also benefited: the data bundles of most were automatically increased at no extra cost. This has contributed to increased 472 customer satisfaction. NPS increased from -13 in 2014 to -10 in 2015. 2014: 301 2014: 58 Traditional wireline voice services were impacted by the ongoing migration towards VoIP and multi play, and access lines fell to 719 thousand (2014: 864 thousand). Traditional Access lines Customer satisfaction voice ARPU was stable at EUR 52. in thousands By listening to our customers, we decided to make customer processes simpler, and reduced the delivery time of both KPN ÉÉN and OPIB. This has contributed to increased customer satisfaction and is expected to reduce costs. 719 -10 2014: 864 2014: -13 54 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Strong focus on growing multi play Leading Dutch cloud position (KPN ÉÉN) We further strengthened our position in the fast-growing In 2015, we introduced KPN ÉÉN for our corporate and largeDutch cloud computing market. With the acquisition of enterprise customers. For those customers, we focus on the Internedservices Group, we expanded our managed hosting scalability of their ICT and telco services. KPN ÉÉN includes capabilities and complemented existing propositions with various modules that customers can easily add or remove cloud-based workspace solutions for small and medium-size to respond to developing IT needs in their organization. business customers. These modules include fixed and mobile services, broadband, IP Centrex, hosted Lync and FlexLan. KPN ÉÉN was already We terminated our Opslag Online service (data storage on available to small and medium-size companies. Dutch servers) for small-business customers as of December 31, 2015. As an alternative, we now offer OneDrive. In this Business multi play seats increased by 171 thousand in 2015 segment, the customers’ need for Dutch storage is smaller than to 472 thousand, equivalent to 21% of the wireless customer expected and an integration with popular programs such as base (2014: 14%), a growth we intend and expect to continue Microsoft Office is considered more important. For largein the coming years. business customers, we continue to offer data storage on Dutch servers as part of our cloud services. IT increasingly leading in ICT solutions In 2015, we further integrated our telecommunications and IT services. Our business customers expect solutions that allow their employees to work and collaborate at any time, from any place and on any device with high user experience. We see a need for simplicity in how our customers manage their ICT services, good online tools, professional service and advice from technical experts. Of our customers, 88% recommend us as a partner for outsourcing ICT services. Business continuity and secure services also remain important to our customers. In 2015, we introduced a new security product for our small and medium-size customers in response to a growing need for protection against cybercrime. This was already available for our corporate and large-enterprise customers. This product was launched as part of the ‘Veilig Zakelijk Internetten’ campaign from MKB Nederland and Ministerie van Veiligheid en Justitie to increase cybercrime awareness. KPN is a partner of this campaign. COO KPN Joost Farwerck: “Turning complicated technology into simple solutions is an art” Watch Joost’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/joostfarwerck 55 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Segment performance Business In our ICT services, we expect a return to growth. After a 8.3% & Working’ range. We would like the use of products and decline this year, mainly driven by market conditions, we expect services that facilitate the ‘New Way of Living & Working’ to to return to growth in the medium term. An important element stabilize at 25% in 2016. To lead by example in this area, we of future growth is further expansion of our security business; want to encourage more of our own employees to adopt the ;our cloud and IoT services, and housing, hosting and ‘New Way of Living & Working’. We want to set up a structure workspaces online. We will continue to expand and improve for managing the productivity of remote-and flexible workers. our security portfolio for small, medium-size and largeenterprise customers, and further integrate and simplify Thought leadership our delivery models. We want to be a leading contributor to the development of smarter working. A survey of 74 (HR) managers and directors at large Dutch companies found KPN is not yet Fairphone seen as a notable player in this market. We are defining a new proposition for our business customers that will better We prolonged our cooperation with Fairphone. In February meet their flexible and remote working needs. To position 2016, Fairphone 2 will be launched, which is even more ourselves as a thought leader, we shared our views in several sustainable than Fairphone 1, with modular building blocks publications, we organized courses for customers and we and sustainably mined tin and tantalum. This device will be contributed to a new peer group on ‘August Connect’ that promoted in the business market too. discusses the future of labor. Cost and energy-saving benefits The New Way of Living & Working We have commissioned a study into the ‘New Way of Living & Working’ and the impact on society. These insights will help Technology makes it possible to work from anywhere, at any us demonstrate to businesses how the ‘New Way of Living time. KPN is facilitating this by providing tools for our business & Working’ can benefit them. We want to develop a tool for customers that enable their employees to work remotely and business customers that shows the impact on productivity, flexible. This way of working saves companies time and cost, costs and carbon emissions. The tool will be an easier-to-use helps them reduce energy consumption and increases their version of our ‘Bespaarmeter’, which customers found employees’ job satisfaction and productivity. too complex. We initiated two campaigns aimed to encourage people to Dilemma travel less and meet virtually instead. The impact of these If we are to make a difference in Dutch society, we have to campaigns, however, was less effective than we had hoped. find ways to translate the innovations inside our organization The use of our ‘New Way of Living & Working’ products and into products and services that will help our Dutch business services dropped to 39%. Our aim was to achieve 40% growth. customers reap the benefits of a collaborative, online, Some of these products faced stiff competition from KPN mobile workforce. products that are not included in the ‘New Way of Living Program Manager New Way of Living and Working KPN Marco van Gelder: “Our Walk-In Workspaces support flexible workers” Watch Marco’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/marcovangelder 56 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 KPN in the healthcare sector (ZorgVrijWonen) with those for care at home (ZorgVrijThuis). We started a trial for home dialysis for kidney patients and we ICT can help the healthcare sector become more efficient are testing a new cardiac-rhythm device that will allow patients without compromising the quality of care. Healthcare to measure their heartbeat and send the results to their doctor. providers can connect with each other and their patients, We see opportunities to integrate our healthcare applications securely from anywhere and at any time, and ICT allows with KPN’s network for municipalities, as the municipalities people to live at home for longer rather than in a care home. provide community health services, in particular care in people’s homes. Developments in 2015 We connected 4,387 healthcare locations to the ZorgCloud, Data security in hospitals our secure online platform for medical professionals. This is We conducted a survey among 19 hospitals to gain insight less than expected due to the fact that there was not much into data privacy protection in the Dutch healthcare sector. room for improvement in the first-line medical care providers It showed the majority of respondents see information and we did not have sufficient focus on second-line medical security within their organization as a priority at board care. We expect this number to decline in the next years. level. However, there is a mismatch between the budget The trend towards home care means fewer locations to available for safeguarding information and the growing connect as care organizations merge their services or close risk of a confidentiality breach. It showed that budgets do facilities. We cooperate closely with independent software not necessarily increase where information security is a top vendors to bring our healthcare customers new tools to help priority. We are exploring ways to help hospitals better them work smarter. We can update multiple networks and protect their data. systems at once, saving users the time and expense of doing so themselves. Dilemma While our products enhance efficiency, leaving more Care in the home time for patient care, hospital funding is determined One of the biggest changes in Dutch healthcare is the move by the number of procedures carried out. This is stifling towards caring for people in their own homes. We provided investment in innovation. At the same time, there is more 25,489 customers with healthcare products and services, demand for healthcare as people live longer. This requires which is below our target of 31,000. a more innovative way of working. To solve this dilemma, there needs to be a discussion about the funding model To ease the transition to home-based care, we created a involving all stakeholders – hospitals, insurance companies, hybrid solution that combines our products for care homes municipalities and IT companies. The impact of ICT in healthcare The growing demand for healthcare jeopardizes the accessibility and affordability of healthcare services. We believe that smart ICT solutions facilitate a sustainable future for this sector. Our solutions focus on improving the working environment for healthcare professionals and increasing the self-reliance of citizens in need of healthcare services. More time for healthcare Improved exchange of information Self-reliance for more comfort •• Access to information anywhere •• Healthcare professionals can •• Restoring someone’s ability and anytime; significantly improve the quality to live independently greatly •• Through our modern infrastructure of healthcare by optimizing how they improves quality of life; patients can access information communicate and process information. •• For example, tracking equipment from any device. let’s Alzheimer’s patients enjoy a walk on their own. 57 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Segment performance NetCo Adjusted revenues Adjusted EBITDA Even more coverage, speed, capacity in millions of EUR in millions of EUR and reliability Society’s growing reliance on the internet and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones means that our customers expect to have a fast and reliable connection anytime. This is 2,186 1,291 why we continuously work to improve the quality, capacity, speed and reliability of our fixed and mobile networks. We continue to invest in our network infrastructure to assure our customers have the best possible connectivity. Adjusted revenues decreased by 2.6% in 2015 driven by 2014: 2,245 2014: 1,228 the ongoing decline of traditional services. The adjusted EBITDA increased by 5.1% compared with 2014, driven by the consolidation of Reggefiber and cost savings from % of Retail customers that % of Retail customers the Simplification program, partly offset by the decline agree KPN has the best that agree KPN has the of revenues. fixed network best mobile network Having best-in-class networks 50% To improve customer experience, we focus on operational excellence. We strengthen our fixed and mobile networks and IT platforms, and improve our services based on customer 55% 55% feedback. When we measure our technical performance, we look at aspects such as the number of dropped calls, our mobile network coverage, average data download speed and 2014: 47% 2014: 46% the downtime of services. Our efforts to focus on customers with a 4% or higher dropped-call rate paid off. We have also started working with suppliers of mobile devices to improve % of Business customers % of Business customers our dropped call rate. that agree KPN has the that agree KPN has the best fixed network best mobile network We measure customer quality perception by the percentage of Dutch consumers who rate our network as the best in the Netherlands. In 2015, an impressive 79% and 71% of business customers rated KPN as best fixed and as best mobile network respectively, both above our target of 60%. Among retail 71% customers, we haven’t met this target, however, 55% rated our fixed and 50% our mobile network as best. Moreover, the percentage of mobile consumers rating KPN as best network is considerably more than our mobile market share, indicating there are mobile consumers who rate KPN higher than their 79% own service provider. Investing in best-in-class networks also implies an energy2014: 74% 79% 2014: 68% efficient network (see page 48) and investing in improving security and business continuity in order to minimize the risk of disruptions by building resilience into structures and processes (see page 34). 58 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Area 99.3% 4G coverage in the Netherlands coverage 4G 2014: 99.2% 99.3% We took several steps in 2015 to improve our technical performance and enhance the quality and reliability for our Population customers. Based on our customer research, we can conclude coverage 4G 2014: 98.6% 99.3% that access to the network is more important for customers than network speed. Without access, they feel they are missing Speed households a ‘lifeline’. We therefore made a real effort to not only increase >100 Mbps 2014: 50% 68% the coverage of the Dutch population in towns and cities to 99.3% but also the area coverage of our 4G network, including Mobile download remote places, to the same 99.3%. Moreover, we improved the speed in cities 2014: 20Mbps 50 Mbps accessibility of our network, which led to 26% fewer incidents compared with 2014, and these were resolved 62% faster. This Reliability will benefit our customers by being able to upload and view (dropped-call rate) 2014: 0.37% 0.25% streamed video and audio content faster and without disruption. Furthermore, we added an extra frequency layer to the 4G mobile network, increasing download speeds and tripling its capacity. This is especially relevant at peak times and in places Accommodating explosive demand where customers tend to use their mobile devices most, or for data and access where many customers want to use their devices at the same time. We also extended our 4G coverage to 1,450 – 1,500 sites Given the growth of data traffic and online services, the by year-end. With the additional sites, we decreased the number internet and its infrastructure can increasingly be considered of ‘white spots’ where there is no signal. This, along with as the backbone of society. People tend to blindly trust fine-tuning the network parameters to create bigger margins connectivity. As a result, both the functioning of society and before reception is lost, helped us to substantially reduce the wellbeing of people strongly depend on the quality of our dropped-call rate in our network to 0.25% among the lowest ICT infrastructure, which puts a heavy responsibility on KPN. in the world. We will use new techniques to increase coverage in hundreds of bottlenecks in the next three years and add new We maintain best-in-class networks through constant mobile sites. innovation to further improve performance. We have strengthened both our fixed and mobile networks and focus on implementing the best, most energy-efficient and informationsecure technologies. Customer behavior quickly changes and drives data traffic growth. In 2015, we invested in capacity and new features such as ‘Play. by KPN’ and ‘Begin Gemist’ to meet the customer needs. We further reduced complexity in IT and TI as part of our Simplification program, reducing the number of incidents and improving efficiency of our ICT network. Strengthening our fixed network We continued to roll out fiber to the street cabinets and to upgrade our copper network to increase the broadband internet bandwidth with ‘very high bit rate digital subscriber line’ (VDSL) technology, in combination with vectoring and pair-bonding. We have reached 68% of Dutch households, below our target of approximately 70%, with a connection above 100 Mbps as at year-end. We experienced some delays with the roll-out in Amsterdam, where we were required to obtain permits to install the copper lines and additional street cabinets. Our fiber network offers customers unlimited data transport with high bandwidth requirements. Trend watcher Vincent Everts: Our network has suffered from a prolonged outage in November of KPN and Telfort fixed services. This caused “I’m ready for the next fifty years” connectivity problems for internet, TV and telephony customers. Our teams have reached out maximally to recover our network Watch Vincent’s story: as soon possible and all possible measures have been and kpn.com/annualreport/vincenteverts continue to be taken to prevent this from happening again. 59 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Segment performance NetCo New technologies Wholesale services We reached agreements with wholesale parties Vodafone, VoLTE and LoRa Tele2 and M7 regarding access to KPN’s fixed network based KPN has launched a nationwide test of Voice over 4G (VoLTE). on Virtual Unbundled Local Access (VULA) respectively Key customer benefits of VoLTE are fast 4G data connection Wholesale Broadband Access (WBA) for a period of seven during telephone conversations, reduction in call set-up time years. These agreements and ACM’s consent enable KPN and improved sound quality. We expect to offer this service to to further upgrade its copper network using the latest our customers in 2016. We increased M2M connectivity over technologies. This will result in access to higher speeds for the mobile network by introducing LoRa (Long Range), which KPN’s retail and wholesale customers and improves KPN’s will be rolled out nationwide in the first half of 2016. position on broadband and IPTV. Small cells Research and development KPN is the first in the world to implement the new generation Our current portfolio of registered intellectual property rights of small cells. Small cells are small boxes that strengthen the contains our registered trademarks and 306 patent families. 4G signal in crowded areas. The first small cell now in use on We continue to invest in the growth of our intellectual property a bus shelter in Amsterdam is officially only available from portfolio, among others, through our targeted long-term R&D March 2016. The new generation small cells enables higher program. This R&D program runs in close cooperation with quality and more capacity. In the coming year, KPN plans to TNO-ICT and accounts for a substantial part of our research implement this technology in regular processes and achieve spending. About 50 patent families are declared essential for both increased capacity and lower costs. our commercial exploitation. In the past and in 2015, multiple suppliers have entered into patent license agreements with us related to these and some of our other patents. Challenges Collaborate closely for increased network quality Despite all efforts to increase network quality, we still face a couple of challenges. Our customers want better coverage and fewer white spots, especially when they need to use the 112 emergency number. But local governments and residents also have concerns about whether mobile sites emit harmful electromagnetic fields. Similarly, people want high-speed internet at home. This may require new cabling to be installed underground or new street cabinets, which is a temporary nuisance for local residents and makes it harder for us to obtain the necessary permits. This creates a dilemma for us: how to balance the demand for more sites and public opposition. It is essential that local governments, site owners, residents and KPN continue to work together to find and build new sites. This sometimes is a difficult process, for example with not-in-my-backyard discussions. Product manager Ziut Willem van Leusden: “LoRa is a network that focuses on the Internet of Things”” Watch Willem’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/willemvanleusden 60 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 iBasis Adjusted revenues Adjusted EBITDA iBasis is one of the world’s largest carriers of international in millions of EUR in millions of EUR phone calls and a provider of mobile value-added services to operators around the world. Our services include global voice termination, signaling, LTE roaming and Voice over LTE (VoLTE). iBasis customers include many of the world’s largest fixed and mobile operators, voice-over broadband (OTT) service 920 23 providers, as well as KPN and its mobile operators. Our mission is to ‘Make What’s Next Work Globally’. We help our customers succeed internationally by solving many challenges associated with connecting diverse networks and bridging different and emerging technologies, including traditional TDM telephony, 2014: 948 2014: 23 IP eXchange and 4G/LTE. Adjusted revenues at iBasis decreased by 3.0% compared with Average revenues Number 2014. A favorable currency effect of 9.6% was offset by lower per minute of minutes traffic volumes in 2015, as the size of the international voice in cents of EUR in billions market has declined. The adjusted EBITDA margin in 2015 of 2.5% was somewhat higher compared with 2014 (2.4%) due to cost reductions and a favorable currency effect. iBasis continued to innovate in 2015, completing the world’s 4.3 21.4bn first VoLTE roaming trial, which was between KPN Mobile and China Mobile. Leveraging the success of this trial, iBasis introduced its International VoLTE Service. In 2015, we expanded our iBasis Global IPX network, adding 2014: 4.1 2014: 23.3 more than 150 LTE destinations. By year-end, the iBasis global LTE footprint included more than 340 LTE network destinations in more than 130 countries. The iBasis global LTE roaming footprint is essential to enable MNOs to capture new revenue opportunities from LTE roaming offerings. Also in 2015, iBasis introduced new value-added services that take advantage of advanced analytics to help customers maximize revenue and efficiency. InVision™, our new business intelligence tool, helps mobile operators deliver the best possible user experience and maximize the value of their LTE roaming service, while reducing the operational costs associated with trouble-resolution and customer dissatisfaction. Using real-time LTE roaming traffic data generated from the network, InVision™ helps operators resolve issues very quickly, often before the end-user experience is impacted, which contributes to better overall user satisfaction and enhanced competitive power for the operator. In addition, iBasis launched FraudAlert in 2015, a new fraud-management service that detects and automatically discontinues fraud traffic. iBasis developed FraudAlert to enable carriers and service providers to better protect their revenue and customers from fraudulent calling activity. iBasis’ ambition is to continue to leverage its extensive expertise in real-time international communications over IP, its global IPX and its heritage in connecting disparate networks, technologies and services to ‘make what’s next work globally’. 61 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Risk Management and Compliance No surprises, please Effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing the strategic objectives, 1 Implement as it provides reasonable – though not strong risk absoluteassurance against material culture misstatement or loss. For this reason, KPN has implemented an Internal Risk 5 2 Report Management and Control System Objective top risks, and strategy (‘the control system’). This system is based trends and setting incidents on relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee Of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Key components of the control system 4 are discussed in more detail below. Assess 3 risks and Define risk counterappetite measures 1. Implement a strong risk culture 2. Objective and strategy setting (control environment) KPN’s objectives and strategy are described on page 14. A strong risk culture and control environment forms an During the objective and strategy setting process, top important foundation of the control system. The stronger management takes into account the known risks and the risk culture and control environment, the better risk opportunities of the company, and the company’s risk assessments, risk management and risk reporting will appetite (see next step). The objectives and strategy are take place. KPN strives for a business culture in which discussed with the Supervisory Board. compliance and integrity are self-evident for all employees. This is realized by: 3. Define risk appetite •• All KPN employees, managers and board members, as well as directors on boards of KPN subsidiaries, are subject to Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads to taking risks. our Code of Conduct. We communicate the Code on our Risks can jeopardize those objectives in various ways. Each type corporate website (www.kpn.com), our intranet, through of risk encountered is being dealt with in a manner and with the classroom training and e-learning for new employees. We intensity that matches the nature and size of the risk in relation have a zero tolerance for bribery and corruption, fraud and to the risk appetite of the Board of Management. The risk all other forms of (illegal) misconduct, including facilitation appetite is the total residual impact of risks that KPN is willing payments. We actively detect and investigate any alleged to accept in the pursuit of its (strategic) objectives. The risk misconduct and take appropriate disciplinary action if appetite per strategic objective or risk area is determined misconduct is substantiated. annually by the Board of Management. These risk areas •• To strengthen the tone at the top of KPN’s top management, comprise themes such as financial, strategic, compliance managers participated in training sessions about our desired and (information) security themes. company culture and behavior, with specific focus on awareness for integrity and fraud risks. Effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing •• The Business Control Framework (BCF) contains all corporate the strategic objectives. Risk areas with a low-risk appetite policies and guidelines that are mandatory for all of KPN’s and thus a low acceptable residual risk require strong risk segments and entities. In 2015, an e-learning module was management and strong internal controls. Risk areas with launched to train senior management in the BCF policies. a high-risk appetite require relatively less risk management •• Whistleblower: KPN encourages all employees and and internal control effort. Our main risks and our response external parties to (anonymously) report any misconduct to those risks are summarized on page 64 of this Annual Report. of KPN employees. 62 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 4. A ssess risks and countermeasures are continuously monitored. For risks related to our regulated (the heart of the control system) business (with significant market power), compliance controls are tested by dedicated staff year round. Strategic objectives We annually assess the top risks on Group and Segment Financial reporting objectives level and, where possible, we implement countermeasures Our internal controls for Reliable Financial Reporting (also to mitigate them within the defined risk appetite. known as RFR GRIP) ensure that material misstatements in KPN’s financial statements are prevented or detected in a timely The objectives are detailed in a strategic business plan. manner. Each quarter, the Risk & Compliance department (R&C) Every quarter, segments perform a ‘most likely’ forecast and KPN Audit assess the overall effectiveness of the controls four to six quarters ahead on their main financials and key before publication of the quarterly figures. The internal performance indicators (the rolling forecast). Segments evaluation conclusions were in line with the observations update main risks and opportunities, resulting in a discussed in the report of the external auditors as part of bandwidth of outcomes around expected performance. their audit of the 2015 Financial Statements. Each month, segment management discusses their actual The Disclosure Committee examines all reports and documents performance with the Board of Management. containing financial information that are intended for external publication, to ensure that these fairly present KPN’s financial Operational objectives position and results. KPN has business continuity plans to safeguard the continuity of services to customers and critical systems and processes. 5. Report top risks, trends and incidents To manage our information security and privacy risks, we implemented the KPN Security Policy as part of the BCF Segment management provides the Board of Management (for more details, refer to the Privacy & Security paragraph). with a quarterly assurance letter regarding the reliability of their financial reporting, the effectiveness of their internal controls We implemented ISO standards to improve the operational over financial reporting, strategic risks and compliance with processes. Additionally, we simplified services and processes. telecommunication laws and internal policies. We implemented quality improvement plans such as ‘First Time Right’ and continued to focus on improving Net Promoter Twice a year, R&C reports top risks and countermeasures to the Scores (NPS). Board of Management, including main improvement actions, if any. Financial objectives KPN’s Corporate Treasury department manages risks related Internal Audit to cash positions, finance agreements, credit ratings, currency KPN’s internal audit function, KPN Audit, is – in line with Dutch and interest exposures, and non-life insurance (see also Note Corporate Governance requirements – an integral part of the 28 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). Treasury has Internal Risk Management and Control System and provides defined policies with clear boundaries for these risks. assurance to both the Board of Management and the Audit Compliance with these policies is monitored frequently. Committee concerning the ‘In Control status’ of KPN Group segments/units/entities and processes. In 2015, KPN undertook As part of KPN’s tax strategy, the Corporate Tax Department a successful rationalization of its internal control framework for recommends the most tax-efficient and responsible approach Reliable Financial Reporting (‘RFR GRIP’). KPN’s R&C and Audit in the interest of all stakeholders, while adhering to KPN’s departments are heavily involved in test and review work to tax policy and complying with all relevant tax laws and continuously assess, and improve if necessary, the quality of regulations. This determines KPN’s overall tax risk appetite. this framework. As KPN proactively engages with (Dutch) tax authorities, tax exposures (if any) are contained and under control. Next to KPN Audit provides quality assurance on the RFR framework a potential tax exposure, reputational risk is always part of on a quarterly basis and conducts ad hoc financial, information the consideration to apply a particular tax-planning idea. technology, and operational audits and special investigations. KPN Audit conducts its activities in a risk-based manner, based Compliance objectives on a continuous evaluation of perceived business risks, and has Our ‘Compliance Risk Assessment’ (CRA) framework comprises full and unrestricted access to all activities, documents/records, an integrated framework that oversees risks mainly related properties and staff. The Chief Auditor reports to KPN’s CEO. to compliance with the Dutch Telecommunications Act, Quarterly KPN Audit reports are submitted and discussed with competition laws and privacy regulations. For these risks, both the Board of Management and the Audit Committee. relevant processes and controls have been implemented and 63 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Risk Management and Compliance Summary of main risks and countermeasures Risk Main countermeasures Impact Increased competition from current • Offer bundled services and competitive High; the described risk could competitors, new market entrants, price/portfolio combinations lead to lower profitability as OTT players, market consolidation • Improve NPS and invest in quality of service well as lower market shares. or new (disruptive) technologies. • Introduce new innovative products and services to meet changing customer needs Trend: • Strategic partnerships with OTT players, online channels and shops • Implement an agile organization, technology and processes to enable swift response to new market developments Damage, service interruptions, • Monitor performance of technical infrastructure and IT Medium-high; the incidents operational issues in KPN’s • Strengthen and simplify the IT and continue implementation could negatively impact technical infrastructure and IT. of the KPN Security Policy KPN’s reputation, customer • Back-up and recovery plans in case of emergencies satisfaction and profitability. Trend: • Simplification programs to simplify and rationalize IT/TI Threats to the confidentiality, • Continue and reinforce strategic security programs High; the incidents could integrity, or availability of KPN’s • Continue and strengthen Joint Security Operations Center lead to loss/theft of customer networks, systems or (customer) implementation to improve security visibility and risk intelligence data, higher costs, penalties data caused by cyberattacks or lack • Increase awareness of personnel for security and privacy and reputational damage. of appropriate security controls and infrastructure measures. Trend: Non-compliance with regulation, • Strengthening the effectiveness of the compliance organization by: Medium; the risk could affect including – but not limited to – −− Compliance training sessions for staff and management KPN’s future operations privacy regulation. −− Proactive internal compliance investigations and profitability. −− Surveys and culture improvement programs New regulatory decisions in −− Improving and maintaining robust internal controls the EU and the Netherlands. • Proactive stakeholder and reputation management including dialog with regulators Trend: Frequency auctions in • Preparation of auctions by experienced KPN team and external High; KPN may have to the Netherlands could experts; simulation of auctions pay a high price for the entail high costs. • Use alternative combinations of spectrum and advanced required spectrum. techniques to meet required technology Trend: Inadequate access to (debt) capital • Commitment to investment-grade credit profile High; due to this risk, KPN markets to finance our operations • Maintaining a strong liquidity position and prefunding might not be able to maintain and refinance our outstanding debt. debt redemptions its current credit ratings, • Monitoring and forecasting of metrics used by rating agencies which could negatively affect Trend: • Maintaining discipline in allocating capital to investment pricing and availability of opportunities and shareholder remuneration financing resources. Dependence on suppliers • Establish a strong and centralized demand and contract Medium; this could lead to and outsourcing/offshoring management organization that defines, enforces and monitors an inability to deliver the partners to obtain adequate suppliers’ compliance with terms of contracts required services to our telecommunications equipment, • Include a right-to-audit clause in supplier contracts and customers at the right price software and IT services. conduct regular audits and quality level. • Prepare re-transition plans as fallback scenario Trend: For a more extensive list of our main risks and countermeasures, please refer to the appendix included in the digital version of this Annual Report available on our website (www.kpn.com/annualreport). Key: risk is increasing (worsening) risk is stable risk is decreasing (less bad) 64 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Improvements in the control system and examples During 2015, KPN was subject to five penalty cases for of risks that materialized in 2015 breaches of the law relating to telecommunication. Two During 2015, KPN further improved the control system. penalties amounting to EUR 8 million were imposed in 2015, For example, KPN strengthened the internal control which are preliminarily paid (in accordance with Dutch frameworks for Information Security (such as protecting regulations) but still pending. The other three amounting to the systems against cyberattacks, for more information EUR 1.9 million were imposed before 2015 but are still pending please refer to the Privacy & Security paragraph) and (one penalty of EUR 640 thousand was preliminarily paid). Reliable Financial Reporting (such as improving the controls regarding several revenue processes). In November 2015, there was a disruption of our voice, internet and IPTV services. As a consequence, a large part of our customers could not use IPTV for more than a day. In Control Statement and Responsibility Statement The Board of Management is responsible for KPN’s Internal With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial Risk Management and Control System. This system is designed Markets Supervision Act, the Board of Management states that, to manage the risks that may prevent KPN from achieving to the best of its knowledge: its objectives. However, this system cannot provide absolute •• The Annual Financial Statements of 2015 give a true and assurance that material misstatements, fraud and violations fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and of laws and regulations can be avoided. The Board of profit or loss of KPN and its consolidated companies; and Management reviewed and analyzed: •• The Integrated Annual Report gives a true and fair review of •• The strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and the position as at December 31, 2015, the development regulatory and compliance risks, as discussed in paragraph during 2015 of KPN and its Group companies included in the ‘Summary of main risks and countermeasures’ on annual financial statements, together with a description of page 64; and the top risks KPN faces. •• The design and operating effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control system, as discussed on The Hague, February 24, 2016 pages 62 to 65 of this Annual Report. Eelco Blok The outcome of this review and analysis was shared with Chairman of the Board of Management the Audit Committee and Supervisory Board and discussed and Chief Executive Officer with KPN’s external auditors. Jan Kees de Jager With reference to best practice provision II.1.5 of the Dutch Member of the Board of Management Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Management, and Chief Financial Officer to the best of its knowledge, believes that the Internal Risk Management and Control System, with regard to financial Frank van der Post reporting, worked properly over 2015 and that the Internal Member of the Board of Management Risk Management and Control System provides a reasonable and Chief Commercial Officer assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any errors of material importance. Joost Farwerck Member of the Board of Management and Chief Operations Officer 65 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Group performance Segment performance Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments Regulatory developments Regulation affects our business KPN is subject to sector specific-regulation The European Commission announced its Digital Single Market strategy on May 6, 2015. In order to achieve a Digital Single and enforcement thereof by regulatory Market in the EU, in which the free movement of goods, authorities, such as the ‘Autoriteit persons, services and capital is ensured and where individuals and businesses can seamlessly access and exercise online Consument en Markt’ (ACM) in the activities, an action plan was presented. Under the three pillars Netherlands. As described in the chapter of the action plan (better access for consumers and businesses to online goods and services across Europe, creating the right ‘Risk Management & Compliance’, KPN’s conditions for digital networks and services to flourish, and Risk Management and Control System maximizing the growth potential of our European Digital Economy) 16 actions are defined, involving a review of the is designed to minimize the risk of existing regulatory regimes for e.g. copyright, telecoms rules non-compliance with regulations. (including access regulation and universal services) and audio-visual media services. Furthermore, a comprehensive analysis of the role of platforms in the market has started. European developments; The European Commission started a three-month period of public consultations on these issues in September 2015. the Digital Single Market strategy Proposals for reforming the rules and the start of a legislative process will follow and implementation in national legislation The European Union’s Roaming regulation is directly is not expected within the next few years. applicable in all member states. Regulation of operators with significant market power is applied nationally, after a national market analysis, but under coordination of the European International roaming on mobile networks Commission. This affects KPN in some fixed markets and on fixed and mobile call termination services. Licensing regimes The Roaming Regulation 2012 of the European Parliament for frequencies are also of a national nature. Increasingly, and Council extended the price regulation of the previous due to the development of the markets and our services, also regulation and introduced ‘structural measures’ aimed at other regulation (privacy law, content related law) will have creating more competitive retail roaming markets as of an impact, but this regulation is less specifically addressed July 2014. Since the first Roaming Regulation of 2007, the to our market position and our services and will therefore regulated price caps for wholesale as well as retail tariffs have not be described here. been decreased annually, with a last reduction in July 2014. Since July 2012, MVNOs can also benefit from the regulated On November 29, 2015 the much debated Regulation (EU) wholesale rates. 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down measures concerning open internet access and amending Based on the amendment of the Roaming Regulation of the Roaming Regulation (EU) 531/2012 entered into force. This November 2015, by April 30, 2016, the current price cap regulation is directly applicable in all EU member states as of regime will be replaced by a system in which national mobile April 30, 2016 and replaces national legislation. Thereby, the tariffs are also applied when roaming, with a surcharge not Dutch legislation on net neutrality will be replaced by the rules exceeding the current regulated wholesale rates (EUR 5 ct/min of the Regulation and the roaming rules (see next paragraph) voice, EUR 2 ct/sms and EUR 5 ct/Mb data). The earlier imposed will be amended. obligation to offer retail roaming services separately from national services by July 2014 will be deleted for alternative roaming providers offering the bundle of roaming services and will be restricted to roaming data services offered in the visited countries (‘local-break-out’). General Director World Life Fund The Netherlands Johan van de Gronden: “Sharing information on the internet helps animals” Watch Johan’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/johanvandegronden 66 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 By June 15, 2017, a prohibition on surcharges for roaming ACM regulated the fixed and mobile termination rates by compared to national tariffs (‘roam-like-at-home’) will be September 2013 based on a ‘pure BULRIC’ cost methodology, introduced. After that date, surcharges (not exceeding the in line with the European Commission’s Recommendation on regulated wholesale tariffs) may only be imposed for traffic the regulatory treatment of fixed and mobile termination rates exceeding certain ‘fair use criteria’, that will be defined by the of May 7, 2009. In a pure BULRIC approach, joint and common European Commission prior to December 15, 2016. In order costs are excluded from partial recovery by termination tariffs. to prevent national mobile tariffs being unsustainable in this ACM imposed maximum tariff levels of EUR 0.108 ct/min for regime, a surcharge may also be imposed if, after approval of fixed and of EUR 1.019 ct/min for mobile termination rates. the national regulatory authority, the national tariffs are not However, in an injunctive procedure, the CBb judged on August sustainable according to criteria that will also be defined by 27, 2013 that ACM’s decision materially seems no different the European Commission prior to December 15, 2016. The from the earlier decision of 2010 (also applying the pure date of introduction is still dependent on the implementation BULRIC methodology), which the CBb had annulled in August of a legislative measure to define regulated wholesale roaming 2011. As an interim measure, the CBb decided that the tariffs tariffs, for which the European Commission, after a review of should be set at the ‘plus BULRIC’ level of EUR 0.302 ct/min the current wholesale regulation, has to present a proposal (fixed) and EUR 1.861 ct/min (mobile) during the appeal by June 15, 2016. procedure. On January 13, 2015, the CBb sent prejudicial questions to the European Court of Justice on the legal status of the Recommendation. A final decision thereby is postponed Market analysis decisions until the answers of the European Court of Justice have been received and included in a national judgment. In the meantime, KPN has been designated by ACM to have significant market ACM has started the process of reviewing the 2013 decision, power in some of the fixed telecommunications markets in aimed at having a new decision by September 1, 2016. the Netherlands. The last implemented decisions thereto came into force on January 1, 2016 (market for unbundled access to copper and FttH networks), May 1, 2012 (markets for wholesale Spectrum licenses telephony) and January 1, 2013 (markets for high-quality wholesale broadband access and wholesale leased lines). In the Netherlands, KPN holds licenses in the 800, 900, On these markets (virtual) access obligations, tariff regulation 1800, 2100 and 2600 MHz bands for mobile communications, (partly by safety caps based on the 2011 tariff levels) and a license for DVB-T (Broadcast) and a number of licenses of margin squeeze tests were imposed. Furthermore, KPN has minor significance. The majority of the mobile licenses were been designated as having significant market power in the granted after an auction in the period October to December retail telephony markets for two and more simultaneous calls, 2012, and have a duration until 2030. The 2100 MHz licenses for which markets a margin squeeze test is imposed. have a duration until January 1, 2017. However, in November 2015, the Minister of Economic Affairs published a decision All of these decisions are or have been have been under allowing extension of the 2100 MHz licenses, upon request appeal. The Trade and Industry Appeals Court (‘CBb’) has of the licensee for a period of four years. Thereby, the new annulled or amended some of the decisions. The decision assignment (auction) will be postponed until 2019, potentially by which KPN had been designated to have significant allowing simultaneous assignment with the 700 MHz band market power in the market of unbundled access to KPN FttO plus potentially the L-Band (1452 – 1492 MHz), which is also networks was annulled. After the annulment, this market is likely to be allocated for mobile communication. For the by now still unregulated. The Dutch television markets are extension of KPNs licenses, a fee is due of EUR 24 million. not regulated. The extended licenses will be technology-neutral, allowing use for 3G, 4G or 5G mobile technology. ACM is now finalizing its fourth round of market analysis. In its decision of December 17, 2015, which entered into force KPN’s license for Digital Terrestrial Television (DVB-T) on January 1, 2016, ACM concluded that, even after the Ziggo/ has a duration until January 31, 2017. In November 2015, UPC merger, (only) KPN is mandated to offer (virtual) unbundled the Minister of Economic Affairs announced a policy not to access to its copper and fiber networks at wholesale level, extend the license but to auction spectrum for digital ether until the next review (scheduled for in three years). A draft television. The auction is planned to take place in 2016. Prior of this decision initially met serious doubt of the European coordination with neighboring countries is still required. Commission, but after several amendments, the European Commission no longer blocked the decision. ACM was instructed to review its analysis in the next round. Drafts for new decisions for the other fixed markets will be consulted nationally early in 2016 and thereafter also have to be notified to the European Commission before they can enter into force. 67 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Remuneration Report Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report For KPN, 2015 was seen as and has turned The Supervisory Board has been impressed by the tremendous work accomplished in developing a very positive company out to be a year of setting the company culture. This is reflected in a number of surveys where on a new path forward. The reported employees engagement scores very highly. The new culture focuses not only on the quality of the work environment but achievements clearly show that KPN has also puts the emphasis on end-to-end services to the customer. made excellent progress on the agenda It also underscores the need to make careful use of KPN’s resources and to increase productivity further. of customer focus and operational improvements. Like any company, much Employment at KPN decreased in 2015 and will continue to decrease in the years to come, due to changes in business remains to be done, and the Supervisory models and technological evolutions. The company pays Board feels that the company and the Board much attention to personal development and outplacement programs for employees looking for employment outside of Management are ready for another of KPN. These programs yield good results. year of important milestones. Several members of the Supervisory Board have been in frequent contact with the Employee Council, in particular its day-to-day committee. A wide-ranging selection of topics has Business results been discussed. Despite the presence of these dialogs, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are of the opinion that KPN’s investment focus has shown its positive effect. The state the effectiveness of the social dialog can be optimized. of the art mobile networks allow the company to differentiate the mobile customer experience. The actual increase in mobile The progress in transforming KPN’s organizational structure, customers is the result of these investments, price/value the results in simplification, and the design and development performance and improved customer services. In the fixed of a customer-centric IT environment were frequently on the network, the Hybrid Access strategy in combination with the agenda of the Supervisory Board meetings. Visits by the full fast adoption of the latest technologies enables a fast roll-out Board to the KPN Teleport offices in Amsterdam, as well as field of ever higher speeds to the vast majority of the Netherlands. visits by individual members provided us a first-hand view on the dynamic operational environment, which highlights the The ongoing focus to deliver a superior end-to-end broadband increasing agility of the company. and digital TV service has allowed the company to improve its broadband market share and expand in a digital TV market as a front runner. Strategy The Board of Management has prepared a very thorough Transformation strategic plan, which has been discussed extensively with the Supervisory Board, notably during two special plenary KPN’s overriding goal has been the improvement of customer meetings. These meetings took place in off-site settings in satisfaction. As well compared to its own historic achievements order to maximize our focus. We also involved outside experts as to key competitors, 2015 has shown strong improvements. in these meetings. The objective was to familiarize all Supervisory The Supervisory Board is proud of the dedication of all KPN’s Board members with the trends in Telecommunication and Media employees to improve services and put customer experience and to understand, discuss and review concrete options going at the forefront of KPN’s daily work. The Supervisory Board forward in many different areas of our business. During the year believes that satisfied customers are the most important value regular updates on the progress on the strategic choices were drivers for other stakeholders such as shareholders, employees provided by the Board of Management. The Strategy Committee and business partners. principally monitored this progress. In 2015, significant progress has been made in the The strong capital expenditure nature of KPN’s business means transformation of the Business Market especially in terms that many decisions imply substantial financial commitments of new and planned products, simplification of the operations, over multiple years. In discussing the company’s strategy, much organizational design and, last but not least the strengthening attention is therefore devoted to how KPN can use its Capex of management. However this transformation and thus to sustain a leading technology role. The achievements to date performance of the Business Market has taken more time of the company in architecting its networks, its strong focus than anticipated. The Supervisory Board is fully aware that on the security of its networks and services, and its preparation further improvement steps have to be made in 2016. for Software Defined Networks and Network Virtualization are all proof of the high competencies of our staff (which are also well recognized internationally). 68 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 The Supervisory Board discussed frequently new areas for Remuneration the company such as TV programming contents and the role KPN should play in providing for them. New business such Given the importance of balanced remuneration, the as Cloud services, Security & Internet of Things (IoT) also Supervisory Board has frequently exchanged views on appeared frequently on the agenda. The company also this topic, based upon preparatory work provided by the launched a Venture Fund to increase its exposure to new Remuneration Committee. The Supervisory Board has been technology and solutions as well as learn from innovative, working with the Board of Management to ensure maximum talented entrepreneurs. alignment between the company’s (long-term) performance and management remuneration. The Supervisory Board has been closely following the developments in the regulation domain. KPN is subject to a In March, the CEO decided to give back the discretionary broad framework of rules. The company has acted at all times reward he had received as acknowledgment for closing with the greatest sense of integrity with regard to legislation. the sale of E-Plus. The Supervisory Board highly respects the decision of the CEO, which evidenced true leadership, by explicitly putting the company’s interest above Mergers & Acquisitions personal interest. There is an increasing trend of consolidation, and the Supervisory Board has paid ample attention to this topic, Shareholders monitoring the movements in the industry as a whole, as well as the potential impact for KPN. Since acquisitions For shareholders, 2015 showed increasing shareholder often have strategic impact, and may consume both ample returns, including final 2014 dividend and interim 2015 management attention and a meaningful part of our Free dividend payments, as well as a pass-on of the dividend Cash flow, they have our on-going attention. received on our shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland, in combination with a steady share price development The disposal of BASE Company in Belgium, following the outperforming the AEX and relevant European Telecoms earlier disposal of E-Plus in Germany, fits the strategy KPN has indices. The Supervisory Board has had a number of contacts formulated by focusing on its Dutch operations and strategy with shareholders in order to understand their concerns, listen regarding convergence of mobile and fixed communication to their inputs and benefit from their expertise as they often services. The Board closely monitored the sales process. The have a broad view on our industry. acquisition of Internedservices Group and the institution of KPN Ventures were other topics of review for the Board. Team The proceeds from the sale of BASE Company and (part of) KPN’s stake in Telefónica Deutschland could lead to excess Over the last 3 years, the composition of the Supervisory cash. KPN expects to utilize excess cash for operational Board has evolved importantly, with 75% of the members and financial flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or having changed (including the appointments of Ms. Sap and shareholder remuneration. Mr. Hartman in 2015), and Mr. Sickinghe being appointed as its new Chairman in April 2015. Therefore, special attention was paid to building a strong team, and increasing its knowledge Corporate social responsibility (CSR) of and insights in the company, its industry, competitors and future trends. The members were introduced to different KPN views CSR as an integral part of doing business, and parts of the company. We also discussed how we would like continues to perform very well on this topic in national and to operate as a team and we discussed the specific areas international benchmarks. Through a focused energy program, of attention for the individual members. We worked on a the company has become climate neutral much faster than careful balance between Supervisory Board and Board of planned, and it now seeks to support its customers to reduce Management in which the Supervisory Board is well involved power consumption in their homes. Topics such as Privacy in debating key policy topics and yet leaves the ownership & Security, Healthcare of the Future and The New Way of and initiative with the Board of Management. Working and Living are close to the heart of its business, and key topics in society. The recent (continued) inclusion The Supervisory Board evaluated its own performance, with the in the DJ Sustainability Index, the top score on the Climate support of an external expert, and concluded that its focus on Disclosure Project and the Privacy Waarborg certification building and growing as a team was paying off. The team was all form evidence of KPN’s achievements. in good shape, closer on the business and better involved in the key topics for the company. It also felt that the quality of The Supervisory Board closely follows the developments in this the information provided to it had improved, while noting that field, and encourages management to continue pursuing CSR further enhancements were possible. Room for improvement was leadership in the years ahead. seen in upfront agenda-setting by the Board itself, interaction with senior management below the Board of Management and sufficient outside-in views being brought to the Board. 69 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Remuneration Report Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Considerable time was spent outside regular meetings to focus Committees of the Supervisory Board on the strategic goals for the company as well as reinforcing the team aspects of the Board. Audit Committee The Audit Committee had six regularly scheduled meetings, Meetings all of which were also attended by the CFO. The Committee The Supervisory Board met the Board of Management on nine also met separately with the external auditor (as did the occasions in 2015, of which eight were regularly scheduled Chairman of the Supervisory Board). meetings. The attendance at the Supervisory Board meetings was 85%. No members were frequently absent and all members The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in particular had adequate time available to prepare themselves and give all financially relevant matters that were presented to the the required attention to the matters at hand. In the event Supervisory Board, most notably the Annual Report, the members could not join a meeting, the Chairman discussed quarterly results and (the financial and risk-related aspects of) the matters at hand before and after the meeting, in order to the strategic plan. It had a specific focus on the effectiveness obtain the input and views of all Supervisory Board members. and outcome of the internal control framework and the risk Most meetings commenced and/or ended with closed meetings management systems of the company, for which it received where only Supervisory Board members (and at times the CEO) and reviewed reports by the internal auditor, the Group Risk were present. & Compliance Officer, and the Disclosure Committee. Committee attendance Each quarter, the Audit Committee also discussed in detail the % of Number of matters included in the Board Report of the external auditor. Committees attendance meetings The Audit Committee reviewed the performance evaluation Audit Committee 85% 6 of EY (which was conducted by senior management) and was Strategy & Organization Committee 85% 4 satisfied with the results. Remuneration Committee 79% 6 The Audit Committee kept close oversight on KPN’s Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 80% 5 financing policy and profile, and monitored the sale of part of the company’s shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland. It furthermore discussed other topics that were within Independence its scope of attention, most notably compliance, fraud Throughout the year, six members of the Supervisory Board management, tax matters, pension plan matters and were independent from the company within the meaning application of IT in (financial) processes. Finally, the Audit of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Mr. García Moreno Committee carried out its self-assessment by means of an Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske Solís, both appointed upon extensive questionnaire, the results of which were discussed the nomination of America Móvil, were not considered during the first meeting of the Audit Committee in 2016. independent within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Von Hauske Solís resigned from the Strategy & Organization Committee Supervisory Board in November 2015. At all times, the The Strategy and Organization Committee held four meetings in composition of the Supervisory Board was such, that the 2015, which were also attended by the CEO, the CFO and – where members were able to act critically and independently relevant – other members of the Board of Management and staff. of one another and of the Board of Management. The Committee worked with the Board of Management and See Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements the company’s strategy department to reflect on the company’s for information on related party transactions. current and potential strategy, for which ample substance was provided. Alternative courses of action were reviewed and documented. The Committee has been able to visit and Committee Reporting sometimes revisit relevant topics that it believes will drive value for all the company’s stakeholders. It ensured that the annual The Supervisory Board has established four Committees, strategy plan was closely interlinked with the annual budget as further explained in the Chapter ‘Corporate Governance’: process in order to maintain maximum consistency at a very The Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the granular level. The Committee continues to focus on maximizing Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the KPN’s Unique Selling Propositions, anticipating disruptive trends Strategy and Organization Committee. The main considerations in our industry and driving new sources of revenues. and conclusions of each Committee were shared with the full Supervisory Board. See the Corporate Governance section for Remuneration Committee information on the composition of the committees. The Remuneration Committee met on 6 occasions during 2015. The CEO attended (parts of) the Committee meetings. The Committee assisted the Supervisory Board in establishing and reviewing KPN’s pay policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management are compensated consistently with that policy. 70 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Further details on the activities of the Remuneration Financial Statements Committee are provided in the ‘Remuneration Report’ starting on page 72. The Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2015, were prepared by the Board of Management and approved by Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee met Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY) is included in the ‘Other on 5 occasions in 2015. Information’ starting on page 163. The Committee actively reviewed the management strength The Supervisory Board recommends that the AGM adopts at the various levels of the company. It has promoted exposure these Financial Statements. to the Supervisory Board of senior leaders within the company. The strength of our leaders is one of the important indicators of our future performance. Final remarks The implementation of the new functional organization and Customers are the reason we exist and they give us in the end the development of a new corporate culture was extensively our ‘license’ to operate in our market. KPN will keep its eyes reviewed and discussed. Upon recommendation of the on the ball and work hard to look after our current and new Committee, the Supervisory Board appointed Mr. Van der Post customers alike. as the company’s CCO with effect from March 1, 2015, thereby completing the new organizational structure at the level of the The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Board of Management. Management and all KPN’s employees for their dedication to KPN. KPN’s results are a reflection of the energy, persistence, As to the composition of the Supervisory Board itself, the creativity and customer focus of our employees. We thank our Committee reviewed the recommended nomination by the many business partners who play important roles in making Central Works Council of Ms. Sap, and steered the selection the customer experience a better journey. process that led to the nomination and subsequent appointment of Mr. Hartman. Following the resignation We would also like to thank the Works Council for the quality of Mr. Von Hauske, the Supervisory Board decided to keep of our exchanges. an open mind on replacing him with a new Board member. The Supervisory Board does not believe that an immediate We are grateful to our shareholders and bondholders for replacement is in order. It is felt that the current size and providing their capital resources and trust to the company. composition meet our perceived needs in terms of expertise and diversity. Duco W. Sickinghe, Chairman The Committee remains committed to ensure that the Peter A.M. van Bommel Supervisory Board and Board of Management will consist of Carlos J. Garcia Moreno Elizondo at least 30% female and at least 30% male members, thereby Derk J. Haank incorporating the Dutch law requirement and serving the Peter F. Hartman interest of a balanced composition of the Boards. When Jolande C.M. Sap searching for candidates for available Board seats, special Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk attention was therefore given to identify female candidates to achieve a more even distribution between male and female members. At the same time, KPN aims to select the best person for the job and – as suitable female candidates were not deemed available – the 30% female representatives has not yet been achieved in either Board. For upcoming vacancies, KPN aims to make further progress in striving for at least 30% female representation. For further information on KPN’s diversity policy, see ‘Our people’ starting on page 42. Former Olympic speed skater Barbara de Loor “KPN helps raise interest in skating” Watch Barbara’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/barbaradeloor 71 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Remuneration Report Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Introduction A. Executive pay at a glance We are committed to preserving your confidence and trust by What are the objectives and principles presenting an accountable and transparent implementation of KPN’s pay policy? of our pay policy. Objectives: Principles: The Committee’s tasks are laid down in the terms of reference Attracting, motivating and retaining Paying at market-median of the Committee. The Committee assists the Supervisory the necessary leadership talent level Board with establishing and reviewing the company’s pay Driving performance that generates Paying for performance long-term sustainable and profitable growth policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management are compensated consistently with that policy. Supporting a work environment where Differentiating by inspiring leadership is the norm experience and responsibility The Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee Encouraging customer satisfaction and are appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Committee loyalty, agility and innovation currently consists of Mr. Hartman (Chairman), Mr. Sickinghe Linking rewards to shareholder value creation and Mrs. Zuiderwijk. Complying with best practice in corporate governance Sustainability, agility and innovation will play an increasingly important role in the future strategic direction of the company General acceptance by stakeholders and will contribute to a consistent customer experience and a customer rating that outperforms the sector. We continuously innovate and invest in our networks, products and services so our customers can benefit from emerging trends and technology that will enhance their user experience. We therefore aim to foster an actionand innovation-oriented culture aimed at delivering results in line with this strategic direction, and our pay programs therefore emphasize variable pay and long-term value creation. The target pay aims at 30–40% of pay in base salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain a strong alignment with the company’s annual financial performance goals and long-term value creation strategy. In our judgment, this relationship and ratio between base salary and performance-related pay adequately TV and radio presenter Frits Barend: reflects the balance between the company’s objectives and its entrepreneurial spirit. This enables the company to attract, “Real sports fans watch our motivate and retain senior management of the necessary caliber and leadership background. heroes on the KPN website” Watch Frits’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/fritsbarend Overview Details of Board Details of Executive pay Duties and Executive pay of Management Supervisory at a glance activities of policy – detailed remuneration in Board pay in the Committee overview Financial Statements Financial Statements A B C D E Highlights of KPN’s Insight into the topics In-depth insight into Disclosure of Disclosure of pay policy and discussed by the KPN’s pay policy remuneration costs remuneration costs actual remuneration Committee for the Board under IFRS principles under IFRS principles of Management 72 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 How are executives rewarded? The pay mix for executives consists of the following four elements: Component Form Fixed/variable Drivers Base salary Cash Experience and responsibility Fixed Benefits (primarily pensions) Funded by cash contributions Market-competitive standards Short-Term Incentive (STI) Cash Performance – assessed through annual financial and nonfinancial targets Variable Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Conditional shares Performance – assessed through relative TSR (peer group), Free Cash Flow, Earnings Per Share and non-financial parameters What is the ratio between fixed and variable pay? The ratio between fixed and variable pay is influenced by the extent to which targets are met. The pie charts below represent the pay mix for both the CEO and the other Board members in case of an on-target performance. The different pay mix for the CEO (when compared to the other Executives) reflects the outcome of the benchmark reference. How is the level of remuneration established? KPN’s pay levels are benchmarked against other companies in order to ensure that KPN’s total level of compensation based on the pay mix is in line with KPN’s pay policy and objectives, as described above. In order to benchmark pay levels, KPN uses an employment peer group of companies against which KPN competes for talent. The peer employment group consists of AEX-listed and European sector-specific companies. The advice of Hay Group, an independent external consultant, is used by the Committee to ensure an objective benchmark for KPN’s remuneration policy and levels of pay. Compensation policy CEO Other Executives Base Base STI STI LTI LTI 30% 36% 42% 40% 28% 24% Actual remuneration Board of Management In thousands of EUR. Refer to the ‘Employee Benefits’ section in the Corporate Financial Statements for full disclosure of remuneration cost under IFRS principles. Discretionary Actual Pension cost and Name Year Base STI award vested LTI3 social security Total Eelco Blok 2015 1 850 1,049 – – 267 2,166 2014 850 548 425 – 262 2,085 Jan Kees de Jager 2015 625 514 – – 131 1,270 20142 165 55 – – 35 255 Frank van der Post 2015 2 583 480 – 149 154 1,366 Joost Farwerck 2015 575 473 – 70 142 1,260 2014 575 167 – – 127 869 1) In 2015, Mr Blok decided to return his 2014 discretionary award. This refund is not included in the 2015 table 2) Remuneration of Mr. van der Post since appointment as Board member in March 2015 and remuneration of Mr. de Jager since appointment as Board member in September 2014 3) Final TSR measurement for the 2012 and 2013 share grant was conducted, which did not lead to vesting of shares in 2014 and 2015 73 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Remuneration Report Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Are incentives aligned with strategy? The focus of the strategy is on customer loyalty, networks and Strategic Goals of ‘Strengthen – Simplify – Grow’ services, simplification of the operation model, cost reduction, integration of services, and sustainability. The goals and objectives of the new strategy are reflected in the shortto medium-term targets and long-term targets, which are used KPN has set a number of key objectives: to compensate senior management for their performance. � Provide the best service � Differentiate through innovative products Is the level of variable compensation aligned with the � Continue environmental strategy company’s risk profile? � Improve ﬁnancial stability and sustainability KPN aligns incentives with its long-term strategy, but it also � Provide integrated Fixed and Mobile services needs to focus on short-term success in order to achieve � Best network through continuous improvements further growth. The company’s risk profile is embedded � Build new revenue streams in the short-term and long-term incentive structure which measurement is assured by KPN’s standards of internal control over financial reporting. B. Duties and activities of the Committee Short-term targets Long-term targets Duties of the Committee The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with: •• Establishing and reviewing the company’s pay policy Financial: typically based on, Financial: peer group (based amongst other things, on national and international but not limited to, EBITDA, position (relative total benchmark standards); revenue and Free Cash Flow shareholder return), •• Ensuring that members of the Board of Management Earnings per share and are compensated consistently with that policy; and Non-ﬁnancial: typically Free Cash Flow •• Reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes based on various measures to the pay of the Supervisory Board. of customer satisfaction and Non-ﬁnancial: based loyalty and customer base on energy reduction Members of the Supervisory Board regularly liaise with and reputation senior management below Board level. In performing its duties, the Committee is assisted by an external remuneration consultancy firm (i.e. Hay Group). The Reward Reward Committee is fully independent in the execution of its assigned Cash Conditional shares responsibilities and ensures that the external remuneration consultancy firm acts on the instructions of the Committee and on a basis by which conflicts of interest are avoided. Activities during 2015 The Committee met six times in 2015, with an attendance rate •• Recommending the terms and conditions agreed upon of 79%. Consistent with its charter, the Committee has been with regard to changes in the composition of the Board involved in several aspects, such as: of Management; •• Defining the level of pay-out for individual members of •• Reviewing the current remuneration policy of the Board the Board of Management as part of the STI plan 2014 of Management; and LTI grant 2012 and discussing the projected outcome •• Preparing the Remuneration Report 2015 to be included of the STI plan 2015 and LTI grant 2013; in KPN’s Integrated Annual Report; and •• Issuing the LTI grant 2015 to members of the Board •• Discussing and reviewing the main principles of the of Management in line with the remuneration policy; remuneration policy with the Central Works Council. •• Reviewing the financial/non-financial targets and performance criteria for the STI plan 2016 and LTI grant 2016; 74 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 C. Executive pay policy – detailed overview Composition of employment market peer group and market assessment Objectives of KPN’s pay policy To ensure the overall competitiveness of KPN’s pay levels, KPN is dedicated to fostering a strongly action and innovation these levels are benchmarked against an employment market oriented culture aimed at delivering results. KPN’s pay peer group. The Committee uses one peer group consisting of programs therefore emphasize variable pay and long-term AEX-listed companies and European sector-specific companies. value creation. KPN’s plans are designed to achieve the The table below shows the current composition of KPN’s following objectives: employment peer group: •• Attracting, motivating and retaining the necessary leadership talent in order to sustain and expand KPN’s Employment peer group unique competencies and capabilities; AkzoNobel NV BT Group Plc •• Driving performance that generates long-term sustainable DSM NV Cap Gemini NV and profitable growth; Heineken NV Portugal Telecom SA •• Supporting a work environment where inspiring leadership is the norm; Randstad Holding NV Proximus SA •• Encouraging customer satisfaction and loyalty, agility Reed Elsevier NV/Plc Swisscom AG and innovation; Royal Ahold NV Vodafone Group Plc •• Linking rewards to value creation for shareholders Royal Philips Electronics NV and other stakeholders; •• Complying with best practice in Corporate Governance; and Unilever NV/Plc •• General acceptance by stakeholders. The Committee regularly reviews the peer group to ensure Principles of KPN’s pay policy that its composition is still appropriate. The composition of KPN’s pay policy is guided by three broad principles: the peer group might be adjusted as a result of mergers or 1) Paying at market-median level: this is achieved through other corporate activities. The relative size of KPN is taken into benchmarking against an employment market peer account when determining whether KPN’s pay levels are in line group consisting of companies with which KPN generally with the market-median levels. competes for talent; 2) Pay-for-performance: target pay aims at 30–40% of pay in Base salary base salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain The Committee determines appropriate base salary levels a strong alignment with the company’s annual financial based on KPN’s relative positioning in the peer group. In line performance goals and long-term value creation strategy; and with KPN’s pay-for-performance principle, base salary is 3) Differentiating by experience and responsibility: targeted at the lower end of the market-competitive range. this is achieved through alignment of the pay with the Each year, the Supervisory Board considers whether responsibilities, relevant experience, required competence circumstances justify an adjustment in base salary within and performance of individual jobholders. Consequently, the market-competitive target range for individual members there can be substantial differentials in pay levels, despite of the Board of Management. employees having similar job titles. These principles apply to all levels of senior management. The company’s pay policy is compliant with the relevant legal requirements and the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. School pupil Ferris Zurburg: “I want to be an architect and build like in Minecraft” Watch Ferris’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/ferriszurburg 75 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Remuneration Report Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Short-Term Incentives (STI) To date, the Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to General reward extraordinary management achievement that outperforms At the beginning of each year, the Supervisory Board sets the regular business plan and has created substantial additional financial and non-financial target ranges for the Board of value for the company and its shareholders. The Supervisory Management. These ranges are based on the company’s Board has not used this authority in 2015. Other than that, business plan. At the end of the year, the Supervisory Board discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by reviews the company’s performance against the target ranges. the Supervisory Board if the outcome of the STI scheme would Members of the Board of Management are eligible for an produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be annual cash incentive only if company performance is at considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles or above the predetermined ranges. of pay as outlined in this section. Objectives Actual pay-out levels The objective of this STI scheme is to ensure that the For 2015, EBITDA, revenues and customer base performed close Board of Management is well incentivized to achieve to maximum level. Net Promoter Score performed, on average, company performance targets in the shorter term. Specific around target level and Free Cash Flow performed above details on targets cannot be disclosed for performance maximum level. In 2015, the discretionary reward of 50% measures, as this would require providing commercially of his annual base salary was refunded to KPN by Mr. Blok. sensitive information. Long-Term Incentives (LTI) Performance incentive zone General The target ranges for financial and operational In addition to the base salary and the Short-Term annual cash performance comprise: incentive described above, a Long-Term incentive based on •• A ‘threshold’ below which no incentive is paid; performance shares is used to ensure that the interests of the •• An ‘on-target’ performance level at which an ‘on-target’ members of the Board of Management are aligned with those incentive is paid; and of its long-term (or prospective) shareholders and to provide •• A ‘maximum’ at which the maximum incentive is paid. an incentive for members of the Board of Management to continue their employment/service agreement relationship The STI is designed to strike a balance between the company’s with the company. risk profile and the incentive to achieve ambitious targets. The pay-out methodology is based on a separate pay-out approach for each of the financial and non-financial targets. The Supervisory Board’s ability to apply a discretionary factor ranges between 0.7 (i.e. cutting the cash incentive by 30%) and 1.3 (i.e. increasing the cash incentive by 30%). With this discretionary factor, the Supervisory Board is able to express the assessment of the overall individual performance of each member of the Board of Management. The ability to apply a discretionary factor does not increase average achievement levels. It does, however, allow the Supervisory Board some discretion in differentiating on the basis of individual contributions to company performance. Entrepreneur Annelijn Sinjorgo: “Social media is visual mouth-to-mouth advertising” Watch Annelijn’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/annelijnsinjorgo 76 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Short-Term Incentives (STI) Form of Pay-out at threshold Pay-out at or above Component compensation Value determination Targets performance maximum performance1 STI Cash ‘On-target’ incentive Targets typically are EBITDA, 25% of the ‘on-target’ incentive 150% of the ‘on-target’ equals 90% of base Free Cash Flow and various (i.e. 22.5% of base salary for incentive (i.e. 135% salary for the CEO measures of customer the CEO and 15% of base salary of base salary for the and 60% of base satisfaction and loyalty for the other members of CEO and 90% of base salary for the other and customer base. the Board of Management). salary for the other members of the Board Pay-out below threshold members of the Board of Management. performance: 0% of the of Management). ‘on-target’ incentive. 1) Maximum including the effect of the discretionary factor. Long-Term Incentives (LTI) Scenario maximum (position 1 in TSR peer group and maximum performance on Form of financial and nonComponent compensation Value determination1 Drivers2 On-target financial targets) Long-term Shares CEO: based on 135% of For 25% based on relative 100% of the granted 200% of the granted share-based base pay. Other TSR versus peer group, for shares vest. shares vest. compensation members of the Board 25% on Free Cash Flow, for of Management: based 25% on Earnings Per Share, on 90% of base pay. for 12.5% on sustainability/ environmental targets and for 12.5% on stakeholder/ customer targets. 1) Based on the average share price of the first trading day after 2) Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving a the AGM. Dividend paid during the vesting period will be included in cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years the value determination. (i.e. qualifier for vesting). The number of shares granted under this plan is based on The performance period of the LTI plan is set at three years. a percentage of base pay as shown in the table. The number The Committee uses scenario analysis to estimate the possible of shares that actually vest, for the LTI plans 2014 onwards, is outcomes of the value of the shares vesting in coming years performance related and for 25% based on relative TSR versus and decides whether a correct risk incentive is set for the peer group, for 25% on Free Cash Flow, for 25% on Earnings Per members of the Board of Management with respect to the Share, for 12.5% on sustainability and environmental targets, overall level of pay and pay differentials within the company. and for 12.5% on stakeholder and customer targets. The vesting methodology is based on a separate vesting approach for each In addition to the information provided in the Remuneration of the financial and non-financial targets. Report, please refer to Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description and valuation of the It is considered that comparing KPN’s TSR with a wider group of option and share plans. companies (either geographically or with other industries) is not meaningful. Variations in returns would most likely be attributed Performance-measuring and peer group performance largely to macro-economic events and/or sector shifts rather than The following table provides an overview of KPN’s to variations in management actions. Therefore, benchmarking performance peer group to determine KPN’s relative TSR achievements relative to other, similar companies emphasizes shareholder return for LTI plans as of 2014. rewarding for specific KPN performance. The non-financial parameters set for 2015 are based on energy reduction and a reputation dashboard. Please refer to the ‘Environmental Performance chapter’ of this report for detailed information about the energy reduction parameters. Vesting is, in principle, also subject to the condition that the member of the Board of Management has not resigned within three years of the date of the initial grant. 77 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report Remuneration Report Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration Report To date, the Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority Companies included in the peer group to reward extraordinary management achievement that BT Group Plc Tele2 AB outperforms the regular business plan(s) and has created Deutsche Telekom AG Telekom Austria AG substantial additional value for the company and its Mobistar SA TeliaSonera AB shareholders. The Supervisory Board has not used this authority in 2015. Other than that, discretion both upwards Orange SA Vodafone Group Plc and downwards can be applied by the Supervisory Board if the Proximus SA Swisscom AG outcome of the LTI incentive scheme would produce an unfair TDC A/S KPN NV result or if the outcome would not be considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles of pay as outlined in this section. Vesting Vesting Ranking Position schedule schedule companies The change of control clause contains immediate vesting at 2012 and as of 2014 2013 100% (irrespective of the actual performance at that moment, 2013 grant grant grant whether higher or lower) and lifting of the blocked period Position 1 200% 200% Orange SA normally applicable, to enable the member of the Board of Position 2 200% 175% Deutsche Telekom AG Management to dispose of their shares in the situation of Position 3 200% 150% BT Group PLC a change of control. The immediate vesting at 100% will be Position 4 175% 125% Proximus SA pro rata for the time passed in the plan during the vesting period of three years (i.e. 1/3 in year one, 2/3 in year two, Position 5 150% 100% Hellenic Telecom (OTE) full in year three). Position 6 125% 75% Telecom Italia SpA Position 7 100% No vesting Vodafone Group Plc Further details of the LTI plan are disclosed in a so-called Position 8 No vesting No vesting KPN NV (8th position) factsheet as approved by the AGM in April 2014. and below Actual pay-out levels The table above provides the vesting schedules of the TSR Final TSR measurement for the 2013 share grant was part in the LTI plans and an overview of the final ranking of conducted as per February 16, 2016. KPN’s performance the 2013 share plan that vests in 2016. Vesting schedule for resulted in the 8th position in the TSR performance peer financial and non-financial targets other than TSR: threshold group with respect to the 2013 share award. This position performance 25%, on-target performance 100% and maximum does not lead to vesting in April 2016 of the granted shares. performance 200%. Claw-back clause Please note that the peer group used for relative TSR reflects the The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to relevant competitive market in which KPN competes for investor recover variable pay awarded on the basis of incorrect preference. As such, it is different from the employment market financial or other data. peer group, which is used to determine pay levels for the CEO and members of the Board of Management. The peer group Benefits may be adjusted if an individual company no longer qualifies Pensions as a relevant peer company. Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a defined contribution pension plan with a contribution based on the Performance incentive zone fiscal defined contribution table that corresponds to a retirement In line with the design of KPN’s LTI plan the target performance age of 67, an annual accrual rate of 1.875% and a pension ranges for vesting of the LTI plan comprise a threshold below accrual capped at EUR 100,000 base pay. Board members which no shares vest, an on-target performance level at which receive a fixed gross allowance as of January 2015 equal to the shares vest an on-target and a maximum at which the shares associated pension contribution paid by the company in 2014 vest at the maximum level. for the base pay part above EUR 100,000. This gross allowance is calculated based on the applicable 2014 defined contribution Once vested, the shares will have to be held for a minimum plan, i.e. determined based on the age and annual base salary period of two years. An exception to this rule is made for of the individual Board members. The gross annual allowance shares that are sold to cover income tax obligations in relation can be used to build up additional pension benefits based on a to the vested shares (typically the value taxed as income equals so-called net-saving pension plan as facilitated by Dutch (fiscal) the number of shares vested multiplied by the share price at pension legislation. the time of vesting). Additional arrangements An external remuneration consultant calculates the end-ofThe additional arrangements, such as life insurance coverage, year TSR peer group position and the number of shares vested expense allowances, use of cell phones and company car based on this target, and makes certain that calculations are provisions needed for the execution of their roles, are broadly performed objectively and independently. in line with other companies of similar size and complexity, as well as with market practice. 78 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Loans Supervisory Board pay Company policy does not allow loans or guarantees to be granted to members of the Board of Management. The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Terms of employment Any recommended changes to Supervisory Board pay must Members of the Board of Management have a service be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for agreement for a definite period of time with the exception approval. The remuneration levels for the chairman and of Mr. Blok, who has an employment contract for an indefinite members of the Strategy & Organization Committee were period of time. approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders in April, 2015. Please refer to the table for further details. Members All members of the Board (including Mr. Blok) are appointed receive an additional fee if a meeting is held in a country other for a period of four years, which is in line with the than the member’s country of residence. Shareholdings in the requirements of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. company held by Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term investment in the company and help to align their Severance arrangements interest with those of KPN’s other shareholders. No Supervisory Severance payments for the CEO and members of the Board Board member is granted stock options or shares as a form of of Management are aligned with the Dutch Corporate pay. As a policy, the company does not provide loans or Governance Code (one-year base salary, and – exceptionally guarantees to its Supervisory Board members. during the initial term of four years – up to two years’ base salary). Ms. Hooymans and Mr. Streppel were not available for reappointment and stepped down after the AGM in April 2015. Change in composition and responsibilities of the The appointment of Ms. Sap and Mr. Hartman as members Board of Management of the Supervisory Board came into effect as of KPN’s AGM on After shareholder approval, the Supervisory Board appointed April 2015. Mr. Von Hauske Solis stepped down as member Mr. Van der Post as the company’s Chief Commercial Officer of the Supervisory Board effective November 27, 2015. (CCO) as from March 1, 2015. The main terms and conditions of Mr. Van der Post’s agreement fit within KPN’s remuneration The table below shows the pay-out to Supervisory Board policy, as approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Members and fixed Committee fees on an annual basis. Mr. Van der Post earns a base salary of EUR 700,000 per year. He is also eligible for the short-term variable cash incentive Amounts in EUR Fees 2015 and the long-term variable incentive (based on conditional Chairman Supervisory Board 100,000 shares). In addition, as a partial compensation for rights that Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board 70,000 Mr. Van der Post has forfeited at his previous employer, he will Member Supervisory Board 60,000 be entitled to receive EUR 1.2 million compensation in cash and shares spread out over time. Because compensation Chairman Audit Committee 20,000 of this type was not foreseen in KPN’s remuneration policy, Member Audit Committee 10,000 shareholder approval was granted thereto at the EGM on Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee 12,500 January 9, 2015. Member Strategy & Organization Committee 7,500 Outlook for 2016 Chairman Remuneration Committee 10,000 No adjustments in the company’s remuneration policy that Member Remuneration Committee 5,000 require AGM approval are foreseen in 2016. Chairman Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 10,000 A so-called circuit breaker will be introduced as a minimum Member Nominating & Corporate requirement for pay out of the STI non financial parameters. Governance Committee 5,000 Next to that the Supervisory Board has decided to make no longer use of its discretionary authority to reward extraPlease refer to the Employee Benefits chapter of the ordinary management achievement without prior approval Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for details on actual from the AGM. remuneration of the Supervisory Board. Please refer to the Employee Benefits chapter of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for details on actual The Hague, February 24, 2016 remuneration of the Board of Management. Peter F. Hartman (Chairman Remuneration Committee) Duco W. Sickinghe Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk 79 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Financial Statements 80 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Contents Consolidated Financial Statements 82. Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 83. Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 84. Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 86. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 88. Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity 89. General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 96. Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 106. Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 139. Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements 156. Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss 157. Corporate Statement of Financial Position 159. General Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements 160. Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position Other Information 163. Combined Independent Auditor’s Report 170. Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report 172. Legal structure 173. Proposed appropriation of result 173. Subsequent events CFO KPN Jan Kees de Jager: “A financial advisor works like the co-pilot in a rally car” Watch Jan Kees’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/jankeesdejager 81 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Restated* Revenues [4] 7,006 7,328 Other income [4] 2 81 Total 7,008 7,409 Own work capitalized -90 -81 Cost of materials 680 683 Work contracted out and other expenses 2,662 2,852 Employee benefits [5] 1,107 731 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [6] 1,616 1,654 Other operating expenses [7] 325 358 Total operating expenses 6,300 6,197 Operating profit 708 1,212 Finance income 150 34 Finance costs -507 -869 Other financial results 252 -66 Financial income and expenses [8] -105 -901 Share of the profit/loss (-) of associates and joint ventures [13] 2 -5 Profit/Loss (-) before income tax from continuing operations 605 306 Income taxes [9] -81 -45 Profit/Loss (-) for the year from continuing operations 524 261 Profit/Loss (-) for the year from discontinued operations [19] 135 -845 Profit/Loss (-) for the year 659 -584 Profit/Loss (-) attributable to non-controlling interests [20] 21 14 Profit/Loss (-) attributable to equity holders of the company [20] 638 -598 Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of the company for the year in EUR [10] –Basic (continuing operations) 0.11 0.05 –Diluted (continuing operations) 0.11 0.05 –Basic (discontinued operations) 0.03 -0.20 –Diluted (discontinued operations) 0.03 -0.20 –Basic (total, including discontinued operations) 0.14 -0.15 –Diluted (total, including discontinued operations) 0.14 -0.15 * Comparative 2014 numbers have been restated due to the classification of BASE Company as disposal group held for sale (discontinued operations). [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 82 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Restated* Profit/Loss (-) for the year 659 -584 Other comprehensive income: Items of other comprehensive income that may not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurement pensions and other post-employment plans: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period 45 -41 Income tax 2 -9 Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 47 -50 Items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met: Cash flow hedges [20]: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period 166 -1 Income tax -41 2 125 1 Currency translation adjustments [20]: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period -2 2 Realized loss through profit or loss – 4 -2 6 Fair value adjustment available-for-sale financial assets [20]: Unrealized gains arising during the period [14] 363 163 Income tax -91 -41 Realized gains through profit or loss (net of tax) -138 – 134 122 Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 257 129 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 304 79 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 963 -505 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the company 942 -519 Non-controlling interests 21 14 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 963 -505 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of the company arises from: Continuing operations 807 326 Discontinued operations 135 -845 * Comparative 2014 numbers have been restated due to the classification of BASE Company as disposal group held for sale (discontinued operations). [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Assets Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Goodwill 1,428 1,454 Licenses 1,180 1,564 Software 556 675 Other intangibles 286 299 Total intangible assets [11] 3,450 3,992 Land and buildings 525 569 Plant and equipment 5,230 5,704 Other tangible non-current assets 38 58 Assets under construction 208 275 Total property, plant and equipment [12] 6,001 6,606 Investments in associates and joint ventures [13] 42 42 Loans to associates and joint ventures [13] 20 19 Available-for-sale financial assets [14] 2,272 2,713 Derivative financial instruments [26] 530 328 Deferred income tax assets [9] 1,069 1,323 Trade and other receivables [15] 81 140 Total other non-current assets 4,014 4,565 Total non-current assets 13,465 15,163 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories [16] 65 61 Trade and other receivables [15] 778 999 Income tax receivables [9] 58 49 Derivative financial instruments [26] 102 Other current financial assets [17] 575 300 Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,446 1,976 Total current assets 3,024 3,385 Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [19] 1,308 8 TOTAL ASSETS 17,797 18,556 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Non-current Intangible assets and assets: disposal groups 3,450 3,992 classified as HFS: 1,308 8 Property, Current plant & assets: equipment: 3,024 3,385 6,001 6,606 Other Total assets: non-current 17,797 18,556 assets: 4,014 4,565 2015 2014 84 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Group Equity and Liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 GROUP EQUITY Share capital 171 171 Share premium 9,847 9,847 Other reserves -125 -388 Retained earnings -6,000 -6,146 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 1,089 1,089 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company [20] 4,982 4,573 Non-controlling interests [20] 69 57 Total group equity [20] 5,051 4,630 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Borrowings [22] 8,853 9,397 Derivative financial instruments [26] 17 191 Deferred income tax liabilities [9] 47 52 Provisions for retirement benefit obligations [23] 259 316 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [24] 97 136 Other payables and deferred income [25] 65 64 Total non-current liabilities 9,338 10,156 CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and other payables [25] 2,090 2,559 Borrowings [22] 847 1,044 Derivative financial instruments [26] 3 7 Income tax payables [9] 43 79 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [24] 59 68 Total current liabilities 3,042 3,757 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [19] 366 13 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,797 18,556 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Liabilities associated Group equity: with non-current 5,051 4,630 assets and disposal groups classified as HFS: 366 13 Non-current liabilities: 9,338 10,156 Current liabilities: 3,042 3,757 Total equity and liabilities: 2015 17,797 18,556 2014 85 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Restated* Profit before income tax from continuing operations 605 306 Adjustments for: – Net financial expense [8] 105 901 – Share-based compensation [5] 8 6 – Share of the loss of associates and joint ventures [13] -2 5 – Depreciation, amortization and impairments [6] 1,616 1,654 – Other income -2 -2 – Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes) -44 -894 Changes in working capital relating to: – Inventories -12 -2 – Trade receivables 63 216 – Prepayments and accrued income 53 -107 – Other current assets 18 18 – Trade payables 63 -312 – Accruals and deferred income -145 -64 – Current liabilities (excluding short-term financing) -10 27 Dividends received [13, 14] 147 1 Income taxes paid/received 18 38 Interest paid -485 -704 Net cash flow provided by operating activities from continuing operations 1,996 1,087 Net cash flow provided by operating activities from discontinued operations [19] 222 467 Net cash flow provided by operating activities 2,218 1,554 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets [14] 805 – Acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (net of acquired cash) -73 -745 Disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (net of cash) -1 -1 Disposal of intangibles – 2 Investments in intangible assets (excluding software) -4 -14 Investments in software -288 -343 Investments in property, plant and equipment -1,012 -896 Loans to associates and joint ventures – -177 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 3 3 Other current financial assets [17] -275 -300 Other -1 – Net cash flow used in investing activities from continuing operations -846 -2,471 Net cash flow used in/provided by investing activities from discontinued operations [19] -247 3,944 Net cash flow used in/provided by investing activities [27] -1,093 1,473 86 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Restated* Redemption preference shares B [20] – -255 Dividends paid -495 -94 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds -67 -67 Issuance perpetual hybrid bonds – -1 Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives [22] -929 -4,002 Other -5 -34 Net cash flow used in financing activities from continuing operations -1,496 -4,453 Net cash flow used in financing activities from discontinued operations [19] – -251 Net cash flow used in financing activities [27] -1,496 -4,704 Total net cash flow from continuing operations -346 -5,837 Total net cash flow from discontinued operations [19] -25 4,160 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -371 -1,677 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year [18] 1,945 3,620 Exchange rate differences 1 2 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -371 -1,677 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [18] 1,575 1,945 Bank overdrafts 4 31 Cash classified as held for sale -133 – Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,446 1,976 *Comparative 2014 numbers have been restated due to the classification of BASE Company as disposal group held for sale (discontinued operations). [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Director Festival The Brave Luc Upson: “People discover music, and musicians find audiences, thanks to Spotify” Watch Luc’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/lucupson 87 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity Equity attributable Equity to holders of attributable Amounts in millions Number of perpetual to equity NonTotal of EUR, except number subscribed Share Share Other Retained capital holders of controlling Group of shares shares1 capital premium reserves earnings securities the company interests equity Balance as of December 31, 2013 4,270,254,664 1,025 8,993 -517 -5,340 1,089 5,250 53 5,303 Profit for the year – – – – -598 – -598 14 -584 Other comprehensive income for the year – – – 129 -50 – 79 – 79 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 129 -648 – -519 14 -505 Share-based compensation [5] – – – – 3 – 3 – 3 Reduction nominal value – -854 854 – – – – – – Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) – – – – -76 – -76 – -76 Dividends paid – – – – -85 – -85 -9 -94 Acquisition – – – – – – – -1 -1 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity – -854 854 – -158 – -158 -10 -168 Balance as of December 31, 2014 4,270,254,664 171 9,847 -388 -6,146 1,089 4,573 57 4,630 Profit for the year – – – – 638 – 638 21 659 Other comprehensive income for the year – – – 257 47 – 304 – 304 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 257 685 – 942 21 963 Share-based compensation [5] – – – – -3 – -3 – -3 Sold treasury shares – – – 6 – – 6 – 6 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) – – – – -51 – -51 – -51 Dividends paid – – – – -485 – -485 -9 -494 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity – – – 6 -539 – -533 -9 -542 Balance as of December 31, 2015 4,270,254,664 171 9,847 -125 -6,000 1,089 4,982 69 5,051 1) Subscribed ordinary shares (including treasury shares). Preference shares B were not included and classified as current liabilities (refer to Note 20). [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. The aggregate amount of deferred tax recorded directly in equity in 2015 was EUR 16 million positive (2014: EUR 9 million negative). 88 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [1] General information Summary of significant accounting policies The general accounting policies as applied in these KPN is the leading telecommunications and information and Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are described communications technology (ICT) provider in the Netherlands, below. Significant accounting policies that relate to specific offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and mobile line items or accounts are described in the relevant Notes. broadband internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN is also The accounting policies described in the Notes form an market leader in the Netherlands in infrastructure and network integral part of the description of the accounting policies related ICT solutions to business customers, including other in this section. Accounting policies have been applied telecommunications operators. In Belgium (discontinued consistently to all years presented, unless stated otherwise. operations), KPN pursues a challenger strategy and offers mobile telephony products and services through BASE Changes in accounting policies and disclosures Company. KPN also provides wholesale network services KPN applies new standards and amendments issued by to third parties and operates an IP-based infrastructure for the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), when international wholesale customers through KPN’s US-based effective and endorsed by the European Union. KPN has subsidiary iBasis. not opted for early adoption for any of these standards. Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the Company) was incorporated Implications of new and amended standards in 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. The address and interpretations of its registered office is Maanplein 55, 2516 CK, The Hague. The following standards have been applied as of January 1, 2015: KPN’s shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Following the •• IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ provides guidance in addition to IAS 37 delisting of KPN’s shares on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ in 2008, KPN’s shares can be traded in the United States, only as on how to account for levies posed by governments other American Depository Receipts on the over-the-counter market. than income taxes, specifically on when to account for the liability. For KPN, this guidance impacted the phasing The Financial Statements as of and for the year ended of specific levies throughout the financial year but did December 31, 2015 of Koninklijke KPN N.V. were approved not have an impact on the full year financial results. for issuance by both the Supervisory Board and the Board •• IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ has been amended regarding of Management on February 24, 2016 and are subject to treatment of employee contributions in defined benefit adoption by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders plans. The amendment aims to simplify the calculation on April 13, 2016. of employee contributions and did not affect KPN. •• The Annual Improvements 2010–2012 and the Annual Improvements 2011–2013 cover amendments to several [2] Summary of significant standards, none of which have a material impact on KPN. accounting policies Future implications of new and amended standards Basis of preparation and interpretations The Consolidated Financial Statements of KPN have been The IASB has issued several new standards and amendments prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting with an effective date of January 1, 2016 or later. Those with Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS) and with an expected material impact on KPN upon application are the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil discussed below: Code. KPN’s Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss is presented in abbreviated format in accordance with Article 402, Part 9, •• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ as issued in July 2014 will replace Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and all previous versions of IFRS 9. The standard introduces The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared new requirements for classification and measurement, under the historical cost convention, except for available-forimpairment and hedge accounting of financial instruments. sale financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities IFRS 9 is effective as of January 1, 2018 and must be applied (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit retrospectively. However, the hedge accounting requirements or loss. The Consolidated and Corporate Financial Statements are generally applied prospectively. Apart from some aspects are prepared on a going concern basis. of hedge accounting, restatement of comparative information is not mandatory and is only permitted if information is Consolidated financial information, including subsidiaries, available without the use of hindsight. As the standard has associates and joint ventures, has been prepared using uniform not yet been endorsed, it is uncertain when it needs to be accounting policies for similar transactions and other events in applied by KPN. IFRS 9 is expected to have an impact on the similar circumstances. classification and measurement of KPN’s financial assets and liabilities. KPN is currently reviewing the extent of the impact of this new standard. 89 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements •• IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ was Subsidiaries issued in May 2014. In April 2015, the effective date of Subsidiaries are all entities for which KPN is exposed to, or has this standard has been postponed to January 1, 2018. rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity Endorsement is expected in 2016. IFRS 15 introduces and has the ability to affect those returns through its power new guidance on the recognition and measurement over the entity (‘control’). Subsidiaries are fully consolidated requirements of revenues. The standard applies to revenue from the date on which control is obtained by KPN and are from contracts with customers and also provides a model deconsolidated from the date on which KPN’s control ceases. for the sale of some non-financial assets that are not an All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized results output of a company’s ordinary business activities. IFRS 15 on transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated. provides more detailed requirements than the current standards. KPN is currently reviewing the extent Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries of the impact of this new standard in anticipation of without change of control endorsement. KPN expects an impact on the timing Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result of revenue recognition due to the removal of the cash in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. restriction rule currently applied in revenue arrangements The difference between fair value of any consideration paid with multiple deliverables and on the accounting treatment and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net of dealer commissions. Due to potential differences assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses between timing of revenue recognition required by the on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded new standard and receipt of corresponding cash flows, in equity. KPN’s Statement of Financial Position may also be impacted (recognition of contract assets and contract liabilities). Upon Disposal of subsidiaries implementation of IFRS 15, the disclosures in KPN’s IFRS When control ceases, any retained interest in the entity is Financial Statements will be expanded to include required remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, information such as movement schedules for recognized with the change in carrying amount recognized in the contract assets and contract liabilities, information about Statement of Profit or Loss. The fair value is the initial carrying performance obligations and information on key judgments amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the and estimates applied in recognition and measurement of retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial revenues. KPN does not intend to early adopt this standard. asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in •• IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ was issued in January 2016. The standard Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) in respect of that entity has an effective date of January 1, 2019. Endorsement has are accounted for as if KPN had directly disposed of the related not been scheduled yet. IFRS 16 will replace IAS 17 and assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously introduces on balance sheet accounting for (almost) all recognized in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss. leases. Therefore, assets in use under an operating lease contract, reported as off balance sheet obligation under Foreign currency translation IAS 17, will be recognized on the balance sheet. Paid lease Functional and presentation currency fees will no longer be part of operating expenses but will These Financial Statements are presented in Euro (EUR), become part of depreciation and interest expenses. which is KPN’s presentation currency and functional currency. The standard will have an impact on KPN’s Consolidated Each entity within the KPN Group has its own functional Statement of Financial Position due to the recognition currency which is determined based on the primary economic of the leased assets and corresponding financial liabilities. environment in which the entity operates. All amounts are Also, an impact is expected on KPN’s Consolidated Statement rounded to millions unless stated otherwise. of Profit or Loss. EBITDA and Operating profit are expected to increase, but the impact on Profit before tax is not Transactions and balances expected to be material. KPN is currently reviewing Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the extent of the impact of this new standard. the functional currency of the recording entity using the exchange rates applicable at transaction date. At reporting Changes to Standards following Amendments by the IASB and date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign the Annual Improvement Cycles as issued per date of these currencies are translated to the functional currency using financial statements are not expected to have a material the rates at reporting date. Exchange rate differences are impact on KPN’s financial statements. recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss except when these differences are related to qualifying cash flow hedges Basis of consolidation and qualifying net investment hedges in which case the KPN’s Financial Statements include the financial results of its exchange rate differences are recorded in OCI. Exchange subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s share of the results from rate differences on non-monetary assets and liabilities are associates and joint ventures. Refer to Note 13 for the reported as part of the fair value gain or loss from that asset accounting policy on Associates and Joint ventures. or liability. Exchange rate differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are recognized in the Statement of OCI. 90 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition Financial assets and liabilities of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the KPN’s financial assets consist KPN’s financial liabilities consist foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the of these main categories: of these main categories: reporting date. •• Financial assets at Notes •• Financial Not Subsidiaries fair value through 17/26 liabilities at fair applicable The results and financial position of subsidiaries that have profit or loss value through a functional currency other than KPN’s presentation currency profit or loss (EUR) are translated for consolidation purposes at closing •• Loans and Notes •• Loans and Note 22 rate of the date of the financial position (assets and liabilities) receivables 13/15/28 borrowings or at the average exchange rates applicable for the specific reporting period (income and expenses). All resulting •• Held-to-maturity Note 17 exchange differences are recognized in OCI (in the currency investments translation reserve, a separate component within equity). •• Available-for-sale Note 14 financial assets Significant accounting estimates, judgments •• Derivative financial Note 26 and assumptions instruments The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions At initial recognition, KPN’s management determines the that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues appropriate classification of financial assets and financial liabilities and expenses as well as the information disclosed and the in one of these categories. For financial assets, the classification contingent liabilities. Actual results may therefore deviate from depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were the estimates applied. Estimates and judgments are evaluated acquired. The designation is assessed at every reporting date. continuously and are based on historic experience and other factors, including expectations of future events thought to be All financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates are revised transaction costs attributable to the acquisition of the asset if when material changes to the underlying assumption occur. a financial asset is not recorded at fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent measurement depends on the classification The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions of the financial asset. deemed significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to: All financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value The determination of deferred tax assets Note 9 net of directly attributable transaction costs (in case of loans for losses carry forward and provisions for and borrowings). Subsequent measurement depends on the tax contingencies classification of the financial liability. Management determines The determination of fair value less costs of Note 11 the classification of the financial liabilities at initial recognition disposal and value in use of cash-generating and assesses the designation at every reporting date. units for goodwill impairment testing The depreciation rates for the copper and Note 12 fiber network included within property, plant and equipment The assumptions used to determine the fair Note 19 value less costs of disposal of assets and liabilities held for sale, including disposal groups The assumptions used to determine the Note 23 provision for retirement benefit obligations and periodic pension costs, such as discount rate, mortality rates and benefit increases The ‘more likely than not’ assessment required Notes 24/30 to determine whether or not to recognize a provision for idle cables, which are part of Pensioner Jean Jacques van Belle: a public electronic communications network The assessments of exposure to credit risk Note 28 “I met someone I knew 50 years and financial market risks ago thanks to internet” The determination of fair values of net assets Note 29 acquired in business combinations Watch Jean Jacques’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/jeanjacquesvanbelle 91 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [3] Segment reporting The basis for inter-segment pricing for wireless services is as follows: Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with 1. KPN’s mobile terminating services are regulated in some the internal reporting provided to the Chief Executive Officer aspects. The price level of the mobile terminating services (CEO), who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker according to external wholesale operators has been set in consultation to IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. KPN’s operating segments with and approved by the Dutch competition and are summarized below. telecommunications regulators. The mobile terminating tariffs are applied on a non-discriminatory basis within In 2015, KPN made the following organizational changes: the segment Consumer Mobile, Business and NetCo and to other (external) operators; •• As of January 1, 2015, Mobile International Other Segment has been merged with Other Activities and the Belgium 2. Roaming tariffs between KPN’s Mobile operators are based Segment is presented separately. Comparative segment on bilateral agreements and contain generally similar terms information has been restated; and as bilateral agreements with third parties; and •• BASE Company has been classified as ‘disposal group 3. The basis for inter-segment pricing within the Netherlands, held for sale’ as of April 15, 2015. other than mentioned in categories 1) and 2) above can be described as follows: The Netherlands The Netherlands consists of the following: •• For identical products which are also sold to external parties, KPN uses wholesale prices; •• Consumer Mobile Segment – providing mobile telephony •• For non-regulated retail products, KPN uses cost-based and mobile data. KPN offers retail customers a broad prices; and package of services in the areas of communication, •• For regulated retail products KPN uses external purchase information, entertainment and commercial services; costs and an additional charge which is equal to a •• Consumer Residential Segment – providing internet predetermined percentage of the difference between and TV and fixed telephony. KPN offers retail customers the gross external retail revenues and external purchase a broad range of services in the areas of communication, costs; this method is also referred to as ‘retail-minus’. information, entertainment and commercial services; •• Business Segment – KPN offers its business customers Segment performance (small, medium-sized, large and corporate) a complete For an explanation of incidental transactions included in portfolio of service from fixed and mobile telephony Revenues, Other income and EBITDA, refer to Appendix 1 and internet to a range of end-to-end solutions in of these Financial Statements. Appendix 1 also includes infrastructure, workspace management, data network and the bridge between the reported and adjusted results datacenter services; per Segment. •• NetCo Segment – responsible for KPN’s operational activities for the Dutch networks (both fixed and mobile), For more information on Revenues and Other income, IT services and for KPN’s wholesale fixed customers; and refer to Note 4. For more information on Operating expenses, •• The Netherlands’ Other Segment. refer to Notes 5 and 7. Belgium The decrease of External revenues in Other activities is the Belgium Segment consists of BASE Company, a challenger result of the sale of SNT Germany and the winding down network operator with own brands and partners in Belgium. of Ortel France. iBasis Through iBasis, KPN is a leading player in the international wholesale voice market. iBasis carries international phone calls worldwide. Other activities Other activities comprise the results of KPN’s Corporate Center (support) and the call center activities of SNT Germany (sold March 2015). Due to the fact that KPN neither allocates interest expenses to segments nor accounts for taxes in the segments, the disclosure is limited to operating profit for the year. 92 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The Netherlands Amounts in Consumer Other (including Total millions of EUR, Consumer Mobile Residential Business NetCo eliminations) The Netherlands unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 1,397 1,346 1,816 1,800 2,432 2,695 480 494 4 2 6,129 6,337 Other income 1 2 – – – 5 – – 1 76 2 83 Inter-division revenues 63 59 122 116 227 220 1,706 1,768 -2,073 -2,128 45 35 Total revenues 1,461 1,407 1,938 1,916 2,659 2,920 2,186 2,262 -2,068 -2,050 6,176 6,455 Operating expenses -1,189 -1,216 -1,523 -1,512 -2,220 -2,330 -903 -1,021 2,026 2,074 -3,809 -4,005 EBITDA 2 272 191 415 404 439 590 1,283 1,241 -42 24 2,367 2,450 DA&I -94 -166 -279 -299 -175 -206 -1,003 -938 -45 -21 -1,596 -1,630 Operating profit 178 25 136 105 264 384 280 303 -87 3 771 820 Total assets3 1,263 1,261 2,102 1,941 3,161 3,478 10,920 11,505 -714 -460 16,732 17,725 Total liabilities3 1,311 1,387 2,104 1,841 2,752 3,127 10,922 11,494 -713 -447 16,376 17,402 Other Investments in: Intangible assets 1 1 9 6 88 37 81 340 179 249 358 633 PPE 8 17 203 179 67 53 706 623 15 19 999 891 Associates and JVs – – – – – – 17 17 – – 17 17 Results associates and JVs – – – – – – – -4 – – – -4 Employees end of period (FTEs)3 961 1,173 3,188 2,976 6,010 6,456 1,978 2,142 893 893 13,030 13,640 Employees average (FTEs)3 1,067 1,216 3,082 3,028 6,233 6,794 2,060 2,108 893 670 13,335 13,816 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 3) 2014 restated for internal transfer across segments. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. EVP Service Platforms KPN Jacob Groote: “Technology can fail, but you can always improve it too” Watch Jacob’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/jacobgroote 93 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other Segments iBasis Belgium Other activities Total Segments Amounts in millions of EUR, 2014 2014 unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 (restated) 2015 (restated) Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 813 773 677 701 37 188 7,656 7,999 Other income – – 66 2 – -1 68 84 Inter-division revenues 107 175 5 8 – -1 157 217 Total revenues 920 948 748 711 37 186 7,881 8,300 Operating expenses -897 -925 -486 -562 -101 207 -5,293 -5,285 EBITDA 2 23 23 262 149 -64 393 2,588 3,015 DA&I -11 -9 -163 -166 -9 -15 -1,779 -1,820 Operating profit 12 14 99 -17 -73 378 809 1,195 Total assets3 390 386 1,195 1,406 -635 -961 17,682 18,556 Total liabilities3 218 232 332 370 -4,219 -4,078 12,707 13,926 Other Investments in: Intangible assets – – 24 36 -1 2 381 671 PPE 11 8 83 141 6 4 1,099 1,044 Associates and JVs – – – 2 25 23 42 42 Results associates and JVs – – – – 2 -1 2 -5 Employees end of period (FTEs)3 328 311 778 808 720 3,712 14,856 18,471 Employees average (FTEs)3 319 321 793 849 2,215 3,724 16,662 18,710 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 3) 2014 restated for internal transfer across segments. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. 94 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information KPN Total KPN Group Discontinued KPN Continuing Total Segments Eliminations Consolidated operations operations Amounts in millions of EUR, 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 unless otherwise stated 2015 (restated) 2015 (restated) 2015 (restated) 2015 (restated) 2015 (restated) Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 7,656 7,999 – – 7,656 7,999 -650 -671 7,006 7,328 Other income 68 84 – – 68 84 -66 -3 2 81 Inter-division revenues 157 217 -157 -217 – – – – – – Total revenues 7,881 8,300 -157 -217 7,724 8,083 -716 -674 7,008 7,409 Operating expenses -5,293 -5,285 -157 -217 -5,136 -5,068 452 525 -4,684 -4,543 EBITDA 2 2,588 3,015 – – 2,588 3,015 -264 -149 2,324 2,866 DA&I -1,779 -1,820 – – 1,779 1,820 -163 -166 -1,616 -1,654 Operating profit 809 1,195 – – 809 1,195 -101 17 708 1,212 Total assets3 17,682 18,556 – – 17,682 18,556 115 – 17,797 18,556 Total liabilities3 12,707 13,926 – – 12,707 13,926 39 – 12,746 13,926 Other Investments in: Intangible assets 381 671 – – 381 671 -19 – 362 671 PPE 1,099 1,044 – – 1,099 1,044 -65 – 1,034 1,044 Associates and JVs 42 42 – – 42 42 – – 42 42 Results associates and JVs 2 -5 – – 2 -5 – – 2 -5 Employees end of period (FTEs)3 14,856 18,471 – – 14,856 18,471 -778 -808 14,078 17,663 Employees average (FTEs)3 16,662 18,710 – – 16,662 18,710 -793 -849 15,869 17,861 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 3) 2014 restated for internal transfer across segments. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. Geographical Geographical information information (continuing operations) Amounts in millions of EUR The Netherlands 2015 Total non-current assets: 12,600 13,171 2014 Total intangible assets: 3,268 3,392 Total property, plant and equipment: 5,974 6,072 The Americas Revenues and other income: 6,136 6,417 Total non-current assets: 73 66 Total intangible assets: 101 98 Belgium Total property, plant and equipment: 24 20 Total non-current assets: -39 887 Revenues and other income: 813 773 Total intangible assets: 1 417 Total property, plant and equipment: – 508 Revenues and other income: 28 32 Total Other Total non-current assets*: 11,866 13,512 Total non-current assets: -768 -612 Total intangible assets: 3,450 3,992 Total intangible assets: 80 85 Total property, plant and equipment: 6,001 6,606 Total property, plant and equipment: 3 6 Revenues and other income: 7,008 7,409 Revenues and other income: 31 187 * Excluding deferred tax assets, pensions and ﬁnancial instruments 95 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [4] Revenues and Other Income •• Revenues from designing, building, deploying and managing ICT solutions which are provided on a time Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Restated and material basis or as a fixed-price contract with Rendering of services 6,711 7,125 contract terms generally ranging from less than one year Sale of goods 272 180 to three years. Revenue from time and material contracts Other revenues 23 23 is recognized at the contractual rates as labor hours are delivered and direct expenses are incurred. Revenue from Total revenues 7,006 7,328 fixed-price contracts is recognized under the percentageof-completion (POC) method unless the outcome of the Gains on the sale of property, contract cannot be estimated reliably. Under the POC plant and equipment – 6 method, revenue is recognized based on the costs Other gains 2 75 incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated Total other income 2 81 costs to fulfill the contract. Revenue from fixed-price contracts involving managed services is recognized in 2014 numbers have been restated due to the classification the period the services are provided using a straight-line of BASE Company as disposal group held for sale. Furthermore, basis over the term of the contract. When the outcome sale of goods and rendering of services in 2014 were misstated of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is and consequently have been corrected, resulting in a recognized only to the extent of contract costs incurred. reclassification of EUR 716 million from sale of goods to rendering of services. One-off connection fees and other initial fees are not a separate unit of accounting and their accounting treatment Other gains in 2014 included a tax settlement benefit is therefore dependent on the other deliverables in the of EUR 74 million. sales arrangements (see revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables). Accounting policy: Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration Recognition of deferred revenue related to airtime is received or receivable for the sale of goods and services. based on the expected usage of airtime per proposition. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow Sale of goods to KPN and the amount of revenue and the associated The sale of goods includes peripheral and other equipment. costs can be measured reliably. Revenues are presented Revenue is recognized when all significant risks and rewards net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after of ownership of the goods are transferred to the buyer, eliminating sales within the Group. KPN presents revenue which is normally at the date the equipment is delivered gross of costs when the Group acts as the principal in to and accepted by the customer. the arrangement and net of costs when the Group acts as agent. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables Arrangements with multiple deliverables (for example a Rendering of services postpaid subscription combined with a handset) are divided Rendering of services includes: into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet recognition criteria of IFRS. Revenues •• Traffic fees, charged at an agreed tariff for a fixed are allocated to the identified separate units of accounting duration of time or capacity and recognized as revenue based on their relative fair values. If the fair value of the based upon usage of KPN’s network and facilities; delivered item exceeds the cash received at the time of •• Subscription fees for the usage of KPN’s networks, delivery, revenue is recognized up to the non-contingent recognized as revenues over the associated cash received. subscription period; •• Fees received for handset leases, recognized as Any connection fee proceeds not allocated to the delivered revenue over the associated subscription period; and equipment are deferred upon connection and recognized as service revenue over the customer contract period unless KPN has the obligation to continue providing services beyond that period, in which case the expected customer service period is used. 96 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information For wireless services, any consideration allocated to the Share plans sale of peripheral and other equipment, up to the amount Since 2006, KPN has granted shares (equity-settled) and of non-contingent cash received, is recognized as revenue share-based awards (cash-settled) on its shares to members when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the of the Board of Management and senior management: the equipment are transferred to the buyer. Performance Share Plan (PSP). The conditionally granted PSP award will vest after three years if the employee is still For multiple deliverable arrangements that comprise employed with KPN. The number of share-based awards only one unit of accounting and include an upfront which vest partly depends on KPN’s Total Shareholder Return connection fee, amounts representing connection fees (TSR) position ranking relative to its peer group of European are deferred and recognized pro rata. Deferred connection telecommunications companies. Since 2011, vesting is fees are amortized over the customer contract period. based for 75% on relative TSR and for 25% on non-financial Costs associated with these arrangements are expensed performance measures i.e. energy reduction targets and as incurred. a reputation dashboard. Accounting policy: Other income Since 2014, vesting is based on individual vesting for 25% Other income includes gains on the sale of property, plant on relative TSR versus peer group, for 25% on Free Cash Flow, and equipment and gains on the disposal of subsidiaries, for 25% on Earnings Per Share, for 12.5% on sustainability/ associates and joint ventures as well as other gains not environmental targets and for 12.5% on stakeholder/customer related to KPN’s operating activities. targets. Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. a qualifier for vesting). [5] Employee benefits The list of companies included in the peer group and the Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Restated vesting schedule can be found under ‘Long-Term Incentives’ Salaries and wages 903 972 in the ‘Remuneration Report’ section. Pension charges [23] 91 -3711 In May 2012 and May 2013, an additional equity settled Social security contributions 113 130 plan was granted to senior management: the KPN Restricted Total employee benefits 1,107 731 Share Plan. Shares under this plan vested on January 1, 2015 (2012 grant) and will vest on January 1, 2016 (2013 grant) 1) Includes release of provision of EUR 477 million; for details, please refer to Note 23. if the employee is still employed with KPN. For this plan, [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. no other performance measures are applicable. Reference is made to Note 3 ‘Segment Reporting’ for In April 2015, KPN’s Chief Commercial Officer, Mr. van der Post information on the number of employees and to Note 24 was granted 194,763 shares. Shares under this plan partially ‘Provisions for other liabilities and charges’ for information on vest in 2016, 2017 and 2019 if he is still employed with KPN. employee redundancy costs. In the Other operating expenses, For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable. an amount of EUR 89 million is recorded as restructuring costs related to personnel reductions (2014: EUR 72 million). The share plan rules provide the possibility to adjust granted rights under the incentive plans to maintain its economic value if e.g., subsequent to the date of grant, shares are split or merged, repayment on shares occurs, shares are stamped or an issue of shares occurs. This approach is e.g. aimed at reflecting the increased number of shares following the rights issue and is in line with market practice. Social media designer Natasha Berting: ”Social media can start movements, connecting one idea to another Watch Natasha’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/natashaberting 97 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss The main features of the awards granted under the PSP and Restricted Share Plan to KPN management are summarized below: Vesting Holding period after Maximum term Settlement type1 period vesting of/until 2012 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – Senior Management Restricted Share Plan 2.7 years Equity 2.7 years – 2013 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – Senior Management Restricted Share Plan 2.7 years Equity 2.7 years – 2014 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2015 Board of Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – Board of Management CCO 4 years Equity2 4 years – 1) The cash-settled share awards will be settled in cash and no holding to sell a number of unconditional granted shares only up to the amount restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made plans is made with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover on the stock compensation plan. the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able 2) Including deferred dividend. The total compensation expense associated with the share plans was EUR 9 million in 2015 (2014: EUR 6 million) and the related liability (for cash-settled shares) at December 31, 2015 was EUR 9 million (2014: EUR 3 million). This liability is included under Other payables and deferred income. During 2015, KPN granted 3,150,568 shares and share-based awards (2014: 4,932,318) to members of the Board of Management and senior management. For the Restricted Share Plan 2012, the service conditions were met in the year 2015. The intrinsic value at vesting was EUR 2 million. Since no vesting conditions were met in the years 2015 and 2014 for the PSP, the intrinsic value at vesting for the PSP was zero. The following table presents the number1 of shares and share-based awards in thousands under the share plans. Total at Granted/ Total at Granted/ Total at Dec 31, additional Exercised/ Dec 31, additional Exercised/ Dec 31, –of which: 2013 3 vesting 2 Vested Forfeited 20143 vesting2 Vested Forfeited 4 20153 Non-vested 2012 Share-based awards Sr. Man. 1,689 – – -136 1,553 – – -1,553 – – 2012 Shares BoM/Sr. Man. 602 – – -96 506 – – -506 – – 2012 Restricted Shares Sr. Man. 940 – – -371 569 – -557 -12 – – 2013 Share-based awards Sr. Man. 1,776 – – -154 1,622 – – -100 1,522 1,522 2013 Shares BoM/ Sr. Man. 634 – – -101 533 – – – 533 533 2013 Restricted Shares Sr. Man. 1,914 – – -494 1,420 – – -101 1,319 1,319 2014 Share-based awards Sr. Man. – 3,274 – -22 3,252 – – -304 2,948 2,948 2014 Shares BoM/Sr. Man. – 1,658 – -56 1,602 – – -99 1,503 1,503 2015 Share-based awards Sr. Man. – – – – – 2,091 – – 2,091 2,091 2015 Shares BoM – – – – – 865 – – 865 865 2015 Shares CCO – – – – – 195 – – 195 195 1) On the basis of a 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not 3) At December 31, 2015, the fair value of each cash-settled share-based include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred award was measured, using recent strategic plans, forecasts and a Monte dividend during the vesting period will be granted in additional shares. Carlo Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price 2) At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation of KPN and its performance compared with peer companies at the model except for the restricted shares. At April 16, 2015, the fair value moment of valuation (i.e. closing share prices as at December 31, 2015). was EUR 3.18 (2014 grant: EUR 2.37) for the 2015 share-based award At December 31, 2015 EUR 1.58 (2014: EUR 0.85) for the 2013 share-based (cash-settled) and EUR 3.18 (2014 grant: EUR 2.37) for the 2015 equityaward, EUR 2.74 (2014: EUR 2.42) for the 2014 share-based award and settled share grant for members of the Board of Management and Senior EUR 4.24 for the 2015 share-based award. Management (excluding deferred dividend). At March 1, 2015, the fair 4) At the end of 2015, KPN held the 8th position with respect to the 2013 value was EUR 2.91 for the 2015 share award (equity-settled) of KPN’s CCO. share grant and at the end of 2014 KPN held the 13th position with respect to the 2012 share grant. This position did not lead to vesting in April 2015 of the 2012 share grant. Final TSR measurement for the 2013 share grant was conducted as of February 16, 2016. 98 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The fair value of each award at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions: 2015 PSP 2015 CCO 2014 PSP Risk-free interest rate based on euro government bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years 0.1% 0.1% 0.6% Expected dividend for KPN (based on one year’s historical daily data preceding the date of award) 2.3% 2.0% 2.0% Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years historical daily data) used for TSR 36.7% – 38.4% Share price at date of award (closing at grant date) EUR 3.27 EUR 3.06 EUR 2.49 The following chapters provide detail on actual remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Please refer to the Remuneration Report for the executive pay policy. Details of actual remuneration The remuneration of the current members of the Board of Management is set out below. This table represents the costs incurred by the Company measured under IFRS principles. Discretionary Pension costs2 & Salary STI3 award5 LTI: Share awards1 Social Security Total Name Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) E. Blok 2015 850,000 1,048,968 – 707,531 267,495 2,873,994 2014 850,000 547,995 425,000 503,860 261,606 2,588,461 J.C. de Jager4 2015 625,000 514,200 – 338,402 130,895 1,608,497 2014 164,930 54,526 – 55,341 35,338 310,135 F.H.M. van der Post4 2015 583,333 479,920 – 751,260 154,146 1,968,659 J.F.E. Farwerck 2015 575,000 473,053 – 329,510 141,795 1,519,358 2014 575,000 167,038 – 217,210 126,206 1,085,454 Total current members 2015 2,633,333 2,516,141 – 2,126,703 694,331 7,970,508 2014 1,589,930 769,559 425,000 776,411 423,150 3,984,050 1) The amounts in the table represent the cost recognized for shares 3) Actual STI relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the in 2015 and 2014 based on their fair values. The fair value per share following financial year. Please refer to the ‘Short-term incentives’ section of the 2015 grant was EUR 3.18. Please refer to the ‘Long-term incentives’ of this report for the actual pay-out levels per target in 2015. section of this report for a further explanation. Under IFRS, the fair value 4) Remuneration of Mr. De Jager since appointment as a Board member in of the share-based award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. The September 2014 and remuneration of Mr. Van der Post since appointment amount for Mr. Van der Post includes his Long-term compensation in cash. as a Board member in March 2015. 2) In the pension costs, the costs for survivor’s pension, disability coverage, 5) In 2014, a discretionary reward of 50% of his annual base salary was administration as well as the gross allowances are included. The fixed gross granted to Mr. Blok to acknowledge his extraordinary management allowance in 2015 was EUR 171,000 for Mr. Blok, EUR 76,000 for Mr. De Jager, achievement in the very complex and time-consuming process of closing EUR 99,800 for Mr. Van der Post, and EUR 82,700 for Mr. Farwerck. the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. In 2015, Mr. Blok decided to return this reward. The pay of the former members of the Board of Management is provided below. Discretionary Salary & award/Notice LTI: Share Social Security STI period Awards1 Pension costs Total Name Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) T. Dirks2 2014 487,500 253,744 325,000 247,517 45,950 1,359,711 1) The amounts in the table represent the cost recognized for shares 2) Remuneration of Mr. Dirks until October 2014. A discretionary reward in 2014 based on their fair values. of 50% of his annual base salary was granted to Mr. Dirks.  99 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to current members of the Board of Management Pre-tax market Number of value of Number of shares/ Number of Total shares on Number of shares/ share-based shares/ pre-tax fair vesting shares share-based awards share-based value of date or end granted as awards granted or awards as of shares on of lock-up End of Grant Current of January 1, vested in forfeited in December grant date in 2015 lock-up date status 7 2015 20151 2015 1–2 31, 2015 (EUR)3 (EUR) period E. Blok 4/16/2015 Conditional – – 347,454 347,454 1,104,904 – 4/16/2020 4/10/2014 Conditional 459,975 – – 459,975 1,090,141 – 4/10/2019 4/12/2013 Conditional 156,693 – – 156,693 166,095 – 4/12/2018 4/23/20125 Conditional 156,693 – -156,693 – 269,800 – 4/23/2017 J.C. de Jager 4/16/2015 Conditional – – 170,320 170,320 541,618 – 4/16/2020 9/26/2014 4 Conditional 225,478 – – 225,478 534,383 – 4/10/2019 F.H.M. van der Post 4/16/2015 Conditional – – 190,759 190,759 606,614 – 4/16/2020 3/1/2015 Conditional – – 194,763 194,763 566,177 – N.a. J.F.E. Farwerck 4/16/2015 Conditional – – 156,695 156.695 498,290 – 4/16/2020 4/10/2014 Conditional 207,440 – – 207,440 491,633 – 4/10/2019 4/12/2013 Conditional 108,860 – – 108,860 115,392 – 4/12/2018 4/23/20124-5 Conditional 53,606 – -53,606 – 92,300 – 4/23/2017 5/1/2012 4 Unconditional 24,741 -24,741 – – 76,800 70,309 N.a. 1) The shares granted to the members of the Board of Management 3) Value is calculated by multiplying the number of share awards represent 34% of the total number of shares and share-based awards by the fair value at grant date. granted in 2015 to all employees. On the grant date (April 16, 2015) 4) Not granted in capacity as member of the Board of Management. the KPN share price quoted EUR 3.27 (closing price) while the fair value 5) Final TSR measurement for the 2012 share grant was conducted of each granted share was EUR 3.18 for members of the as of February 2015. This did not lead to vesting of shares in 2015. Board of Management. 7) Shares in the vesting period or lock-up period are disclosed 2) The 2015 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during as conditional. the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additional granted in shares. Stock ownership Board of Management The table below shows the shares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). Number of shares December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 E. Blok 634,717 600,109 J.C. de Jager 206,410 62,000 F.H.M. van der Post 51,000 – J.F.E. Farwerck 91,071 27,195 Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. In 2011 a share ownership recommendation was introduced whereby the members of the Board of Management are encouraged to acquire Company shares equal to one times the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of Management (excluding CEO) and two times the annual fixed compensation for the CEO. Retained vested shares as part of the LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation. 100 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The table below shows the actual fee received by each member of the Supervisory Board. Membership fees Amounts in EUR 2015 Committee fees 2015 2015 Total 2014 Total D.W. Sickinghe 88,333 24,583 112,916 54,584 D.J. Haank 70,000 30,417 100,417 98,195 P.A.M. van Bommel 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 60,000 15,313 75,313 50,945 P.F. Hartman 42,500 10,625 53,125 – J.C.M. Sap 42,500 7,083 49,583 – J.B.M. Streppel 1 29,167 6,563 35,730 118,639 C.M. Hooymans1 17,500 2,917 20,417 70,000 O. Von Hauske Solis1 54,333 15,848 70,181 73,639 R.J. Routs1 – – – 23,139 M.E. van Lier-Lels1 – – – 19,231 Total 524,333 133,349 657,682 648,372 1) Former member of the Supervisory Board. Stock ownership of the Supervisory Board The table below shows the shares held by members of the Supervisory Board. Number of shares December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 D.W. Sickinghe 380,000 130,000 D.J. Haank 24,351 24,351 P.A.M. van Bommel 114,000 114,000 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo2 198,520 198,520 C.J.G. Zuiderwijk – – P.F. Hartman – – J.C.M. Sap – – J.B.M. Streppel 1 – – C.M. Hooymans1 – – O. Von Hauske Solis1 – – Total 716,871 466,871 1) Former member of the Supervisory Board. Number of shares 2) In 2015, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo purchased 40,810 options on KPN at the date of step down from the Supervisory Board. shares through the acquisition of two AMX bonds with a nominal value of 100,000 each, convertible into 20,405 KPN shares each. Accounting policy: Share-based compensation to vest. On each Statement of Financial Position date, KPN KPN operates a number of share-based compensation plans, determines whether it is necessary to revise the expectation both equityand cash-settled. For equity-settled plans, of the number of shares that will vest. The fair value is the fair value of shares granted to employees is measured recognized as Employee benefits in the Statement of Profit at grant date. For cash-settled plans, the fair value of the or Loss over the vesting period of the shares against an liability for the awards granted is remeasured at each increase in equity in case of equity-settled share-based reporting date and at settlement. The costs of share-based compensation plans and against recognition of a liability compensation plans are determined based on the fair in case of cash-settled share-based compensation plans. value of the shares and the number of shares expected 101 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [6] Depreciation, amortization [7] Other operating expenses and impairments In 2015, Other operating expenses comprised, among others, 2014 an addition to the restructuring provision of EUR 100 million Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 Restated (2014: EUR 81 million). For more details reference is made Amortization of Intangible assets 500 518 to Note 24. Other operating expenses also comprised of Impairments of Intangible assets 11 7 marketing and promotion expenses for an amount of EUR 111 million (2014: EUR 123 million). Total amortization and impairments of Intangible assets 511 525 Accounting policy: Operating expenses Operating expenses are measured and recognized based on Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,059 1,102 the accounting principles that are applied to related assets or liabilities and are allocated to the year in which they Impairments and retirements of property, plant and equipment 46 27 are incurred. Total depreciation and impairments of Property, plant and equipment 1,105 1,129 Subscriber acquisition and retention costs are expensed as incurred. The most common subscriber acquisition costs Total 1,616 1,654 are cost for handsets and dealer fees. The cost of a handset is expensed when the handset is sold. The sale can be an individual sale or a component of a multiple deliverable Depreciation and impairments on property, arrangement containing for example the sale of a handset plant and equipment Depreciation and impairments etc combined with a subscription. In both cases, the handset Amounts in millions of EUR is expensed when the costs are incurred. When a handset is leased out, it depends on the type of lease (operating Assets under Land and buildings: or finance) whether the costs are expensed when incurred construction: 13 13 73 75 or capitalized and depreciated over the expected lifetime (see Note 30 for the accounting policy on leases). Other tangible Plant and equipment: fixed assets: 16 22 1,003 1,019 Auditor’s fees The fees listed below relate to the services provided to KPN and its consolidated group entities by Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, KPN’s external auditor in 2015, and PwC Accountants NV, the Netherlands, KPN’s external auditor in 2014, as referred to in Section 1(1) of the Dutch Accounting Firms Oversight Act (‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’ or ‘Wta’), as well as by other Dutch and foreign-based EY (2015) and PwC (2014) individual partnerships and legal entities, including their tax services and advisory groups: Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Financial statements audit fees 4.4 8.6 Other assurance fees 0.8 1.1 2015 Tax fees 0.2 4.4 2014 Restated Total: 1,105 1,129 All other fees 0.1 0.2 Total 5.5 14.3 The total fees of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, charged to KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to EUR 5.2 million in 2015 (2014: PwC Accountants N.V., the Netherlands, EUR 6.7 million). 102 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The financial statements audit fees include the aggregate Finance income in 2015 included a dividend received from fees billed/incurred in each of 2015 and 2014 for professional Telefónica Deutschland of EUR 146 million. Finance income services rendered for the audit of KPN’s annual financial in 2014 included interest on loans to Reggefiber. statements and annual statutory financial statements of subsidiaries or services that are normally provided by the In 2015, interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 106 million, auditor in connection with the audits. EY became KPN’s new which was mainly related to a lower gross debt position. auditor as of January 1, 2015, and was able to rely for the 2015 Interest on borrowings included a non-cash amount audit on the improved internal control framework, leading of EUR 14 million in 2015 (2014: EUR 22 million) relating to to a reduction of audit fees when compared to 2014. In 2014 debt issue costs and similar costs, which are amortized over additional audit fees were incurred in Germany in relation the remaining life of the respective bonds using the effective to the sale of E-Plus. interest rate method. The other assurance fees include the aggregate fees billed/ In 2014, Finance costs included premiums and fees of EUR 236 incurred for assurance and related services that are reasonably million and additional amortization costs of EUR 7 million related to the performance of the audit or review of KPN’s related to the tender on outstanding Eurobonds executed financial statements and are not reported under audit services. in November 2014. This includes revenue and IT-related assurance services and regulatory-related assurance services. In 2015, line item Other in Other financial results included a gain due to revaluation of the option to acquire the The tax fees and other fees billed/incurred in 2015 and 2014 remaining stake of 87.5% in GroupIT BV, refer to Note 28. In are regarded as permitted services under Audit firms 2014, this line item included a gain for the remeasurement of supervision act (‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’). Tax KPN’s 51% stake in Reggefiber and a settlement gain because fees incurred in 2015 related exclusively to the sale of E-Plus. KPN reached an agreement with Reggeborgh on the option All tax fees billed/incurred in 2015 and 2014 related to services to acquire the remaining 40% stake in Reggefiber. Refer to based on contracts that were in existence prior to January 1, Note 29 for further information on Reggefiber. 2013, or were billed by foreign EY or PwC firms. [9] Taxation [8] Financial income and expenses The Netherlands 2014 In line with enhanced supervision, KPN and the Dutch tax Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 restated authorities reached several agreements. Where relevant, Finance income 150 34 these agreements will be highlighted below. Interest on borrowings -483 -589 KPN qualifies as an innovative company and concluded an agreement in 2011 with the Dutch tax authorities with respect Interest on provisions for retirement benefit obligations [23] -9 -23 to the application of the Dutch innovation box tax regime. Interest on other provisions -1 -1 The innovation box tax regime is a facility under Dutch corporate income tax law whereby profits attributable to Tender Eurobonds – -243 innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 5%. The application Other -14 -13 of the innovation box resulted in a benefit of EUR 9 million Finance costs -507 -869 over 2015 (2014: EUR 17 million). In 2015, an agreement was reached with the Dutch Tax Bookgain sale Telefónica Deutschland shares 184 – Authorities on a tax deductible loss with regard to the Amortizable part of hedge reserve [20] -11 -13 proposed liquidation of part of the UK structure. Based on Amortization discontinued fair value hedges 41 19 this, a deferred tax asset (DTA) was recorded of EUR 35 million Derivative financial instruments not qualified relating to the liquidation. Also, a DTA was recorded of EUR 17 for hedge accounting -8 1 million for the proposed liquidation of an entity in France. Exchange rate differences -1 -4 Internedservices Group (hereafter IG) has been consolidated Reggefiber call/put arrangements [13, 29] – -159 in the financial statements of KPN as of July 6, 2015. A deferred Other 47 90 tax liability of EUR 6 million was recorded of which mainly Other financial results 252 -66 relates to the revaluation of the customer base. The IG is part of KPN’s Dutch fiscal unity (please refer to Note 29). Total -105 -901 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. 103 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss In December 2013 an agreement was reached with the Dutch Other entities Tax Authorities with regard to the Dutch tax consequences There are several other relatively small entities in the of the tax book loss which is recognized as a result of the sale Netherlands which are separately liable for income taxes of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. With the closing of the for which no loss carry forward is available. In most other sale in 2014 this tax book loss amounted to approximately countries in which KPN is present, tax loss carry forward is EUR 5 billion. To the extent this loss could not be offset available and therefore no income tax is payable except against income of 2014, or could not be carried back to when minimum taxation rules are applicable. earlier years (EUR 60 million in 2013), it is expected to offset KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the current and Income tax expense Income tax expense coming years. Dividends received and/or capital gains (up to Amounts in millions of EUR the amount of the loss deducted) realized on KPN’s shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland are subject to Dutch corporate income tax. -37 -8 -45 In 2015, KPN decreased the net DTA of the Dutch fiscal unity 37 -118 -81 with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus to EUR 911 million (EUR 1,113 million in 2014) with: •• Realized usage of EUR 177 million (EUR 75 million in 2014) due to KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands. This includes EUR 37 million (nil in 2014) related to the received dividends (EUR 146 million) from Telefónica Deutschland Current tax Charges in Income tax (May 2015); offset in DTA realized EUR 184 million and in deferred taxes (charge)/benefit 2015 from continuing DTL recapture EUR 7 million; operations 2014 Restated •• Unrealized usage of EUR 91 million (EUR 78 million in 2014) due to the revaluation of the stake in Telefónica Deutschland following changes in the share price during 2015. This amount is recorded through OCI; offset in DTL recapture; •• Realized charges of EUR 46 million (nil in 2014) due to the taxable capital gain resulting from the sale of part of the stake in Telefónica Deutschland; offset in DTL recapture; and •• Net charges of EUR 19 million (EUR nil in 2014) due to the adjustment of the sale price of E-Plus; offset EUR 10 million in DTA realized and EUR 9 million in DTL recapture. The net DTA with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus of EUR 911 million consists of a DTA of EUR 1,018 million (partly realized EUR 518 million and partly unrealized EUR 500 million) and a DTL recapture of EUR 107 million. Reggefiber has been consolidated (in full) in the financial statements of KPN as of November 1, 2014. The Reggefiber Group consists of seven fiscal unities of which several unities have tax losses carry forward. At December 31, 2015, a DTA of EUR 81 million (2014: EUR 85 million) was recorded of which EUR 45 million (2014: EUR 47 million) relates to recognized tax losses carry forward. Managing Director Amsterdam Animation Festival Belgium discontinued operations and Germany Marian Spier: At December 31, 2015 for BASE Company, the deferred tax positions are part of the disposal group held for sale of which EUR 39 million relates to available tax loss carry forward. “The power of ideas to improve the world connects people” After the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland, KPN remains liable for current tax positions of E-Plus until December 31, 2013. The total outstanding amount was EUR 39 million (2014: EUR Watch Marian’s story: 60 million) at December 31, 2015. kpn.com/annualreport/marianspier 104 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax of 25% (2014: 25%) to the effective tax rate of 13.4% (2014: 14.6%) is explained in the table below. 603 (2014: 311) -151 (25%) 8 (-1.2%) -5 (0.8%) (2014: -78; 25%) (2014: -18; 5.8%) (2014: 37; -12.0%) -6 (1.0%) 9 (-1.4%) (2014: 5; -1.6%) 1 (-0.3%) -81 (13.4%) (2014: 17; -5.5%) (2014: 25; -7.8%) (2014: -45; 14.6%) 65 (-10.8%) (2014: -32; 10.4%) -2 (0.3%) (2014: -1; 0.3%) Profit before Taxes Tax rate Non-taxable Innovation Innovation – related to – related to the Other Income tax income tax at Dutch differences income, tax facilities tax facilities prior years current year benefit/(charge) from continuing statutory of foreign non-deductible current year prior years from continuing operations tax rates operations expenses, and operations excluding liq. losses associates and joint ventures (De)recognition of deferred tax positions The effective tax rate of 2015 was lower than the Dutch Deferred tax assets and liabilities statutory tax rate mainly due to the recognition of liquidation December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 losses on our investments in the UK and France increasing the deferred tax asset with EUR 52 million which is included in the Deferred tax assets 1,069 1,323 liquidation losses in the figure above. – of which: to be recovered after 12 months 939 1,182 – of which: to be recovered within 12 months 130 141 In 2014, the decrease was mainly the result of a non-deductible loss regarding the Reggefiber revaluation of EUR 99 million, the innovation tax facilities in the Netherlands and (de) Deferred tax liabilities 47 52 recognition of deferred tax positions in the Netherlands (with – of which: to be realized after 12 months 44 49 regard to blended tax rate adjustments), the US and the UK – of which: to be realized within 12 months 3 3 (due to non-recognized losses). Deferred tax assets and liabilities 1,022 1,271 Depending on future taxable results, a part of deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carry forward now considered to be recoverable after 12 months may be recoverable in the short-term, whereas tax loss carry forward now considered to be recoverable within 12 months may be recoverable in the long term. 105 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Deferred tax assets Offset Tax loss & Unrealized Restriction against other carry Fiscal Pension liquidation on deferred tax Amounts in millions of EUR forwards goodwill provisions 4 losses deprecation Other1 liabilities Total Balance as of December 31, 2013 98 86 178 – 193 1,170 -558 1,167 Exchange differences 3 – 4 – – -4 – 3 Income statement benefit/(charge) 22 -30 -155 – 22 356 – 215 Changes in consolidation 44 – – – – 42 – 86 Transfer to current tax -76 – -50 – – 5 – -121 Tax charged to OCI2 – – -9 – – – – -9 Reclassification 3 747 – 43 500 – -1,308 – -18 Balance as of December 31, 2014 838 56 11 500 215 261 -558 1,323 Exchange differences 3 – – – – – – 3 Income statement benefit/(charge) – 2 -4 52 -27 -28 56 51 Changes in consolidation – – – – – – – – Transfer to current tax -184 – – – – – – -184 Tax charged to OCI2 – – 2 – – -41 – -39 Reclassification – – – – – – – – Transferred to held for sale -61 – – – – -24 – -85 Balance as of December 31, 2015 596 58 9 552 188 168 -502 1,069 1) Other deductible temporary differences at December 31, 2015 include other temporary differences to tax loss carry forward. Furthermore cash flow hedge reserves of EUR 90 million (charged to equity, 2014: we reclassified the recapture Germany from DTA to DTL. As a result EUR 131 million) and revenue recognition of EUR 16 million (2014: EUR this schedule has been restated. 16 million). 4) The 2014 decrease in the DTA for pension provisions relates to 2) Deferred tax charged to OCI relates mainly to hedge reserve movements. implementation of the Collective Defined Contribution pension 3) Due to the actual sale of E-Plus in 2014, the deferred tax asset in the plans and the related releases in the pension provisions. Netherlands in relationship with this sale is partially reclassified from In 2015, the decrease in tax loss carry forward is mainly the result of the offset of taxable income (including taxable dividends received from Telefónica Deutschland and the capital gain on the sale of part of the stake in Telefónica Deutschland) against available fiscal losses and the transfer of the deferred tax assets of BASE Company (mainly relating to recognized assets on tax loss carry forwards). Furthermore, we reclassified the remaining part of the deferred tax asset relating to the unrealized tax book loss on the sale of E-Plus to ‘Unrealized liquidation losses’. The movement during the year relates to our investments in the UK and France for which a liquidation is decided and a liquidation loss is likely to be claimed. 106 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary differences Offset against Software Accelerated DTL recapture deferred tax Amounts in millions of EUR development depreciation1 Germany3 Other2 assets Total Balance as of December 31, 2013 183 244 – 140 -558 9 Income statement (benefit)/charge 20 -72 37 -105 – -120 Changes in consolidation – – – 51 – 51 Reclassification – – – -1 – -1 Transfer to current tax – – – 89 – 89 Tax charged to OCI – – 41 -17 – 24 Balance as of December 31, 2014 203 172 78 157 -558 52 Income statement (benefit)/charge -20 -51 -9 -3 56 -27 Changes in consolidation – – – 8 – 8 Tax charged to Equity – – – -16 – -16 Transfer to current tax – – -7 – – -7 Tax charged to OCI – – 45 – – 45 Transferred to held for sale – – – -8 – -8 Balance as of December 31, 2015 183 121 107 138 -502 47 1) Relates to property, plant and equipment in the Netherlands. 3) T his relates to the unrealized capital gains on the stake in Telefónica 2) Other taxable temporary differences at December 31, 2015 include Deutschland which are considered taxable in the Netherlands (recapture intangible fixed assets of EUR 98 million (2014: EUR 77 million), rule). Furthermore we reclassified the recapture Germany from DTA to property, plant and equipment of EUR 15 million (2014: EUR 32 million) DTL. As a result this schedule has been restated. and provisions for early retirement of EUR nil (2014: EUR 13 million). Tax loss carry forward December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 Maximum Recognized Maximum Recognized Tax loss deferred deferred Tax loss deferred deferred carry forward tax asset tax assets2 carry forward tax asset tax assets2 Koninklijke KPN – corporate tax1 2,114 528 528 2,842 711 702 Other 306 85 68 446 126 73 Total continuing operations 2,420 613 596 3,288 837 775 BASE Company – corporate tax 115 39 39 175 63 63 Total KPN Group 2,535 652 635 3,463 900 838 1) Part of the tax loss carry forward are pre-consolidation losses 2) The tax loss carry forward for Germany has been removed due to the (‘voorvoegingsverliezen’) limited in their use, as such losses may only intended liquidation of the legal structure. Furthermore we reclassified be compensated by taxable income generated by the specific company the recapture Germany from DTA to DTL. As a result this schedule has itself. Part of the tax book loss which is recognized as a result of the sale been restated. of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland is included in this amount. This total tax book loss amounts to EUR 5 billion, of which EUR 2 billion is recorded in the DTA for unrealized liquidation losses, and, to the extent this loss cannot be carried back to earlier years, it is expected to offset KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the current and coming years. Recognized deferred tax assets reflect management’s estimate of realizable amounts. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the tax loss carry forward can be utilized. The amounts of tax loss carry forward are subject to assessment by local tax authorities. 107 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets at December 31, is as follows: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Tax loss Maximum Recognized Tax loss Maximum Recognized carry deferred deferred carry deferred deferred forward tax asset tax asset 1 forward tax asset tax asset1 2015 n.a. n.a. n.a. 7 2 1 2016 2 – – 10 2 2 2017 13 3 3 26 6 6 2018 1 – – 7 2 1 2019 27 7 7 28 7 5 2020 50 13 12 n.a. n.a. n.a. Later 2,311 586 574 3,032 768 758 Unlimited 16 4 – 178 50 2 Total Group 2,420 613 596 3,288 837 775 Discontinued operations unlimited2 115 39 39 175 63 63 Total Group 2,535 652 635 3,463 900 838 1) Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that 2) The tax loss carry forward for Germany has been removed due to the future taxable profits based on KPN’s Strategic Plan are available. intended liquidation of the legal structure. Furthermore we reclassified the recapture Germany from DTA to DTL. As a result this schedule has been restated. Accounting policy: Taxation or loss. Deferred tax assets are recorded for deductible Current income tax temporary differences associated with investments in The current corporate income tax charge recognized in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures the Statement of Profit or Loss is calculated in accordance and are recorded only to the extent that it is probable that with the prevailing tax regulations and rates, taking into the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable account non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses. future and taxable profit will be available against which The current income tax expense reflects the amount for the the temporary differences can be utilized. current reporting period that KPN expects to recover from or pay to the tax authorities. Current income tax related to Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary items recognized directly in equity is recorded in equity and differences except when they arise from the initial recognition not in the Statement of Profit or Loss. KPN’s management of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, regarding situations in which applicable tax regulations are affects neither the profit or loss reported in the Statement of subject to interpretation and establishes provisions when Profit or Loss nor the taxable profit or loss. Also, no deferred deemed appropriate. tax liabilities are recorded for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and Deferred income taxes interests in joint ventures when the timing of the reversal of Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and that the temporary differences will not reverse in the their carrying values in KPN’s Statement of Financial Position. foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary Deferred tax positions are stated at nominal value and are differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any measured at the corporate income tax rates KPN expects unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognized only to to be applicable in the year when the asset is realized or the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will liability is settled based on enacted or substantially enacted be available against which the temporary differences can be tax laws. utilized. Both the recognized and unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date. No deferred tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are netted if there assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences is a legally enforceable right to set off deferred income tax that arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a assets against deferred income tax liabilities and relate to transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on the of the transaction, affects neither the profit or loss reported same taxable entity and there is an intention to settle on in the Statement of Profit or Loss nor the taxable profit a net basis. 108 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information [10] Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding The following table shows the calculation of the basic and to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders Share options and non-vested shares are regarded to have based on the profit attributable to equity holders, the average potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares. For the share number of subscribed ordinary shares and the calculated options and share plans, a calculation is made in order to weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares determine the number of shares that could have been acquired divided by weighted average number of subscribed ordinary at fair value based on the monetary value of the subscription shares taking into account the dilution effects: rights attached to outstanding share options. 2015 2014 Restated The profit attributable to equity holders used for calculations Profit for the year from continuing on a diluted basis is equal to the profit attributable to equity operations in millions of EUR 524 261 holders used for calculations on a non-diluted basis. Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations in millions Coupons on the perpetual capital securities is deducted from of EUR 135 -845 the profit attributable to equity holders since the perpetual hybrid bonds represent equity but do not constitute profit Profit (loss) for the year in millions attributable to equity holders. of EUR 659 -584 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests [20] -21 -14 [11] Intangible fixed assets Deduction for perpetual capital securities -51 -76 December December Adjusted profit (loss) attributable Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 to ordinary shareholders of the Goodwill 1,428 1,454 company 587 -674 Licenses 1,180 1,564 Weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares Software 556 675 outstanding 4,258,608,802 4,258,098,273 Other intangibles 286 299 Total intangible assets 3,450 3,992 Dilution effects: – options and non-vested shares 4,135,263 4,123,850 Other intangibles mainly relate to customer relationships Weighted average number and trade names. of subscribed ordinary shares outstanding including dilution effects 4,262,744,065 4,262,222,123 Statement of changes in goodwill Earnings per refer [..] Bracketed numbers shareto the related Notes. Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Cost 2,217 1,921 Basic continuing Diluted continuing Accumulated impairments -763 -752 operations operations Balance as of January 1 1,454 1,169 Investments1 65 281 0.11 0.11 Exchange rate differences 4 4 2014 Restated: 0.05 2014 Restated: 0.05 Transferred to held for sale 2 -95 – Basic discontinued Diluted discontinued Closing net book value 1,428 1,454 operations operations Cost 2,191 2,217 Accumulated impairments -763 -763 0.03 0.03 Balance as of December 31 1,428 1,454 2014 Restated: -0.20 2014 Restated: -0.20 Basic total, including Diluted total, including 1) 2015 Investments mainly relate to the purchase price allocation of Internedservices Group, for EUR 63 million (2014: EUR 269 million discontinued discontinued relates to Reggefiber). 2) Relates to BASE Company classified as disposal group held for sale. 0.14 0.14 2014 Restated: -0.15 2014 Restated: -0.15 109 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position For goodwill impairment testing, KPN’s cash-generating units Goodwill impairment test are deemed equal to KPN’s operating segments. Allocation KPN performed its annual impairment test as per December 31, of goodwill is made to those cash-generating units or groups 2015 and 2014. KPN considers the relationship between its of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from market capitalization and its book value, among other factors, the business combination in which the goodwill arose. when reviewing for indicators of impairment. As at December The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units is made 31, 2015, the market capitalization of KPN was significantly in accordance with KPN’s internal structure, and is shown positive and far above the book value of its equity, indicating below (refer also to Note 3): no potential impairment of goodwill or assets. Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable amount of the cashConsumer generating unit to which it is allocated is lower than the NetCo: 481 481 Mobile: 271 270 book value of the cash-generating unit concerned including goodwill. A detailed review has been performed of the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit. For all Consumer cash-generating units, the recoverable amount is based Residential: on their value-in-use, which was determined by using the Business: 419 354 discounted cash flow method. Key assumptions used in the 167 167 cash flow projections are estimated EBITDA, estimated capital expenditures, the estimated change in working capital and the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) used for discounting the cash flow projections. The cash flow projections for the first five years are management’s best estimate based on the most recent business plans, historical growth rates and EBITDA margins. KPN believes the period used in the projections to be a suitable timescale for reviewing and considering the annual performance before applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash flows Belgium: – 96 iBasis: 90 86 of the detailed projection. 2015 The WACC is calculated with a Capital Asset Pricing Model, 2014 Restated Total: 1,428 1,454 with input factors based on peer group information and other observable market data. On July 6, 2015, KPN acquired 100% of the shares of IG. For all cash-generating units, the impairment test in 2015 The purchase price and the allocated fair value have been resulted in positive headroom as per December 31, 2015. determined on a provisional basis. For the purpose of impairment testing, the acquired goodwill (EUR 63 million) has provisionally been allocated to KPN’s cash-generating unit Business (refer also to Note 29). Director of Public and Regulatory Affairs KPN Jos Huigen: “The internet is now an essential part of life” Watch Jos story: kpn.com/annualreport/joshuigen 110 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Cash-generating units The key long-term assumptions used in the impairment test are summarized in the table below: Terminal sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate Consumer Mobile 2015 0% 0% – 2% 18% – 26% 6.5% – 7.5% Consumer Mobile 2014 0% 0% – 1% 16% – 21% 8.0% – 8.5% Consumer Residential 2015 0% 7% – 9% 23% – 33% 6.5% – 7.5% Consumer Residential 2014 0% 8% – 10% 21% – 31% 8.0% – 8.5% NetCo 2015 0% 21% – 34% 60% – 67% 6.5% – 7.5% NetCo 2014 0% 30% – 36% 58% – 68% 8.0% – 8.5% Business 2015 0% 2% – 4% 16% – 19% 6.5% – 7.5% Business 2014 0% 2% – 4% 15% – 20% 8.0% – 8.5% iBasis 2015 0% 0% – 1% 1% – 3% 8% – 10% iBasis 2014 0% 0% – 1% 1% – 3% 14% – 16% Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions The expected future cash flows used in the impairment analysis are based on management’s estimates. Events amongst others in technology and telecommunications markets as well as the financial markets and the overall economy may have an impact on the estimated future cash flows of KPN’s businesses. Since the headroom of the Dutch cash-generating units is more than sufficient, no sensitivity analysis is disclosed for these cash-generating units. A reasonable possible change in the assumptions would not result in an impairment. The following table gives an indication of value change of iBasis as per year-end 2015: Amounts in millions of EUR Sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate Increase/(decrease) -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps Value change iBasis (4) – (6) 4–6 23 – 25 (23) – (25) (23) – (25) 23 – 25 7–9 (7) – (9) Considering the margin between the recoverable and carrying amount of iBasis (approximately EUR 30 million), negative sensitivities as included in this table will decrease the available headroom, however this will not result in an impairment. Accounting policy: Goodwill Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair losses and tested for impairment annually or whenever value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business KPN has an indication that the goodwill may be impaired. combination is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill on Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable amount of the acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures to which it is allocated is lower than the book value of the is included in investments in associates and joint ventures. cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units concerned. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to of the cash-generating units concerned. Following the those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating restrictions of IFRS, impairment losses on goodwill are units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of not reversed. the business combination in which the goodwill arose, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the In case of disposal of a business which was part of a cashacquiree are assigned to those cash-generating units. generating unit, goodwill is allocated to that business on a relative value basis and included in the carrying amount of the business when determining the result on the sale. 111 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Statement of changes in intangible fixed assets with finite lives Computer Software in Customer Amounts in millions of EUR Licenses software development relationships Trade names Other Total Balance as of January 1, 2014 1,729 534 76 98 26 11 2,474 Investments – 364 15 – – 10 389 Change in consolidation1 – 10 – 204 – – 214 Reclassification – 27 9 – – – 36 Amortization -165 -353 – -42 -3 -6 -569 Impairments – -3 -4 – – – -7 Exchange rate differences – – – – 1 – 1 Closing net book value 1,564 579 96 260 24 15 2,538 Cost 2,588 1,429 96 407 62 81 4,663 Accumulated amortization/impairments -1,024 -850 – -147 -38 -66 -2,125 Balance as of December 31, 2014 1,564 579 96 260 24 15 2,538 Investments – 268 25 – – – 293 Change in consolidation1 – 1 – 30 – – 31 Reclassification – -2 -2 – – – -4 Amortization -154 -328 – -30 -4 -4 -520 Impairments – -8 -1 – -1 -1 -11 Exchange rate differences – – – – 1 – 1 Transferred to held for sale (net)2 -230 -47 -25 – -2 -2 -306 Closing net book value 1,180 463 93 260 18 8 2,022 Cost 2,083 1,049 93 359 60 53 3,697 Accumulated amortization/impairments -903 -586 – -99 -42 -45 -1,675 Balance as of December 31, 2015 1,180 463 93 260 18 8 2,022 1) The change in consolidation in 2015 of EUR 30 million included 2) Transferred to held for sale relates to BASE Company classified the customer base of IG for an amount of EUR 26 million as disposal group held for sale. (2014: EUR 195 million related to the customer base of Reggefiber). 112 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information At the end of 2015, the book value of Computer software and Software in development included internally generated software in the Netherlands for EUR 183 million (2014: EUR 203 million). Accounting policy: Intangible fixed assets Other intangibles Licenses Other intangible fixed assets such as customer relationships Licenses are valued at cost less amortization and impairment. and trade names acquired in business combinations are The cost value of a qualifying asset may include capitalized capitalized at their fair values at acquisition date and are borrowing costs related to qualifying assets incurred during amortized using the straight-line method over the economic the construction phase of the related asset. Amortization is useful life. Other intangible fixed assets are reviewed for calculated using the straight-line method over the economic impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances useful live and is commenced at the date that services can indicate that the book value may no longer be recoverable. be offered (available for use). The amortization period for An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which licenses equals the useful life, but is limited to the expiration the book value of the other intangible fixed assets exceeds date of the licenses. Licenses are reviewed for impairment its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is defined whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that as the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal the book value of the asset concerned may not be recoverable. and its value in use. Impairments are reversed if and to the An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which extent that the impairment no longer exists. the book value of the licenses exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher Intangible fixed assets not yet available for use are tested of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value annually for impairment or whenever KPN has an indication in use. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that that the intangible fixed assets may be impaired. For the impairment no longer exists. example, licenses are tested as part of a cash-generating unit as licenses do not generate independent cash flows. Software Internally developed and acquired software, not being an Amortization The amortization period of the intangible assets are integral part of property, plant and equipment, is capitalized as follows: on the basis of the costs incurred, which include direct costs and directly attributable overhead costs incurred. During the development phase, interest expenses incurred are capitalized as part of qualifying assets if material. Software is amortized over the estimated useful life. Amortization commences when software is available for use. Software is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the asset concerned may no longer be recoverable. Other intangible An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which Licenses Software assets the book value of the software exceeds its recoverable 5 to 20 years 3 to 5 years 4 to 20 years amount. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. 113 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [12] Property, plant and equipment Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment Other tangible Land and Plant and non-current Assets under Amounts in millions of EUR buildings equipment assets construction Total Balance as of January 1, 2014 596 4,274 80 390 5,340 Investments 46 1,055 11 -69 1,043 Disposals -1 – – – -1 Depreciation -73 -1,093 -32 – -1,198 Impairments and retirements -2 -23 -3 -16 -44 Exchange rate differences – 2 – – 2 Reclassifications – -26 -1 -30 -57 Change in consolidation1 3 1,515 3 – 1,521 Closing net book value 569 5,704 58 275 6,606 Cost 1,910 11,289 239 285 13,723 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,341 -5,585 -181 -10 -7,117 Balance as of December 31, 2014 569 5,704 58 275 6,606 Investments 35 997 21 -19 1,034 Disposals -2 -16 – – -18 Depreciation -69 -997 -19 – -1,085 Impairments and retirements -4 -28 -1 -14 -47 Exchange rate differences – 2 – – 2 Reclassifications – 8 -2 -2 4 Change in consolidation1 – 2 2 – 4 Transferred to held for sale (net)2 -4 -442 -21 -32 -499 Closing net book value 525 5,230 38 208 6,001 Cost 1,919 9,884 136 208 12,147 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,394 -4,654 -98 – -6,146 Balance as of December 31, 2015 525 5,230 38 208 6,001 1) Relates to Internedservices Group BV (2014: Reggefiber). 2) Relates to BASE Company classified as held for sale as of April 15, 2015. Former owner of a hair salon chain Bernadet Angenent: “With Skype, he’s in front of us in no time” Watch Bernadet’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/bernadetangenent 114 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Property, plant and equipment primarily concerns assets Subsequent costs such as costs for replacement of network located in the Netherlands (2014: approximately 92%). components are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when Assets under construction mainly relate to the construction it is probable that KPN will receive future economic benefits of mobile networks. associated with the item and the cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amounts of replaced assets are The book value of property, plant and equipment of which derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance costs KPN as the lessee is the beneficial owner under financial lease are recognized in profit or loss when incurred. programs amounted to EUR 75 million (2014: EUR 90 million). The estimated useful lives of the principal property, The book value of property, plant and equipment of which plant and equipment categories are as follows: KPN is the lessor under operating lease programs amounted to EUR 2 million (2014: EUR 26 million). The future minimum lease payments receivable related to these operating leases are EUR 2 million (2014: EUR 26 million) in total, which matures within one year. Sensitivity analysis At the end of 2015, the book value for copper and fiber cables is EUR 1,884 million, which is included in plant and equipment. The current depreciation rates for these investments are based Land Network on estimates and judgment about the useful lives of these assets. No Buildings equipment amortization 14 to 33 years 3 to 7 years For copper cables, KPN estimates that the current useful life is 10 years. If the useful life was set at 20 years, e.g. due to technological developments, the depreciation charge for 2015 would be EUR 82 million lower. For fiber cables, KPN estimates that the current useful life is 30 years. If the useful life was set at 40 years, e.g. due to technological developments, the depreciation charge for 2015 would be EUR 17 million lower. Network Office infrastructure Vehicles equipment Accounting policy: Property, plant and equipment 10 to 30 years 10 years 4 to 10 years Property, plant and equipment are valued at cost less depreciation and impairment. The cost includes direct costs The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed (materials, direct labor and work contracted out), directly at least annually and adjusted if appropriate. attributable overhead costs and may include borrowing costs capitalized as part of qualifying asset, recorded during Borrowing costs the construction phase of property, plant and equipment Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, components. Asset retirement obligations are capitalized construction or production of qualifying assets are added as part of the cost of tangible fixed assets and expensed to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets as either depreciation over the asset’s estimated useful life are substantially ready for intended use or sale. Qualifying or as impairment charges. assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. KPN’s Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using the qualifying assets mainly are its network (included in straight-line method, based on estimated useful life, property, plant and equipment) as well as operating taking into account residual value. Land is not depreciated. licenses (included under intangible fixed assets) which are Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment dependent on a related network. Borrowing costs related whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate to licenses are capitalized during the construction phase that the book value of the assets concerned may not be of the related network up to the time that services can be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the first rendered on a commercial basis. amount by which the asset’s book value exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairments are reversed if and All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. in the period in which they are incurred. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. 115 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [13] Investments in and loans Accounting policy: Investments in associates to associates and joint ventures and joint ventures Associates Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Associates are investments in entities in which KPN can Balance as of January 1 42 320 exert significant influence but which KPN does not control, Addition through business combination [31] – 17 generally by KPN having between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. These entities are accounted for using Disposal through business combination [31] – -288 the equity method and are initially recognized at cost. Income from associates and joint ventures 2 -6 Their carrying value includes goodwill identified upon Dividend received -1 -1 acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment. Transferred to held for sale -1 – KPN’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses is Total changes – -278 recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss, and its share of post-acquisition movements in OCI is recognized in the Balance as of December 31 42 42 Statement of OCI with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment. When KPN’s share KPN holds interests in several legal entities. At December 31, of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest 2015, investments in associates and joint ventures include NTT in the associate, including any other receivables for which Data Getronics (30%) for an amount of EUR 18 million (2014: settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the EUR 17 million) and Glasvezel Netwerk Amsterdam BV (70%) foreseeable future, KPN does not recognize further losses, (GNA) for an amount of EUR 17 million (2014: EUR 17 million). unless KPN has obligations to or made payments on behalf GNA has not been consolidated because certain decisions can of the associate. Unrealized results on transactions with only be made in consultation with the other shareholder. associates are eliminated to the extent of KPN’s share in associates. At January 1, 2014, investments in associates and joint ventures included KPN’s 51% interest in Reggefiber for EUR 293 million. At each reporting date, KPN determines if there is any During 2014, KPN obtained all remaining shares in Reggefiber objective evidence that the associate is impaired. An through a step acquisition. Following the requirements of IFRS, impairment, being the difference between the recoverable the existing investment was treated as if it had been sold. amount of the associate and its carrying value, is recognized Therefore, the difference between the carrying value (based adjacent to ‘Share of the profit (loss) of associates and joint on equity value) of the 51% interest (EUR 288 million) and ventures’ in the Statement of Profit or Loss. its fair value (EUR 330 million) has been recorded as a gain in Other financial results (EUR 42 million) in 2014. Refer to Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream Note 8 and Note 29 for more information. transactions between KPN and its associates are recognized in the KPN’s Financial Statements only to the extent of Loans to associates and joint ventures as of December 31, 2015 unrelated investors’ interests in the associates. Unrealized were loans for an amount of EUR 20 million provided to losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides Glasvezel Netwerk Amsterdam BV (2014: EUR 18 million). evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates have been changed The following table illustrates summarized financial data of the where necessary to ensure consistency with KPN’s policies. joint ventures and associates, based on KPN’s relative share. Joint arrangements and joint ventures Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 1 Joint arrangements are classified either as joint operations Current assets 27 11 or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. KPN has assessed the nature Non-current assets 48 25 of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint Current liabilities 18 7 ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity Non-current liabilities 26 4 method and are initially recognized at cost. The carrying value Total revenues 73 38 is subsequently adjusted to recognized KPN’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in OCI. Total operating expenses -60 -38 Profit or loss after taxes 2 – The carrying value of joint ventures includes goodwill identified 1) Amounts exclude Reggefiber. upon acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment. The difference in value between the assets and liabilities of the table above and the investment value is the goodwill paid by KPN which is included in the book value of the associates and joint ventures. 116 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information When KPN’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or assessment whether or not KPN has the ability to exercise exceeds its interest in the joint venture, KPN does not influence over Telefónica Deutschland. recognize further losses, unless KPN has obligations to or made payments on behalf of the joint venture. Unrealized There is no agreement or other means on the basis of which KPN results on transactions with joint ventures are eliminated can participate in the financial and operating policy decisions, to the extent of KPN’s share in joint ventures. Accounting other than through the voting rights attached to its stake in policies have been changed where necessary to ensure Telefónica Deutschland. Each share carries one vote at Telefónica consistency with KPN’s policies. Deutschland’s general shareholders’ meetings, there are no voting right restrictions. After the sale of E-Plus, Telefónica S.A. Loans to associates and joint ventures classify as ‘loans has remained the majority shareholder of Telefónica Deutschland. and receivables’, a category of financial assets. For the With such a large concentration of shares held by Telefónica S.A, accounting policy on ‘loans and receivables’, refer to Note 15. KPN assessed that with its stake it does not have any power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of Telefónica Deutschland. Material transactions between KPN and Telefónica Deutschland or E-Plus were not expected and did not [14] Available-for-sale financial assets occur. Interchange of key managerial personnel was not expected Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 and also did not occur. Furthermore, there is no high degree of reliance on technology sourced between KPN and E-Plus. Balance as of January 1 2,713 20 Increase due to purchase 3 2,530 Based on the facts and circumstances mentioned above, KPN Decrease due to sale -805 – is of the opinion that it does not have significant influence Fair value adjustment recorded in OCI 363 163 in Telefónica Deutschland. Also, KPN never had the intention to be able to exercise influence over Telefónica Deutschland Other -2 – after the sale of E-Plus on October 1, 2014. Accordingly, KPN Balance as of December 31 2,272 2,713 classifies its stake in Telefónica Deutschland as an ‘availablefor-sale financial asset’. Following the sale of E-Plus at October 1, 2014, KPN obtained a stake of 20.5% in Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG In May 2015, KPN received a dividend from Telefónica (‘Telefónica Deutschland’) initially valued at EUR 2,528 million. Deutschland (EUR 146 million) which has been recorded as Finance income (see Note 8). In November 2015, KPN successfully The stake is accounted for as an ‘available-for-sale financial completed the accelerated bookbuild offering to institutional asset’ because KPN has no significant influence in Telefónica investors of 150 million shares in Telefónica Deutschland Deutschland. If an investor holds, directly or indirectly, 20% (EUR 5.37 per share), realizing EUR 805 million of proceeds. or more of the voting power of an investee, it is presumed This transaction reduced KPN’s stake in Telefónica Deutschland’s that the investor has significant influence, unless it can be outstanding share capital from 20.5% to 15.5%. A gain of EUR 184 demonstrated that this is not the case. According to IAS 28.7, million was recognized in Other financial results. At December 31, the existence of significant influence is usually evidenced in 2015, the fair value of the stake amounted to EUR 2,249 million. one or more of the following ways: •• representation on the board of directors or equivalent KPN holds a 3% equity share in Jasper Technologies (formerly governing body of the investee; called Jasper Wireless) amounting to EUR 9 million (2014: EUR •• participation in policy-making processes, including 8 million), a privately held company that provides a global decisions about dividends or other distributions; machine-to-machine platform. See Note 32 for subsequent •• material transactions between the entity and its investee; events relating to Jasper Technologies. •• interchange of managerial personnel; or •• reliance on technology sourced from an investor. KPN holds an equity stake of approximately 11% in Tecnocom, a listed Spanish ICT services company, amounting to EUR 10 Neither the members of the Management Board nor the million (2014: EUR 11 million). members of the Supervisory Board of Telefónica Deutschland hold any management position at KPN nor do they have any In 2015, KPN acquired a stake in Actility SA, a provider of other relationship with KPN which might be relevant for the network solutions and managed information systems for assessment whether or not KPN has the ability to exercise the Internet of Things market for EUR 3 million. influence over Telefónica Deutschland. Accounting policy: AFS financial assets Mr. Dirks became the Chief Executive Officer of Telefónica AFS financial assets include equity investments which, Deutschland on October 1, 2014 and had been a member of after initial measurement, are subsequently measured at the Board of Management of KPN from November 2011 until fair value. Unrealized gains or losses are recognized in OCI. October 2014. Since his resignation at October 1, 2014 Mr. Dirks When the investment is derecognized, the cumulative gain did not hold any management position at KPN nor did he have is recognized in profit or loss. When the investment is any other relationship with KPN which might be relevant for the impaired, the cumulative loss is recognized in profit or loss. 117 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [15] Trade and other receivables Accrued income and prepayments mainly consist of prepaid rent recognized at nominal value. The gross amount with Trade and other receivables (non-current) respect to receivables from financial leases amounts to EUR 2 million (2014: EUR 3 million), which fully matures Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 within five years. The short-term portion of the financial Balance as of January 1 140 122 leases amounting less than EUR 1 million (2014: EUR 1 million) Current portion of non-current receivables 31 88 is classified as current trade and other receivables. Gross 171 210 Trade and other receivables (current) December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 Additions 15 139 Trade receivables – gross 475 610 Redemptions -79 -16 Provision for doubtful trade receivables -97 -95 Change in consolidation – -162 Trade receivables – net 378 515 Transferred to held for sale – -1 Other changes 4 1 Social security and other taxes – 6 Other receivables 30 36 Total gross at December 31 111 171 Accrued income 268 295 Current portion of non-current receivables 30 31 Prepayments 102 147 Balance as of December 31 81 140 Total 778 999 Decrease in 2015 mainly relates to the refund of cash collateral related to derivatives of EUR 100 million, which was part of The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables additions in 2014. For more information, refer to Note 28. approximate to their fair value. Trade and other receivables Change in consolidation in 2014 relates to prepayments are non-interest bearing. to Reggefiber. The movements in the provision for doubtful trade receivables The non-current balance as of December 31 included are as follows: the following: Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Balance as of January 1 95 112 Accrued income and prepayments 21 37 Addition through Statement of Profit or Loss 32 9 Receivables from financial leases 2 2 Usage -16 -26 Cash collateral on derivatives 56 100 Transferred to held for sale -14 – Other loans 2 1 Balance as of December 31 97 95 Total 81 140 118 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The maximum exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is limited to their gross amount. The concentration of KPN’s trade Trade receivablesand overother receivables the different segments as at December 31 can be summarized as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR Amounts in millions of EUR iBasis: 45 45 Other: 3 11 Consumer iBasis: 6 6 Other: 5 9 Consumer Mobile: 39 50 Mobile: 12 13 NetCo: NetCo: 126 101 Consumer 56 31 Consumer Residential: 28 33 Residential: 5 8 Business: 234 273 Business: 13 14 BASE Company: – 97 Total: 475 610 BASE Company: – 14 Total: 97 95 2015 Trade receivables – gross (current) 2015 Provision for doubtful trade receivables 2014 Trade receivables – gross (current) 2014 Provision for doubtful trade receivables For a discussion of KPN’s policies to reduce credit risk on trade receivables as well as concentration of the credit risk, reference is made to Note 28. Postpaid mobile services are considered to have the highest credit risks within the business of KPN (Business and Consumer Mobile Segments). Overall, concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s large and unrelated customer base. The provision for doubtful trade receivables is predominantly collectively determined based on ageing and is reviewed periodically. The ageing of the gross trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Amounts in millions of EUR Gross Provision Gross Provision Amounts undue 252 3 308 2 Past due 0–90 days 106 11 160 8 Past due 91–180 days 55 35 48 15 Past due 181–270 days 10 4 13 6 Past due 271–360 days 9 5 13 6 More than one year 43 39 68 58 Total 475 97 610 95 119 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Accounting policy: Trade and other receivables [16] Inventories Trade and other receivables classify as ‘loans and December December receivables’, a category of financial assets with fixed or Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 determinable payments that are not quoted in an active Resources, parts, tools and measuring market and created by KPN by providing money, goods or instruments 67 53 services directly to a debtor, other than: Finished goods 8 18 •• those KPN intends to sell immediately or in the short Total inventories, gross 75 71 term, which are classified as held for trading; and •• those for which KPN may not recover substantially all Provision for obsolescence -10 -10 of its initial investment, other than because of credit Total inventories, net 65 61 deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale. Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value, and subsequently measured at amortized cost During 2015, a net amount of EUR 4 million (2014: EUR 7 million) using the effective interest rate method, less provisions was recorded as an expense for inventories carried at net for impairment. The amortized cost value may equal the realizable value. The expense is included in the line ‘cost initial cost value if there is no maturity. The amortized of materials’ in the Statement of Profit or Loss. cost is calculated by taking into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition and transactions costs. The Accounting policy: Inventories effective interest rate amortization is recognized in the Inventories of resources, parts, tools and measuring Statement of Profit or Loss under finance income or instruments, and finished goods are valued at the lower finance costs. of cost or net realizable value. The cost of inventories is determined using the weighted average cost. Net realizable A provision for impairment is established when there is value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course objective evidence that KPN will not be able to collect all of business less applicable variable selling expenses. amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables (uncollectibility). The provision is the difference Losses on the sale of handsets which are sold for less than between the carrying amount and the present value of the cost is only recorded when the sale occurs if the normal estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original resale value is higher than the cost of the handset. If the effective interest rate. The provision is set up through the normal resale value is lower than costs, the difference is Statement of Profit or Loss (as Other operating expenses). recognized as impairment immediately. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off Transition costs relating to fixed-price contracts involving against the allowance account for trade receivables. managed ICT services are capitalized and subsequently Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straightare credited against Other operating expenses. line basis during the period the services are provided, taking into account the number of office seats included Loans and receivables are included in current assets, except in the service contract during the term of the contract. for maturities greater than 12 months after the Statement Transition costs consist primarily of the labor and other cost of Financial Position date. of personnel directly engaged in performing the transition, third party services, products and other costs which will be charged to the customer. Transition costs are capitalized if it is probable that they will be recovered and are classified under inventories. 120 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information [17] Other current financial assets Accounting policy: Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable At December 31, 2015, other current financial assets consisted payments and fixed maturities are classified as held-toof held-to-maturity investments with initial maturities longer maturity when KPN has the intention and ability to hold than three months and investments in short-duration fixed them to maturity. After initial measurement, held to income funds. Both categories are classified as short-term maturity investments are measured at amortized cost using investments in KPN’s Net Debt definition. Refer to Note 28 for the effective interest rate, less impairment. Amortized further information on KPN’s net debt definition. cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an Held-to-maturity investments include bank deposits and integral part of the effective interest rate. The effective repurchase agreements which are fully collateralized (2014: interest rate amortization is included as finance income EUR 100 million, classified as cash and cash equivalents). Per in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Losses arising from December 31, 2015, the fair value of the collateral amounted impairment are recognized in the Statement of Profit to 105% of the principal amount. The collateral consists of or Loss as finance costs. sovereign, supranational and agency debt with a minimum credit rating of A and corporate debt with a minimum rating of Accounting policy: Current financial assets B, denominated in major currencies such as EUR, GBP and USD. at fair value through profit or loss In case of counterparty default, the collateral ownership would Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are transfer to KPN and can be converted to cash. recognized in the Statement of Financial Position at their fair value with net changes in the fair value presented as Investments in short-duration fixed income funds are held finance costs (in case of negative net changes to the fair at fair value through profit or loss. These funds have low value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes volatility, with an investment objective of preservation to the fair value) in the Statement of Profit or Loss. of principal. December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 Held-to-maturity investments with initial maturities longer than 3 months 350 300 Short-duration fixed income funds held at fair value through profit or loss 225 – Total Other current financial assets 575 300 121 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [18] Cash and cash equivalents [19] Non-current assets, liabilities and disposal groups held for sale At December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 1,446 million (EUR 1,976 million at December 31, 2014). December December The decrease in KPN’s cash and cash equivalents is mainly Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 caused by the dividend payments in 2015 (EUR 485 million) Intangible assets (including goodwill) 419 – and a scheduled bond redemption in June 2015 (EUR 1.0 billion), Property, plant and equipment 564 – partly offset by the EUR 146 million dividend received on the Other non-current assets 78 1 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland and the proceeds from the sale of a 5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland in November Current assets 247 7 2015 (EUR 805 million). Total assets of disposal groups held for sale 1,308 8 Non-current liabilities 105 2 KPN’s cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015, Current liabilities 261 11 consisted of highly liquid instruments, mainly deposits, interest-bearing bank accounts and AAA-rated money market Total liabilities directly associated with the non-current assets and disposal groups funds. KPN’s cash balances have been invested with a wide classified as held for sale 366 13 range of strong counterparties. Part of KPN’s cash balances have been invested in instruments which are classified as At December 31, 2015, disposal groups held for sale consists of Other current financial assets rather than cash and cash BASE Company and at December 31, 2014, of SNT Deutschland. equivalents. Please refer to Note 17 for further information. The sale of SNT Deutschland was completed on February 3, 2015, with no additional impact on KPN’s financial result. Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2015, were for more than 99% (2014: 99%) denominated in the functional On April 20, 2015, KPN announced it had reached an currency of the related entities. The effective interest rate agreement to sell BASE Company (BASE) for a consideration on cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2015, was of EUR 1,325 million to Telenet. As of April 15, 2015, BASE has approximately 0.06% negative. been presented as disposal group held for sale and measured December December at the bookvalue because this is lower than the fair value less Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 costs of disposal. Given the significance of BASE to KPN, BASE Cash 396 426 is considered a ‘discontinued operation’. Short-term bank deposits, repurchase agreements and money market funds 1,050 1,550 All assets and liabilities of BASE are presented separately on KPN’s Statement of Financial Position as of April 15, 2015, as Total cash and cash equivalents 1,446 1,976 ‘non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale’ and ‘liabilities directly associated with non-current assets Net cash and cash equivalents and disposal groups held for sale’ until completion of the sale. As of December 31, 2015 KPN’s net cash and cash equivalents The assets and liabilities of BASE continued to be accounted for position amounted to EUR 1,442 million as presented in the in accordance with the relevant IFRS standards as before April 15, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: 2015, except that non-current assets held by BASE are no longer amortized or depreciated as of April 15, 2015. Results from BASE December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 are reported as ‘profit/loss (-) for the period from discontinued Cash and cash equivalents 1,446 1,976 operations’ and cash flows from BASE are reported as ‘cash flows from discontinued operations’ separate from results and cash Bank overdraft -4 -31 flows from KPN’s continuing operations as if BASE was classified Net cash and cash equivalents 1,442 1,945 as a discontinued operation as of January 1, 2014. Accounting policy: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the Statement of Financial Position and are not deducted from cash and cash equivalents. 122 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information On October 21, 2015, KPN announced that KPN, BASE, Operating expenses of BASE in 2015 include a gain related Mobistar and Proximus agreed to settle all outstanding to a release of tax accruals of EUR 29 million. litigation between BASE, Mobistar and Proximus related to the practice of applying tariffs from the past for mobile The sale of E-Plus was completed on October 1, 2014. telecommunication services that are differentiated between At December 31, 2014, KPN made a best estimate of the on-net and off-net voice communications. The settlement expected Net Debt/Working Capital settlement that was proceeds amount to EUR 120 million of which EUR 66 million finalized in 2015. was paid to BASE and the remainder to Mobistar. BASE has recognized the received amount as Other income in 2015. The following table summarizes the results of BASE and E-Plus included in the Statement of Profit or Loss as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’: BASE E-Plus Total Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Revenues and other income 716 674 – 2,352 716 3,026 Operating expenses -500 -692 – -1,621 -500 -2,313 Finance income and expenses -3 -2 – -23 -3 -25 Share of the loss of associates and joint ventures – – – -4 – -4 Income taxes -65 -2 – -515 -65 -517 Result for the period from discontinued operations before impairment and tax effects resulting from the transaction 148 -22 – 189 148 167 Impairment disposal group – – – -1,265 – -1,265 Transaction costs – – -6 -46 -6 -46 Call option – – – 2 – 2 Tax adjustments – – -7 297 -7 297 Total profit (loss) for the period from discontinued operations 148 -22 -13 -823 135 -845 The following table summarizes the net cash flows of BASE and E-Plus: BASE E-Plus Total Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities 230 155 -8 312 222 467 Cash flow from investing activities -101 -219 -146 4,163 -247 3,944 Cash flow from financing activities – – – -251 – -251 Total net cash (outflow)/inflow from discontinued operations 129 -64 -154 4,224 -25 4,160 High Performance Director at NOC*NSF Maurits Hendriks: “Our Team Awareness app helps athletes and fans in Rio” Watch Maurits’ story: kpn.nl/annualreport/mauritshendriks 123 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Accounting policy: Non-current assets and disposal Share capital groups held for sale After an amendment to the Articles of Association Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held on March 21, 2014, KPN’s authorized capital stock totals for sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith EUR 720 million divided into 9 billion ordinary shares of EUR are stated at the lower of carrying amount (bookvalue) 0.04 each and 9 billion preference shares B of EUR 0.04 each. and fair value less costs of disposal if their carrying amount As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, a total of 4,270,254,664 is recovered principally through a sale transaction rather ordinary shares were outstanding and fully paid-in. Dutch laws than through continuing use. If fixed assets are transferred prohibit KPN from casting a vote on shares KPN holds (treasury to held for sale, depreciation and amortization ceases. shares). The ordinary shares and preference shares B carry the A disposal group classifies as a ‘discontinued operation’ right to cast one vote each. For a description of the preference based on its significance to the KPN Group. shares B, please see ‘Foundation Preference Shares B KPN’ hereafter. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to bearer. Shareholders may request the Company to convert their registered shares to bearer shares but not vice versa. [20] Group Equity Share premium For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, The additional paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up reference is made to the Statement of Changes in Group Equity. to an amount of EUR 10,568 million at December 31, 2015 The total distributable reserves at December 31, 2015 amounted (2014: EUR 10,598 million). to EUR 4,305 million (2014: EUR 4,004 million). For further details of the non-distributable reserves, reference is made Other reserves to the Corporate Financial Statements. Below is a detailed overview of the movements in the number of treasury shares and other reserves: Fair value reserve Number of available-forCurrency Amounts in millions of EUR, treasury Treasury sale financial translation Total other unless indicated otherwise shares shares reserve Hedge reserve assets reserve reserves Balance as of January 1, 2014 12,156,391 -138 -394 3 12 -517 Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – 1 122 6 129 Balance as of December 31, 2014 12,156,391 -138 -393 125 18 -388 Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – 125 134 -2 257 Disposals -556,941 6 – – – 6 Balance as of December 31, 2015 11,599,450 -132 -268 259 16 -125 Hedge reserve December 31, December 31, Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Effective portion cash flow hedges1 -202 -438 Amortizable part 2 [8] -155 -86 Hedge reserve -357 -524 Tax effect 89 131 Hedge reserve, net of tax -268 -393 1) The effective portion of cash flow hedges will be recognized in the 2) The amortizable part of the hedge reserve is amortized over Statement of Profit or Loss in line with the maturities of the related the remaining life of the related bonds (between 2016 and 2030). derivatives. Refer to Note 26 for further information on derivatives. The impact on the Statement of Profit or Loss will be EUR 11 million in 2016. [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. 124 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Treasury shares and treasury shares reserve represent a significant fair value as mentioned in IAS 1.31 Until 2011, KPN purchased shares in its own capital for due to the fact that the put option can no longer be exercised delivery upon exercise of share options by management by KPN and the fact that the preference shares B, issued after and personnel under the share option and performance share exercise of the call option, bear interest linked to EURIBOR. The plans (see Note 5). Votes on purchased shares may not be cast options are therefore not accounted for in the annual accounts and they do not count towards determining the number of nor is any additional information disclosed as meant in IFRS 7. votes required at a General Meeting of Shareholders. In 2015 and 2014, no shares were purchased. In 2015, 556,941 shares Non-controlling interests were sold in connection with vesting of the 2012 grant of the In 2012, KPN acquired a stake in GroupIT B.V. of 12.5% at fair KPN Restricted Share Plan (see Note 5). value with a right to acquire the remaining stake and thus obtained the control over GroupIT B.V. The amount of nonTreasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the controlling interest includes the 87.5% stake of a group of third market price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery party shareholders in GroupIT B.V. of the treasury shares are recognized directly in the other reserves. In the event that more options are exercised than Accounting policy: Group equity available as treasury shares for option plans, KPN anticipates KPN’s Group equity is divided into two categories: equity providing shares for equity-settled plans through the purchase attributable to equity holders and to non-controlling interests. of shares in the market. All rights with respect to repurchased treasury shares are suspended until those shares are delivered. Equity attributable to equity holders This category refers to KPN’s owners. KPN’s authorized Equity attributable to holders of perpetual share capital consists of ordinary shares which are classified capital securities as equity and preference shares B which are classified as In March 2013, KPN issued a EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond with short-term liabilities. The surplus paid by shareholders a 6.125% coupon. The bond is subordinated to KPN Group’s above the nominal value of shares is recognized as share senior creditors but ranks above the ordinary and preference premium. Incremental costs directly attributable to the shareholders in the event of the Company’s winding up. This issue of new shares or options are shown in the Statement hybrid bond has a perpetual maturity and can, at KPN’s of OCI as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. discretion, first be redeemed in September 2018. The hybrid bond is classified as equity in the Consolidated Statement of Equity instruments and other financial instruments with Financial Position (classified as Perpetual Capital Securities). a long-term nature are classified based on their specific Please see Note 22 for further information on interest nature, terms and characteristics. Refer to Note 22 for payments and credit ratings. disclosures on KPN’s accounting of the perpetual hybrid bonds issued. The consideration paid by KPN for the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN acquisition of its own equity instruments (treasury shares) Reference is made to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN, is deducted from other reserves at trade date until those as described in the chapter ‘Corporate Governance’. On August shares are canceled, reissued or disposed of. Upon subsequent 29, 2013, the Foundation exercised its call option and obtained sale or reissue of such shares, any consideration received is 4,258,098,272 newly issued preference shares B in KPN, in included in other reserves. order to safeguard the interests of KPN and its stakeholders as América Móvil announced its intention to make a public offer Non-controlling interests for all KPN shares on August 9, 2013, without prior consultation Non-controlling interests represent shares issued by a of KPN. Following a subsequent request by the Foundation, subsidiary of KPN to shareholders outside the KPN Group. KPN’s Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders granted Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as the requested approvals to cancel all outstanding preference transactions with equity holders of KPN. For purchases shares B on January 10, 2014, which cancellation became of equity instruments from non-controlling interests, the effective on March 21, 2014. The cancellation resulted in difference between any consideration paid and the carrying a repayment to the Foundation of the payment made, amount of the non-controlling interest of the subsidiary amounting to 25% of the nominal value of the preference acquired is recorded in equity. Since KPN already controls the shares B, increased by an amount similar to a dividend in acquired entity, no additional purchase price allocation is proportion to the time the shares were outstanding. The performed. Gains or losses on disposal of a non-controlling right granted to the Foundation to acquire preference shares interest in a subsidiary are also recorded in equity. is unconditional and continuous, and the Foundation is therefore entitled to acquire preference shares B in the future. Dividends Dividends to be distributed to the equity holders are Under IFRS, the preference shares B do not meet the definition recognized as a liability in the period in which the dividends of equity and therefore the paid-up amount was presented are approved by the shareholders. as a current liability (EUR 255 million) at December 31, 2013. Dividends due are recorded as financial expenses. KPN is of the opinion that neither the put option nor the call option 125 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [21] Dividend per share [22] Borrowings At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held The carrying amounts and fair value of the borrowings on April 13, 2016, a dividend of EUR 0.08 per share will be are as follows: proposed in respect of 2015. In 2015, KPN paid an interim dividend in respect of 2015 of EUR 0.03 per share, in total December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 EUR 128 million. These financial statements do not reflect Amounts in millions Carrying Fair Carrying Fair of EUR amount value amount value the proposal for the remaining dividend payable, which will be accounted for in the Statement of Changes in Group Equity Eurobonds EUR 5,139 5,636 6,175 6,856 as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending Eurobonds GBP 1,999 2,251 1,883 2,199 December 31, 2015. Global Bonds USD 1,191 1,198 1,117 1,170 Hybrid Bonds In August 2015, the dividend received from KPN’s stake in (GBP and USD) 1,088 1,148 1,000 1,052 Telefónica Deutschland was distributed to KPN shareholders Financial lease as an additional cash dividend of EUR 0.034 per ordinary share obligations 81 76 95 88 (EUR 145 million). The total dividend in respect of 2015, Bank overdraft 4 4 31 31 including the additional interim cash dividend, will then Other loans 198 212 140 160 amount to EUR 0.114 per ordinary share. Total borrowings 9,700 10,525 10,441 11,556 In April 2015, KPN paid a final dividend of EUR 0.05 per share – of which: current 847 859 1,044 1,061 in respect of 2014, in total EUR 213 million. The total dividend – of which: in respect of 2014 was EUR 0.07. non-current 8,853 9,666 9,397 10,495 The fair value for Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds is based on the listed price of the bonds. All Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds pay interest based on fixed coupons. KPN’s weighted average interest rate on the borrowings outstanding before swaps at December 31, 2015 was 6.0% (2014: 5.8%). The EUR perpetual hybrid bonds, classified as equity, have been included in this calculation. The weighted average interest rate after swaps was 5.4% (2014: 5.3%). Excluding all hybrid bonds, the average interest rate on the senior bond portfolio after swaps at December 31, 2015 was 5.1% (2014: 5.0%). For further details on borrowings, including a redemption schedule, reference is made to Note 28 ‘Financing Risk Management – Liquidity Risk’. Communications Advisor Municipality Bronckhorst Ellen Somsen: “It’s pleasant to get online in the countryside too” Watch Ellen’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/ellensomsen 126 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Bonds The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are subordinated bonds with On June 22, 2015, KPN redeemed the EUR 1.0 billion 60-year maturities. The GBP and USD hybrid bonds can, at KPN’s Eurobond 2005–2015 in accordance with the regular discretion, first be redeemed in March 2020 and March 2023 redemption schedule. respectively. The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are classified as liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position (classified On November 7, 2014, KPN completed a tender offer, as Borrowings). The EUR hybrid bond is classified as equity in in which KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, refer to Note of EUR 1.8 billion of eight of its Eurobonds with maturities 20. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, between 2016 and 2024. The total cash-out for the tender elect to defer payments of interest on each of the three hybrid amounted to EUR 2.0 billion, which was financed with bonds. Arrears of interest must be paid in case dividends are available cash. paid on ordinary shares, in case of early redemption, and for the GBP/USD hybrid bonds at final maturity. Unless previously Refer to Note 8 and Note 26 for information on the related redeemed at the first call dates, the interest paid on the hybrid finance costs and derivatives. bonds will be reset at pre-agreed dates in the future, based on the prevailing swap rate plus a predetermined spread. KPN does On May 30, 2014, KPN redeemed EUR 650 million of the not recognize accruals for coupon payments on the EUR hybrid Eurobond 2007–2014, in accordance with the regular bond (EUR 67 million per year). If an accrual would have been redemption schedule. recognized, the amount would have been EUR 20 million per December 31, 2015. On February 4, 2014, KPN redeemed EUR 750 million of the Eurobond 2009–2014, in accordance with the The ratings for all three hybrid bonds are BB by Standard & regular redemption schedule. Poor’s, Ba2 by Moody’s and BB by Fitch Ratings. The rating agencies recognize 50% of the three hybrid bonds as equity. Hybrid bonds The three hybrid bonds are for 50% treated as equity and In March 2013, KPN issued a EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond 50% as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions. with a 6.125% coupon, a GBP 400 million hybrid bond with a 6.875% coupon (swapped to EUR 460 million and a 6.78% Financial lease obligations coupon for a period of seven years) and a USD 600 million On December 31, 2015, the financial lease obligations hybrid bond with a 7% coupon (swapped to EUR 465 million amounted to EUR 81 million. Refer to Note 28 for and a 6.34% coupon for a period of 10 years). more information. Credit rating KPN maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. On December 31, 2015, KPN had a credit rating of Baa3 with a stable outlook by Moody’s, BBBwith a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s and BBBwith a positive outlook by Fitch. The table below shows the adjustments to the credit ratings during 2015 and 2014. Rating as at Credit rating agency December 31, 2015 Current outlook Adjustments 2015 Adjustments 2014 Standard & Poor’s BBBStable • None • None Moody’s Baa3 Stable • None • March 28: rating changed to Baa3 with stable outlook from Baa2 with negative outlook Fitch BBBPositive • May 1: outlook changed • None to positive from stable Senior Equity Analyst Theodoor Gilissen Jos Versteeg: “Internet has broadened our field of view” Watch Jos’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/josversteeg 127 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The benefits provided under the fund’s arrangement are based Accounting policy: Loans and borrowings on the employee’s years of service and compensation level. After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are The fund strives to finance an average benefit pay plan. subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference Employees can opt to participate in an individual pension between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the saving scheme. For accruals as of January 1, 2014, the redemption value is recognized in the Statement of Profit or retirement age has been increased from 65 to 67. Indexation Loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective of the pension benefits is conditional and cuts in benefits interest method. The amortized cost is calculated by taking could be applicable depending on the development of the into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition or fund’s financial position. issuance and transaction costs. The effective interest rate amortization is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss The CDC plan is accounted for as a defined contribution plan under finance costs. because KPN has no other obligation than to pay the annual contribution which is a fixed percentage of the pensionable Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless KPN base and which is for the cost of benefit accrual in the current has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the year. Under the CDC plan, KPN has no legal or constructive liability for at least 12 months after the Statement of obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not Financial Position date. hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods nor is KPN When bonds are repurchased with the issue of new bonds, entitled to refunds if the fund has a surplus. All benefits are the expenses related to the old bonds, including tender conditional and cuts in benefits could be applicable in case premiums, are expensed as incurred unless the new bonds of an unfavorable development of the financial position are placed with the same holders and the change in the net of the fund. present value of the cash flows is less than 10%. In the latter case, these expenses are capitalized and amortized over the Until July 1, 2015, the pension plan of employees who are term of the new bonds. subject to KPN’s collective labor agreement in the Netherlands were externally funded through the fund and the pension This accounting policy also applies to Deferred income plan for senior management with an individual labor and trade and other payables (Note 25). agreement through ‘Stichting Ondernemingspensioenfonds KPN’ (‘KPN OPF’). On July 1, 2015, KPN OPF merged into the fund. The pension plans had been fully harmonized after the [23] Provisions for retirement introduction of the CDC plan, also for senior management, benefit obligations as of January 1, 2015. The provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist of the Until December 31, 2014, the pension plan for employees net defined benefit liability regarding pension plans and early who are subject to KPN’s collective labor agreement and the retirement plans which are accounted for as defined benefit pension plan for senior management were both accounted plans. These plans are described below. for as defined benefit plans because the premiums KPN had to pay were based on the cost of accrual of pension benefits KPN main pension plan and a long-term horizon regarding the desired coverage ratio KPN’s main pension plan covers most employees in the of the pension funds. Furthermore, KPN was required to Netherlands and is externally funded through ‘Stichting make recovery payments when the coverage ratio was below Pensioenfonds KPN’ (‘the fund’). This plan is a Collective approximately 105%. At December 31, 2014, after the lumpDefined Contribution pension plan (‘CDC plan’). The CDC plan sum cash payments of in total EUR 230 million, the pension became effective on January 1, 2015 and is financed as follows: provision relating to these plans were fully released (plan settlement) because due to the CDC plan becoming effective •• KPN’s only obligation is to pay to the fund a contribution as of January 1, 2015, all further legal or constructive that is an annual fixed percentage of the pensionable base; obligations for all the past benefits accrued were eliminated. •• The contribution level is fixed for a period of five years, In 2014, at the date of approval of the introduction of the commencing on January 1, 2015; CDC plan amendments were recorded of the then existing •• After this five-year period, the annual contribution will be pension plans which reduced the net defined benefit liability reassessed based on a fixed and agreed method in which in KPN’s Statement of Financial Position, with EUR 467 million. no reflection to past service or the funded status of the This release was recorded as a reduction of the pension fund is included; and expenses in 2014. Gains or losses at settlement were recorded •• KPN is released from its obligation to make recovery as remeasurements directly in OCI. payments which was applicable under the previous pension plans, and for which a one-off lump-sum cash payment of in total EUR 230 million was paid to the fund in 2014. 128 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information SVG under the provisions of Employee Retirement Income Security ‘Stichting Voorzieningsfonds Getronics’ (‘SVG’) is the Act (ERISA). Indexation of accrued benefits is not applicable administrator of a number of pension plans of (former) to this plan. Until the plan is fully funded to 100% of liabilities, employees of KPN Corporate Market BV (formerly Getronics) US funding rules require minimum quarterly contributions and related companies in the Netherlands. Retirement benefits by KPN to recover to a fully funded position. KPN uses are accrued by means of an individual savings account. For the funding relief provided by US law which temporarily accruals as of January 1, 2013, the retirement age has been reduces the magnitude and volatility of minimum required increased from 65 to 67. The annual accrual of the individual contributions by valuing the plan’s liabilities, for funding savings accounts is based on a defined contribution plan. purposes, with a discount rate that is based on a corridor At retirement age the accrued capital is converted into defined around a 25-year average corporate bond yield. The pension benefits. Indexation of the pension benefits is contributions are determined by an independent qualified conditional and cuts in benefits could be applicable depending actuary on the basis of an annual valuation. on SVG’s financial position. KPN accounted for these plans as defined benefit because KPN was exposed to certain (limited) The pension plans in the UK and US expose KPN to a number risks such as a guaranteed return on investments of the of risks which can have an impact on the future contributions individual savings accounts. by KPN and the liability recorded in its balance sheet. The most significant risks are summarized below: In 2014, the board of the SVG and KPN reached an agreement to abolish the guaranteed return on investments and to •• Asset volatility: the pension plans’ assets are predominantly transfer the active members to the KPN pension funds as of invested in equity securities and therefore the plans’ January 1, 2015. The active members accrue benefits under funding levels are exposed to equity market risks; KPN’s CDC plan. As part of the agreement, KPN made a •• Interest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase lump-sum payment of EUR 5 million in 2014. These amendments the plans’ liabilities although this will be partially offset removed KPN’s exposure to risks and benefits of the SVG plans, by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings; except for the obligation to pay administration expenses to the •• Inflation risk: in the UK the indexation of the accrued SVG for participants who are employed by KPN or certain of benefits is unconditional and is based on a combination its previously divested entities. The amount of administration of consumer and retail price indices and therefore the expenses is linked to the value of the individual savings UK plan is exposed to inflation risk; and accounts and therefore the SVG plans continue to be •• Life expectancy: the plans provide benefits for the life accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The release of the of the members, so increases in life expectancy will result pension provision due to these amendments was EUR 10 million in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. which was recorded as a reduction of the pension expenses in 2014. The pension provision remaining for the SVG plans Other at December 31, 2015, of EUR 16 million is only for KPN’s KPN has a number of other funded plans in the Netherlands, obligation to reimburse the administration expenses. which are closed to new entrants, and in Belgium. The risks KPN has no other obligation or risks related to these plans. related to these plans are limited because the obligations are insured at external parties. The pension plans of E-Plus have Getronics UK and US been transferred to Telefónica Deutschland with the sale The Getronics UK operations were divested in 2012. The closed of E-Plus on October 1, 2014. The expense related to the and frozen pension plan of the UK operations remained with pension plan in Belgium has been presented as ‘result from KPN and is accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets discontinued operations’ and the net defined benefit liability of the plan are held separately from KPN in an independently has been presented as part of disposal groups classified administered fund. The plan operates under the regulations as held for sale see Note 19. of the UK Pensions Regulator. The deficit in the plan’s funding must be recovered by the investment returns in the plans KPN also has a number of early retirement plans, all in the assets and the monthly contributions by KPN, agreed upon Netherlands, which are unfunded. The risks related to these between the pension fund and KPN based on a triennial plans are also limited because of their short duration. valuation performed by an independent qualified actuary. Furthermore, with regard to closed and frozen plans which are The Getronics US operations were divested in 2008. insured, based on Dutch Law, KPN could be required to make The closed and frozen pension plan of the US operations contributions if participants of these plans require a value remained with KPN and is accounted for as a defined benefit transfer to another pension fund or insurer. The risk related plan. The assets of the plan are held separately from KPN to these value transfers is limited and therefore no provision in an independently administered fund. The plan operates has been recognized for these plans. 129 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Net defined benefit liability (asset) The balance sheet position can be broken down as follows: Net defined benefit Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets liability (asset) Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Balance as of January 1 2,132 9,453 -1,816 -8,435 316 1,018 Included in profit or loss: – Operating expense: current service costs 2 97 – – 2 97 past service cost (gain)1 – -477 – – – -477 settlements – -8,524 – 8,524 – – administration cost – – 1 10 1 10 – Interest costs (income) 43 269 -34 -246 9 23 Total 45 -8,635 -33 8,288 12 -347 Included in OCI Remeasurements loss (gain): – Actuarial loss (gain) arising from: demographic assumptions -9 -3 – – -9 -3 financial assumptions -89 1,609 – – -89 1,609 experience adjustment 7 -107 – – 7 -107 – Return on plan assets excluding interest income – – 46 -1,458 46 -1,458 – Effect of movements in exchange rates 55 55 -37 -40 18 15 Total -36 1,554 9 -1,498 -27 56 Other Employer’s contribution – – -40 -411 -40 -411 Employees’ contribution – 29 – -29 – – Benefits paid -86 -269 86 269 – – Transferred to held for sale 2 -15 – 14 – -1 – Other -1 – – – -1 – Balance as of December 31 2,039 2,132 -1,780 -1,816 259 316 1) In 2014, amendment gains of in total EUR 477 million were recorded. For 2) Includes BASE Company which was classified as ‘held for sale’ Net defined benefit liability an explanation, see the description of the pension plans. as of April 15, 2015. Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined benefit liability (asset) Getronics US: Other: 137 180 Getronics US: Other: -69 -99 Other: SVG: 16 18 268 279 SVG: 1,257 1,288 -201 -195 SVG: -1,241 -1,270 68 81 Getronics Getronics UK: Getronics UK: Getronics US: UK: 108 133 377 385 -269 -252 67 84 2015 2014 Total: 2,039 2,132 Total: -1,780 -1,816 Total: 259 316 130 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is December 31. Defined benefit obligations Actuarial assumptions The key actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Getronics Getronics Getronics Getronics SVG UK US Other SVG UK US Other Discount rate (%) 2.5 3.7 4.4 2.6 1.4 3.3 3.2 1.4 Expected salary increases (%) N.a. N.a. N.a. 2.0 N.a. N.a. N.a. 2.0 Expected benefit increases/indexation (%) 0.8 2.0–3.0 n/a 0.8 0.5 2.0–3.0 n/a 0.2 Life expectancy for pensioners at the age of 65 (years): – Male 22.1 23.0 21.7 22.1 22.0 23.0 21.2 22.2 – Female 23.3 25.0 24.2 23.4 23.2 25.0 23.3 23.4 For the amendment calculation of KPN PF in 2014, a discount rate of 2.2% and expected benefit increases/indexation of 1.0% were used (all other assumptions unchanged compared to December 31, 2013). The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit obligations and in the applicable currency. At December 31, 2015, the (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 16 years. Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on published statistics and mortality tables that include allowances for future improvement in mortality. The mortality table used in the Netherlands is the projected table AG 2014 which includes projected improvement rates varying by year of birth, corrected for fund specific circumstances. For example, the life expectancy at the age of 65 is expected to increase in the next 20 years with approximately 2 years. The mortality table used in the UK is the 93% of SAPS S2P tables CMI 2014 projection with a 1.5% long-term improvement and in the US the RP-2006 with Scale MP-2015. Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the approximate impact on the defined benefit obligation of a change in the key actuarial assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a change of 1 year. December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Amounts in millions of EUR Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Discount rate -100 108 -62 70 Expected salary increases – – 2 -2 Expected benefit increases 60 -59 38 -35 Life expectancy 54 -57 20 -20 The sensitivities in the table above were estimated by actuaries based on the defined benefit obligations per December 31, 2015 and exclude plans in SVG because there is no (net) impact on the net defined benefit liability in KPN’s Statement of Financial Position and no associated risk for KPN. If more than one of the assumptions change, the impact would not necessarily be equal to the total impact of changes in those assumptions in isolation. 131 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Plan assets The assets of all defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following (in millions of EUR): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total Equity securities – Europe 211 – 211 217 – 217 – North America 366 – 366 385 – 385 – Asia 13 – 13 18 – 18 – South America 119 – 119 101 – 101 – Other 38 – 38 67 – 67 – Total 747 – 747 42% 788 – 788 44% Fixed Income securities including inflation linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating) – AAA 206 – 206 124 – 124 – AA 271 – 271 195 – 195 – A 124 – 124 156 – 156 – BBB 118 – 118 89 – 89 – < BBB 91 – 91 127 – 127 – no rating 13 – 13 97 – 97 – Total 823 – 823 46% 788 – 788 44% Real estate1 – 18 18 1% – 25 25 1% Commodities 2 5 – 5 – 7 – 7 – Derivatives3 – 25 25 2% – 43 43 2% Other (including insurance contracts) 91 71 162 9% 54 111 165 9% Total 1,666 114 1,780 100% 1,637 179 1,816 100% 1) At December 31, 2015, and 2014, all investments in real estate were 3) Includes interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and put options on equity located in Europe. securities. Reference is made to the description of the strategic investment 2) Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related policies for an explanation of the use of these financial derivatives. to commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals. Strategic investment policies regulatory body for pension funds (in the Netherlands, the The strategic investment portfolios at the end of 2015 of the regulatory body is ‘De Nederlandsche Bank’). The SVG uses defined benefit plans (before hedging) were as follows: interest rate swaps to mitigate the interest rate risk on the obligations (on local funding basis). Around 60% of the Other interest rate risk is effectively hedged. Currency risks on the plans Getronics Getronics (weighted main foreign currencies are fully hedged for the total portfolio. SVG UK US average) The risks of a decline in equity prices are not hedged. A decline Equity securities 36% 100% 60% – in the value of the SVG’s assets has no risk for KPN as KPN has Fixed income no other obligation than to reimburse administration expenses securities (including related to the SVG plans. inflation linked bonds) 60% – 40% – Real estate 4% – – – In the UK, a roadmap is in place to shift from investments in Other – – – 100% equity securities to fixed income securities, when the coverage ratio reaches certain thresholds. In the US, KPN seeks to grow Total 100% 100% 100% 100% the funded status of the main pension plan to a level of 95% to 100% of the economic value of the plan’s liability value in The SVG’s investment strategy is determined based on an the foreseeable future. The Getronics UK pension fund does asset-liability management (ALM) study in consultation with not hedge interest rate risks, currency risks and equity risks. investment advisors and within the boundaries given by the The Getronics US pension fund does not hedge currency and equity risks but partially hedges interest rate risk. 132 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information As the pension funds mainly invest in the global investment Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately funds, a minor part of these investments could be related in the Statement of OCI. to KPN equities. The pension funds do not have direct investments in KPN equities. Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Expected contributions and benefits In 2015, the total employer’s contributions and benefit The amount of pension costs included in operating payments for all defined benefit and defined contribution expenses with respect to defined benefit plans consist plans amounted to EUR 128 million (excluding discontinued of service cost, past service costs, curtailments and operations), consisting of EUR 88 million for defined settlements and administration costs. Net interest on contribution plans, EUR 16 million for employer’s defined the net defined benefit liability is presented as part benefit premiums and EUR 24 million benefit payments for of finance costs. unfunded plans. For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution The amount of employer’s contributions in 2016 for the plan, KPN recognizes contributions as an expense when remaining defined benefit pension plans is estimated to be an employee has rendered service in exchange for EUR 35 million for both funded and unfunded plans. The total those contributions. amount of employer’s premiums to be paid in 2016 for the defined contribution plans is estimated to be EUR 82 million. Accounting policy: Provisions for retirement benefit obligations Pension obligations The liability recognized in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of all pension and early retirement plans that qualify as defined benefit obligation is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Statement of Financial Position date less the fair value of plan assets. KPN uses actuarial calculations (projected unit credit method) to measure the obligations and the costs. For the calculation, actuarial assumptions are made about demographic variables (such as employee turnover and mortality) and financial variables (such as future indexation and the Meteorologist Melody Sturm: discount rate). The discount rate is determined by reference to market rates. These are interest rates of high-quality “I love chasing a really dangerous corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefit will be paid and that have terms to storm as it passes over” maturity, approximating the terms of the related liability. Watch Melody’s story: A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined kpn.com/annualreport/melodysturm benefit plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a net defined benefit asset in such a case only when future economic benefits are available to KPN in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. 133 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [24] Provisions for other liabilities Personnel (redundancy obligations) and charges During 2015 and 2014, KPN continued to substantially reduce its staff. The restructuring provision relating to FTE reduction December December amounted to EUR 38 million as at December 31, 2015 (2014: Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 EUR 35 million). A total amount of EUR 89 million (2014: EUR 84 Restructuring provision 79 76 million) is added to the restructuring provision. Asset retirement obligations 36 67 Asset retirement obligations Other provisions 41 61 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Balance 156 204 Balance as of January 1 67 66 – of which: non-current 97 136 – of which: current 59 68 Additions – 1 Usage -1 -1 Restructuring provision Changes in assumptions 4 5 The restructuring provision consists of the following components: Release -9 -4 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Unwinding of discount and changes in discount rate through profit or loss – 1 Personnel (redundancy obligations) 38 35 Transferred to held for sale -25 -1 Contractual obligations 41 41 Balance as of December 31 36 67 Restructuring provision 79 76 – of which: current 3 1 Of the restructuring provision, an amount of EUR 47 million has a term of less than one year (2014: EUR 45 million), The asset retirement obligations at December 31, 2015 EUR 16 million of provisions has a term of between one amounted to EUR 36 million (2014: EUR 67 million), of which and five years (2014: EUR 18 million) and EUR 16 million EUR 18 million (2014: EUR 17 million) has a term of less than has a term of more than five years (2014: EUR 13 million). five years. The main assumptions of calculation for the asset retirement obligations relate to the estimated costs of removal, The movements in the restructuring provision are as follows: discount rate and estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset. The discount rate for 2015 is 1.4% (2014: 1.5%). Personnel Contractual Total Balance as of January 1, 2014 50 45 95 As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for landlords to tolerate cables which are part of a public electronic – of which: current portion 50 10 60 communications network, terminates as soon as those cables have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. In that Additions 84 15 99 situation, a public electronic communications network supplier Releases -12 -3 -15 is required to remove cables on request by a landlord. Due to the fact that the date when the cables will become idle is uncertain Usage -83 -15 -98 and KPN is not able to predict whether and when a landlord Transferred to held for sale -4 -1 -5 will place a request for removal, KPN is not able to make a Balance as of December 31, 2014 35 41 76 reliable estimate of the impact and therefore no provision was – of which: current portion 35 10 45 recognized at December 31, 2015 nor at December 31, 2014. Other provisions Additions 89 11 100 The movements in other provisions are as follows: Releases – -3 -3 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Usage -87 -8 -95 Balance as of January 1 61 122 Transferred to held for sale 1 – 1 Balance as of December 31, 2015 38 41 79 Additions 16 32 – of which: current portion 38 9 47 Usage -27 -97 Transferred to held for sale -6 – Other movements -3 4 Balance as of December 31 41 61 – of which: current 9 22 134 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Other provisions relate to various risks and commitments, [25] Deferred income, claims and litigations (refer to Note 30) and onerous contracts. trade and other payables Of the Other provisions, approximately EUR 9 million had a term of less than one year (2014: EUR 22 million), EUR 8 million Other payables and deferred income (non-current) had a term of between one and five years (2014: EUR 3 million) and EUR 24 million had a term of more than five years (2014: December December EUR 36 million). Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 Non-interest-bearing accruals 15 21 Accounting policy: Provisions for other liabilities Deferred income 32 27 and charges Cash-settled share plans 6 3 Provisions for items such as asset retirement obligations, Other payables 12 13 restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when KPN has a present legal or constructive obligation as Total 65 64 a result of past events, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the Deferred income concerns amounts received in advance for obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. deferred connections fees and other revenues that will be recognized in the future. Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present Trade and other payables (current) obligation at the Statement of Financial Position date. The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Trade payables 774 819 Deferred income 247 346 Termination benefits Accrued interest 278 268 Termination benefits are payable when employment is Accrued expenses 540 879 terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for Social security and other taxes payable 228 223 these benefits. KPN recognizes termination benefits when Other payables 23 24 KPN is demonstrably committed either to terminating the Total 2,090 2,559 employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or to providing Deferred income (current) mainly concerns amounts billed termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage in advance for fixed fees and subscriptions that will be voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months recognized within 12 months. after December 31 are discounted to present value. Other long-term employee obligations Accounting policy: Deferred Income, These employee benefits include jubilee or other longtrade and other payables service benefits, long-term disability benefits and, if they Other payables and deferred income (non-current) and are not fully payable within 12 months after the end of the trade and other payables (current) classify as ‘loans and period, bonuses and deferred compensation. The expected borrowings’ within KPN’s financial liabilities. For the costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of accounting policy, refer to Note 22. employment using an accounting method similar to that for defined benefit pension plans, except that actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs are recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. 135 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [26] Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments (valued at fair value) can be broken down as follows: December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 Assets 632 328 Non-current 530 328 Current 102 – Liabilities -20 -198 Non-current -17 -191 Current -3 -7 Total derivative financial instruments 612 130 – of which: designated in a hedge relationship 349 131 – of which: call option Telefónica Deutschland – -3 – of which: forward exchange contracts 1 1 – of which: other derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedge relationship 262 1 The ineffective portion of the fair value hedges and cash flow hedges during 2015 recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss resulted in a loss of EUR 9 million (2014: EUR 7 million loss). KPN reports its derivatives positions on the balance sheet on a gross basis. Part of the derivatives portfolio is subject to master netting agreements that allow netting under certain circumstances. If netting had been applied, the total derivatives asset position would be EUR 612 million and the total derivatives liability position would be zero at December 31, 2015 (asset position of EUR 161 million and liability position of EUR 31 million at December 31, 2014). Bonds denominated in foreign currency All bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with cross-currency swaps. The swaps are used to mitigate the exposure on currency risk and interest rate risk. KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in foreign currency to Euro and by hedging the interest rate exposure by swapping the fixed interest rates in foreign currency to fixed rates in Euro. The hedges are until maturity of the underlying senior bonds, or until the first call date in case of the hybrid bonds. For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies, cash flow hedge accounting. KPN determines the effectiveness of the hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. KPN uses the cumulative dollar offset method for its cash flow hedges related to cross-currency swaps. An overview of the cross-currency swaps at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 is presented below (in millions): Fair value in Fair value in Nominal (receive) Coupon (receive) Nominal (pay) Coupon (pay) Maturity date EUR 2015 EUR 20141 GBP 135 5.75%, annual EUR 158 4.89%, annual March 18, 2016 26 16 GBP 96 6.0%, annual EUR 123 4.58%, annual May 29, 2019 8 1 GBP 400 6.875%, annual EUR 460 6.78%, annual March 14, 2020 71 35 USD 600 7.0%, semi-annual EUR 465 6.34%, semi-annual March 28, 2023 66 -15 GBP 400 5.0%, annual EUR 467 5.02%, annual November 11, 2026 30 -5 GBP 850 5.75%, annual EUR 971 5.73%, annual September 17, 2029 103 14 USD 1,000 8.375%, semi-annual EUR 756 8.56%, semi-annual October 1, 2030 45 -154 Total 349 -108 1) Negative amounts are liabilities. 136 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information In November 2014, following the bond tender, KPN settled a cross-currency swap with a notional of GBP 140 million related to the GBP 2016 bond and a cross-currency swap with a notional of GBP 250 million related to the GBP 2019 bond. KPN discontinued cash flow hedge accounting for these two swaps. The remaining outstanding notional of the GBP 2019 bond of GBP 96 million has been fixed with a new swap to a counter value of EUR 123 million with a fixed EUR coupon of approximately 4.58% per annum. KPN applies hedge accounting for this new swap. Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or collateral postings at pre-agreed dates (reference is made to Note 28). Bonds denominated in EUR Since 2011, the Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, 2020, October 4, 2021, and September 30, 2024, have been swapped to a floating rate based on three-month Euribor using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. At inception, the first two years have been fixed with a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap. In subsequent quarters, KPN entered into additional forward starting swaps to maintain a horizon of fixed interest rates of at least one year. In May 2015, KPN changed the interest profile for the bonds that had been swapped to a floating rate. For the bonds in scope, KPN swapped the floating rate exposure to a fixed rate for the remaining maturity of the relevant bond. For the fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, KPN discontinued fair value hedge accounting in May 2015, with the cumulative gain of EUR 224 million amortized to earnings until maturity of the bonds. KPN decided to discontinue hedge accounting to minimize any volatility in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Until May 2015, KPN determined the effectiveness of these fair value hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis, based on a regression method. KPN did not apply hedge accounting for its floating-to-fixed swaps, which are held at fair value through profit or loss. Since May 2015, KPN also holds the fixed-to-floating swaps at fair value through profit or loss. During 2015, KPN booked a loss in the Statement of Profit or Loss of EUR 8 million, excluding amortization of discontinued fair value hedges (2014: EUR 1 million loss). An overview of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 is presented below (in millions). Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2015 710 EUR September 21, 2020 Floating Fixed None 66 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Floating Fixed None 58 595 EUR September 30, 2024 Floating Fixed None 84 710 EUR September 21, 2020 Fixed Floating None -9 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Fixed Floating None -7 595 EUR September 30, 2024 Fixed Floating None -5 Total 187 Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2014 710 EUR September 21, 2020 Floating Fixed Fair value 75 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Floating Fixed Fair value 66 595 EUR September 30, 2024 Floating Fixed Fair value 97 710 EUR September 21, 2016 Fixed Floating None -4 500 EUR October 4, 2016 Fixed Floating None -3 600 EUR September 30, 2015 Fixed Floating None -3 Total 228 137 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Reggefiber In general, KPN designates derivatives related to loans as As of December 31, 2014, Reggefiber had floating-to-fixed either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. KPN applies interest rate swaps with a notional of EUR 25 million. hedge accounting as this recognizes the offsetting effects These swaps were related to an amortizing floating-rate on profit or loss of changes in the fair values of the hedging loan and were held at fair value through profit or loss instrument and the hedged item (borrowings) and/or in KPN’s Financial Statements. The swaps were terminated forecasted transactions. in January 2015 due to the redemption of the loan. At the inception of transactions, KPN documents the Foreign exchange contracts relationship between the derivative and hedged item (such The fair value of foreign exchange exposure hedge contracts as the underlying loan), as well as the objective of the risk is determined using market forward exchange rates at the management and the strategy for undertaking transactions. balance sheet date. As of December 31, 2015, the contract In the documentation, it is also stated whether the hedge volume amounted to EUR 69 million (2014: EUR 114 million), relationship is expected to be effective – at inception and with a fair value of EUR 1 million (2014: EUR 1 million). on an ongoing basis – and how the effectiveness is tested. All foreign exchange contracts had maturities shorter than one year. Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is designated as a fair value hedge and qualifies For further details on derivative financial instruments, as such, along with the gain or loss on the hedged item reference is made to Note 28. that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in the Statement of Profit or Loss as finance cost (in case Accounting policy: Financial assets at fair value of negative changes to the fair value) or finance income through profit or loss (in case of positive net changes to the fair value). This category of ‘financial assets’ has two subcategories: financial assets held for trading and those designated Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which at fair value through profit or loss at inception. is designated as a cash flow hedge and qualifies as such, are recorded in the Statement of OCI for the effective part, Financial assets held for trading are classified in this until the profit or loss are affected by the variability in cash category when acquired principally for the purpose of flows of the designated hedged item. The ineffective part of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management. the cash flow hedge is recognized in the Statement of Profit Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, or Loss as finance cost (in case of negative changes to the are classified as held for trading except when they are fair value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes designated as effective hedge instruments under IAS 39 to the fair value). ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. If an underlying transaction has ceased to be an effective Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are hedge or in case of early redemption of the hedged item, recognized in the Statement of Financial Position at their KPN discontinues hedge accounting prospectively which fair value with net changes in the fair value presented as means that subsequent changes in the fair value are finance costs (in case of negative net changes to the fair recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss, under ‘finance value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes income’ or ‘finance costs’. The cumulative amount recorded to the fair value) in the Statement of Profit or Loss. in the Statement of OCI is released in profit or loss. The full fair value of the derivatives is classified as a Accounting policy: Derivative financial instruments non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of and hedging activities the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized asset or liability if the remaining maturity is less than at fair value. Subsequently, KPN measures all derivative 12 months. financial instruments based on fair values derived from market prices of the instruments or valuation techniques such as discounted cash flows. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the instruments are recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss as finance cost (in case of negative net changes to the fair value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes to the fair value) during the period in which they arise to the extent that the derivatives have no hedging designation or they are ineffective. 138 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [27] Net cash flow used in investing Accounting policy: Statement of Cash Flows and financing activities The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect method. Cash flows denominated in currencies other than Investing activities EUR are translated at average exchange rates. Cash flows Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets in 2015 consists relating to interest and taxes on profits and tax deductions of the proceeds of the successful completion of the accelerated on perpetual hybrid bonds are included in the cash flow bookbuild offering to institutional investors of 150 million from operating activities. shares in Telefónica Deutschland at a price of EUR 5.37 per share, realizing EUR 805 million of proceeds (see Note 14). The consideration paid in cash for newly acquired KPN Group companies and associated companies is included in The amount of acquisitions of subsidiaries, associates and joint the cash flow from investing activities net of cash acquired. ventures in the Statement of Cash Flows in 2015 mainly consists Cash flows resulting from the acquisition or disposal of KPN of the acquisition of Internedservices Group and in 2014 the Group companies are disclosed separately. Investments in acquisition of the remaining 49% of the shares in Reggefiber property, plant and equipment, which are financed by for a total amount of EUR 771 million less cash acquired of financial leases, are not included in the cash flow used EUR 40 million (refer also to Note 29). in investing activities. The proceeds from the sale of E-Plus in 2014 of EUR 4,516 million (net of cash transferred) are included in net cash flow [28] Capital and Financial from investing activities from discontinued operations (see Note 19). Risk Management Loans to associates and joint ventures in 2014, mainly Capital management concerned shareholder loans provided to Reggefiber until Financing policy consolidation as of November 1, 2014. KPN is committed to strive for the right balance between a prudent financing policy, investments in the business and Other current financial assets investments in 2015 includes shareholder remuneration. KPN is committed to an investment short-duration fixed income funds for EUR 225 million grade credit profile. It is KPN’s policy to utilize its excess cash and bank deposits with initial maturities of longer than for operational and financial flexibility, (small) in-country three months for EUR 50 million (2014: EUR 300 million, mergers and acquisitions and/or shareholder remuneration. see Note 17). The table on the next page shows the calculation of KPN’s Financing activities Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, which is based on numbers including On December 1, 2014, KPN redeemed EUR 499 million of BASE Company. A number of corrections were made to the loans outstanding at Reggefiber ahead of their stated maturity. borrowings in Note 22 in order to arrive at the Net Debt for the Net Debt/EBITDA calculation. On November 7, 2014, KPN completed a tender offer, in which KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR 1,799 The difference between carrying value and nominal value million of eight of its Eurobonds with maturities between 2016 includes (1) carrying value adjustments resulting from current and 2024. Including tender premiums and fees, the bonds were and discontinued fair value hedges and (2) in case of foreign repurchased for a total amount of EUR 2,034 million (excluding currency bonds the difference between the nominal amount accrued interest of EUR 52 million). KPN also settled certain at the prevailing spot rate and the swapped nominal amount interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps related to the in EUR. Eurobonds maturing in 2016, 2019, 2020 and 2024, which resulted in a cash inflow of EUR 76 million (including accrued interest of EUR 4 million). The tender was financed with available cash. Scheduled bond redemptions resulted in net financing cash flows during 2014 and 2015. Reference is made to Note 22 for further details. School pupil Madelon van Beek: “Games, apps, FaceTime, just a lot” Watch Madelon’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/madelonvanbeek 139 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 In May 2015, KPN received a dividend of EUR 146 million Total borrowings (carrying values, over 2014 from its 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland. KPN excluding derivatives) [22] 9,700 10,441 distributed this dividend to KPN shareholders in August 2015, Bank overdraft (included in net cash as an additional interim cash dividend per share of EUR 0.034. and cash equivalents) [18] -4 -31 In November 2015, KPN sold 150 million shares in Telefónica Perpetual hybrid bonds 1,100 1,100 Deutschland, realizing EUR 805 million in proceeds. KPN 50% equity credit for hybrid bonds -1,013 -1,013 intends to distribute approximately 70% of the proceeds of the transaction to its shareholders in 2016 in the form Cash collateral on derivatives -56 -100 of a capital repayment. Difference between carrying value and nominal value -1,061 -821 KPN’s shareholder remuneration policy may change and is Adjusted gross debt 8,666 9,576 based on a number of assumptions concerning future events Cash and cash equivalents and is subject to uncertainties and risks that are outside (including held for sale) 1,579 1,976 KPN’s control. Bank overdraft -4 -31 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,575 1,945 Financial risk management Short-term investments 575 300 KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability Net Debt 6,516 7,331 of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse Normalized EBITDA1 2,591 2,662 effects on KPN’s financial position and performance. KPN Net Debt/EBITDA 2.5x 2.8x uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures (see Note 26). 1) For 2014, normalized EBITDA differs from adjusted EBITDA for an amount of EUR 89 million relating to Reggefiber. The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. under policies approved by the Board of Management. These policies are established to identify and analyze financial risks KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation and faced by KPN, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and impairments of property, plant and equipment and amortization to monitor adherence to those limits. Treasury manages these and impairments of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition risks in close cooperation with the Group companies, business of EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before operations and other corporate departments. During 2014 and interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not 2015, several Treasury policies were reviewed and approved be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the by the Board of Management. KPN’s key Treasury risks are results as reported under IFRS. In the Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, the following: KPN defines Net Debt as the nominal value of interest-bearing •• Credit and counterparty risk; financial liabilities excluding derivatives and related collateral, •• Liquidity risk; and representing the net repayment obligations in EUR, taking •• Market risk. into account 50% of the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net cash and short-term investments, In addition, KPN’s Treasury department provides cash and defines normalized EBITDA as a 12-month rolling total management and funding services to the Group companies excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major changes and business operations. in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals). This Note presents information about the Group’s exposure Shareholder remuneration to each of the above-mentioned risks, the Group’s objectives, In 2014, KPN recommenced dividend payments and paid policies and processes for measuring and managing risks. a total dividend per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout KPN intends to pay a dividend per share of EUR 0.08 in respect these Financial Statements. of 2015 (not including dividends related to the Telefónica Deutschland shareholding). In September 2015, KPN already paid an interim dividend per share of EUR 0.03 in respect of 2015. 140 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The table below summarizes the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Amounts in millions of EUR Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets Fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives – non-current [26] 530 530 328 328 Derivatives – current [26] 102 102 – – Loans and receivables: Non-current receivables from financial leases [15] 2 2 2 2 Loans to associates and joint ventures [13] 20 20 19 19 Trade receivable [15] 378 378 514 514 Other receivables [15] 30 30 36 36 Other current financial assets [17] 575 575 300 300 Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,446 1,446 1,976 1,976 Subtotal 3,083 3,083 3,175 3,175 Available-for-sale financial assets [14] 2,272 2,272 2,713 2,713 Total 5,355 5,355 5,888 5,888 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives – non-current [26] 17 17 191 191 Derivatives – current [26] 3 3 7 7 Subtotal 20 20 198 198 Loans and borrowings: Borrowings [22] 9,700 10,525 10,441 11,556 Trade payables [25] 774 774 819 819 Other payables and accrued expenses and interest [25] 841 841 1,171 1,171 Subtotal 11,315 12,140 12,431 13,546 Total 11,335 12,160 12,629 13,744 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Privacy Officer Rence Damming: “KPN gives people choice and control in sharing confidential data” Watch Rence’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/rencedamming 141 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value at December 31, 2015. Amounts in millions of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Balance Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 349 – 349 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 207 – 207 Other derivatives – 1 75 76 Short-duration fixed income funds 225 – – 225 Available-for-sale financial assets: Listed securities 2,259 – – 2,259 Unlisted securities – – 13 13 Total assets 2,484 557 88 3,129 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 20 – 20 Total liabilities – 20 – 20 The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value at December 31, 2014. Amounts in millions of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Balance Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 74 – 74 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 238 – 238 Other derivatives – 1 15 16 Available-for-sale financial assets: Listed securities 2,703 – – 2,703 Unlisted securities – – 10 10 Total assets 2,703 313 25 3,041 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 182 – 182 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 13 – 13 Other derivatives – 3 – 3 Total liabilities – 198 – 198 142 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Fair value estimation the cash flow projections for the first five years were based The fair value of financial instruments traded in active on the business plan as more data regarding historical growth markets is based on quoted market prices. If applicable, rates and EBITDA margins was available, thereby reducing these instruments are included in Level 1. uncertainty about the cash flows. A fixed multiple has been applied to the final year cash flows to determine the terminal An instrument is included in Level 2 if the financial instrument value. The cash flows were discounted using the internal rate is not traded in an active market and if the fair value is of return specific for that type of asset. determined by using valuation techniques based on maximum use of observable market data for all significant inputs. The valuation of available-for-sale unlisted securities is based For the derivatives used for hedging purposes, KPN uses the upon a discounted cash flow model. estimated fair value of financial instruments determined by using available market information and appropriate valuation methods, including relevant credit risks. The estimated fair Credit and counterparty risk value approximates to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction KPN’s financial assets are subject to credit risk and counterparty between market participants at the measurement date. risk. Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset impairment occurring when counterparties are unable to meet their If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on obligations in transactions involving financial instruments. observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3 and the fair value is estimated using models and other KPN has policies with limits for the maximum exposure per valuation methods. To the extent possible, the assumptions counterparty and investment periods, which are primarily and inputs used take into account market pricing information based on minimum credit ratings. These policies have been and expectations. However, such information is by its nature reviewed and updated in 2014 and 2015. It is KPN’s policy subject to uncertainty. Changes arising as new information to invest cash balances with counterparties with a minimum becomes available could impact income or other credit rating equivalent to A3 at Moody’s. Cash balances used comprehensive income. for working capital purposes can also reside at (local) banks with lower credit ratings. Following a policy update in 2014, For other financial assets and liabilities, the following KPN is allowed to invest excess cash with tenors up to methods and assumptions were used to determine fair value: 12 months, subject to certain conditions. Capital preservation is the main priority when investing excess cash. •• Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds classified as Borrowings: based on the listed price of the bonds; KPN spreads its cash and cash equivalents balances and •• Cash, cash equivalents, other current financial assets, derivatives over several counterparties. Separate limits are accounts receivable and payable, bank overdrafts: set for counterparties with limited credit risk such as the Dutch as the maturity of these financial instruments is short, State. At December 31, 2015, KPN only invested in deposits with the carrying value approximates to fair value. maturities up to six months, AAA-rated money market funds, repurchase agreements with maturities up to six months and Listed securities include KPN’s shareholding in Telefónica short-duration fixed income funds. The majority of the cash Deutschland (refer to Note 14). balances at year-end 2015 was invested in institutions with a credit rating equivalent to Baa1 at Moody’s or stronger. Other derivatives in Level 3 include the option to acquire the remaining stake of 87.5% in GroupIT B.V. (see Note 20 under It is KPN’s policy only to enter into new derivative transactions ‘Non-controlling interests’). The value of this option has been with counterparties with a minimum credit rating equivalent to estimated based on a Binomial Tree Approach. The main input A2 at Moody’s. KPN has its derivative instruments outstanding parameters are the risk-free rate, dividend yield, asset volatility with financial institutions that had a credit rating equivalent and more importantly the expected volatility and starting value to Baa1 or higher with Moody’s at December 31, 2015. of the asset. The expected volatility was estimated based on observed historical volatility of comparable assets. The starting KPN takes into account credit risk for the valuations of its value of the asset was determined by using the discounted cash derivatives portfolio, based on IFRS 13. As at December 31, 2015, flow method. Key assumptions used in the cash flow projections KPN recorded a loss of EUR 2 million in the Statement of Profit are estimated EBITDA, estimated capital expenditures and and Loss, related to interest rate swaps recorded as fair value the estimated change in working capital, on a stand-alone hedges (2014: loss of EUR 7 million). As at December 31, 2015, basis so without synergies. For the valuation at December 31, and December 31, 2014, KPN recorded no gain or loss in 2014, the cash flow projections for the first five years were Other Comprehensive Income, related to cross-currency management’s best estimate based on the low end of swaps recorded as cash flow hedges. a range of business plan scenarios. At December 31, 2015, 143 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements During 2015 and 2014, KPN monitored counterparty risk on doubtful receivables. Receivables relating to integrated, cash and derivatives on a regular basis, based on counterparty outsourced and managed ICT solutions are monitored on an credit ratings and other metrics, including Credit Default Swap individual basis. Reference is made to Note 15 for ‘Accounting (CDS) levels of the counterparties. In addition, KPN monitors Policies – trade and other receivables’. concentration risk on investments in money market funds through the percentage of the total fund size owned. Guarantees The Group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled using restrictive to wholly owned subsidiaries. As at December 31, 2015, KPN policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is focused has parent guarantees (based on Article 403, Part 9, Book 2 on mobile services as the credit risk is considered to be the of the Dutch Civil Code) and bank guarantees outstanding highest within this part of KPN’s business. Before accepting to third parties for various Dutch wholly owned subsidiaries. certain new customers in this segment, KPN requests credit watchers to provide credit management reports. In addition, On December 31, 2015, KPN’s total outstanding bank KPN keeps track of the payment performance of customers. guarantees amounted to EUR 15 million (2014: EUR 20 million), In case customers fail to meet set criteria, payment issues have which were issued in the ordinary course of business. to be solved before a new transaction with these customers will be entered into. Maximum exposure to credit risk As KPN does not provide financial guarantees other than to Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables wholly owned subsidiaries, the carrying amount of financial are limited due to the Group’s large and unrelated customer assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum base. The Board of Management believes there is no additional exposure to credit risk at reporting date amounts to the total credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for of the financial assets including cash (EUR 5,355million at December 31, 2015 and EUR 5,888 million at December 31, 2014). Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations associated with financial instruments as they become due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group. This means that KPN secures its bond redemptions well ahead of their stated maturities. KPN has a EUR 2.0 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2018 which was undrawn on December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of December 31, 2015. Borrowings Derivatives Trade and other Derivatives Derivatives payables Interest on Financial inflow outflow and Bonds and bonds and lease Other (including (including accrued Amounts in millions of EUR loans 1 loans obligations 2 debt interest) interest) expenses Total 2016 829 447 11 98 -492 388 1,337 2,618 2017 750 394 10 – -296 221 – 1,079 2018 – 358 8 – -296 221 – 291 2019 881 358 8 – -428 344 – 1,163 2020 723 294 7 – -834 675 – 865 2021–2030 4,705 1,775 37 – -4,871 4,045 – 5,691 2031 and subsequent years 1,146 4 – – – – – 1,150 Contractual cash flows 9,034 3,630 81 98 -7,217 5,894 1,337 12,857 1) The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are included with final maturities in 2073 2) Interest payments on the GBP and USD hybrid bonds (EUR 76 million (redemption of EUR 1,096 million). The EUR perpetual hybrid bond is not per year until the first call date in 2020) are not included. KPN may, at its included as it has no stated maturity date. Please see Note 22 for more discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of information on the hybrid bonds. interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at the latest at redemption in 2073, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. For similar reasons, interest payments on the EUR hybrid bond have been excluded as well. Please see Note 22 for more information on the hybrid bonds. 144 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of December 31, 2014. Borrowings Derivatives Trade and other Derivatives Derivatives payables Interest on Financial inflow outflow and Bonds and bonds and lease Other (including (including accrued Amounts in millions of EUR loans1 loans2 obligations debt interest) interest) expenses Total 2015 1,004 476 12 32 -288 231 1,759 3,226 2016 823 435 10 5 -461 382 – 1,194 2017 755 383 8 – -276 212 – 1,082 2018 5 348 7 – -276 212 – 296 2019 879 347 7 – -400 335 – 1,168 2020–2029 4,470 1,869 51 – -4,377 3,871 – 5,884 2030 and subsequent years 1,882 75 – – -893 821 – 1,885 Contractual cash flows 9,818 3,933 95 37 -6,971 6,064 1,759 14,735 1) The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are included with final maturities 2) Interest payments on the GBP and USD hybrid bonds (EUR 70 million in 2073 (redemption of EUR 1,008 million). The EUR perpetual per year until the first call date in 2020) are not included. KPN may, at hybrid bond is not included as it has no stated maturity date. its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments Please see Note 22 for more information on the hybrid bonds. of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at the latest at redemption in 2073, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. For similar reasons, interest payments on the EUR hybrid bond have been excluded as well. The undiscounted value of the financial lease obligations In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents and amounts to EUR 81 million at December 31, 2015 (2014: EUR 95 short-term investments, cash flows from operations and cash million). The financial lease obligations primarily include lease flows from any further sales of non-core assets, KPN has the obligations for buildings leased by KPN (see also Note 12) and following financing resources available: handsets. Some of these lease arrangements for buildings include an option to extend the lease term. Multi-currency revolving credit facility KPN has a EUR 2.0 billion syndicated Revolving Credit Facility Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or with 14 relationship banks and a final maturity in July 2018. collateral postings at pre-agreed dates, in order to mitigate The credit facility does not contain any financial covenants. counterparty exposure during the life of the swap. These reset clauses will result in early Euro settlement obligations in cash As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, KPN had with the swap counterparty, which could lead to additional no drawings on its credit facility. cash inflows or outflows before maturity. During 2015, KPN received collateral of EUR 191 million (2014: paid EUR 94 Overdraft facilities million), according to pre-agreed settlement schedules. In During 2015, KPN had four uncommitted overdraft facilities order to reduce liquidity risks, the reset clauses or collateral with four banks amounting to EUR 175 million in total (2014: postings of these derivatives are spread over different points EUR 200 million). The overdraft facilities may be canceled at in time and are not more frequent than annually per swap, any time and do not have a specified maturity date. As of except for one counterparty. December 31, 2015 and 2014, there were no amounts drawn under any of the overdraft facilities, except for bank overdrafts With regard to other purchase and capital commitments, under cash pool agreements. reference is made to Note 30. Global Medium Term Note Program Available financing sources 2015 KPN updated its Global Medium Term Note (‘GMTN’) program As of December 31, 2015, KPN held a net cash and cash in March 2015. The program does not contain any commitment equivalents position amounting to EUR 1,575 million, including from investors to provide funding to KPN. Funding will be cash of BASE Company which is classified as held for sale, and available subject to market conditions and other factors at short-term investments of EUR 575 million. In principle, net the relevant time. cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are at disposal to KPN on a group level, except for limited amounts of Capital Resources Covenants cash held at local subsidiaries. KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following covenants as at December 31, 2015, which could trigger additional financial obligations or early redemption of the outstanding indebtedness. 145 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements All of KPN’s senior bonds issued after January 1, 2006 (EUR 6.7 KPN’s policy is to apply hedge accounting for derivative financial billion at December 31, 2015) and the EUR 50 million private instruments related to interest rate risk and foreign exchange placement issued in 2012 contain a change of control clause risk for bonds that are not denominated in Euro. KPN applies by means of which KPN may be required to redeem such hedge accounting for derivative financial instruments related outstanding bonds early, in the event that (i) certain changes to bonds denominated in Euro if it minimizes expected volatility of control occur and (ii) within the change of control period in the Statement of Profit or Loss provided the criteria are met a rating downgrade to sub-investment grade occurs in respect regarding formal designation and documentation of the hedge of that change of control. The change of control period ends relationship, the risk management objective, the strategy for 90 days after the change of control event occurs. undertaking the hedge and the effectiveness of the hedge. KPN tests effectiveness of the hedge relationship at inception KPN’s hybrid bonds contain a change of control clause by means and every quarter. Reference is made to Note 26. of which KPN has the option to repurchase the hybrid bonds at par. A 5% interest step-up applies if a rating downgrade occurs Foreign currency exchange rate risk during the change of control period in respect of that change The Group’s primary activities are denominated in Euro. of control. Accordingly, the Euro is the Company’s functional currency, which is also the Group’s presentation currency. Items included In addition, many of KPN’s capital resources contain a covenant in the financial information of individual entities in the Group prohibiting KPN from entering into any amalgamation, demerger, are measured using the individual entity’s functional currency, merger, corporate restructuring or reorganization, unless prior which is the currency of the primary economic environment written consent has been given by a majority of the lenders or in which the entity operates. bondholders or the resulting company assumes all of the rights and obligations with respect to the loans or bonds. Currency exchange risk is the risk that the future cash flows will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2014, one of the subsidiaries of Reggefiber The risk mainly results from settlement of international had notes outstanding issued in 2013 with final maturity in telecommunications traffic and purchase of goods and 2023, which were subject to financial covenants customary equipment and primarily consists of GBP and USD exposure. in project financing. These notes were redeemed in 2015. Foreign currency exchange rate risks related to bonds that There have been no covenant breaches between issuance are not denominated in Euro are hedged into EUR in line and redemption of the notes. with KPN’s hedging policies. As a result of currency fluctuations, the value of subsidiaries Market risk operating outside the Eurozone markets could fluctuate and affect KPN’s financial position and equity positions from year KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the to year. These translation exposures are not hedged. ordinary course of business. These risks include: Group companies and business operations are obliged •• Foreign currency exchange rate risk; to hedge their firm commitments and highly predictable •• Interest rate risk; and anticipated transactions in non-functional currencies by •• Other market price risk. forward contracts transacted with KPN’s Treasury department. Accordingly, Treasury matches and manages the intercompany KPN has established policies that deal with the use of and external exposures using forward exchange contracts. KPN derivative financial instruments in order to reduce foreign does not apply hedge accounting for these hedge instruments. currency exposure and to manage the interest rate profile. KPN’s centralized Treasury department matches and manages Reference is made to Note 2 for the accounting policies on intercompany and external foreign currency exposures foreign currency transactions and Note 8 for the recognized reported by the various business operations and Group exchange rate differences in the Statement of Profit or Loss. companies. Hedges are applied on a full coverage basis, if economically feasible. As of December 31, 2015 approximately 99% of cash and cash equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of In line with these policies, derivative financial instruments are the related entities. At December 31, 2015 more than 96% used solely for the purpose of hedging underlying exposures of the net amount of trade receivables and more than 89% to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. of the amount of trade payables was outstanding in the Contracts related to derivative financial instruments are functional currency of the related entities. entered into for periods consistent with the underlying exposures (if economically feasible) and do not constitute positions independent of these exposures. 146 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information As of December 31, 2015, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis With regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically with regard to changes in foreign exchange rates for entities evaluates the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate with a functional currency different from Euro. All changes liabilities. In May 2015, KPN changed the interest profile for the in foreign exchange rates and resulting sensitivities do not bonds that had been swapped to a floating rate. For the bonds have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of in scope, KPN swapped the floating rate exposure to a fixed Profit or Loss, or Equity, and do not have any impact on the rate for the remaining maturity of the relevant bonds. cash flow statement. As of December 31, 2015, all of KPN’s interest-bearing gross Interest rate risk and interest rate profile debt excluding bank overdraft was at fixed interest rates Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash (2014: 100%). Any interest exposure longer than one year flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of is considered to be fixed. With a view to the existing and changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, cash forecasted debt structure, KPN’s Treasury department could and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. As KPN enter into additional future derivative instruments to adjust has a mix of financial instruments bearing a floating or a fixed the mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. interest rate, KPN is subject to risk from movements in interest rates. An unfavorable interest rate movement would result in Other market price risk additional financial expenses. KPN does not enter into commodity contracts other than for its own use to meet the Group’s expected usage. KPN has Since 2011, the Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, entered into energy contracts for own use with a nominal 2020, October 4, 2021 and September 30, 2024 have been amount of approximately EUR 26 million at December 31, 2015 swapped to a floating rate based on three-month Euribor (2014: EUR 30 million). Reference is made to Note 30. using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. KPN swapped part of the floating rate exposure back to fixed rates, by entering into Sensitivity analysis forward starting swaps to maintain a horizon of fixed interest As of December 31, 2015, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis rates of at least one year. Following the bond tender in with regard to interest rate risk on interest-bearing liabilities. November 2014, some of these swaps have been settled. With all other variables held constant, each adverse change Please refer to Note 26 for further information. of 100 basis points in six-month Euribor would hypothetically on balance not result in higher interest costs per annum (2014: none) because all interest-bearing liabilities carried a fixed interest rate. Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2015, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk and currency on the cash flow hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedges on all bonds not denominated in Euro. With all other variables held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. This would hypothetically result in a higher or lower value on the balance of the hedge reserve, which is included in equity attributable to equity holders. In a similar way, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in the EUR/USD rate and the EUR/GBP rate, holding all other variables constant. The results of the analyses are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical impact on the balance of the hedge reserve as at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014: Amounts in millions of EUR1 GBP USD Total (before tax) Change 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Change in interest rate +2%-point 38 11 14 -38 52 -27 +1%-point 20 6 8 -19 28 -13 -1%-point -22 -7 -11 21 -33 14 -2%-point -46 -14 -25 43 -71 29 Change in FX rate +20%-point 136 144 145 135 281 279 +10%-point 75 79 79 74 154 153 -10%-point -91 -97 -97 -90 -188 -187 -20%-point -205 -217 -218 -202 -423 -419 1) A  mounts do not correspond to the 2014 Financial Statements and reflect updated methodology. 147 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective. As a consequence, the expected impact on the Statement of Profit or Loss is immaterial. Fair value hedges KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk on the fair value hedges. As of December 31, 2014, KPN applied fair value hedge accounting on Euro-denominated bonds that were swapped from a fixed rate to a floating rate. With all other variables held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. The impact on the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Profit or Loss was immaterial, since the hedges were highly effective. As of December 31, 2015, KPN did not apply fair value hedge accounting anymore. As a result, the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rate would be zero. Derivatives held at fair value As of December 31, 2015, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to the interest rate swaps for which no hedge accounting is applied. All changes in interest rates and resulting sensitivities have only profit or loss impact and no cash flow impact. The sensitivities are different between 2014 and 2015, because a larger part of the interest rate swap portfolio are treated as financial assets and liabilities at fair through profit or loss value since May 2015. Impact profit or loss amounts in millions of EUR Change 2015 2014 Changes in EUR interest rates +2%-point -13 28 +1%-point -7 14 -1%-point 8 -14 -2%-point 15 -29 For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk with regard to pensions, reference is made to Note 23. Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (a) Financial assets The following financial assets of the continuing operations are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts recognized of financial Gross amount financial assets of recognized liabilities set presented in As at December 31, 2015 financial off in the the balance Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR assets balance sheet sheet instruments received Net amount Cash and cash equivalents 1,446 – 1,446 -4 – 1,442 Derivative financial instruments 632 – 632 -20 -147 465 Trade receivables 109 -70 39 – – 39 Accrued income 61 – 61 – – 61 Total 2,248 -70 2,178 -24 -147 2,007 148 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts recognized of financial Gross amount financial assets of recognized liabilities set presented in As at December 31, 2014 Restated financial off in the the balance Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR assets balance sheet sheet instruments received Net amount Cash and cash equivalents 1,976 – 1,976 -31 – 1,945 Derivative financial instruments 328 – 328 -167 – 161 Trade receivables 118 -79 39 – – 39 Accrued income 70 – 70 – – 70 Total 2,492 -79 2,413 -198 – 2,215 (b) Financial liabilities The following financial liabilities of the continuing operations are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts recognized of financial Gross amount financial liabilities of recognized assets set presented in Cash As at December 31, 2015 financial off in the the balance Financial collateral Amounts in millions of EUR liabilities balance sheet sheet instruments paid Net amount Derivative financial instruments 20 – 20 -20 -56 -56 Trade payables 128 -56 72 – – 72 Accrued expenses 97 -14 83 – – 83 Total 245 -70 175 -20 -56 99 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts recognized of financial Gross amount financial liabilities of recognized assets set presented in Cash As at December 31, 2014 Restated financial off in the the balance Financial collateral Amounts in millions of EUR liabilities balance sheet sheet instruments paid Net amount Derivative financial instruments 198 – 198 -168 -100 -70 Trade payables 114 -45 69 – – 69 Accrued expenses 130 -34 96 – – 96 Total 442 -79 363 -168 -100 95 For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both parties elect to settle on a net basis. If parties choose not to settle on a net basis, the financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis. Accounting policy: Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on a net basis on KPN’s Statement of Financial Position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 149 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [29] Business combinations and As part of the purchase agreement, the former shareholders other changes in consolidation of IG are entitled to an additional cash payment in 2017. This earn-out obligation depends on IG’s performance in 2016 and Changes in consolidation in 2015 will be settled in cash in 2017. The maximum amount of this Internedservices Group earn-out obligation is EUR 50 million. KPN recognized an On July 6, 2015, KPN acquired all issued shares of Internedservices earn-out obligation of EUR 10 million representing management’s Group (IG). IG is one of the largest managed hosting and cloud best estimate of the earn-out obligation at discounted value. services providers in the Netherlands. The acquisition fits within Changes in the earn-out obligation after purchase date (July 6, KPN’s strategy to further strengthen its position in the Dutch 2015) are recorded through the Statement of Profit or Loss. cloud computing market. The acquisition of IG enables KPN to expand its managed hosting capabilities and to complement IG has been integrated within KPN’s Business Segment. The its existing proposition with cloud-based workspace solutions goodwill arising from this business combination is non-deductible for smalland medium-sized enterprises. for tax purposes. IG contributes to the net increase of KPN’s cloud services customer base and has been allocated to KPN’s cashThe following table summarizes the fair value of assets acquired generating unit Business. The purchase price allocation remains and liabilities assumed, the total consideration and the goodwill provisional until July 6, 2016 and may be subject to alterations at the date control over IG was obtained (July 6, 2015): based on additional information about facts and circumstances that existed at July 6, 2015. All amounts in millions of EUR Following its consolidation as of July 6, 2015, IG has contributed Recognized amounts of identifiable EUR 13 million to KPN’s consolidated revenues and other income assets acquired and liabilities assumed and a profit of less than EUR 1 million to KPN’s (net) profit Intangible assets [11]1 26 attributable to equity holders. Had KPN obtained 100% Property, plant and equipment [12] 3 ownership of IG before January 1, 2015, the KPN’s Statement Deferred tax assets 1 of Profit or Loss in 2015 would have shown pro-forma total revenues and other income of EUR 7,021 million and a proNet cash and cash equivalents acquired – forma profit attributable to equity holders of EUR 639 million. Trade and other receivables 5 Deferred tax liabilities [9] -7 Reggefiber Non-current borrowings (including loans On January 2, 2014, the option to acquire an additional 9% from Group companies) -4 of the shares in Reggefiber Group BV (Reggefiber) from joint Current borrowings -5 venture partner Reggeborgh was exercised. On October 31, 2014, Trade and other payables and deferred income -7 KPN acquired the additional 9% stake for EUR 161 million, bringing its total ownership to 60%, and obtained control. Total identifiable net assets 12 Therefore, Reggefiber has been consolidated (in full) in the financial statements of KPN as of November 1, 2014. Consideration Purchase consideration paid 65 This acquisition of Reggefiber has been accounted for as a step acquisition. In measuring the goodwill, KPN’s 51% stake in Fair value of earn-out obligation recognized 10 Reggefiber was remeasured to fair value as of November 1, 2014 Total consideration 75 and the corresponding gain of EUR 42 million was recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss as Other financial results Goodwill 63 (refer to Note 8) which was partly offset by the release of the related hedge reserve from equity (via OCI) of EUR 7 million. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Immediately before the acquisition, the options 2 and 3 were 1) Includes a customer base of EUR 25 million. valued at their fair value based on a 100% probability. The step-up for options 2 and 3 compared with their value at January 1, 2014 was EUR 159 million and has been recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss as Other financial results (refer to Note 8). 150 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information On November 18, 2014, KPN reached an agreement with The consolidation of Reggefiber fits perfectly in KPN’s hybrid Reggeborgh to acquire the remaining 40% stake in Reggefiber upgraded copper/Fiber-to-the-Home (FttH) strategy and marks and obtain 100% ownership for EUR 610 million. This resulted another important step to strengthen KPN’s commitment to in a book gain of EUR 25 million recorded under Other FttH in the Netherlands. This, together with the operational financial results (refer to Note 8). On December 1, 2014, synergies, will provide further support for the execution KPN became the 100% shareholder of Reggefiber. No nonof KPN’s strategy in the Netherlands. Reggefiber will be controlling interest in Reggefiber’s equity or profit or loss integrated into KPN’s cash-generating unit NetCo. The was recognized for the period between November 1, 2014 goodwill arising from this business combination is non(date of obtaining control) and December 1, 2014 (date of deductible for tax purposes. It is expected to contribute to obtaining full ownership). the net increase of KPN’s customer base and has provisionally been allocated to KPN’s cash-generating unit NetCo. The following table summarizes the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the total consideration and The purchase price allocation was finalized without alterations the goodwill at the date control over Reggefiber was obtained to the initial allocation at November 1, 2015. (November 1, 2014): Following its consolidation as of November 1, 2014, Reggefiber All amounts in millions or EUR has contributed EUR 1 million to KPN’s consolidated revenues Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and other income and a profit of EUR 1 million to KPN’s (net) and liabilities assumed loss attributable to equity holders. Had KPN obtained 100% Intangible assets [11]1 203 ownership of Reggefiber before January 1, 2014, the KPN Statement of Profit or Loss in 2014 would have shown proProperty, plant and equipment [12]2 1,523 forma total revenues and other income of EUR 7,414 million Deferred tax assets 86 and a pro-forma loss attributable to equity holders of Other non-current assets 35 EUR 521 million. Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 40 Other changes in consolidation Trade and other receivables 37 As of April 15, 2015, BASE Company had been presented Non-controlling interest 1 as disposal group held for sale and discontinued operation Deferred tax liabilities [9] -49 (see Note 19). The sale of BASE Company has been completed Non-current borrowings (including loans on February 11, 2016 (see Note 32). from Group companies) -857 Current borrowings -522 On November 27, 2015, KPN acquired a 100% share in Net Ground BV, a provider of managed servers and services, Derivative financial instruments -17 domain registrations, cloud and webhosting to business Trade and other payables and deferred income -116 customers. This acquisition was not considered material Total identifiable net assets 364 for KPN, therefore disclosures are limited. On December 19, 2014, KPN acquired a 100% share in mobile Consideration virtual network operator MSBN BV and Telenetix BV, which Fair value of KPN’s 51% stake 330 delivers IT services to MSBN BV Furthermore, on August 13, Price paid for the acquisition of the 9% share (option 2) 161 2014, KPN acquired a 100% stake in hosting provider Argeweb Discounted value of the exercise price of Reggeborgh’s BV These acquisitions are on an aggregate level considered not option to sell the remaining 40% share (option 3) 635 material for KPN, therefore disclosures are limited. Fair value of option 2 and 3 [28] -493 Total consideration 633 Goodwill 269 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. 1) Includes customer base for EUR 195 million. 2) Includes fiber network for EUR 1,518 million. 151 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting policy: Business combinations [30] Commitments, contingencies KPN uses the acquisition method of accounting to account and legal proceedings for business combinations. The consideration paid is measured at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity Commitments instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. The consideration paid includes the fair Amounts due by period value of any contingent assets or liabilities resulting from Less More Total Total the arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities Amounts in than 1–5 than December December and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at their millions of EUR 1 year years 5 years 31, 2015 31, 2014 fair values at the acquisition date. When a business Capital and combination is achieved in stages, any previously held purchase equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair commitments 1,086 104 9 1,199 1,895 value and any resulting gain or loss is recognized in the Rental and operational lease Statement of Profit or Loss and the equity interest is then contracts 137 363 230 730 831 considered in the determination of goodwill. Guarantees 20 19 132 171 194 Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value Other 1 – – 1 1 at acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value Total commitments 1,244 486 371 2,101 2,921 of contingent considerations deemed to be an asset or liability are recognized in accordance with IAS 39 The amounts as at December 31, 2015 are excluding ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ in BASE Company. Total commitments of BASE Company as at the Statement of Profit or Loss. Contingent considerations December 31, 2015 are EUR 177 million. The total commitments classified as equity are not remeasured and subsequent of BASE Company as at December 31, 2014 (EUR 226 million) settlement is counted for within equity. are included in the total amount of EUR 2,921 million. For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize any Capital and purchase commitments non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value The capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to or at the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net assets. contractual obligations with regard to network operations Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. and mobile handsets. The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling Rental and operational lease contracts interests recognized and the acquisition date fair value of For buildings, the majority of contracts included rental fees any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair that are subject to a yearly indexation. Some contracts give value of KPN’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded KPN an option to buy the property when the landlord wants as goodwill. If negative goodwill occurs in case of a bargain to sell that property. purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the Statement of Profit or Loss. For site rentals and mobile towers, the majority of agreements included an option for renewal of the contract and rental fees that are subject to a yearly indexation percentage. In addition, the majority of contracts can be canceled by KPN only, with a notice period of 12 months. The minimum non-cancelable sublease amounts expected to be received as at December 31, 2015 amount to EUR 11 million and as at December 31, 2014 EUR 4 million (BASE Company: nil for both year ends). These amounts mainly relate to subleases of buildings, site sharing arrangements and lease handsets. Director Business Operations KPN Alexander van der Hooft: “We make sure datacenters always run smoothly” Watch Alexanders’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/alexandervanderhooft 152 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The total net costs of operating leases and rental contracts commercial, regulatory or other proceedings. Periodically KPN amounted to EUR 209 million in 2015 (2014: EUR 235 million) carefully assesses the likelihood that legal proceedings may and is included in ‘cost of work contracted out and other lead to a legal obligation that may lead to a cash outflow, expenses’ and ‘other operating expenses’ in the Statement and recognizes provisions in such cases/matters if and when of Profit or Loss. The amount related to BASE Company in required. However, the outcome of legal proceedings can 2015 is EUR 33 million (2014: EUR 36 million). The operating however be difficult to predict with certainty, and KPN can lease and rental commitments mainly relate to property, offer no assurances in this regard. plant and equipment. In some cases, the impact of a legal proceeding may be more Accounting policy: Leases of a strategic than a financial nature, and such impact cannot Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion properly be quantified. Below is a description of legal of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset proceedings or contingent liabilities of such nature that are classified as operating leases. The assets remain on could have a material impact for KPN. the Statement of Financial Position and are depreciated over the asset’s useful life. The lease payments received Reggefiber from the lessee are recognized as revenue on On October 31, 2014, the ACM approved the acquisition of a straight-line basis over the lease period. sole control by KPN. Vodafone appealed the ACM decision at the administrative District Court of Rotterdam. This could Payments made by KPN as lessee under operating leases result in the confirmation, amendment or annulment of the are charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straightlicense from the ACM for the acquisition of sole control by KPN line basis over the period of the lease (net of any incentives over Reggefiber. There are no precedents where a license has received from the lessor). If a sale-and-leaseback transaction been annulled, but this could eventually result in an obligation results in an operating lease, the profit or loss is calculated on KPN to release control over Reggefiber. KPN is no party in using the fair value of the assets sold and recognized in the these legal procedures. Statement of Profit or Loss immediately. E-Plus Leases where KPN as lessee has assumed substantially all On June 5, 2015, 1&1 Telecom GmbH and Airdata AG lodged an risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance appeal against the European Commission as regards its merger leases. KPN then recognizes the leased assets on the control decision on the E-Plus transaction between KPN and Statement of Financial Position at the lower of the fair Telefónica (dated July 2, 2014) and requested the EU Court of value and the present value of the minimum lease Justice to annul the decision. In both appeals as summarized payments. The corresponding rental obligations, net of in the Official Journal of the European Union of August 17, finance charges, are included in other long-term payables 2015, the applicants argue that the decision contains a wrong in the Statement of Financial Position. Property, plant and assessment of the commitments. As KPN is no party in these equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated legal procedures KPN relies on the available public information. over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term. If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, Indemnification any excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision by the deferred and recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss Board of Management, which was approved by the Supervisory over the lease term. Board, KPN has indemnified the members and former members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board, as well In case KPN acts as lessor in a finance lease, the transaction as a number of KPN’s officers and directors and former officers is accounted for as a normal sale and the present value and directors, against liabilities, claims, judgments, fines and of the lease payments is recognized as a receivable. penalties incurred by such officer or director as a result of any The difference between the gross receivable and the threatened, pending or completed action, investigation or present value of the receivable is deferred and recognized proceeding (whether civil, criminal or administrative) brought as interest over the lease term. by a third party in relation to acts or omissions in or related to her capacity as officer or director. The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses reimbursed by insurers, nor to an Guarantees officer or a director adjudged to be liable for willful misconduct These commitments consist of financial obligations of Group (‘opzet’) or intentional recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’). companies under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. A total amount of EUR 157 million relates to parent guarantees Please see Note 24 for a contingent liability related to idle (2014: EUR 179 million). cables and the accounting policy of provisions. Contingent liabilities Legal proceedings KPN is involved in a number of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of its business, including 153 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [31] Related-party transactions On March 21, 2014, Discovery Capital Management, LLC notified that it held 3.77% of the voting rights related to KPN enters into agreements and transactions with shareholders, KPN’s ordinary share capital. On October 1, 2014, Franklin joint ventures and associated undertakings for various business Mutual Series Fund, Inc. notified that it held 3.63% of the purposes, including providing services or financing of operating shares and voting rights related to KPN’s ordinary share activities. KPN also enters into such transactions in the ordinary capital. On April 30, 2015, BlackRock, Inc. notified that it held course of business with certain companies or organizations over 5.01% of the shares and 5.87% of the voting rights related to which KPN, members of the Supervisory Board or Board of KPN’s ordinary share capital. To KPN’s knowledge, no other Management may have a significant influence. These relatedshareholder owned 3% or more of KPN’s issued share capital party transactions are described below. KPN considers none of as at December 31, 2015. these transactions to be material on an individual basis, except for the transactions with shareholders. Transactions between KPN did not enter into agreements with AMX or other Group companies are not included in the description as these shareholders which could have a material impact on KPN’s are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Statements. Transactions with shareholders Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN Associated, non-consolidated companies and joint ventures exercised its call option and obtained 4,258,098,272 newly of KPN sell goods and provide services to consolidated KPN issued preference shares B. These shares reflected an interest companies. In addition, consolidated KPN companies sell in KPN’s outstanding shares of 50% minus one share. In goods or provide services to these associated companies compliance with the statutory arrangement, 25% of the and joint ventures (see Notes 13 and 14). nominal value of these shares (EUR 255 million) was paid to KPN in cash. On March 21, 2014, the preference shares B The total value of sales transactions by the continuing were canceled against repayment of the paid-up amount. operations of KPN with joint ventures and associated For more information about the issue of the preference companies in 2015 amounted to approximately EUR 24 shares B, see Note 20. million (2014: EUR 30 million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 2 million (2014: América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (‘AMX’) published on February 9, EUR 147 million). The 2014 numbers include Reggefiber until 2016, in its fourth quarter 2015 report, that it owned 21.1% November 1, 2014. The total trade receivables and payables of KPN’s ordinary share capital at December 31, 2015. as of December 31, 2015 amounted to approximately EUR 8 million and EUR 1 million respectively (December 31, 2014: The total value of sales transactions by the continuing EUR 7 million and nil respectively). operations of KPN in 2015 with AMX, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies amounted to approximately During 2014 KPN acquired the remaining shares in Reggefiber EUR 4 million (2014: EUR 12 million) and the total value Group BV and obtained 100% ownership (refer to Note 29). of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 21 million (2014: EUR 35 million). The total trade Transactions with directors and related parties receivables and payables as of December 31, 2015 amounted For details of the relation between directors and the Company, to approximately EUR 12 million and EUR 11 million reference is made to the ‘Remuneration Report’ on pages 72 to respectively (December 31, 2014: EUR 3 million and 79 of this Integrated Annual Report. Directors in this respect EUR 6 million respectively). are defined as key management and relate to those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing, Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet op het and controlling the activities of an entity, either directly or financieel toezicht’ or ‘Wft’), legal entities as well as natural indirectly. At KPN, key management consists of the members persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. the Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding equals or exceeds 3% of the issued capital. 154 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information The Company has not been, and is not now, a party to any Ruling Dutch Supreme Court on ‘consumer credit’ material transactions, or proposed transactions, in 2015 On February 12, 2016, the Dutch Supreme Court ruled on or 2014 in which members of the Supervisory Board or Board the consequences of its earlier decision that providing mobile of Management or close members of their families had handsets with a postpaid subscription ‘for free’ or at a reduced a direct or indirect material interest. price may under circumstances be qualified as providing ‘consumer credit’. The Supreme Court concluded that a The total value of sales transactions by KPN’s continuing consumer can in principle annul his agreement with his mobile operations in 2015 with parties in which members of the provider for the part of the agreement that qualifies as consumer Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members credit, if the conditions for providing such credit have not been of their families had a direct or indirect material interest met. The impact of the ruling on individual contracts is yet to amounted to approximately EUR 5 million (2014: EUR 14 be determined and will depend on various factors, including million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted e.g. the characteristics of the contract, the information provided to approximately EUR 5 million (2014: EUR 17 million), all in the to the individual customer, the date and duration of contracts ordinary course of business. The total trade receivables and and the burden of proof. At this moment no reliable estimate can payables as of December 31, 2015 amounted to approximately be made to what extent this may have a financial impact for KPN. EUR 3 million and EUR 2 million respectively (December 31, 2014: EUR 3 million and less than EUR 1 million respectively). [32] Subsequent events Purchase remaining shares GroupIT BV On January 1, 2016, KPN has decided to exercise its option to buy all remaining shares in GroupIT BV (87.5%). As GroupIT BV was already consolidated in full, the impact on KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements is considered not material. Sale of BASE Company Following regulatory approval by the European Commission on February 4, 2016, the sale of BASE Company to Telenet has been completed on February 11, 2016. KPN sold and transferred 100% of its interest in BASE Company to Telenet for a consideration of EUR 1,325 million. The book gain from the disposal of BASE Company that will be recognized in Q1 2016 will be Owner event agency Lemsteraken Sensatie approximately EUR 350 million. Frits Strating: Intention Cisco to acquire Jasper Technologies “KPN connects us at home, On February 3, 2016, Cisco announced its intent to acquire Jasper Technologies Inc. KPN currently holds ~3% of Jasper’s share in a café, on board” capital (see Note 14) and intends to participate in the transaction, which is expected to close in Q1 or Q2 2016. KPN shall receive Watch Frits’ story: pro rata proceeds of the announced USD 1.4 billion transaction consideration, subject to certain closing adjustments. kpn.com/annualreport/fritsstrating 155 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Income from subsidiaries after taxes 1,264 -14,402 Other income and expense after taxes -626 13,804 Profit (loss) attributable to equity holders 638 -598 In 2014, Income from subsidiaries after taxes includes a loss of EUR 14.3 billion, and Other income and expense after taxes a gain of this same amount, due to debt restructurings within KPN Group mainly relating to the sale of E-Plus. School pupil Daan Somsen: “I added 400 tunes in a month on Spotify. That’s a lot” Watch Daan’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/daansomsen 156 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Statement of Financial Position Before appropriation of results Assets Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Financial fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 31,566 30,170 Other financial fixed assets 3,842 4,355 Total non-current assets [A] 35,408 34,525 CURRENT ASSETS Accounts receivable from subsidiaries 1,325 462 Other receivables and accrued income [B] 250 54 Other current financial assets 602 300 Cash and cash equivalents 1,249 1,693 Total current assets 3,426 2,509 TOTAL 38,834 37,034 157 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Financial Position Equity and Liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Subscribed capital stock 171 171 Additional paid-in capital 9,847 9,847 Treasury shares reserve -132 -138 Hedge reserve -268 -393 Legal reserves [C] 506 398 Retained earnings [C] -6,869 -5,803 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 1,089 1,089 Profit (loss) current year 638 -598 Total equity attributable to equity holders 4,982 4,573 PROVISIONS Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 67 66 Other provisions 22 35 Total provisions [D] 89 101 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Loans [E] 17,048 17,171 Derivative financial instruments 17 186 Other long-term liabilities 201 52 Total non-current liabilities 17,266 17,409 CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounts payable to subsidiaries 15,269 13,421 Derivative financial instruments 3 10 Other current liabilities [F] 942 1,124 Accruals and deferred income 283 396 Total current liabilities 16,497 14,951 TOTAL 38,834 37,034 [..] Bracketed letters refer to the Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position. Exchange student Mafalda Remoaldo: “I solved the problem in less than two weeks on the internet” Watch Mafalda’s story: kpn.com/annualreport/mafaldaremoaldo 158 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information General Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements With reference to the Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss of Koninklijke KPN N.V., use has been made of the exemption pursuant to Article 402, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. For the principles for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of the result for its Corporate Financial Statements, Koninklijke KPN N.V. applies the option provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. This means that the principles for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of the result (hereinafter referred to as ‘Accounting policies’) of the Corporate Financial Statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are the same as those applied for the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS). Reference is made to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement of assets, provisions and liabilities and determination of profit based on the principles applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments in which the Company has significant influence on the financial and operational policies, but not control (associates), are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognized at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognize the Company’s share of profit or loss of the investment after the date of acquisition. The Company’s investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition. Personal trainer Bas Markies: “People can check our website, or just come over and try it” Watch Bas’ story: kpn.com/annualreport/basmarkies 159 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position [A] Financial fixed assets Loans to Other Group Group financial fixed Amounts in millions of EUR companies companies assets Total Balance as of January 1, 2014 25,968 5,748 426 32,142 Exchange rate differences 6 – – 6 Income from Group companies after taxes -14,402 – – -14,402 Capital contributions 17,430 – – 17,430 Received/paid dividends -4 – – -4 New loans – – 95 95 Acquisition1 – – 2,528 2,528 Fair value adjustment1 – – 163 163 Withdrawals/redemptions – -5,748 -1 -5,749 Change in derivative financial instruments – – 207 207 Other 1,172 – 937 2,109 Total changes 4,202 -5,748 3,929 2,383 Balance as of December 31, 2014 30,170 – 4,355 34,525 Exchange rate differences -2 – – -2 Income from Group companies after taxes 1,264 – – 1,264 Capital contributions 152 – – 152 Fair value adjustment1 – – 362 362 Decrease due to sale – – -805 -805 Withdrawals/redemptions – – -46 -46 Change in derivative financial instruments – – 218 218 Other2 -18 – -242 -260 Total changes 1,396 – -513 883 Balance as of December 31, 2015 31,566 – 3,842 35,408 1) T  he fair value adjustment relates to the stake in Telefónica Deutschland. 2) T he amount in line item Other of Financial fixed assets mainly relates to usage in deferred tax assets. [B] Other receivables December 31, December 31, Amounts in millions of EUR 2015 2014 Accrued income 31 11 Current income tax receivables 216 39 Other receivables 3 4 Total 250 54 160 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information [C] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, reference is made to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity and the Notes thereto. Legal reserves Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below: Revaluation Fair value reserve Capitalized reserve Other property, Cumulative software available-fornonplant and translation development sale financial distributable Amounts in millions of EUR equipment adjustments costs assets reserves Total Balance as of January 1, 2014 53 12 134 3 53 255 Exchange rate differences – 6 – – – 6 Addition/(release) retained earnings -13 – 28 – – 15 Other – – – 122 – 122 Balance as of December 31, 2014 40 18 162 125 53 398 Exchange rate differences – -2 – – – -2 Addition/(release) retained earnings -9 – -16 – 1 -24 Other – – – 134 – 134 Balance as of December 31, 2015 31 16 146 259 54 506 Pursuant to Dutch law, limitations exist relating to the distribution Retained earnings of equity attributable to equity holders. Such limitations relate to Movements in retained earnings were as follows: the subscribed capital stock of EUR 171 million (2014: EUR 171 million) as well as to legal reserves required by Dutch law as Amounts in millions of EUR presented above. The total distributable reserves at December 31, Balance as of January 1, 2014 -5,358 2015 amounted to EUR 4,305 million (2014: EUR 4,004 million). Dutch law also requires that in determining the amount of Loss for the year 2013 -222 distribution, the Company’s ability to continue to pay its debt must be taken into account, including the EUR perpetual hybrid Coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) -76 bonds which are classified as equity under IFRS. Dividend ordinary shares -85 Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other post-employment plans (net of tax) -50 Release/addition legal reserves -15 Other 3 Balance as of December 31, 2014 -5,803 Loss for the year 2014 -598 Coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) -51 Dividend ordinary shares -485 Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other post-employment plans (net of tax) 47 Release/addition legal reserves 24 Other -3 Balance as of December 31, 2015 -6,869 161 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated [E] Loans Statement of Financial Position as follows: Loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 7,501 million (2014: EUR 8,175 million), hybrid bonds outstanding for December December EUR 1,088 million (2014: EUR 1,000 million), and loans from Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 subsidiaries for EUR 8,459 million (2014: EUR 7,996 million). Retained earnings as per Consolidated EUR 483 million of the loans from subsidiaries have maturity Statement of Financial Position -6,000 -6,146 dates in 2016 and bear fixed interest rates (2014: EUR 0 million). Revaluation reserve -31 -40 Capitalized software development costs -146 -162 For more information on the bonds outstanding, refer Other non-distributable reserves -54 -53 to Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Profit/(Loss) for the year -638 598 [F] Other current liabilities Retained earnings as per Corporate Statement of Financial Position -6,869 -5,803 December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 [D] Provisions Current portion of loans 829 999 Movements in provisions were as follows: Social security and other taxes payable 109 111 Retirement Bank overdrafts 4 14 benefit Other obligations provisions Total Total 942 1,124 Balance as of January 1, 2014 847 109 956 [G] Commitments and contingencies Additions/releases to income -362 7 -355 December December Amounts in millions of EUR 31, 2015 31, 2014 Additions/releases directly in OCI -67 – -67 Commitments by virtue of guarantees 157 179 Usage -352 -81 -433 Balance as of December 31, 2014 66 35 101 KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several liabilities for various Group companies in compliance with Section 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations Additions/releases to income 2 2 4 of joint and several liabilities for Group companies are Additions/releases directly included in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating in OCI 23 – 23 interests, which is available at the offices of the Chamber Usage -24 -15 -39 of Commerce in The Hague. Balance as of December 31, 2015 67 22 89 Directors’ remuneration Reference is made to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial The provisions for retirement benefit obligations at December Statements on employee benefits. 31, 2015 relate to early retirement plans. The pension plans for employees who are subject to KPN’s collective labor The Hague, February 24, 2016 agreement and the pension plans for senior management were transferred into collective defined contribution plans Supervisory Board Board of Management as of January 1, 2015. The provision for these plans were Duco Sickinghe Eelco Blok released in 2014. For details, reference is made to Note 23 to Peter van Bommel Jan Kees de Jager the Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in 2014 of other provisions mainly relates to usage regarding the Carlos García Moreno Elizondo Frank van der Post KPNQwest legal proceedings and the OT2010 penalty. Derk Haank Joost Farwerck Peter Hartman Jolande Sap Claudia Zuiderwijk 162 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Dear Shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN), Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the Independent Auditor’s Report, which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please refer to the next pages. Summary Conclusions Object of audit or review Outcome of our work performed Financial Statements 2015 (consolidated and corporate) True and fair view Reports by the Board of Management and the No material misstatements to report Supervisory Board Sustainability information 2015: – Energy consumption and net CO 2 -emissions data Reliably and appropriately presented (reasonable assurance) – S ustainability information in selected chapters Reliably and appropriately presented (limited assurance) and appendices Main Features Of Our Audit & Review What we have done Scope of our work Materiality Key audit & assurance matters Audit of Financial statements The Netherlands EUR 34 million, which •• Valuation (in)tangible 2015 (consolidated and represents 1.5% of EBITDA assets, incl. goodwill Belgium corporate) •• Valuation deferred United States of America tax assets •• Revised internal control framework •• Sale of BASE Company N.V./S.A. Procedures for Reports by the Full Reports Similar materiality as our audit •• No areas of specific focus Board of Management and or review scopes Supervisory Board Audit of energy consumption The Netherlands 5% •• No areas of specific focus and net CO 2 -emissions 2015 of own operations (scope 1 and 2) Review of sustainability Scope varies per country Specific materiality levels •• Estimations in scope 3 information for 2015 for each element of the emissions and energy in selected chapters sustainability information reductions by customers and appendices in scope 163 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Combined Independent Auditor’s Report on the Financial Statements 2015 and sustainability information in KPN’s Integrated Annual Report 2015 Our conclusions Basis for our conclusions Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence We conducted our assurance engagements in accordance obtained, we have come to the following conclusions: with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further •• With respect to audit procedures performed; in our opinion, described in the section: ‘Our responsibilities’ in this report. –– the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of KPN as at December 31, We are independent of KPN in accordance with the ‘Verordening 2015 and of its result and its cash flows for 2015 in inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceaccordance with International Financial Reporting opdrachten (ViO)’ and other relevant independence regulations Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA)’. –– the Corporate Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of KPN as at December 31, 2015 We were engaged by the shareholders of KPN as auditor and of its result for 2015 in accordance with Part 9 of of Koninklijke KPN N.V. on April 9, 2014, for the year ended Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; December 31, 2015. –– the energy consumption and net CO2 -emissions data 2015 of own operations in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2) We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is as presented in the table ‘Energy consumption and net sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. CO2 -emissions 2015’ on page 49 are, in all material respects, presented reliably and appropriately, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the KPN reporting criteria as Our scope disclosed on pages 178-184 (Appendix 3 ‘Scope, reporting Our engagements scope process and materiality determination’). The Integrated Annual Report 2015 (hereafter: the Report) •• With respect to review procedures performed on the of KPN consists of the Reports by the Board of Management sustainability information in scope1; in our opinion, and Supervisory Board, the Financial Statements, and Other –– nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe Information that provides altogether an overview of the policy, that the sustainability information for the year ended activities, events and performances related to both the financial December 31, 2015, does not provide a reliable and position and the sustainable development of KPN during appropriate presentation of KPN’s policy for sustainable reporting year 2015. The following information in the Report development, or of KPN’s activities, events and performance has been in scope for our assurance engagements: relating to sustainable development during 2015 in •• The Consolidated Financial Statements, comprising: accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines –– The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the KPN as at December 31, 2015; reporting criteria as disclosed on pages 178-184 (Appendix 3 –– The Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss, Other ‘Scope, reporting process and materiality determination’). Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows and Changes in Group •• With respect to the Reports by the Board of Management and Equity for 2015; Supervisory Board; we have no material misstatements to report. –– The Notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. •• With respect to the Report by the Board of Management and Other Information; pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 •• The Corporate Financial Statements, comprising: of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, –– The Corporate Statement of Financial Position as –– we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our at December 31, 2015; examination whether the Report by the Board of –– The Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss for 2015; Management, to the extent we can assess, has been –– The Notes comprising a summary of the significant prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch accounting policies and other explanatory information. Civil Code, and whether the required Other Information has •• The Report by the Board of Management and the Other been annexed; Information annexed to the Financial Statements pursuant –– we report that the Report by the Board of Management, to the legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the Civil Code concerning our obligation to report about the Financial Statements. Report by the Management Board and Other Information. 1) R  efer to Appendix 3 ‘Scope, reporting process and materiality determination’ on pages 178-184 for a description of the sustainability information in scope for our assurance engagement. 164 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information •• The other information contained in the Report by the Board At other group entities we performed review procedures or of Management and the Report by the Supervisory Board as specific audit procedures. The group consolidation, financial for our review in our capacity as auditor of KPN and with the disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the knowledge that we have as auditor to conclude whether the group engagement team at the company’s head office. These information would not be appropriate or obviously incorrect. included purchase price allocation, taxation, fixed assets and •• The sustainability information that consists of: goodwill impairment testing, pensions, derivative financial –– The energy consumption and the net CO 2 -emissions of instruments, hedge accounting and share-based payments. We own operations in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2) as involved several EY specialists to assist the audit team, including presented in the table ‘Energy consumption and net specialists from our tax, valuations, sustainability, actuarial and CO 2 -emissions 2015’ on page 49 (reasonable assurance); treasury departments. –– The sustainability information in the chapters and appendices in scope for our review as described in By performing audit procedures at segment and at corporate Appendix 3 ‘Scope, reporting process and materiality level as mentioned above, together with the involvement determination’ (limited assurance). of specialists, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial Limitations in our engagements scope information to provide an opinion about the Consolidated The Reports by the Board of Management and Supervisory Financial Statements. Board as well as the sustainability information in the Report contain prospective information, such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this Reporting criteria information is that actual future results may be different from the prospective information and therefore it may be uncertain. The information in the scope of our engagements needs to We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and be read and understood together with the reporting criteria, feasibility of this prospective information. for which KPN is solely responsible for selecting and applying taking into account applicable law and regulations related to Further, the references in the Reports by the Board of reporting. The criteria used for the preparation of the Report Management and Supervisory Board and the sustainability and thus relevant for our examination are described below. information in the Report (www.kpn.nl, external websites, We consider the reporting criteria used relevant and suitable interviews and movies on KPN’s website and other documents) for our assurance engagements. are outside the scope of our assurance engagements. Consolidated Financial International Financial Our scope for the group audit of the Financial Statements Statements: Reporting Standards as KPN is head of a group of entities, both in the Netherlands adopted by the European and abroad. The Dutch entities and segments thereby form Union (EU-IFRS) and Part 9 of the majority of the business and there are relatively smaller Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. operations in Belgium and the United States of America. The financial information of all these entities has been Corporate Financial Part 9 of Book 2 of the included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Statements, Reports by the Dutch Civil Code. Board of Management and Our group audit mainly focused on the more significant segments Supervisory Board and in the Netherlands, including ‘Consumer Mobile’, ‘Consumer Other Information annexed Residential’, ‘Business’ and ‘Netco’ as well as the segments to the Financial Statements: ‘Belgium’ (Belgium) and ‘iBasis’ (United States of America). Sustainability information Sustainability Reporting Due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, we including the energy Guidelines version G4 performed full scope audit procedures on the financial consumption and net (‘comprehensive’ option) of information of all above mentioned segments. For the segments CO2 -emissions data: the Global Reporting Initiative in Belgium and the United States of America we thereby used EY (GRI) and the reporting criteria component auditors who are familiar with local laws and developed by KPN as disclosed regulations to perform detailed audit procedures to obtain on pages 178-184 Appendix 3 sufficient coverage for financial statement line items from a ‘Scope, reporting process and consolidated financial statements perspective. materiality determination’. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those locations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. The group engagement team has visited all component teams. 165 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Materiality We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for General the users of the Financial Statements for qualitative reasons. The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements to provide assurance about whether the financial statements in the financial statements in excess of EUR 1.7 million, and the sustainability information in the selected chapters would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements including the scope 1 and 2 energy consumption and net that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. CO 2 -emissions data of own operations in the Netherlands are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise At December 31, 2015, there were no remaining audit due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, differences to be booked. individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the (economic) decisions of users taken Sustainability information on the basis of the Report. The materiality affects the nature, For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability timing and extent of our assurance procedures and the information in scope as a whole and for each KPI and evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on disclosure we have considered the factors that influence their our conclusions. relevance and accuracy for the intended users of the Report. Based on our professional judgment, we determined the Financial statements materiality for the identified key performance indicators at 5%. For the audit of the financial statements our considerations For the energy consumption and net CO 2 -emissions of own regarding the materiality are as follows. operations in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2) we have determined the materiality also at 5%. We compared the Materiality EUR 34,000,000 qualitative disclosures at overall level with the quality principles of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 Benchmark used 1.5% of earnings before interest, tax, (‘comprehensive’ option) of the Global Reporting Initiative depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). (GRI), which concern aspects such as balanced representation, timeliness and consistency of the Report. Additional The users of the Financial Statements of a explanation for-profit entity typically focus on operating Reports by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board performance, particularly profit before tax. With respect to the materiality applied to our review procedures Over the past years KPN’s profit before of the Reports by the Board of Management and Supervisory tax heavily fluctuated, resulting from the Board in our capacity as auditor of KPN and with the knowledge impact of the discontinuance of operations that we have as auditor to conclude whether the information and other non-recurring transactions would not be appropriate or obviously incorrect; whereas EBITDA was more stable. Furthermore, we note that in KPN’s external •• where the aforementioned reports contain information communications, earnings before interest, that has also been in scope of our assurance engagements tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) regarding the financial statements or sustainability is commonly used to report on financial information, similar materiality for this information performance. Considering these aspects, has been applied; we have concluded that EBITDA is the most •• for the other information in the aforementioned Reports appropriate benchmark for KPN to base our our assessment for materiality was based on findings that materiality upon. The materiality is thereby could influence the decisions of the intended users set at EUR 34,000,000, using a percentage dependent on our evaluation of the relevance of that of 1.5%, which is at the lower end of a information for these users. generally accepted range. 166 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Key audit & assurance matters Key audit and assurance matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our assurance procedures for the Financial Statements and the sustainability information in scope. We have communicated the key audit and assurance matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit and assurance matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability information in scope as a whole and to conclude thereon, and we do not provide a separate conclusion on these matters. For the audit of the Financial Statements we identified the following key audit matters: Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Valuation of (in)tangible assets, including goodwill Under IFRS, it is required to annually test the amount of The impairment tests were important for our audit as goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life for the related asset amounts are significant and the assessment impairment. KPN’s disclosures about goodwill and intangible process itself is complex and requires judgment. The assets are included in Note 11. impairment test includes assumptions that are affected by future market conditions. On assets with finite lives an impairment test has to be performed if indications of impairment exist. Our audit procedures included, among others, using EY valuation experts to assist us in verifying the assumptions There were a couple of triggering events identified, for example and methodologies used by KPN and the external valuation in the area of trade names and software that required impairment expert. We compared forecasted revenue and profit margins testing and for which minor impairments were recorded. for all cash generating units with the approved KPN strategic plans. We also verified the assumptions to which the outcome KPN involved an external valuation expert to assist them of the impairment test is most sensitive and reviewed the in the valuation process. sensitivity analysis as referred to in Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation of deferred tax assets At December 31, 2015, the deferred tax assets are valued Our audit procedures related to the deferred tax assets at EUR 1.1 billion, related disclosures and accounting policies included, amongst others, using EY tax specialists to are included in Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. assist us in verifying and interpreting the agreement This item was significant to our audit because the assessment (‘vaststellingsovereenkomst’) reached with the Dutch process is complex and judgmental and is based on assumptions Tax Authorities and evaluating the assumptions, such that are affected by expected future market or economic as expected future taxable income and methodologies conditions. The main element in the deferred tax assets is used by KPN. related to the discontinuance of the German activities. Based on an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities, the loss on This entailed reviewing KPN’s latest approved strategic the sale of E-Plus (‘stakingsverlies’ and future liquidation loss) business plan. We discussed the business plan with can be off-set against future taxable profits in the Netherlands. management to determine the reasonableness of the assumptions used regarding the recoverability of the deferred tax assets and assessed the plan’s assumptions and sensitivities. See Note 9. 167 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter A systems based audit, making use of the revised internal control framework, including IT, amongst other to audit revenues and tangible fixed assets In 2014, KPN undertook a rationalization of its internal control For our purpose of expressing an opinion on the true and framework and has substantially completed this in 2015. fair view of the financial statements, including auditing This rationalization included a change to a more top-down the completeness of revenues, it is important that KPN has and risk based approach resulting in more focus on detective an effective internal control framework that is properly review controls (i.e. analytical monitoring controls). IT has documented, reviewed and tested. KPN Audit provided been an important element to the identified key processes, quality assurance on this framework. as most processes are highly automated. Where appropriate, key controls have been automated. As part of our external audit procedures, we have reviewed and tested KPN’s revised internal control framework, KPN’s Risk & Compliance and Audit departments are including (compensating) controls and/or substantive heavily involved in test and review to assess the design and procedures. We also reviewed and partly retested the effectiveness of the framework. This framework supports the work of KPN’s Risk & Compliance and Audit departments in in-control statement provided by the Board of Management. accordance with applicable (international) auditing standards. Controls that did not (yet) function as designed throughout The revision of the internal control framework and the 2015, for example in some parts of the Business segment, internal testing activities conducted by KPN have proven have been replaced by compensating control procedures. instrumental to facilitate our audit, in particular that of the revenue streams and tangible fixed assets, which are both supported by IT. It has also allowed us to apply a system based audit in an effective and efficient manner. Sale of BASE Company N.V./S.A. On April 20, 2015, KPN announced it had reached an agreement Our audit included assessing the transaction and its to sell BASE Company to Telenet. EU approval was obtained on documentation and determining if the classification as February 4, 2016 and the transaction was completed on discontinued operations is appropriate and in line with February 11, 2016. applicable accounting standards. BASE Company has been presented as ‘held for sale’ and has In our audit procedures, we also reviewed that the result been presented as discontinued operations as of April 15, for the year 2015 and the expected proceeds at completion 2015 as management has always been of the opinion that date have been accounted for in accordance with the share it was highly probable the transaction would materialize. and purchase agreement. This is further explained in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 168 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability information in scope, we identified the following key assurance matter: Key assurance matter How our assurance procedures addressed the matter Estimations in Scope 3 emissions and energy reduction by customers Inherent to the nature of scope 3 emissions, KPN uses Our review procedures focused on understanding the estimates and underlying assumptions to determine model used and assessing the mathematical accuracy of the indirect emissions in its value chain. the calculations applied and validated the assumptions with underlying sources. As of 2014, KPN started reporting on the estimated reduced energy consumption by KPN’s customers through the use of its products and services. KPN implemented a model to estimate the positive impact of its products and services, while taking potential negative impacts into account. Responsibilities realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt Responsibilities of Board of Management on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern and the Supervisory Board in the Financial Statements. The Board of Management (hereafter: management) is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing Financial Statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 the company’s (financial) reporting process. of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report by the Board of Management in accordance Our responsibilities with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Our objective is to plan and perform the assurance assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate Management is also responsible for the preparation of the assurance evidence for our conclusions. sustainability information in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version G4) of the Global Reporting Our assurance procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable Initiative and the reporting criteria of KPN, including the assurance have been performed with a high, but not absolute, identification of stakeholders and the selection of material level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all topics. The choices made by management in respect of the scope errors and fraud. The assurance procedures performed in of the Report and the reporting criteria are set out in Appendix 3 obtaining limited assurance are aimed on the plausibility of ‘Scope, reporting process and materiality determination’. information which does not require exhaustive gathering of evidence as in engagements focused on reasonable assurance. Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal The performed procedures consisted primarily of making control as management determines is necessary to enable inquiries of management and others within the entity, as the preparation of the Report that is free from material appropriate, applying analytical procedures and evaluating misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the evidence obtained. Consequently a review engagement provides less assurance than an audit. As part of the preparation of the Financial Statements, management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial The Hague, February 24, 2016 reporting frameworks mentioned, management should prepare the Financial Statements using the going concern Ernst & Young Accountants LLP basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no Signed by G.A.M. Aarnink 169 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Other Information Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Work performed Our main procedures to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability information as described in Appendix 3 ‘Scope, We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained reporting process and materiality determination’ included professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagement, the following: in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch •• Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining Standard 3810N for assurance on sustainability information, an understanding of the sector, relevant social issues, ethical requirements and independence requirements. relevant laws and regulations and the characteristics of the organization. Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the Financial •• Evaluating the acceptability of the reporting policies Statements (Consolidated and Corporate) included the following: and their consistent application, such as assessment of •• Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement the outcomes of the stakeholder dialogue and the process of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, for determining material topics, the reasonableness designing and performing audit procedures responsive to of accounting estimates made by management as those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient well as evaluating the overall presentation of the and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk sustainability information. of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from •• Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud and processes for data gathering and processing of may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, information as presented in the Report. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. •• Interviews with management and relevant staff at corporate •• Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant and local levels responsible for the sustainability strategy to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are and policies. appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of •• Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s the information in the Report, carrying out internal control internal control. procedures on the data and the consolidation of the data •• Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used in the Report. and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related •• Review of source data and the design and implementation disclosures made by management. of controls and validation procedures at local level. •• Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use •• Evaluating internal and external documentation, in addition of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the to interviews, to determine whether the information in the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty Report is adequately substantiated. exists related to events or conditions that may cast •• Performing analytical review of the data and trend significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as explanations submitted for consolidation at group level. a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty •• Assessing the consistency of the sustainability information exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s and the information in the Report not in scope for our report to the related disclosures in the financial statements assurance engagements. or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our •• Assessing whether the sustainability information has been opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence prepared ‘in accordance’ with the Sustainability Reporting obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, Guidelines version G4 of GRI (‘comprehensive’ option). future events or conditions may cause an the company to cease to continue as a going concern. •• Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the Financial Statements, including the disclosures. •• Evaluating whether the Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 170 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for the energy We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we consumption and net CO 2 -emissions data of own operations have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2) we performed the following independence, and to communicate with them all relationships to obtain reasonable assurance: and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. •• Assessing the systems and processes for data gathering, including testing the design, existence and the operating From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, effectiveness of the relevant internal controls during we determine those matters that were of most significance the reporting year. in the audit of the financial statements, the review of the •• Conducting analytical procedures and substantive testing sustainability information in scope and audit of the energy procedures on the relevant data. consumption and net CO2 -emissions of own operations in •• Assessing the processing of other information, such the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2) of the current period and are as the aggregation process of data into the information therefore the key assurance matters. We describe these matters as presented in the sustainability information. in our combined Independent Auditor’s Report and assurance •• Investigating internal and external documentation to report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure determine whether the sustainability information in the about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, Report is reliable. not communicating the matter is in the public interest. We have read the Reports by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board in connection with our audit of the Financial Statements. Our responsibility is to read these reports and, in doing so, consider whether these reports are materially consistent with the Financial Statements and our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise do not appear to be materially misstated. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance procedures. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. 171 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Other Information Legal structure The following table sets out the name and jurisdiction of incorporation of, and our direct ownership and voting interest (if different) in, our principal operating subsidiaries and other principal interests as of December 31, 2015. Percentage Country of ownership/voting Name of subsidiaries and other principal interests incorporation interest KPN BV: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN EuroRings BV The Netherlands 100.0 – XS4ALL Internet BV The Netherlands 100.0 – iBasis Inc. US 100.0 – Telfort Zakelijk BV The Netherlands 100.0 – Reggefiber Group BV The Netherlands 100.0 KPN Mobile NV: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN Mobile International BV The Netherlands 100.0 – BASE Company NV Belgium 100.0 Getronics NV: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN Corporate Market BV The Netherlands 100.0 – Getronics Finance Holdings BV The Netherlands 100.0 Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG Germany 15.5 172 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Other Information Proposed appropriation of result On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid out On February 24, 2016, the Board of Management, with equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased by 1%. approval of the Supervisory Board, has allocated the profit If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the dividend of EUR 638 million to the Other reserves. In September 2015, on preference shares will be calculated based on the yield an interim dividend of EUR 0.03 was paid to all holders of on State loans (article 35 sub 1, Articles of Association). ordinary shares, amounting to a total of EUR 128 million Subsequently, subject to the approval of the Supervisory (including dividend tax). The Board of Management, with Board, the Board of Management will determine what the approval of the Supervisory Board, will propose to the proportion of net income remaining after payment of the AGM to pay a final dividend of EUR 0.05 in respect of 2015. dividend on any Class B preferred shares will be appropriated to the reserves (article 35 sub 2, Articles of Association). In addition, the received dividend over 2014 of EUR 146 million The part of the profit remaining after the appropriation to on KPN’s shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG, the reserves shall be at the disposal of the General Meeting was distributed in August 2015, as an additional interim cash (article 35 sub 3, Articles of Association). The Board of dividend of EUR 0.034 per share. Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may also appropriate the complete profit to the reserves. The total dividend in respect of 2015, including the additional interim cash dividend, will then amount to EUR 0.114 per ordinary share. In 2014, an interim dividend of EUR 0.02 was paid to holders of ordinary shares and in 2015 a final dividend in respect of 2014 of EUR 0.05 was paid. Subsequent events Reference is made to Note 32. 173 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 1. Analysis of adjusted results YTD 2015 The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted revenues. BASE Company continues to be included in KPN’s segment reporting until the sale is completed. Revenues and other income FY 2015 FY 2015 FY 2014 FY 2014 ∆ y-on-y ∆ y-on-y Amounts in millions of EUR reported Incidentals adjusted reported Incidentals adjusted reported adjusted Consumer Mobile 1,461 – 1,461 1,407 – 1,407 3.8% 3.8% Consumer Residential 1,938 – 1,938 1,916 – 1,916 1.1% 1.1% Business 2,659 -10 2,669 2,920 10 2,910 -8.9% -8.3% NetCo 2,186 – 2,186 2,262 17 2,245 -3.4% -2.6% Other -2,068 – -2,068 -2,050 30 -2,080 0.9% -0.6% The Netherlands 6,176 -10 6,186 6,455 57 6,398 -4.3% -3.3% iBasis 920 – 920 948 – 948 -3.0% -3.0% Belgium (discontinued operations) 748 66 682 711 2 709 5.2% -3.8% Other activities 37 – 37 186 – 186 -80% -80% Intercompany revenues -157 – -157 -217 – -217 -28% -28% KPN Group 7,724 56 7,668 8,083 59 8,024 -4.4% -4.4% Of which discontinued operations 716 66 650 674 2 672 6.1% -3.3% KPN Group continuing operations 7,008 -10 7,018 7,409 57 7,352 -5.4% -4.5% The following table specifies the revenue incidentals in more detail. Revenue incidentals Amounts in millions of EUR Segment FY 2015 FY 2014 Change in revenue related provision Business -4 – Adjustment deferred revenues Business -6 5 Sale of fixed assets (hardware) Business – 5 Change in provision NetCo – 17 Tax settlement related to 2013 Other (the Netherlands) – 30 Settlement claim Belgium 66 – Phase out SNOW Belgium – 2 KPN Group 56 59 Of which discontinued operations 66 2 KPN Group continuing operations -10 57 174 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA Amounts in FY 2015 FY 2015 FY 2014 FY 2014 ∆ y-on-y ∆ y-on-y millions of EUR reported Incidentals Restructuring adjusted reported Incidentals Restructuring adjusted reported adjusted Consumer Mobile 272 – -10 282 191 – -1 192 42% 47% Consumer Residential 415 – -4 419 404 – -8 412 2.7% 1.7% Business 439 -11 -39 489 590 10 -26 606 -26% -19% NetCo 1,283 6 -14 1,291 1,241 17 -4 1,228 3.4% 5.1% Other -42 – -8 -34 24 30 -15 9 n.m. n.m. The Netherlands 2,367 -5 -75 2,447 2,450 57 -54 2,447 -3.4% 0.0% iBasis 23 – – 23 23 – – 23 0.0% 0.0% Belgium (discontinued operations) 262 93 -1 170 149 -3 -4 156 76% 9.0% Other activities -64 10 -25 -49 393 472 -26 -53 n.m. -7.5% KPN Group 2,588 98 -101 2,591 3,015 526 -84 2,573 -14% 0.7% Of which discontinued operations 264 93 -1 172 149 -3 -4 156 77% 10% KPN Group continuing operations 2,324 5 -100 2,419 2,866 529 -80 2,417 -19% 0.1% The following table specifies the EBITDA incidentals in more detail. EBITDA incidentals Amounts in millions of EUR Segment FY 2015 FY 2014 Change in revenue related provision Business -4 – Adjustment deferred revenues Business -7 5 Sale of fixed assets (hardware) Business – 5 Release of asset retirement obligation NetCo 6 – Change in provisions NetCo – 17 Tax settlement related to 2013 Other (The Netherlands) – 30 Settlement claim Belgium 66 – Release tax accruals Belgium 27 – Phase out SNOW Belgium – -3 Change in provision Other activities 10 – Release of pension provision Other activities – 477 Book loss related to asset held for sale classification SNT Deutschland Other activities – -5 KPN Group 98 526 Of which discontinued operations 93 -3 KPN Group continuing operations 5 529 175 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 2. Overview of CSR targets and achievements Theme/KPI Target 2015 Result 2015 Transparent and reliable service provider NPS the Netherlands 3 3 NPS Consumer Mobile 7 9 NPS Consumer Residential 7 9 NPS Business Market -6 -10 Weighted downtime reduction -30% -61% Best in class networks % of the Netherlands that agree that KPN 60% Retail customers: 55% best fixed has the best ICT Infra network, 50% best mobile network Business: 79% best fixed network and 71% best mobile network #/% of households with possibility for more than > 5.6 million 5.2 million / 68% 100Mb connection1 Healthcare of the Future # of elderly facilitated to live independently n/a n/a # of ill people facilitated with self-measurement n/a n/a #/% of chronically ill children provided with a KPN Klasgenoot1 1,250 837 The New Way of Living & Working % of KPN employees in the Netherlands who feel they can 90% 80% work in line with The New Way of Living & Working Growth in the Netherlands of the use of services that make 40% compared with 2014 39% compared with 2014 The New Way of Living & Working possible Energy efficient Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group’s own use More products calculated to realize 73% (energy reduction effect of KPN products/services for customers) 10% more savings compared with 2014 Circular operations and services n/a First steps towards circular operations (cradle to cradle) % reduction of energy consumption KPN Group compared 17% 18% with 2010 Privacy & Security % of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN 70% 73% #/% customers opted-in for using their traffic data for 300,000 330,851 commercial, operational and customer service goals 1) Our people Overall % of women at KPN in the Netherlands 30% 25% Employee survey score on Engagement and Sustainable 1) Overall engagement: 70% 1) Overall engagement: 77% employability (Fit for the Future) 2) Working environment: 61% 2) Working environment: 59% 3) Strategy & Leadership: 41% 3) Strategy & Leadership: 51% Sustainable employability: % of employees with 80% 83% a new job < 1 year after leaving KPN Suppliers % realized improvements on corrective action plans 30% 58% 1) From 2016, KPI will change to % instead of # 176 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Result 2014 Result 2013 Target 2016 Target 2017 and beyond -3 -10 8 2 -6 12 2 -5 12 -13 -18 0 n/a n/a -30% Retail customers: 55% best fixed network, Retail customers: 55% best fixed 60% 50% best mobile network network, 50% best mobile network Business: 74% best fixed network Business: 64% best fixed network, and 68% best mobile network 58% best mobile network 4 million n/a 85% n/a n/a 14,000 n/a n/a 14,000 540 192 100% 78% 74% 90% 43% compared with 2013 5% compared with 2012 25% compared with 2015 65% CO2 saving calculated for 80% 100% in 2020 8 services in NL n/a n/a Formulate 0-situation and define 100% circular operations smart targets and services in 2025 17% 13% 19% 25% in 2020 69% 69% 71% 156,677 n/a 18% of installed base 24% 24% 30% Engagement: 70% Engagement: 63% Engagement > 75% Sustainable employability: 56% Vitality: 56% Sustainable employability/ Fit for the future: > 65% ~80% n/a 82% n/a n/a 50% 177 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Scope sustainability information (list of material topics for KPN, including their reporting priority) determine which GRI indicators are set out in the The purpose of the sustainability information in our Integrated Integrated Report and which indicators are featured only on Report (including the GRI index and social and environmental our website or in our GRI index. The overview can be found figures appendices as published on our website), covering the in the GRI index in appendix 8. In addition to these GRI G4 calendar year 2015, is to inform our stakeholders about our role guidelines, KPN has taken as its point of orientation the pilot in society, in connection with our main strategic objectives and version of the Telecommunications Sector Supplement, as targets. We regard as stakeholders all people and organizations published by GRI in 2003, in determining material topics. affected by our operations or with whom we maintain a relationship, such as customers, employees, shareholders, The GRI Index specifies the aspect boundaries and omitted banks, suppliers, journalists, partners and social organizations. indicators where relevant (including clarifications). In the Integrated Report, there are no departures of any significance The scope of the sustainability information in this report, GRI from the GRI standard disclosures. This report shows the index and social and environmental figures (appendices) covers performance indicators applicable to the KPN Group. Where the KPN Group including subsidiaries in which KPN has a majority relevant, the appendices contain specified data per KPN shareholding. The scope has not changed compared with last business unit: KPN the Netherlands and other subsidiaries years report. Unless stated otherwise, references to KPN should of the KPN Group. Where available and relevant, the report be read as referring to the KPN Group. In this report (including includes data for previous years. Quantitative data concerning the GRI index and social and environmental appendices published the workforce and financial results set out in this report has on our website), KPN the Netherlands refers to all the activities been collected using our financial data management system. of the KPN Group in the Netherlands. Outside the Netherlands, The remaining data set out in this report has been collected our divisions are iBasis and Ortel Mobile. For our non-financial using a standardized questionnaire that was completed information, we include new acquisitions in our report as of by the responsible KPN business units. The Internal Audit the first full year of ownership. Non-financial information and Corporate Control departments used consistency and for divestments that occurred during the reporting year is availability of supporting evidence as the basis for their excluded for the full year. The data in this report refers to KPN’s assessment of the data reported at group level. Validation performance and not to that of our subcontractors, unless stated criteria set out in advance were also used to assess the data. otherwise. The full scope of the financial information is reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 82 to 155). In order to provide our stakeholders comfort over the reliability of our reporting, we engaged Ernst & Young (EY) to provide This report specifically reviews developments and performance reasonable assurance on KPN’s Dutch net CO2 -emissions (excluding in 2015 and is based on topics identified as highly material for scope 3 emissions) and the underlying energy consumption (see KPN. Aspects of a more static nature (such as our management our environmental chapter on page 48 and appendix 6). Limited approaches to our CSR themes and our stakeholders) or with assurance is provided on all other metrics in the scope of EY less reporting priority (such as our impact on biodiversity and (chapters “KPN at a Glance’(except Governance), “Report by the the list of external memberships) are included in the GRI index Board of Management” (except Risk Management and Compliance, (www.kpn. com/annualreport) or reported on http://corporate. Regulatory Developments) and appendices 2, 3 and 4), including kpn.com/ dutch-society.htm. the information in the appendix Environmental figures to the Integrated Annual Report on www.kpn.com/annualreport (see also pages 163 to 169). Reasonable assurance is obtained through audit Reporting process work, while other elements of the report have been reviewed. sustainability information Review work provides only limited assurance because exhaustive gathering of evidence is not required. The assurance work is The Integrated Report is published on February 25, 2016. performed in accordance with the Assurance Standard 3810N For this report, we have applied the guidelines from the ‘Assurance Engagements Relating to Sustainability Reports’ as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Furthermore, we use the drawn up by the professional body of Dutch Accountants (NBA). International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated Reporting (IR) framework as a guideline for our Integrated The key social and environmental figures, which are available in Report. The sustainability information in this report is the appendices (appendix 5 and 6) on www.kpn.com/ annualreport, presented in accordance with the comprehensive option are also part of this report. Partly, they provide more detailed of GRI G4. This means that KPN reports on all general standard numbers on key figures that reflect on highly material topics within disclosures and all specific standard disclosures related to the report (such as CO2 -emissions and electricity consumption). identified material topics. The process for defining the material Partly, they provide quantitative information (multiple years) on topics and report content, as well as the list of material topics, medium material topics which are represented qualitatively within is described in the materiality determination (see ‘materiality the report or information requested by some external benchmarks. determination’ in this appendix). The results of this assessment All information in the sustainability appendices is covered by the external assurance. These are appendix 3, Scope, reporting process 178 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 and materiality determination; appendix 4, Overview of CSR Some reference values are best guesses. They are challenged targets and achievements,; appendix 5, Social figures; appendix 6, with used values, which are published and reported by other Environmental figures; appendix 7, Stakeholder overview and telco’s and need further measurement and research. For appendix 8, GRI index. example, we want to ask our Conferencing customers to respond to some questions after a meeting: with how many The report contains prospective information, such as ambitions, persons they were attending the meeting, how many travel strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this kilometers were avoided and by which travel mode. We will information is that actual future results may be different from continue to improve the quality of the critical reference values the prospective information and therefore it may be uncertain. to make the calculation results more robust. This savings Therefore, the assumptions and feasibility of this prospective calculation model can also be used by our sales employees to information is not covered by the external assurance. calculate the expected energy, cost and carbon savings of our products and services, together with our customers. Calculation methodology avoided energy consumption by ICT services Calculation and determination of reported emissions We calculated the estimated avoided energy consumption and avoided carbon emissions of our customers from using In the Integrated Report, KPN reports the CO2 -emissions in our ICT solutions. The results are presented on page 51 and accordance with the method of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol in Table 8 of Appendix 6 Environmental Figures. In scope in the and the ISO 14064-1 standard. KPN uses the operational control calculations are: Teleworking (enabled by KPN Connectivity), KPN approach when reporting CO2 -emissions. Carbon dioxide (CO2) Audio Conferencing , KPN Colocation (Housing), KPN Hosting , is the most relevant greenhouse gas to KPN. Where available, KPN iTV cloud solution, KPN workstations (KPN Werkplek), KPN we have taken CH4 and N2O into consideration in our greenhouse Video Conferencing and Dematerialization of DVDs, CDs and gas emissions information. We use the term ‘CO2 -emissions’ to newspapers (enabled by KPN connectivity). For teleworking, refer to the greenhouse gas emissions reported on. These are audio conferencing, KPN Werkplek and video conferencing, the stated in CO2 equivalents. The scope 2 emissions are based on avoided energy consumption and carbon emissions are primarily the TTW (Tank to Wheel) CO2 -emissions factors for renewable caused by avoided travel (by car or by public transport). For electricity. For renewables (wind, biomass, solar) the TTW-values colocation and hosting, the reduction is caused by better cooling are all zero. The CO2 -emissions of the WTT (Well to Tank) phase energy efficiency (PUE) of KPN data centers compared with the are accounted for in our scope 3 emissions (category 3 – Fuel average cooling energy efficiency of ICT rooms at customers’ and energy related activities). This is only applicable for biomass. premises. In all calculations, the rebound effects are also taken CO2 -emission factors for coolants are based on DEFRA 2014 3 . into account. For instance, when working at home in the case of teleworking, extra electricity and gas for heating are used. The The KPN emissions report is subdivided as follows: calculations of the estimates of the avoided energy consumption Scope 1 – Direct emissions due to: and avoided emissions are validated by Ecofys , who supports •• Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’ KPN in developing and improving the calculations. For each passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles) service, the input variables are defined (the so-called reference •• Heating of buildings (gas) values) and with this data the estimated avoided energy •• Consumption of coolants for air conditioning and/or cooling consumption and avoided carbon emissions are calculated. •• Fuel consumption of emergency power generators These reference values are based on several sources: Scope 2 – Indirect emissions due to: •• Actual measurements (by KPN, by customers or other sources) •• Electricity consumption of the fixed and mobile networks, •• Publicly available data and statistics from governments, datacenters, offices and shops research institutes, and sector organizations (e.g. CBS, •• District heating GeSI1, ITU, ICarbonTrust2) •• District cooling •• External expertise from consultancy firms Scenario analyses based on KPN’s savings calculation tool Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions due to: •• Expert judgments (KPN product management and •• Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the other sources) production phase of our products, services and equipment at our suppliers) •• Emissions in our downstream value chain (during the use 1) http://smarter2030.gesi.org/downloads/Full_report.pdf phase including recycling and disposal of the products, 2) GeSI – CarbonTrust report Carbon Mobile Impact dec. 2015 https:// www.carbontrust.com/resources/reports/advice/mobile-carbon-impact services and equipment). 3) http://www.ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/ www.carbontrust.com/resources/reports/advice/mobile-carbon-impact 179 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Methodology Calculation scope Scope 3 emissions 1 and 2 emissions On all 15 scope 3 categories five categories are not applicable; 1. Activities for the remaining 10 categories, the emissions have been Emissions (CO2 and HFCs) are calculated based on all the calculated. The calculations are based on the Greenhouse Gas activities of the KPN Group. Most of the emissions relate to Protocol scope 3 standard . See for more information page 48 activities that use energy, such as the electricity consumption in the chapter Environmental performance and table 7 in of the networks, transport, and heating and/or cooling appendix 6, Environmental Figures. buildings. As virtually all the emissions are of CO2, details of this are given below. KPN reports on a number of ratios, 83% of our scope 3 emissions are upstream emissions. The two which are included in the figures in the chapter Environment highest impact categories are Purchased goods and services and in appendix 6 on Environmental figures. The footnotes (44%) and Capital goods (22%). The majority of the upstream show the denominator used. emissions are calculated based on procurement data (supplier spend) combined with emission factors obtained from the 2. Emission factors Environmentally Extended Input Output data (EEIO) approach. The CO2 -emissions are calculated by multiplying the We use the emission factors (g CO2 per GBP spend) published consumption data for each activity by the CO2 -emission by DEFRA. We convert the GBP values to Euros and take inflation factors for each unit of consumption. These emission factors into account. We used the ISIC guidance (International Standard are updated annually. KPN uses a monitoring protocol for Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities) for the reporting its carbon footprint. In this protocol, all sources correct mapping of specific suppliers or supplier categories for used emission factors are specified. The emissions factors to a category in the supply chain emission factors list of DEFRA, are checked and updated annually when necessary. The most when applicable. important sources for our emissions factors are the IEA (International Energy Agency) and DEFRA. The downstream emissions account for 17% of the total scope 3 emissions. The downstream category with the 3. Accuracy largest impact is Downstream Leased assets (15% of scope 3 The accuracy of the consumption data is a key factor in emissions). This calculation is based on the total annual the reliability of the CO2 -emissions calculations. In the data electricity consumption of our installed equipment at the collection process, a number of factors affect the accuracy of customer premises (such as modems for internet access and the collected data. In general, the data originating from direct set-top boxes). This equipment remains the property of KPN measurements and recordings, such as summaries from energy and KPN is also responsible for recollecting the equipment and other suppliers and direct invoices, are the most accurate. in the event of swaps, defects or ending of the subscription. Data may also be estimated or calculated, using assumptions Emissions of transportation of this equipment (forward to and expert opinions. The materiality of all KPN units and customer and backward to KPN) are accounted in the category subsidiaries is determined every year on the basis of sales Downstream transportation and distribution. In this category, and number of FTEs (>=1% of the total). all our activities of our Logistic Service Partners (LSPs) are accounted for. The emission calculation is based on EEIO As electricity providers estimate our electricity consumption and accounts for 2% of scope 3 emissions. for a part of our network operations, and do not in all cases perform a meter reading annually, some uncertainty exists In total, 68% of the scope 3 emissions are based on spend data about the accuracy and completeness of our energy consumption. (EEIO). 32% of the emissions are based on activity data and As this uncertainty cancels out over the years once actual meter installed data. Some reference values in the calculations are readings are processed by our energy suppliers, we use energy based on publicly available or own measured data and expert consumption data from invoices as a basis to report our energy judgment. We will try to further improve the quality of these consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. assumptions and estimations to improve the robustness of the calculations. For the data collection and auditing, KPN employees use several internal audit measures to minimize the risk of For details of the individual scopes, we refer to the environmental incomplete and incorrect reporting of consumption data. indicators (EN3 to EN7, E16 and E17) in the 2015 GRI index on www.kpn.com/annualreport. 180 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Materiality determination Step 2: Determining reporting priority The second step aims to assess the reporting priority of all relevant topics, which is presented graphically and used not only to determine the contents of the Integrated Report but also as input to determine our (CSR) strategy, policies and approach. Comprehensive list of subjects (incl. GRI, topics KPN determines the reporting priority by reviewing all identiﬁed otherwise) relevant topics on: (1) significance of the topic for KPN and (2) significance of the topic for key stakeholders. This review is performed using nine criteria, which are relevant to KPN and based on GRI G4. The priority determination is performed Step 1: twice a year: a preliminary review and a final review including Determine impact all inputs from stakeholder dialogues and stakeholder surveys Relevant topics performed throughout the year in order to validate the outcomes. The result of this second step is an overview of Step 2: all material topics for KPN, which is supported by current Material topics Determine priority stakeholder expectations. The materiality chart combines the two aspects schematically. The combination of the horizontal axis (significance to KPN) and the vertical axis (significance to stakeholders) determines the degree of influence that the topic The annual materiality assessment is the basis for determining has on our reputation and therefore the reporting priority. the report content and is performed before the Integrated KPN divides the results into three categories: Report is compiled. The assessment is approved by the Board of Management. The process consists of three steps: •• Highly material topics: we aim to fulfill a leading role on these topics and translate them into our six CSR themes Step 1: Identification of relevant aspects and other topics and two additional themes. We report on these topics The goal of the first step is to create a gross overview of in our Integrated Report. relevant CSR topics. In this process, KPN annually updates •• Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social a comprehensive list of topics based on GRI guidelines and responsibility regarding these topics. We report on them the pilot version of the Telecommunication Sector Supplement, in our GRI index, additional policy document and/or on as published by GRI in 2003. Where relevant, missing topics our website. are added, including topics identified during media scans •• Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not and stakeholder dialogues. Following the update of the list, report on. KPN assesses the relevance of each of the topics. Relevant topics are those on which KPN has or can have an impact Our materiality determination is based on the complete list (inside the organization and in the value chain or society). of general and sector-specific aspects provided by GRI G4. The This is determined based on stakeholder input and KPN’s own highly material and medium material aspects were translated experience. The outcome is an overview of all relevant topics. into topics relevant for KPN. In order to see where the aspect In 2015, we updated the relevant topics. This resulted in less can be found and which GRI aspects are translated into KPN topics and a change in naming topics. We went from 52 to 30 topics, please see the cross-reference on the next page. For topics. The change resulted in topics that are most relevant our high material topics, we made a cross-reference with our to KPN and its business. This is done in line with stakeholder strategic choices. The topics that do not correspond with a expectations and the GRI as a basis. strategic choice, are highly material for our reporting process. Step 3: Implementation Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality determination (approved by the BoM), we determine the topics to be addressed in the report, including the scope and aspect boundaries of all material topics. Business units are informed on new and altered topics to be acted and reported on, to prepare reporting systems, enhance internal mechanisms, develop reporting definitions and, where relevant, targets. Timelines are developed and new/altered topics are included in the relevant reporting process mechanisms (financial/HR data management systems or CSR questionnaires). 181 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Materiality assessment Highly material topics Low material topics 1. Direct economic value 25. Internal human rights issues 2. Privacy & Security 26. Fair marketing communications 4 3. Customer loyalty 27. Participation in public 4. Energy use operations policy development 5. Emissions operations 28. Material use operations 11 8 2 5 1 6. Quality and reliability 29. Biodiversity of network 30. Water use operations 7. Innovation and investments 13 14 9 10 6 3 8. Sustainable Employment 9. Indirect economic impact of products and services 12 7 Significance to stakeholders 10. Impact of products and services on social and 22 16 18 environmental issues 19 11. Remuneration 12. Compliance 20 17 15 13. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 14. Sustainable suppliers 24 23 21 Medium material topics 15. Training and Education 16. Digital inclusion 26 17. Health and safety of employees 29 28 25 18. Anti-corruption 19. Anti-competitive behavior 20. Non-Discrimination 30 21. Community investment 22. Tax policy 23. e-waste 27 24. Electromagnetic ﬁelds /radiation Low material topics Medium material topics Highly material topics Significance to KPN 182 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Highly material topics KPN Corresponding strategic choices Where to find in our IR 2015 Corresponding GRI G4 aspects Direct economic value Build new revenues streams, Financial performance, p. 28 Economic performance Reduce costs Financial statements, p. 82 Privacy & Security Differentiate through Privacy & Security, p. 34 Security ICT infrastructure, innovative products Customer privacy Customer loyalty Provide the best service, Quality and reputation, p. 38 Product and service labeling Provide integrated fixed and mobile services Energy use operations Continue environmental strategy Environmental performance, p. 48 Energy Emission operations Continue environmental strategy Environmental performance, p. 48 Emissions Quality and reliability Best network through NetCo, p. 58 of network continuous improvements, Provide the best service Innovation and Differentiate through Innovation, p. 32 ICT infrastructure investments, investments innovative products Investment Sustainable employment Provide the best service Our people, p. 42 Employment Indirect economic impact Differentiate through Financial performance, p. 28 Indirect economic impacts of products and services innovative products Environmental performance, p. 48 Business, p. 54 Impact of products and Continue environmental Environmental performance, p. 48 Impact of ICT applications, services on social and strategy, Differentiate through Privacy & Security, p. 34 Products and services environmental issues innovative products Business, p. 54 Remuneration Remuneration report, p. 72 Equal remuneration for women and men Compliance Risk management Compliance, products and compliance, p. 62 and services compliance Diversity and equal Our people, p. 42 Diversity and equal opportunity opportunity Sustainable suppliers Our suppliers, p. 46 Supplier environmental assessment, Supplier human rights assessment, Supplier assessment for labor practices, Supplier assessment for impacts on society 183 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Medium material topics Where to find in our IR 2015 Corresponding GRI G4 aspects Training and education Our people, p. 42 Training and education Digital inclusion Quality and reputation, p. 38 Digital divide Health and safety of employees Our people, p. 42 Occupational health & safety Anti-corruption Risk management and compliance, p. 62 Anti-corruption Anti-competitive behavior Risk management and compliance, p. 62 Anti-competitive behavior Non-discrimination Risk management and compliance, p. 62 Non-discrimination Community investment Quality and reputation, p. 38 Direct economic value generated and distributed/ Economic performance Tax policy Financial performance, p. 28 www.kpn.com/taxstrategy e-waste Environmental performance, p. 48 Energy, Emissions, Effluents and Waste Electromagnetic fields/radiation http://corporate.kpn.com/company-kpn/ Electromagnetic fields and radiation csr/telephones-masts-and-health.htm 184 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Appendix 4. Glossary of terms 2G Second Generation Mobile System, which Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA C is based on the GSM universal standard. Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA Cradle-to-cradle (C2C) are derived from revenues (including Production techniques, management 3G other income) and EBITDA, respectively, or operations that are essentially waste Third Generation Mobile System, which and are adjusted for the impact of free. All material inputs and outputs are is based on the UMTS universal standard. restructuring costs and incidentals. technical or biological nutrients. Technical Incidentals are non-recurring transactions nutrients can be recycled or reused with 4G which are not directly related to day-tono loss of quality and biological nutrients Fourth Generation Mobile System, day operational activities over 5 million composted or consumed. a standard for wireless communication unless significant for the specific delivering high-speed data for mobile reportable segment. CBb (College van Beroep voor phones and data terminals. het bedrijfsleven) ARPU (Average Revenue Per User) The Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal 4G+ ARPU is the sum of connection fees, in the Netherlands. 4G+ provides additional wireless capacity monthly fixed subscription revenues, and speed than traditional 4G, by traffic revenues and gross service provider CDP aggregating 4G’s 800 MHz frequencies revenues less related discounts during a The CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure with other 1800 MHz frequencies. one-month period, divided by the average Project) is a joint initiative of investors number of customers during that month. worldwide that questions and 4G coverage Gross service provider revenues represent benchmarks listed companies on Coverage of the 4G mobile network. revenues generated by third-party their approach to climate change. The coverage depends on the subscribers providers. KPN accounts for the net part situation. KPN measures its 4G coverage as gross service provider revenues. Churn (calculated on an annual basis) by checking four different situations The number of mobile customers no longer (urban, sub-urban, in-car and outdoor) connected to a mobile operator’s network in any given location. B divided by the operator’s customer base. 100 Mbps access BCF (Business Control Framework) Circular economy Applies to households with the The Business Control Framework contains The circular economy is a generic possibility to get access to internet all corporate policies and guidelines that term for an industrial economy that is speeds of minimal 100 Mbit per second. are mandatory for KPN segments and producing no waste and pollution and Actual internet speed is calculated by entities. It forms the cornerstone of in which material flows are of two types dividing the 100 Mb/s line by the the governance of the KPN Group. biological nutrients, designed to re-enter number of households connected. the biosphere safely, and technical Bit nutrients, which are designed to circulate A binary digit (bit) is the smallest unit at high quality in the production system A of information. Internet speeds in this without entering the biosphere. report are expressed in Megabits per Access lines second (Mbps). CISO (Chief Information Security Office) Access lines are the total number of CISO is responsible within KPN for the traditional voice and VoIP connections Broadband security of the IT and TI architecture. provided to customers of KPN’s Broadband refers to telecommunication Part of this office are the CISO REDteam, Business segment as of the end that provides multiple channels of data KPN’s ethical hacking team and the of the specified period. over a single communications medium, CERT (Computer Emergency Response typically using some form of frequency Team) that acts in case of a (potential) ACM or wave division multiplexing. cyber attack. The Dutch Competition Authority (Autoriteit Consument en Markt Byte Climate neutral or ‘ACM’) acts as a regulator in the The byte (derived from ‘by eight’) is a For KPN, climate neutral means Netherlands and is responsible unit of digital information that consists operating with zero net CO2 -emissions. for monitoring compliance with of eight bits. Data sizes in this report are anti-trust rules. expressed in petabytes. Cloud services Cloud services are standardized IT capability ADR (services, software or infrastructure) American Depository Receipt. delivered via internet technologies in a pay-per-use, self-service way. 185 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 4. Glossary of terms CO2 small businesses over ordinary copper business, non-governmental organizations Carbon dioxide is a gas that is created PSTN lines. The widely used term xDSL (NGOs), governments, and others that when fossil fuels such as oil and coal refers to different variations of DSL, develop internationally accepted GHG are burned. Carbon dioxide is such as ADSL, HDSL, VDSL and SDSL. accounting and reporting standards a greenhouse gas. for organizations. Conflict minerals Conflict minerals are minerals mined E Green electricity Green electricity is electricity from under conditions of armed conflicts and renewable sources. KPN only uses wind EBITDA human rights issues. These minerals are energy and electricity from biomass that Operating result before depreciation and used in a variety of products, including does not compete with food production. impairments of PP&E and amortization consumer electronic devices such as and impairments of intangible assets. mobile phones. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) The Global Reporting Initiative is an EEIO (Environmentally-extended CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) organization that publishes international input output data) Corporate Social Responsibility, guidelines for CSR reporting. EEIO models estimate energy use to KPN, is the integrated vision of and/or GHG emissions resulting from the entrepreneurship, in which the company GPRS production and upstream supply chain takes responsibility and creates value GPRS is an application that enables data activities of different sectors and products. in economic (Profit), ecological (Planet) packet switching via GSM networks as The resulting EEIO emissions factors can and social (People) terms. We incorporate well as via existing voice communication. be used to estimate cradle-to-gate GHG CSR into our business and by doing so, GPRS is based on and complements GSM. emissions for a given industry or product take our social responsibility and category. EEIO models are derived by contribute to societal challenges. allocating national GHG emissions to Customer base groups of finished products based on I economic flows between industry sectors. Customer base is the total number ichange of subscribers. The interactive coaching program for F companies and their employees, that supports people in changing their D FTE (full-time equivalent) behavior in health-related areas. The equivalent of the number of DEFRA ICT employees with a full-time contract. UK Department for Environment Food Information and Communication & Rural Affairs. DEFRA published Technology. FttC (Fiber-to-the-Curb) conversion factors to calculate FttC is defined as an access network greenhouse gas emissions. IDH (Sustainable Trade Initiative) architecture in which optical fiber Organization aimed at working towards extents to street cabinets ‘on the curb’. DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) ensuring more sustainable tin mining The final part of the connection to the The Dow Jones Sustainability Index practices in Indonesia. home consists of copper. is a collection of indices that track the performance of companies that are IPTV FttH (Fiber-to-the-Home) frontrunners in terms of CSR. The DJSI IPTV is a system through which television FttH is defined as an access network is based on an analysis of corporate services are delivered using the internet architecture in which the final part of economic, environmental and social protocol suite over a packet-switched the connection to the home also consists performance. There are several sub-indices network such as the internet. iTV of optical fiber. based on geographical parameters. (‘Interactieve TV’) is KPN’s IPTV offering in the Netherlands. FttO (Fiber-to-the-Office) Dropped call rate FttO is fiber connection for business The dropped call rate is the fraction of ISO (International Organization customers to the customers’ offices. telephone calls which are cut off for Standardization) unexpectedly as a result of technical This organization is responsible for issues, measured as a percentage international management standards of all calls. G such as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, ISO 27001 and ISO 22301 (mentioned DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol in this report). DSL is a technology for bringing high The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative bandwidth information to homes and is a multi-stakeholder partnership of 186 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 J completely accurate, and may partially be based on estimates. O JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) OTT Mbps (Megabits per second) The JAC is a cooperation of nine In broadcasting, over-the-top content Mbps is a unit of data transfer rate European Telecommunication Operators (OTT) refers to the delivery of audio, equal to 1 million bits per second. (including KPN) focusing on the social, video, and other media over the Internet The bandwidths of broadband networks ethical, and environmental conditions for which no subscription to a traditional are often indicated in Mbps. across their supply chains. cable or satellite operator is required. A famous example is WhatsApp, replacing MHz (Megahertz) text messaging. MHz is one million hertz (a unit K of frequency). KPN Classmate Multi play P Through the KlasseContact project of the Propositions combining more than KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, chronicallyone product and/or type of service is PUE (power usage effectiveness) ill children can use an ICT-set (a KPN considered a multi play proposition. An international standard for the Classmate) to take a ‘virtual seat’ Triple play and quad play propositions calculation of energy efficiency of data in the classroom. are types of multi play propositions. centers, which compares the total data center electricity consumption with the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds MVNO (Mobile Virtual electricity consumption of equipment This KPN foundation supports societal Network Operator) used for customer purposes. initiatives aimed at stimulating social A mobile operator that does not have contact, by combining people and its own spectrum or its own network Petabyte 15 technological resources to the infrastructure. Instead, MVNOs have One petabyte (PB) is one quadrillion (10 ) best advantage. business arrangements with ‘traditional’ of the unit byte for digital information. mobile operators to buy minutes of use to sell to their own customers. L R LoRa (Long-Range) N RepTrak Network architecture to connect millions RepTrak, developed by the Reputation of low-energy and low-data devices to the Net adds Institute, is a method to calculate a Internet in a cost-effective way. This opens Net adds is defined as the difference reputation score of companies. The up countless application possibilities for between the total number of contracts KPN reputation is based on three out KPN’s Internet of Things (IoT). for a specific type of service from one of twelve RepTrak attributes that are kept period compare to the previous period. confidential and are stable over the years. LTE (Long-Term Evolution) LTE, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, NPS (Net Promoter Score) RGU (Revenue Generating Unit) is a standard for wireless communication NPS is a tool for measuring customer RGU is the total of all subscribers of high-speed data for mobile phones loyalty. The key question asked is receiving standard cable, broadband and data terminals. whether customers would recommend internet or telephony services over KPN to friends or family. Depending KPN’s network at a given date. Thus, on the score they give customer will one subscriber who receives a bundle M be promoters or critics. The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of KPN’s services (telephony, internet and TV) would be counted as three RGUs. of critics from the percentage of Machine-to-Machine (M2M) promoters. The result is displayed Roaming M2M refers to technologies that allow as an absolute number and not Transfer of mobile traffic from one both wireless and wired systems to as a percentage. In this report all NPS network to another, referring to the communicate between devices of results refer to Q4 of the respective year. exchange of international mobile traffic. the same ability. New Way of Living & Working (NWLW) Market share The New Way of Living & Working Market share is the percentage or means being able to work without proportion of the total available market the constraints of time and place with that is being serviced by KPN. These the use of modern technology. figures are based on externally available market data, which may not be 187 Connected. KPN at a glance Report by the Board Report by the By KPN. of Management Supervisory Board Appendices Appendix 4. Glossary of terms S subscriber base if there is a direct or indirect (business, wholesale) billing VDSL (Very-high-bitrate Digital Subscriber Line) relation, either prepaid or postpaid, A new DSL technology providing faster Scope 1 with the following exceptions: data transmission over a single flat Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring untwisted or twisted pair of copper from sources that are owned or controlled •• if the connection is owned through wires. These fast speeds mean that VDSL by an organization. wholesale by full MVNOs or fixed is capable of supporting high bandwidth line access parties or applications such as HDTV, as well as Scope 2 •• if the connection has been inactive telephony services (Voice over IP) and Indirect greenhouse gas emissions for a specific time period (prepaid general internet access, over a single from the generation of purchased or postpaid without contract). connection. VDSL-CO refers to VDSL electricity, heating or cooling from the Central Office. consumed by an organization. Scope 3 T VoIP (Voice over IP) Voice traffic is transported over an Other direct greenhouse gas emissions Tier standards (I to IV) IP-based data network. It enables as a consequence of the activities of the Telecommunications Infrastructure new ways of communicating, such as company, but occurring from sources not Standard for Data Centers. Tier levels combinations of telephony, messaging owned or controlled by an organization. describe the availability of data at a and videoconferencing. location. The higher the tier, the greater Service revenues the availability. Tier IV is the highest level VoLTE (Voice over LTE) Service revenues are defined as the and entails independent dual-powered VoLTE allows the voice service to be aggregate of connection fees, monthly cooling and expected data availability delivered as data flows within the LTE subscription fees and traffic fees. of 99,995% or higher. data bearer. The term service revenues refers to wireless service revenues. Triple play SIM card (Subscriber Identity Term used to describe the provision of telephony, internet and television W Module card) services to a household by A chip card inserted into a mobile phone, Weighted downtime reduction a single provider. which contains information such as The weighted downtime concerns the telephone numbers and memory for average monthly time period in which TSR (Total Shareholder Return) storing a directory. a combination of KPN platforms and A measure of the performance of different systems is inaccessible to clients companies’ stocks and shares over time. SOC (Security Operations Center) and customers. The TSR is calculated by the growth in The SOC monitors the high-risk systems capital from purchasing a share in the of KPN in order to quickly act in case Wholesale broadband access company assuming that the dividends are of security risks or incidents. Wholesale broadband access is the reinvested each time they are paid. This rental by broadband internet service growth is expressed as a percentage as SoHo/SME providers of access to KPN’s networks the compound annual growth rate. SoHo refers to Small Office/Home Office to supply broadband internet access companies. SME refers to Small and to their end customers. The broadband Medium Enterprises. internet service provider charges its end V customer for the combined wholesale Stakeholder broadband access it purchases from Stakeholders are the people or VBDO (Vereniging van Beleggers KPN along with its service fees. organizations with an interest in voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling) the company, such as employees, The Dutch Association of Investors for shareholders, suppliers, customers, Sustainable Development (VBDO) works governments and media. to create a sustainable capital market, a market that considers not only financial Subscriber criteria but also non-financial, social and A subscriber is defined as an end-user environmental criteria. VBDO’s vision with a connection to the mobile or fixed is to increase sustainability awareness networks and/or service platforms of among companies and investors. KPN. The subscriber is included in the 188 Financial Statements Appendices Integrated Annual Report 2015 Colophon For additional Information please contact Forward-looking statements and management estimates KPN Investor Relations Certain of the statements we have made in this Integrated Tel: +31 (0) 704460986 Annual Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. These Fax: +31 (0) 704460593 statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions and on www.kpn.com/ir information currently available to us. They include information ir@kpn.com concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive Published by position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating Koninklijke KPN NV performance or expense improvements and the effects of P.O. Box 30000 future legislation or regulation. 2500 GA The Hague The Netherlands Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forwardChamber of Commerce The Hague, looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’, ‘expect’, registration number 02045200 ‘plan’, ‘intend’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’, ‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the negative Content and organization of these terms or similar expressions. Koninklijke KPN NV Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and Royal HaskoningDHV assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those www.royalhaskoningdhv.com expressed in these forward-looking statements. No undue reliance should be put on any forward-looking statements. RRED Communications Unless required by applicable law or applicable rules of the www.rred.nl stock exchange on which our securities are listed, we have neither the intention nor an obligation to update forwardStampa Communications looking statements after distribution of this Annual Report. www.stampacommunications.com All market share information in this financial report is based Design and Production on management estimates based on externally available Addison Group information, unless indicated otherwise. www.addison-group.net The terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ are used to describe the DesignPolitie company; where they are used in the chapter ‘Segment www.designpoltie.nl performance’, they refer to the business concerned. We always aim to further improve our CSR activities and reporting. Therefore, we highly appreciate your feedback, questions and comments on our Integrated Report and CSR activities. Please contact mvo@kpn.com. 100 people We would like to thank everyone who participated in the videos, that can be viewed on our Annual Report website: www.kpn.com/annualreport Alexander van der Hooft Ferris Zurburg Jannes van Gemert Mafalda Remoaldo Pauline van der Linden Andre Honig Francis van Teeffelen Jasper Boomker Manuela Inäbnit Pepijn Griffioen Andrea van Lieshout Frank van der Post Jaya Baloo Marcel Jaspers Raksha Hoost Anne van Velthoven Frans Angenent Jean Jacques van Belle Marco van Gelder Ramon Sjoers Annelijn Sinjorgo Fred Grent Jennifer Muntslag Markus Koeleman Remco Pijpers Annet Pieters Frits Barend Job Bisscheroux Marga Blom Rence Damming Barbara de Loor Frits Strating Johan van de Gronden Margriet Bosman Richard Ricke Barend de Jonge Gabriellla Quliyeva Jolanda van Eijk Marian Spier Robert Vosmeijer Bas Markies Geralde Steenbergen Jolien Grent Marie Kempe – Willems Ron Schallies Bernadet Angenent Gregory Ernst Joost Farwerck Mark van der Zijden Rosemarie Broek Brett Koelewijn Hans de Boer Jos Huigen Maurits Hendriks Sanghita Mehciz Cesi Nolten Hans Koeleman Jos Versteeg Meinte Jorritsma Sara Landeira Daan Somsen Harald Oltheten Kimo de schaatsmascotte Melody Sturm Sascha Brandt Diantha Boll Harold Smit Laurens van der Wee Michel Smit Sef Gielen Edwin Alders Hayo Duinkerken Lies Schuringa Nadia Salem Sophie Rockland Eelco Blok Ireen Wüst Liesbeth Unger Natasha Berting Sylvia Bal Ellen Alvares Jacintha Risamasu Loes van der Laken Nayla Chebli Tijmen Tio Ellen Somsen Jacob Groote Luc Upson Nico Baken Vincent Everts Eva de Rooij Jan Kees de Jager Lucienne van Raaij Olaf Kaashoek Willem van Leusden Felix Cohen Janine Vos Madelon van Beek Paul Driessen Wim Pijbes 189 Koninklijke KPN N.V. Maanplein 55 2516 CK Den Haag Nederland Postbus 30000 2500 GA Den Haag Nederland www.kpn.com
