UN Global Compact : GMC’s COP REPORT 2015 G.M.C. PART III 8.0 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR 2015 During the year under review, the following Environmental Improvement activities were carried out: • GMC was rated BLUE in the 2014 AKOBEN Audit by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); • As part of measures to ensure that best Environmental Management Practices are observed on the mine, an internal inspections and audits were conducted on the mine and at the Takoradi Port respectively. Recommendations and non-conformances observed were forwarded to HOD’s and management for redress; • The updated Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was submitted to the EPA subsequent to answering all queries in the EPA review comments; • Knight Piesold’s report on the current condition and integrity of the Tailings Storage Facility (TSF) was submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Minerals Commission respectively; • The Mine Reclamation and Closure Plan for GMC was submitted to the EPA and the Minerals Commission respectively; • Mineral Exploration Permits required for Kawere PL, Yakau, Edum Banso, GMC Hotopo and Nsuta Mining Lease were finalized and submitted to the EPA and permits received; • A review of GMC’s water monitoring stations was carried out and new monitoring stations proposed as per EPA recommendation; • The company submitted the 2014 Annual Environmental Report (AER) to the EPA and the Minerals Commission before the deadline; • The Company sponsored the world Water Day in Tarkwa (provided refreshment and transportation for 50 students from Fiaseman Senior High School) as part of the Ankobra Basin’s activities to mark the World Water Day Celebration; • Construction of gentle slopes along surroundings of the new Administration Block commenced is ongoing. Topsoil was placed as a cover and the area grassed to control erosion; • Apart from regular de-silting of various silt traps and drains on the mine to reduce silt carried by run-offs into the Kawere stream, general de-silting programme was undertaken in areas such as the Kawere stream and storm water drains on the mine; • Asbestos roof removed from Electrical/Mechanical workshops building were collected and buried together with used bulbs and other electronic wastes in a dug-out pit lined with HDPE material; • Pit de-watering pumps were also inspected to ensure that there were no oil leakages entering the external water body; • A source/personal noise survey was conducted at various operational areas within the pits, waste dumps, carbonate plants, workshops and Metalurgy/Assay to ascertain the noise levels for determination of high level noise zones on the mine, selection and use of proper attenuating safety equipment; • As per the Chamber of Mines’ request, the mine’s Water Balance was submitted to the Chamber; and • Four Osiris dust monitor equipment returned to manufacturer for annual calibration were received and installed on the mine and Takoradi Port to continue the monthly environmental monitoring. 8.1 Environmental Programmes and Workshops • Inductions for third party contractors, newly employed personnel and employees resuming from annual leave were carried out on a regular basis; • Envaserv Consult conducted a training programme for three staffs of the Environmental Department and commissioned a Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and a Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) machines at the environmental laboratory; • Minerals Commission’s Mine Safety Audit was conducted on the Mine on Monday 6th September, 2015. Three sections of the mine (i.e. Mining, Engineering and the General Environment) were audited with few recommendations made during the de-briefing. Key among the recommendations was that the mine should ensure that all its contractors involve in mainstream activities of the mine such as supplies services, mining contracts registration with the Inspectorate Division of the Minerals Commission according to the Minerals and Mining (Support Services) Regulation, 2012, L.I. 2174. However, an audit report will be communicated to the mine by the Inspectorate Division of the Minerals Commission; • The Environment and Social Committee (ENSOC) of the Ghana Chamber of Mines’ meeting was held at the Perseus Mining Ghana Limited, Ayanfuri. GMC was represented by Mr. Emmanuel Coffie-Anum where he was nominated to join a group of Environmental Managers to find alternative use of mined-out pits in the mining industry; • Minerals Commission’s Quarterly Environmental Inspection was carried out on the Mine on the 3rd September, 2015 and no deviation was reported; • The Ghana Chamber of Mines’ Security Committee Meeting was held at the Function Hall of GMC on 3rd September, 2015; and • The Ghana Chamber of Mines’ Technical Committee Meeting took place at the Function Hall on 4th September, 2015. 8.2 Environmental Sanitation Awareness Programme As part of efforts to keep the Nsuta Community clean, the Environmental Department organized a workshop for workers’ wives, sanitation contractors and schools at the Nsuta village. Representatives from each department of the mine also attended to help shape ways of dealing with the overwhelming challenges of poor sanitation in the Nsuta Community. In his opening address, the Mine Coordinating Manager, Mr. Paul Apalangya, expressed the need for residents to co-operate with the sanitation companies working in the toilets and bathhouses since this mutual respect will go a long way in achieving the desired sanitation goal. He reminded the need to keep our environments clean, also to share ideas and find solutions to sanitation problems in the mine village and the way forward. He again stressed the need to report any insanitary and unhygienic attitudes and behaviour to the Estate and the Welfare section for disciplinary actions. Same programme was organised for the schools within the Nsuta village. In all, five (5) schools namely: Dadwen Schools Complex, Roman Catholic, Methodist M/A, Nsuta D/C and Good Shepherd Rock Preparatory Schools, benefited from the programme. The presentation contained: objectives of sanitation, sanitation practices, sanitation in dignity, poor sanitation practices, waste management practices, poor housekeeping at refuse dumps, improper cleaning of bath houses and toilets, conditions at bath houses, wasting of treated water, impacts of poor sanitation, life cycle of cholera, environmental impacts, hygiene and the way forward. Plates 58 and 59 demonstrate some of the scenes of the sanitation awareness programme. Plates 58 and 59: Show the Mine Coordinating Manager, Environmental Coordinator and Environmental Officers facilitating the presentation In summation, the presentation aimed at prompting sanitation contractors and residents of their poor attitudes towards cleaning and usage of the sanitation facilities. It was also to encourage schools’ participation in cleaning the environment to ensure good sanitation practices and prevent some sanitation-related diseases such as cholera among other health risks caused by bad sanitation in the community. Furthermore, the school children were educated on behavioural change which will help them keep their schools and locations clean as well as personal hygiene. See Plates 60 and 61 showing supervisor and students question and answering session of the presentation. Plates 60 and 61: Showing supervisor and students question and answering session of the presentation 8.3 Mine Visits • As part of Knight Piesold’s contract to prepare a report on the current condition and integrity of the Tailings Storage Facility (TSF) for onward submission to the EPA, a field inspection was conducted on Thursday 29/01/2015 to finalize the report; • Sixty (60) students from the University of Cape Coast (UCC) visited the mine as part of their educational trip to deepen their knowledge of the operations of the mining industry; • Mining and Geological students from the University of Mines and Technology visited the mine to familiarize themselves with the mining operations; • The Water Resources Commission visited the mine as part of their quarterly inspections; • The Inspectorate Division of the Minerals Commission (Environmental Section) visited the mine as part of their quarterly inspections. Few recommendations were made for redress; • Thirty-two (32) students from the University of Jos, Nigeria, under the auspices of the University of Mines and Technology (UMaT), Ghana, visited the mine to familiarize themselves with the mine’s geology; • The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA, Tarkwa Office) visited the mine to access the operations of the Rana Motors as part of processes to issue mine service contractors with new environmental permit; and • Fifty-six (56) Electrical students from UMaT visited the mine to acquaint themselves with the operations of the mine. 8.4 The Radiation Protection Institute’s Visit to GMC Radiations can be found in the natural environment as well as produced from artificial sources. Radiations from radioactive sources have several applications such as being used in the manufacturing, brewing, construction and mining industries; as level and density gauges, in agriculture and biotechnology applications; and in healthcare for the treatment of cancers, etc. Despite their enormous benefits there is the potential that when these sources fall into wrong and unauthorized hands, people with malicious intent can use it to cause havoc to the public, society and the environment. The Radiation Protection Institute (RPI) of the Ghana Atomic Energy Commission (GAEC) through its Nuclear Security Support Centre (NSSC) visited the mine as part of its mandate to assess the security of nuclear devices, sources and materials as well as the environment in which these devices, sources, or materials are used. The technical team of the NSSC carried out an environmental radiation monitoring in the Pits, Waste Dumps and Carbonate Plants for radioactive sources and concluded that all environmental radiation reading in the areas monitored in GMC were within normal threshold. See Plates 62 and 63 for the operations of the team from NSSC. Plates 62 and 63: Show Technical team of the NSSC conducting radiation monitoring at the mine face 8.5 EPA Public Hearing at Tarkwa Banso Subsequent to the submission of the updated Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to the Environmental Protection Agency for the proposed Pit C North Project at Nsuta-Wassa in the Tarkwa Nsuaem Municipality of the Western Region as required under Regulation 16 (1) of Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652), and in accordance with Regulation 16 (3 and 5) of LI 1652 (1999), the Ghana EIA Procedures, and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a public hearing was organized by the EPA on 2nd September, 2015 at the Tarkwa Banso Community Centre. In attendance were officials from the EPA (Tarkwa office, Prof. Jerry Kumah (Vice Chancellor, UMaT), Prof. Newton Amegbey, officials from the Minerals Commission, officials from the Water Resources Commission, Maxam, the MCE and MCD, delegates from the traditional council, management of GMC, the Tarkwa Banso – Ghana Manganese Company Resettlement Negotiating Committee, Nananom and people of Tarkwa Banso, among host of other dignitaries. Prior to the public hearing, personnel from the Environmental and Community Relations Department of GMC visited Nkroful and Kubekorasi to witness proceedings of public hearings by EPA in relation to mining activities of Adamus Resources and Goldfields Ghana Limited (Tarkwa Mine) respectively. Rehearsal/mock activities as part of preparations towards Pit CNorth public hearing were undertaken. The community rejected the 400m proposal presented by GMC and requested the company to stick to the 500m blasting distance as mentioned in the Minerals and Mining (Health, Safety and Technical) Regulation, 2012 L.I. 2182. The company is currently waiting for EPA’s opinion in respect to the hearing in order to determine the way forward. Below in Plates 64, 65 and 66 are some areas of coverage at the forum depicting the presence of Professor Jerry Kumah and GMC Management team, the Municipal Chief Executive (Mrs Christina Cobbinah) and her team from the Tarkwa Nsuaem Municipal Assembly, and Mr Joseph K. Ampong (GMM) briefing the community on blast practices respectively. Plate 64: Showing Prof. Jerry Kumah and Plate 65: Showing the MCE, MCD and GMC Management team TNMA Directors Plate 66: Showing GMC General Mine Manager briefing the community on blasting practices 9.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAMMES The Environmental Monitoring Programmes at GMC Limited were designed to evaluate the potential impacts of the operations on the surrounding environment and in order to validate predictions made in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), monitoring results were compared to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) guidelines and standards. In the absence of the applicable guidelines and standards, the results were compared to the World Health Organization’s (WHO) international standard. 9.1 Environmental Quality Monitoring Environmental quality monitoring was one of the key tasks carried out by the environmental department throughout the year. For this purpose, the Electrical Department designed a fully networked system, coupled with encrypted radio connections from the most required locations to the corporate network. Local meteorological conditions were monitored throughout the year. Places monitored included the tailings dam, Pit C, and Tarkwa Banso. The meteorological conditions monitored included rainfall, temperature, wind speed, wind direction and rate of evaporation. At the tailings dam, the phreatic water level measurement took place at six different points. The values obtained from the water level measurement were recorded and analyzed. This was done by the use of a piezometer gauge. 9.2 Daily Drinking Water Analysis Water samples were taken daily from the two treatment plants namely: Gallaway and Golf Course. The Gallaway treatment plant station supplied portable water to the company’s operational areas whiles the Golf course treatment plant station supplied water to the bungalows. These water samples were collected in sterilized labeled bottles and were then analyzed in the laboratory to determine the presence of water constituents. Physico-chemical parameters tested for included pH, Temperature, Conductivity, Turbidity and Total Dissolved Solids (TDS). Other chemical parameters such as Iron and Manganese were also analyzed. Biological tests for Total and Faecal Coliforms were similarly done. 9.3 Meteorological Readings Meteorological readings such as rainfall and rate of evaporation were taken every day. These readings were taken at the repeater station/view point and behind the HSEC Office. The analysis of these values helped in planning. 11.0 COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAMMES During the year 2015, the Ghana Manganese Company Limited undertook a number of activities to strengthen relationship and to ensure peaceful co-existence with its catchment communities under its Coporate Social Responsiblilty (CSR) Programmes. The CSR covered areas such as infrastructural projects, community meetings, stakeholder engagements, and sustainable alternative livelihood programmes (SALP). Others included medical interventions, bursaries, complaint management, crop compensation, renovation of existing infrastructure and road maintenance. In 2015, these programmes continued with an annual budget of US$ 470,400.00 but the actual annual expenditure was US$175,346.00. 11.1 Community Infrastructural Projects (CIP) GMC as part of its corporate social responsibility programmes undertook a number of infrastructural projects within its catchment communities. Table 20 below shows projects that were undertaken in 2015. Table 20: Shows projects undertaken in 2015 SN Project Description Location Amount (USD) 1 Toilet project for Mr Mensah Tarkwa Banso 5,595.6 2 Drilling of boreholes Nsuta – Zongo 4,345.68 3 Construction of refuse banker Nsuta – Zongo 985.06 4 De-silting of boreholes Nsuta 6,216.22 5 Road projects Esuoso & Tarkwa Banso 26,006.3 6 Nurses Quarters Tarkwa Banso 9,736.84 7 Supply of electricity for Akyem water project Akyem 1,184.21 8 Water project Akyem 2,189.19 Total 56,259.10 11.1.1 Community Road Maintenance Under its Community Assistance Programmes (CAP), GMC carried out maintenance works on a number of community roads. As usual, these maintenance works were carried out to make the roads motorable for community members especially during the rainy seasons. The following are the roads that witnessed re-shaping, re-gravelling and compacting works during the year under review: 1. Nsuta Zongo – Tarkwa Cemetery road; 2. Kawerkwanano – Tarkwa Banso road; 3. Tarkwa Banso – Bonsawire road; 4. Akyempim – Akyem road; 5. Nsuta – Tamso road; and 6. Bonsawire – Esuaso road. In other developments, some other communities were also supported with mine waste materials of different sizes to re-gravel their pot-holed roads. Some of these beneficiary communities included; Senyakrom, Tamso, Jerusalem, Enyinase, Wassa Agona, Kwamenakrom and Akyempim. Some institutions in the Tarkwa-Nsuaem Municipality were also assisted with mine waste materials to maintain their roads and surroundings. These were: the Forestry Commission (FC), National Disaster Management Organization (NADMO), Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC), the University of Mines and Technology (UMaT), the Wassa Fiase Traditional Council (WFTC), and the Drivers and Vehicle Licensing Authority (DVLA) among others. 11.2 Stakeholder Engagements A number of stakeholder engagements took place over the period under review. Some of the key engagements that took place between the company and its public included but not limited to the following: preparation of the Yakau Prospecting License catchment communities, formation of complaint and Grievance Committee, and the launching of the Yakau Prospecting project at the Ahanta West District Assembly Hall. Others included: engagement with the Tarkwa BansoGMC Negotiating Committee (TBGMCNC), engagement of Chiefs/elders on land encroachment issues, engagement of district level institutions among others. Below are specifics of some of the stakeholder engagements that took place. 11.2.1 Preparation of Yakau Communities for GMC Entry During the period under review, six (6) catchment communities in the Yakau Prospecting Area were engaged and prepared to allow the prospecting team to have access and to avoid a situation where community members will have confrontation with workers. These host communities are: Aketenchie, Himakrom, Azane, Yakau, Bonfun and Kwesikrom. Community reception was generally good and welcoming. The wish of the host communities is to see actual mining taking place in the area. 11.2.2 District Level Engagements on the Yakau Prospecting Exercise As part of the preparation to start prospecting of manganese in the Yakau area, three paramount chiefs were engaged. These chiefs are in the persons of: 1) Nana Kwesi Agyeman IX as Paramount Chief of Lower Dixcove; 2) Obrempong Hima Dakyi XIV; and 3) Otumfour Baidoo Bonsoe XIV. In addition to engaging the three paramount chiefs, district institutions in the Ahanta West District such as the District Assembly and the Ministry of Food and Agriculture were also engaged. Two main activities occurred at the district level. First, the Yakau Prospecting Project was officially launched and secondly crop compensation rates were fixed with representatives from both community and district levels. Out of these meetings, a Grievance and Complaints Committee was formed to address issues that may crop up from the host communities as a result of the prospecting exercise. The general observation was that, stakeholders in district showed interest and support for the prospecting work. They hope and pray that, actual mining will follow the first phase of the prospecting work. See Plates 70 and 71 below, District level engagements on the Yakau prospecting exercise. Plate 70: Shows Community stakeholders Plate 71: Shows Ahanta West DCD and Meeting to fix crop compensation rates at Agona Traditional Authorities at the high table Nkwanta 11.2.3 Land Encroachment Meetings Management of GMC engaged community leaders a couple of times on land encroachment issues. Both formal and informal engagements took place to discuss how to address land encroachment on the company’s concession. One of such notable meetings was held in April 2015. The meeting was used to engage the Esuaso Stool Divisional Council and chief/elders of Akyem to discuss how to stop land encroachment at Console No. 2, a section of the company’s concession. Prior to the April meeting, another one was held in February 2015, a meeting held with the chief/elders of Akyem and the Esuaso Stool Divisional Council (ESDC) to address a land encroachment as an issue the company was concerned about. Following a decision that was reached between GMC and the traditional authorities in April 2015, the ESDC committed itself to making radio announcements on all the four local radio stations in Tarkwa to inform developers to stop further developments on Console No. 2 indefinitely. Another formal meeting was held in October 2015 with the ESDC. The meeting among other issues, discussed how to stop encroachment of GMC’s concession at the Akyem area. As a follow up to this meeting, a joint committee of surveyors (comprised of GMC surveyors and surveyors of the chiefs/elders) were commissioned to visit the land in question to mark out the Nsuta Gold Mine (NGM) concession and to also gather data on structures that have been developed on and around the concession to help the two parties make decisions on such developments. The Joint-Surveyor Committee has carried out the boundary demarcation exercise as commissioned to do and are yet to summit their findings to the two parties for the next line of action to be taken. 11.2.4 Tarkwa Banso – GMC Negotiating Committee Meetings The Committee met on four (4) occasions at Hotel de Hilda, Tamso Estates-Tarkwa, to deliberate on progress made on the Pit C-North Project and to also discuss land acquisition processes for the re-settlement project at Tarkwa Banso. To take the discussions a step further, family heads of Tarkwa Banso who own parcels of land at the chosen site for the resettlement were invited to a meeting. The purpose of that meeting was to seek their consent in giving out the land for the project. The last meeting was used to plan for the Public Hearing that was held at Tarkwa Banso by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on the Pit C-North project which took place on September 02, 2015. Overall, the cooperation between GMC and the people of Tarkwa Banso on the Pit C-North project in 2015 witnessed an improvement over that of 2014. 11.2.5 Engagements with Tarkwa-Nsuaem Municipal Bodies During the period under review, GMC had interactions with the Municipal Education Office (MEO), the Municipal Assembly, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA), Lands Valuation Board (LVB) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The company engaged the Municipal Assembly and the EPA on the Pit C-North project. The LVB and MOFA were very much involved in fixing the 2015 crop compensation rates. The MEO played a key role in supporting the change process from Bursary to a Scholarship scheme. GMC also supported the MEO with items such as fridges, rice cookers and wax prints as prizes for the 2015 Best Teacher Awards. The relationship between GMC and its district-level partners has been very cordial overall, as a result of the regular engagements. 11.2.6 Community Sensitization Programmes The company supported the Education and Scholarship Committee to undertake an awareness campaign exercise in the 17 host communities. The Committee engaged communities on need to support their schools to promote effective teaching and learning. Emphasis was placed on support for teachers to deliver quality teaching and providing children with their school needs and supervising them to study after school. In addition to support teaching and learning, the Committee educated community members on the new scholarship scheme. The education on scholarship touched on how to fill the application form and those who may qualify for award of the scholarship. At the end of the sensitization, community members were allowed to ask questions. The Committee responded to all questions and clarified grey areas. This exercise actually helped in making the scholarship application forms easy for community members to fill. 11.3 Complaint Management Meetings GMC has a complaint management system in place for addressing community concerns especially, those that are related to mining and exploratory activities. During 2015, the Community Relations department registered four (4) main complaints from community members which all have been resolved. There were some complaints that were delivered through phone calls and so were not recorded in the Complaints’ Book but follow-ups were made on such issues. The complaints bordered on areas such as: • destruction of farms as a result of exploratory activities; • poor water yield from a borehole facility; and • blast vibrations issue. The Community Relations Office in a joint effort with the Environmental Office conducted investigations into all these complaints to establish the veracity of these claims. At the end of the investigations, claims that could not be attributed to GMC operational activities were discounted and were duly communicated to the complainants at a meeting. Following that meeting, the complainants of such claims were made to sign-off in the Complaints Register to indicate their acceptance of the findings. On the other hand, GMC responded to complaints such as dust pollution and repair of borehole facilities during the period. See table 21 for complaints received in 2015. Table 21: Shows Complaints received in 2015 SN Indicators Ja Fe Ma Ap Ma Ju Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 1 Total Complaints (#/month) 0 2 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 2 Total Complaints Resolved (#/month) 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 3 Total Environmen -tal Complaints 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 (#/month) 4 Total Unresolved Environmen -tal Complaints 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (#/month) 5 Total Responses 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 (#/month) 11. 4 CSR Commitment in 2015 The company also made financial and material donations to individuals/communities and institutions within and outside the Tarkwa-Nsuaem Municipality for the year under review. See Plates 72 and 73, showing a table and six chairs donated to NADMO and donations made to the Municipal Education Office towards the 2015 Best Teacher Awards Day respectively. Table 22 underneath also shows various donations made in 2015. REF DESCRIPTION COMMUNITY AMOUNT (USD) 1 Nananoom Allowance All Communities 1,743.4 2 Community Assistance All Communities 20,312.6 3 Chief Imam Visit Tarkwa 1,142.86 4 Medical Assistance Nsuta 8,108.11 5 Allowance for Education Committee All communities 8,188.2 6 Community Engagement Activities Yakau 1,975.31 7 Aketenchie rituals items Akentenchie 1,523.23 8 Ghana Federation Disabled Tarkwa 1,009.3 9 Benso SHS lab refurbishment Benso 8,108.11 10 Kudum Festival Lower Dixcove 1,965.20 11 Medeama Sporting Club and FM Medeama 17,434.20 12 Pit C’ North Public forum Tarkwa Banso 11,216.27 13 Cow slaughtering ceremony Esuoso Stool 4,710.52 14 Shelves for library Nsuta 2,505.5 15 Best Teacher award TNMA 810.81 16 Chief’s vehicle repairs Esuaso 3,813.3 TOTAL 94,566.92 Plate 72: Shows a table and six chairs donated Plate 73: Shows GMC donating to the M.E.O. to NADMO towards 2015 Best Teacher Awards Day Table 22: Shows Donations Made in 2015 11.4.1 Ghana Manganese Company Donates Furniture to UMaT Ghana Manganese Company Ltd donated furniture to the University of Mines and Technology, (UMaT) on 12th August, 2015. Mr Joseph Ampong, General Mine Manager, made the presentation on behalf of the Company. He explained that, the donation signals the Company’s determination to support the infrastructural development of the University. He added that, the Company has over the years partnered the University in various initiatives, example being the construction of the new hostel facility. Further, he recognized the critical role the University plays in training the country’s human resource. Professor J.S.Y. Kuma, Vice Chancellor, received the furniture and thanked GMC for the kind gesture. He remarked, the intervention will go a long way to furnish it’s postgraduate lecture halls. He therefore asked the Company to call on the University whenever help is needed. Mr Wisdom Adjei Mensah, HR/Administrative Manager also used the occasion to ask the University to broaden its educational scope to cover training programmes for non-mining executives. See Plate 74, the GMM of GMC presenting the furniture to the VC of UMaT. Plate 74: Shows Mr Joseph Ampong, the General Mine Manager presenting the furniture on behalf of the Company 11.4.2 GMC Supports Ghana Federation of the Disabled – Tarkwa Branch Ghana Manganese Company Ltd presented Two Thousand Five Hundred Ghana Cedis (GHC 2,500) cash to the Ghana Federation of the Disabled on the 35th National Anniversary and Biennial Congress of the Association. Mr Wisdom Adjei Mensah, Human Resource and Administrative Manager presenting the cash on behalf of GMC said, the Company will continue to support the Association. Mr Daniel Otchere, Chairman of the Association commended GMC for its continued support for the organization each year. He therefore expressed profound gratitude for the kind gesture. Mr Wisdom Adjei Mensah, Human Resource/Administrative Manager handing over the cash to a representative of the Ghana Federation of the Disabled (first left). See Plate 75, the Human Resource/Administrative Manager presenting the cash to the Ghana Federation of the Disabled. Plate 75: Shows the Human Resource/Administrative Manager presenting the cash to the Ghana Federation of the Disabled 11.5 A Migration from Bursary to Scholarship Awards In the 2015 academic year, 63 students were placed on the GMC scholarship register. Attempts to change the bursary scheme to scholarship awards chalked some level of success in the year 2015. The change process was championed by the Education and Scholarship Committee under the Esuaso Stool Divisional Council (ESDC) with guidance by Management of GMC. As part of the change process, the Education Committee undertook a number of activities to ensure a smooth transition. Some of these include visiting of sister-mining companies to learn about how their scholarship schemes work. Also, the Committee developed procedures and selection criteria for the award of the scholarship. Other steps taken by the Committee included carrying out education programmes on the new scholarship scheme in the 17 catchment communities, as well as conducting interviews to select brilliant but needy students for the award of the 2015/16 academic year scholarship. In all, thirty-one (31) tertiary students benefitted from the new Scholarship Scheme while thirtytwo (32) Second Cycle students received bursary awards for the 2015/16 academic year. A total of Eighty-two Thousand Eight Hundred Ghana Cedis (GHc82,800) was awarded for this purpose. This figure does not include the cost of implementing the change process. GMC Management and the ESDC intend to meet to improve on the gains made so far in the transition process. Table 23 below is the community bursaries award for 2015; Plate 76 shows Education and Scholarship Committee meeting to discuss modalities for the new scholarship scheme and Plate 77, Director of Education addressing community stakeholders on the scholarship scheme. Table 23: Shows Community Bursaries for 2015 NO. OF SN NAME OF COMMUNITY BENEFICIARIES AMOUNT(GHC) 1 Charliekrom 3 2,800 2 Bonsawire 3 2,800 3 Nsuta 9 11,900 4 Anomakokrom 4 4,600 5 Senyakrom 5 6,900 6 Tamso 5 7,300 7 Bankyim 3 2,800 8 Akyem 4 4,600 9 Akyempim 4 4,600 10 Enyinase 4 5,500 11 Bonsa II 2 1,000 12 Esuaso 10 11,500 13 Tarkwa Banso 4 4,600 14 Jerusalem 1 1,800 15 Agona 1 1,800 16 Kwamenakrom 1 1,800 17 Administrative/Postage Charges 6,500 TOTAL 63 82,800. Plate 76: Shows Education & Scholarship Plate 77: Shows Director of Education committee meeting to discuss modalities addressing community stakeholders for the new scholarship scheme on the scholarship scheme 11.6 Sports GMC granted a sponsorship package of US$ 16,250.00 to the MEDEAMA SC, a premier division team based in Tarkwa in 2015. Medeama FM, a radio station in Tarkwa was also assisted with US$ 1,578.95 for the year under review. The company also supported Tarkwa Banso FC with US$1,250.00. Plates 78 and 79 show donation GMC made to Medeama Sporting Club of Tarkwa. Plates 78 and 79: Show donation GMC made to MEDEAMA SPORTING CLUB of Tarkwa 11.7 Crop Compensation Management As part of the company’s processes to comply with the Mining Regulations, the 2015/16 Crop Compensation rates were fixed in accordance with the Minerals and Mining (Compensation and Resettlement) Regulations, 2012, (L.I. 2175). The crop rate fixing exercises was conducted in February, 2015. All stakeholders who matter in this activity were represented. Representatives of farmer groups, chiefs/elders from catchment communities, the Esuaso Stool Divisional Council (ESDC), Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) and the Lands Valuation Board (LVB) participated in the negotiation process. At the end of the process, GMC and the farmer groups signed an agreement to confirm the rates that have been agreed on for payment of crop compensation in 2015. Plates 80 and 81 show stakeholder engagement for fixing of crop compensation rates. A total amount of US$ 756.25 was paid as crop compensation Plate 80 and 81: Show stakeholder engagement for fixing of crop compensation rates 12.0 CONCLUSION Ghana Manganese Company Limited will continue to pursue policies, strategies and targets which will enhance environmental management in accordance with the Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (L.I. 1652). The company will continue to allocate adequate resources available every year to ensure implementation of reclamation of decommissioned waste dumps and mined-out areas and at the same time ensures the smooth running of its mining operation. The Community Assistance policy will be reviewed annually to assess the impact on recipient communities and with the view to improving their standard of living. In addition, management of GMC will ensure that its operations do not endanger the environment but rather maintain its obligations in respect of sustaining the environment. GMC’s business outlook was heavily impacted upon by the global downturn in commodity prices over the past year’s performance in operations. Price reduction of 27% on FOB basis negatively impacted company’s revenue base and the company’s inability to meet all required infrastructure projects as planned under the CSR in 2015. Commodities like oil, gold, copper, iron ore and manganese suffered in the global turmoil and softening Chinese growth environment. We hope to see change in GMC’s business outlook for 2016.
