Rajawali Corpora 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PT RAJAWALI CORPORA 2015 2016 Page 1 Rajawali Corpora 2015 I. COMPANY IDENTITY Company Name PT Rajawali Corpora Date May 1st, 2016 Address Menara Rajawali Kawasan Mega Kuningan Membership April 8th, 2006 Lot 5.1 date Jakarta 12920 Country Indonesia Number of ±35.000 persons employees (Total Group) Contact name Y.W.Junardy Contact Position President Commissioner Sector Investment Holding Company Contact 021 576 0808 telephone no. Brief description of nature of business PT Rajawali Corpora is an investment holding company of Rajawali Group operating in diversified industries with 10 business units in hotels and resorts development, land and air transportation, agriculture (palm, sugar, rubber, and corn plantation), coal, gold, and iron sands mining, broadcast media, public relation consultant, infrastructure, and IT Services. The Group covers approximately 35,000 employees. Statement of continuing support “PT Rajawali Corpora is proud to be the member of the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to the Global Compact initiatives and uphold its ten principles pertaining to human rights, labor rights, protection of the environment and corporate governance. We believe that by adhering to this core set of universal values which are fundamental in meeting the socio economic needs of the world, we would be able to foster sustainable growth. Our commitment is also reflected in our participation in collaborative actions and full support to the operations of Indonesia Global Compact Network by providing office facilities, executive resources as well as operating funds in order to advance the GC Principles in Indonesia. Peter Sondakh Chairman & CEO PT Rajawali Corpora Page 2 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Rajawali Corpora’s Vision and Mission: Vision: To become an outstanding reputable company that creates and adds value to our stakeholders Mission: • Optimizing shareholders’ value. • Delighting customers with superior products and services. • Inspiring, empowering and caring for all employees. • Supporting the community and environmental sustainability. Page 3 Rajawali Corpora 2015 II. IMPLEMENTATION OF UNGC’S 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle of practicing good management and being a responsible business. At Rajawali, the implementation of human rights is reflected in the company philosophy, values, policies and code of business conducts covering the roles of management and employees as well as the advancement opportunity, competitive compensation and benefits, work environments, and obligation to the community in location where we are operating (Corporate Social Responsibility). Implementations:  Framework: Corporate Governance The Governance framework is designed to provide the Rajawali Corpora Board, the Business Unit Boards and the Rajawali Group’s employees with a structure by which: o the business is conducted o decisions are presented and approved o employees conduct themselves Rajawali Corpora is committed to uphold its Corporate Governance to: o create Shareholder Value o protect individuals—provides ground rules in which management can operate o part of Risk Management o provide good control environment o provide good business practice–where it is structured and focusing on core principles o establish credible structure/credibility–assisting to attract solid, long term investors The Rajawali Governance Framework provides empowerment to the Business Units Investments within the approved risk tolerance levels. At the Holding level, Rajawali Board approves the following: o Group organizational structure and Board Committees, including appointment of its members o Vision, mission, values and standards o Annual Strategic and Business Plan Page 4 Rajawali Corpora 2015 o Corporate actions, i.e. potential investments, divestments, mergers and acquisitions, restructuring, spin-offs, joint-ventures, partnerships, corporate actions (e.g. stock splits, dividends, etc.), capital raisings (e.g. public offerings, bond issuance, bank borrowings, etc.), hedging, write-off of assets, asset revaluation, capital management and other corporate finance activities o Strategy for external communications o Executive appointments and exits o Executive KPIs and compensation, benefits and perquisites o Dividend Distribution Policy o Corporate Social Responsibility activities o Financial Audits and Governance o Code of Conduct o Approval Limits With the above approvals from the Holding level, Governance is established. Business Units operating within the guidelines from Rajawali Governance. The Governance Framework had been reviewed annually to define and establish the 5 pillars of RC Corporate Governance which focus on accountability, fairness, transparency, independence and responsibility. The update of the Corporate Governance Manual in 2015 includes the following: o Governance Policy Restructuring o Group Risk Framework o Self-Assessment Performance Evaluation of Board and Committees o Internal Audit Charter o Dividend Distribution Policy  Process: Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct are in place and implemented across all Business Units. The Corporate Governance Manual is reviewed annually and served as a guideline for the management and employees in conducting the business throughout the Group. o Governance and Internal Audit department prepares the Governance and Internal Audit plan in the beginning of the year, socializes it to the Business Units for inputs and comments, and seeks approval from the Audit and Risk Management Committee. Once approved, the Governance and Internal Audit plan will be implented accordingly, with a regular reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee during the Audit and Risk Management Committee meeting (at least biannually). o Governance are reviewed and developed with inputs from the relevant departments and business units and routed to Board of Directors for approval. o Corporate Governance and Risk Forum was conducted on 16 June 2015 at Menara Rajawali and was attended by 41 staff from Rajawali Corpora and Page 5 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Business Units. Shared thought leadership regarding and Corporate Governance and Risk Management during the forum were as follows: 1. Key Governance Issues Deloitte shared their insights on the key challenges on governance in 2015. The key governance issues highlighted were pertinent in managing the overall RC portfolio which included strategy, reputation, subsidiary governance, board composition, regulation, technology, organizational talent, shareholder relationship, corporate reporting, and sustainability. Whistleblowing system and gratification control program were also discussed during the session. 2. RC Group Governance Initiatives Governance and Policy Initiatives for 2015 pertaining to Rajawali Holding and Business Units were cascaded and socialized. Highlighted topics from the RC Governance initiatives included the approved Governance and Policy Restructuring, Risk Portfolio Profile and Management, and Self-Assessment Performance Evaluation of RC Board and Committees. 3. Governance Online G-Online was relaunched which is an online submission system for Business Case, Business Plan, Acquisition, Merger, JV and Disposal, Debt facility, Material contract, Project Identification Form and Business Case Closing. The system is being reactivated to facilitate data monitoring and recording for effective planning and decision-making, promoting transparency and accountability. Details of the technicality of the system were explained and feedbacks were solicited to facilitate the enhancement of the system. 4. Revisiting Business Case Guidelines The Business Case guidelines were discussed from the point of origination, definition, and setting of terms of a project implemented by RC Holding and Business Unit. Some of the updates proposed are the criteria of review of Business Case Closing by IA Team (post mortem review) and salient items that will be required in the Business Case Template which shall include the Due Diligence Summary Findings, alignment with the overall RC and business strategy as well as the Investment Exit Strategy. 5. RC Group Risk Framework The volatility in the global financial markets coupled with the resulting uncertainty in the economic environment has brought the need for a more stringent risk management to manage the economic outlook for Rajawali Group including the heightened business and operating risks in the various businesses. Key risks were discussed and further guidelines will be rolled out to facilitate risk assessment within the business units. Page 6 Rajawali Corpora 2015 o To support on the implementation of Governance in Rajawali Group, the Internal Audit Forum was conducted on 6 March 2015 at Menara Rajawali and was attended by 20 participants from various Business Internal Audit units with an understanding of the latest developments in internal auditing. The event showcased sharing of thought leadership and insights, and speakers came from the various IA units of Rajawali Corpora which included Express Group, Meares Soputan Mining, Eagle High Plantations, Fortune Indonesia and Rajawali Corpora Internal Audit and Governance. Attendees were presented with a number of topics and today’s current issues and trends, industry best practices seeking to address common challenges, and knowledge-sharing opportunities. The overall experience enhances professional development, provides peer-to-peer networking, and building the audit bench strength across the Rajawali Group. Page 7 Rajawali Corpora 2015  Embedding Management Responsibilities To establish corporate accountability, exercise fair, consistent treatment and transparency, the company has reorganized the Board Committees each chaired by Managing Director level: o Human Resources Committee. This Committee is responsible for ensuring competitive and consistent remuneration within the group. Approval through the Committee includes: competitive salary structure in line with the industry specifics, executive compensation and bonuses, employee benefits and prerequisites, employee development programs, and employee stock option plan. o Ethics Committee This Committee is responsible for enforcement and implementation of Business Conducts and Practices throughout the Group. It also updates the Policy as required and handles any allegations of misconduct. o Investment Committee This Committee is responsible to evaluate, approve, and recommend key investment, divestment and related activities. o Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible to assist the RC Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities. The AC reviews the system of internal control, risk management, corporate governance processes, financial reporting, audit process (internal and external) and the Group’s process for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations.  Rights to Equal Employment Opportunity & Non Discriminatory Treatment Written policy is in place and implemented across Business Units. The policy defines that all hiring process, promotion, and business decisions are taken strictly on qualifications, business imperatives, and merit.  Rights of Workers Rights of Workers are stipulated in the Human Capital Policy. It covers, among others: o Health & Safety Rajawali Corpora has established comprehensive and adequate allowance including medical, transportation, health assistance, subsidy/assistance & emergency loan, safety, and security procedures. Page 8 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Since 2012, Rajawali Corpora also conducts Tali Kasih program as part of Employee Benefits Scheme—in which adequate funds or gifts are given in the event of marriage, bereavement, and birth. For work safety program, Rajawali Corpora has also provided comprehensive personal insurance for employees that travel often during work, and for all people managers. This comprehensive allowance scheme is established so that the employees can have a favorable working condition and thus, it may then support their well-being. The provision and amount of allowances may differ in Business Units by considering the industry common practices and requirements. Special field training is regularly conducted for plantation workers. o Education Every employee is eligible to get training in order to develop their skills and competency to support company objectives. Company provides both soft skills and technical skills education as required. Some conducted internally, others are acquired externally. Some examples of the in-house training programs: People Personality Type workshop was conducted for all Front-liners. This workshop was designed to providing knowledge of basic people character and approach. Page 9 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Monthly sharing session was conducted for all BU Group at Menara Rajawali, Jakarta. This session was designed to share knowledge from internal expert with various topics such as corporate governance and risk, information technology and security awareness, also several national issues. In July 2015, we conducted HC Forum for all HR business units with topic BPJS Ketenagakerjaan. Page 10 Rajawali Corpora 2015 In 2015, we also facilitate employee who want to share their knowledge by conducting weekly sharing session for all RC employees. o Internal Communication The company facilitates various internal / employee communication programs to allow employees to express their aspiration to the management, and vice versa. The available programs include: Intranet Rajawali—is an intranet based online technology that provides company information for all employees in order to keep the employees abreast with the current situation of the Company and Business Units. The Intranet is also functioned as an employee communication tool by means of enabling group interest forums such as photography, cycling, various sports, etc. Employee Activities of Rajawali Corpora comprise of various groups of interests in sports and arts, such as basketball, volley ball, futsal, badminton, table tennis, tennis, golf, cycling, yoga, karaoke, photography, and choir. Religious community such as Tausiyah is also part of Employee Activities initiative. The purpose of establishing such community groups is to strengthen the tie between Rajawali Corpora employees while also to promote the healthy and balance work-lifestyle by encouraging its members to contribute in sport, art, and/or religious activities. Sense of belonging (through workplace communal activities) may promote inter-employee sustainable engagement, whereas employee physical and mental health may in turn affect work productivity. Page 11 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Rajawali Corpora is responsible and committed in community development through various programs of Rajawali Foundation Established in 2010 by Bp. Peter Sondakh, as the CEO and Rajawali Corpora (RC) Chairman, Rajawali Foundation has effectively contributed to the community development by doing collaboration with RC as group. Rajawali Corpora and Rajawali Foundation have delivered various education support and assistance as well as community outreach programs in 2014. This includes supporting inclusive education for special needs children. Not only doing internal collaboration, Rajawali Foundation has also built collaboration with other foundations and organizations. Indonesia Global Compact Network which is representative of United Nation Global Compact Network becomes our partner for programs and events related to UNGC principles; especially related to principle human right and principle anticorruption. In 2015, Rajawali Corpora had strengthened communication and coordination with Rajawali Foundation and Rajawali Business Units. The spirit of collaboration has always become a common concern since 2014. Greater responsibility exists along with the business growth. The commitment to preserve natural resources, develop local community as well as to become a good partner of government becomes a necessity. We had come up with several priorities of collaboration across Rajawali business units, as a result of Rajawali Group CSR Forum in December 2014; (1) national or common program; (2) Clustered or specific program of Business Units as they need to comply with certain regulations or requirements. At national or common program; Rajawali Corpora together with Rajawali Foundation and several champions from Business Units initiated set of programs in education (Rajawali Cerdas and K.I.T.A Bercerita) and regular event of Blood Donation. Clustered or specific program of business units; was translated into series of programs to support the achievement of 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Rajawali Corpora, Rajawali Foundation and appointed persons / department from Business Units were working together with Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN) as our partner to align activities to achieve the 17 goals. 1. National or Common Program 1.1 Blood Donation – March 10, 2015; June 10 2015; Sept 8 2015; and Dec 1 2015 Collaborative effort from Palang Merah Indonesia (PMI), Rajawali Corpora and Rajawali Foundation. The open for public event attracted donors from Menara Rajawali tenants’ employees, Rajawali group employees and other walk-in donors. In 2015, Page 12 Rajawali Corpora 2015 we had successfully donated more than 300 blood bags of 350cc and 450cc to PMI. 1.2. Rajawali Cerdas and KITA Bercerita – May 21 2015, May 26 2015, and May 28 2015 The two programs were initiated by collaborative efforts from Rajawali Corpora, Rajawali Foundation and Sanggar Fortune. The fundamental idea of Rajawali Cerdas and K.I.T.A Bercerita program was to provide one common program in education, can be adopted by all business units and to be implemented across Indonesia in parallel – thus creating idea buzzing, education concern movement viral, and became a simple template for business units to do activities in education. 1.2.1 Rajawali Cerdas – May 21 2015, May 26 2015, and May 28 2015 Rajawali Cerdas invited representatives from Business Units to teach and inspire children from surrounding communities of various professions they admire; e.g. Pilot and stewardess, Engineer and even Chef of five star restaurants. As they were inspired, it is when we helped them to provide building blocks of their own dreams. Page 13 Rajawali Corpora 2015 1.2.2 K.I.T.A (Keluarga Indonesia Teman Anak) Bercerita – Dec 2 2015, Dec 7 2015, and Dec 15 2015 K.I.T.A Bercerita program was built to provide more bonding between employees as parents and their children as well as between employees and children from surrounding communities. Unlike Rajawali Cerdas, K.I.T.A Bercerita is intended to employee as individual. By end of 2016, it is planned to be a national program for Rajawali Group called ‘Sehari untuk Negeri” program where employee is asked in one day throughout a year doing / serving community by telling children a story or values. 2015 became a year of prototyping for Rajawali Cerdas and K.I.T.A Bercerita programs, and the 6 PAUD Sanggar Fortunes had become incubator for the two main programs. In addition to those programs, Rajawali Foundation supported 24 Library projects of Room to Read and ProVisi Education. The projects consist of Capacity Building programs for Local Librarian and Principal, Library Management program, as well as developing freshly new design of story books for early readers (kindergarten and first grader age). Room to Read and ProVisi Education managed 24 library projects in collaboration with other outstanding organizations of Taman Bacaan Pelangi in NTT, Dompet Dhuafa in West Java, and Yayasan Pengembangan Perpustakaan Indonesia in Bali. Page 14 Rajawali Corpora 2015 The 15 titles of freshly new produced strory books were also used to support K.I.T.A Bercerita program. 1.3. Indonesia Literacy Forum – Nov 18 2015 The half-day event of collaborative effort from Room to Read, ProVisi Education, Rajawali Foundation, and other partners, was attended by the Ministry of National Education and US Ambassador, Mr. Robert Blake. The event was to celebrate the success of program implementation and to launch the 15 titles of new freshly designed story books. Page 15 Rajawali Corpora 2015 The road show to Indonesia Literacy Forum was started by visiting new arrangement of one school library in Parung, West Java on October 15, 2015. Hosted by Dompet Dhuafa, the opening ceremony took place to also invite local government officials / Dinas Pedidikan. The library is now becoming a children friendly library where books are organized according to reading skills and the lay out allows children to explore more information. On October 30 2015, Ms. Amanda from ProVisi conducted 2 hour training sessions for Rajawali Corpora employees of how to do storytelling to children. She shared tips and demonstrated an effective method to deliver message through storytelling to children. 2. Program Alignment with IGCN (Indonesia Global Compact Network) 2.1 Biopores project at Rusunawa Marunda – Mar 26 2015 Rajawali Corpora, Rajawali Foundation and Rajawali Business Units representatives visited Rusunawa Marunda Cluster B to support IGCN’s One Million Bio pores Movement. Together with local community we made 500 bio pores. Page 16 Rajawali Corpora 2015 2.2 Business & Human Rights Working Group – February 2015, May 6 2015, Nov 5 2015, Nov 12 2015 Since the Senior Leaders Briefing and Workshops on UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights at the end of February 2015, Rajawali Corpora and Rajawali Foundation were intensively involved in the formation of the first Business and Human Rights Working Group in Indonesia. The Working Group itself was formed on May 6 2015 to achieve main objective to build synergy between private sectors as the key driver to create peace in society through fair business and trade which promotes human rights and support UN-Sustainable Development Goals achievement. The Working Group will focus on two main agendas; (1) To enhance implementation of UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) into corporate values; (2) To actively contribute on Business and Human Rights-National Action Plan together with KOMNAS HAM. The Working Group launching itself will be held in April 2016. On 5 November 2015, Rajawali Foundation was invited by ELSAM and IGCN to involve at national seminar and workshop on Business & Human Rights at University Gadjah Mada in Yogyakarta. On 12 November 2015, Rajawali Corpora and Rajawali Foundation together with IGCN hosted a half day dialogue session with London School of Economics on SDG issues and how other countries developed specific country program on this issue. This leads to urgency of our commitment to Page 17 Rajawali Corpora 2015 support IGCN in the national secretariat of SDG at National Planning Bureau (BAPPENAS). 2.3 Celebrate International Human Rights Day with IBCSD and KOMNAS HAM – Dec 10 2015  Employee Wellness Company provides comprehensive wellness facilities. These benefits vary from one business unit to another depending on each respective industry environments and affordability. These include: o Medical allowance & health prevention assistance; o Transportation allowances; o Special assistance/emergency loan offered to our employees affected by crisis, such as grievances (i.e.: death, prolonged sickness,) natural & fire disaster; o Employees’ leaves (Annual Leave, Long Service Leave, Maternity Leave, Sick Leave, Compassionate Leave, Hajj Pilgrimage Leave, and Unpaid Leave); o Employee transfer/relocation entitlements for those who are relocated at the company’s request. The entitlements include: housing allowance, educational allowance for the children, additional vocational leave, home trip, hardship allowance (if any,) and cost of living allowance.  Violations To exercise fair treatment and ensure all actions are justifiable, the company implements sanction procedures for any violations or breach of code of conducts by employees. Business Ethic Committee is involved in any serious violation. Page 18 Rajawali Corpora 2015  Termination of employment To ensure that all termination actions are justifiable, properly administered, and executed according to the prevailing government laws and company policy/regulations, the company sets a termination procedure and an exit interview for any termination. There are two categories of termination: company initiated termination and employee initiated termination. Employees whose employment is terminated may receive severance compensation according to the prevailing government policy.  Freedom of association The company policy stipulates the company facilitates communication programs to allow dialog with employees to understand their aspirations. The formation of association or union is stipulated in the policy manual. Employee can form the organization so long as it adheres to the company policy and code of business conduct.  Political Activities The company is not affiliated to any political party. Employee joining political party is considered a personal affair. Employees should not use the company’s time and resources in conducting his/her political activities. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION  Labour policy o In accordance to the established policy, Company and its business units must not engage in any forced and compulsory labour. The Company establishes a standard working hour. The procedures and payment of overtime for eligible employees are provided in accordance to the government regulations. o The company policy stipulates that the minimum age of employee to be hired is 18 years old. No child labour. o The following is the distribution of employee by age in Rajawali Corpora (this figure does not include employees in Business Units): Rajawali Corpora, PT. Age Group as of January 2016 Age Group 21 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 41 45 46 50 51 UP TOTAL Head 1 24 29 29 28 25 20 156 Counts Page 19 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Non-discrimination Policy o Policy is in place and implemented across business units. Company provides a working environment that is free from harassment and discriminations including that from race, ethnic, color, religion, national origin, disability, marital status, age, sexual orientation, or gender. o Promotion is fully based on individual performance and potentials, evaluated by immediate superior, and approved by superior’s superior and Human Capital. o Distribution of employee by gender in Rajawali (excluding employees in Business Units): Rajawali Corpora, PT. Employee Data as of January 2016 Level Male Female Total Managerial 42 20 62 Non-Managerial 34 28 62 Non-Staff 32 0 32 Grand Total 108 48 156 Page 20 Rajawali Corpora 2015 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Rajawali Corpora’s commitment to environmental sustainability is articulated in its strategic sustainability framework (Fig 1) Figure 1. The Rajawali Sustainability framework  Our sustainability commitment o ‘Resource stewardship for tomorrow’s generations’ upholds Rajawali Corpora vision to become an outstanding reputable company that creates and adds value to our stakeholders. Five pillars support this commitment: the creation of value, care for people, excellence in delivery, community awareness and support and responsible environmental management. o This commitment is translated into a series of Sustainability policies in Rajawali Corpora Corporate Governance. Page 21 Rajawali Corpora 2015 ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS 10 FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY  Core Values The adoption of corporate governance is embedded in our Rajawali Values which are the guiding principles of our operations: Integrity : We act in an honest, ethical and truthful manner Caring : We show concern for others Respect : We value and appreciate other people’s views Excellence & Innovative : We do the best to consistently exceed expectations through actions and the generation of new ideas Being Responsible : We are accountable for our actions and inactions Unity : We capitalize on differences and work together to achieve common goals Growth : We always strive to become better  Code of Business Conduct The code provides a guideline to all employees in businesses conducted within and outside the Group. It includes compliance with laws, regulations and company’s policies; fair dealing; conflicts of interest: outside engagements, insider trading, gifts & entertainment; integrity of financial records, crisis management, and establishment of authorities, group asset and confidential information protection.  Management Responsibilities The following committees are established in order to enforce the Business Conduct Practices across the group. o Ethics Committee The Committee is responsible for the enforcement and implementation of Business Conduct and Practices throughout the Group. It updates the Policy as required and handles any allegations of misconduct. o Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for the financial and process audit conducts in order to ensure compliance with the company policy and delegation of authority. Also, the Committee is responsible to review the effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and the results of management’s investigation and follow up (including disciplinary action) of any fraudulent acts or non-compliance. Page 22 Rajawali Corpora 2015  Promoting Good Corporate Governance o Rajawali Corpora is also the active member of Indonesian Business Links (IBL), a non-profit foundation aims to contribute towards the creation of sound and ethical business practices in the country.  Rajawali Foundation; Leadership and Capacity Building for Local Leaders and Initiate Policy Dialogue – With an Objective to Improve Public Policy Making and Implementation in Indonesia Since its establishment in 2010, Rajawali Foundation has engaged with list of Ministries and local governments in its public policy education, training, and research program. Support, endorsement and active participation from government are crucial. We believe by having excellent public policy development & execution, transparency, critical mass, and feedbacks to government will eliminate any risk in fraud, corruption and misconduct. Rajawali Foundation’s programs are designed to nurture leaders with high capacity in policy formulation and implementation. This is essential to lead creation of community environment with certain code of ethics and values that entail openness and accountability. Leadership Transformation Indonesia Program The program which is now has 114 alumni of regents and mayors, was carried out by Rajawali Foundation 2011-2013 in collaboration with university partners; Harvard Kennedy School of Public Policy and Northwestern University. Having said this, 2014 was the year for Rajawali Foundation to start the Follow-Up program to the Leadership Transformation Indonesia Program. The program which was designed to provide advance leadership and paradigm shift will be followed up with certain programs of applied research and innovative policy design and implementation to answer specific challenges facing our local leaders across Indonesia. Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and University of Cambridge will also be Rajawali Foundation’s University Partners in 2015. We learn and understand challenges are related with complex and unique aspects. Therefore, building intense communication and creating hub for information become important as the fundamental ingredients of Rajawali Foundation’s Follow Up program. TRANSFORMASI Rajawali Foundation then established Center for Public Policy Transformation (“Transformasi”) at the end of 2013 with joint funding support from Ford Foundation, Climate and Land Use Alliance (CLUA) and Packard Foundation. The Center started to work in early 2014. Transformasi reviews and designs the followPage 23 Rajawali Corpora 2015 up program, leads policy dialogue between Ministries, talk and promote better policy to Regents and Mayors. Transformasi has also become the partner of Rajawali Foundation in publishing research and books; advocating government. Fellowship, Executive Education and Public Policy Forum Rajawali Foundation through Harvard Kennedy School Indonesia Program and Northwestern University’s Arryman Scholarship provide scholarship and fellowship for bright candidates of scholars who pursue knowledge and research in Public Policy. The student assistance will help us to screen and nurture future leaders at the very early stage of process. We hope they will contribute in community, to be our brand ambassadors and agents of change. We put our highest hope on leaders of next generation to continue the process to build clean and transparent government. Harvard Kennedy School Indonesia Program also gives scholarship to selected candidates from Ministries who were sponsored by Rajawali Foundation, to take Executive Education programs. Specific issues course programs are designed by Harvard Kennedy School to shape understanding and skills of government officials to be more innovative and have certain advance leadership. The two to three week programs are held at Harvard Kennedy School campus in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Rajawali Foundation had collaborated with many partners to hold series of events of policy dialogue and policy forum. The events invited partners from other philanthropy organizations or associations, as well as international aid organizations. One of the forums is our reputable annual Asia Public Policy Forum, which is organized in collaboration with Harvard Kennedy School. The forum provides channel of sharing and communication between local leaders, policy makers, scholars as well as international aid organizations. 1. Support University of Cambridge’s MPhil program – South East Asia Development Studies – September 2014 until March 2015 Rajawali Foundation supported Master or post graduate level program at University of Cambridge, England for one semester. The class discussed and studied South East Asia policy and economy especially Malaysia, Singapore, Philippine and Indonesia. Page 24 Rajawali Corpora 2015 2. Developing Case Study on Urban Policy, Planning and Management – February until July 2015 As the follow up program of the succeed Leadership Transformation Indonesia Program (LTIP) since 2011, where Rajawali Foundation is now having 114 alumni list of Regents and Mayors, Rajawali Foundation in close collaboration with Transformasi (Center / Network Think Tank for Public Policy Transformation) had developed several clustered policy dialogue series on (1) urban issues; (2) rural and job creation issues; (3) maritime and fisheries sector issues. In relation to urban issue, in 2015 Rajawali Foundation selected City of Banda Aceh and City of Pekalongan as the two study objects. Rajawali Foundation engaged with Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore to develop the case study together with Transformasi. The study then was disseminated at one of series of the prestigious New Cities Summit 2015 in Jakarta – the cases where other Mayors (national and international Mayors) could learn from and improve their public services even better. Banda Aceh case; how bureaucracy reform took place and what aspect needs to be improved. The first and the most important aspect to be reformed is how civil servants / government officials shall be recruited, monitored and evaluated based on their performance. Criteria, standard of recruitment, remuneration, budget allocation, KPI, Evaluation and Success Indicators became crucial aspects Page 25 Rajawali Corpora 2015 to be reformed immediately. The study assessed how the “e-Kinerja” system planned, implemented and monitored to solve and manage the reformation. Pekalongan case; how numbers of Puskesmas need to be merged following the situation of lack of medical doctors and operational budget. The local government was facing the situation where it was urgently needed to synergize resources, creating efficiency yet to increase performance level by having concentrated and to avoid any unnecessary overlapping resources. Challenges were how the reduced number of Puskesmas could provide enough access to health services for community. The study assessed how merged Puskesmas under one BLUD (Badan Layanan Usaha Daerah) institution could improve level of health services quality to community. Mayor of Pekalongan, Basyir Ahmad Syawie, explained the integrated Puskesmas’ health services quality improvement program under BLUD legal entity format. Page 26 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Memkominfo, Rudiantara, received token of appreciation from Nugroho Wienarto, the Executive Director of Transfromasi. Page 27 Rajawali Corpora 2015 US Ambassador to Indonesia, Robert “Bob” Blake, gave a keynote speech at opening ceremony. 3. Transformasi Roundtable Series on Marine and Fisheries Issues – Nov 18, 2015 In relation to Maritime and Fisheries issues, Transfromasi held Transformasi Roundtable Series (TRS) with OJK and Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries (MMAF) on 18 November 2015 to address the IUU (Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated) fishing and to empower local fishermen with sustainable financing scheme. The discussion was led by The Senior Advisory of Transformasi, Sarwono Kusumaatmadja. The event took place at Mandarin Oriental Hotel, Jakarta. The MMAF predicted that the loss caused by IUU is around Rp.3,000 trillion. This is not including the loss caused by destroyed sea ecosystem as a result of excessive fishing and sea exploitation that ignores conservation aspects. However, the field study result from the IUU Fishing Task Force Team predicts that with the drastic decline of IUU fishing because of the strict and nontolerance law enforcement by MMAF, Indonesian current fisheries potential is about 7.3 million tons per year, excluding tuna. We can utilize this potential in a sustainable manner. This needs to be followed up with immediate supports by both OJK banks and non-bank financial institutions to ensure the financing sustainable fisheries in Indonesia. Page 28 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Transformasi Senior Advisor, Sarwono Kusumaatmadja, led the TRS discussion. 4. New Cities Summit 2015 – Ciputra Artpreneur, June 9-11 2015 Rajawali Foundation supported New Cities Foundation at their annual international event ‘New Cities Summit’ which in 2015 was held in Jakarta. More than 100 Mayors from various nations gathered with addition of other 100-200 invitations from NGOs, International Aid Organization, UN organizations and local government officials. The summit showcased latest innovation in public services, Start Up enterprises and SMEs, as well as innovation to preserve environment. The summit was opened by DKI Jakarta Governor; Mr. Basuki Tjahaja Purnama. One of main speakers was Prof. Muhammad Yunus of Gramin Bank, Bangladesh, the Nobel Peace Prize winner in 2006. Page 29 Rajawali Corpora 2015 Governor of DKI Jakarta, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, gave a keynote speech at New Cities Summit 2015 – opening ceremony at Ciputra Artpreneur, Jakarta. The Nobel Peace Prize Winner in 2006, Muh. Yunus, was the main speaker. Page 30 Rajawali Corpora 2015 5. Harvard Kennedy School Executive Education Program for National Police Officer – June 14-19 2015 As we know local leaders of Regents and Mayors are being the key actor in developing local policies. Having said this, policy implementation needs to be supported by necessary elements in local government and community to include police officers. Their approach to implement policy and keeping peace in community needs certain knowledge and skills of law enforcement. Rajawali Foundation supported senior Police officers to study on public policy at Harvard Kennedy School – Executive Education program. They will be in the same class with other police, military, navy officers from other countries to discuss and share opinions as well as critics. Rajawali Foundation provided full scholarship and accommodation at Harvard University dormitory. As they came back to Indonesia, we asked them to disseminate their knowledge to other colleagues and being agent of change in the institution where they are working for. KombesPol Aridan J. Roeroe, received scholarship from Rajawali Foundation to attend Harvard Kennedy School-Executive Education program after passing all CV screening and academic test. Page 31
