Criteriion Techn nology, In nc. Commu unication n on Progrress Perriod Covered d Feb bruary 11 , 2015 to February 10th, 2016 th 2 Staatement of continued c su upport by thhe Presidentt/CEO Critterion Techn nology, Inc. remains r com mmitted to itts support o f the goals sset forth by tthe United N Nations Gloobal Compacct. Criterion will continue to incorpo orate sound and fair prin nciples into oour daily bussiness mo odel in the areas of human rights, labor standard ds, the envirronment, an nd anti-corru uption. Thesse principles will be b shared with w our employees, customers and ssuppliers thrrough our daaily businesss practices and d this annual Communiccation of Pro ogress. Withiin this COP w we describe our actions to continually inteegrate the Global G Comppact principlees into our business b straategy. Chrristopher B. Mulvey Preesident/CEO *H Human Rightts Principless Principle 1: Businesses sho ould support and respecct the proteection of inteernationallyy proclaimed d human righ hts; and Principle 2: ma ake sure thaat they are not n complicitt in human rrights abusees. Asssessment, Po olicy and Go oals: Critterion Techn nology supports the Universal Declaaration of Huuman Rights. We do nott carry out b business witth any comp pany where flagrant f hum man rights ab buses are kn own. It iss the policy ofo Criterion Technology to promote a productivve work place and not to olerate any ttype of wriitten, verbal, or physicall conduct byy an employe ee that hara sses, disruptts or interferes with ano other’s wo ork performaance or that creates an intimidating,, offensive, oor hostile en nvironment. This policy is adhered to b by all emplo oyees regardless of race,, religion, color, sex, agee, national orrigin, disability, veteran status or anyy other legallly protected d status. Emmployees shaall not be subbjected to harassment, intimidation n, threats or d discriminatio on for any reeason. Imp plementatio on: CTII encouragess all employe ees to report any complaaints of disc rimination, harassment,, intimidatio on or thrreats to theirr supervisor or the Vice President, Operations O im mmediately. Employees shall not be subjected to h harassment,, intimidation, threats, or o discriminaation becausse they have: 1. Filed a complaintt, 2. Assisted or particcipated in ann investigatioon, related tto the admin nistration of any federal,, state or Local law requirin ng equal employment op pportunity, 3. Oppo osed any actt made unlaw wful by and federal, statte or local laww requiring equal opporrtunity. s All managers, supervisors and a employe ees are expeected to com mply with this policy. Measurement of Outcomes In the past year Criterion has been compliant with all Federal and State laws and regulations regarding employment practices and has not been subject to any investigations involving Human Rights. *Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Criterion Technology supports the ILO Core Conventions and does not engage in forced or child labor. Criterion Technology does not carry out business with any companies with known forced or child labor or companies that are known to violate the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. It is the policy of Criterion Technology, Inc. to practice equal opportunity employment and career development in selection and placement, training programs, promotions, transfers, compensation, layoff, recall, and corrective actions including termination. This policy is carried out for all employees regardless of race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, disability or veteran status or other legally protected status. Criterion complies with all federal and state laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), concerning the employment of persons with disabilities and acts in accordance with regulations and guidance issued by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). All managers, supervisors and employees are expected to abide with these policies. The company is committed to complying with all federal, state and local equal opportunity laws, regulations and guidelines. In 2014 Criterion increased the amount of free benefits available to its employees. Criterion now offers group health insurance plans, dental insurance, vision insurance, life insurance and short and long term disability at no cost to employees. A 401K retirement plan is now also offered to all employees. All full time employees are eligible to enroll in these benefits on the first day of employment. Employees are eligible for 40 hours of vacation after 1 year of employment and non-exempt employees receive 40 hours of paid sick leave on January 1 of each year. Criterion follows minimum pay requirements and offers equal pay for equal work. Time reporting methods are appropriate to the work environment. Employees are paid bi-weekly. Work hours are clearly stated and paid breaks along with an unpaid lunch are provided. Non-exempt employees are also compensated for overtime. Criterion understands the importance of workplace safety and has policies and procedures in place to ensure the safety of all employees. Employee records and personal information are kept in a secure location and remain confidential. Employees are encouraged to discuss any problem or question they may have regarding these policies and procedures with their supervisor or the VP Operations. Implementation At the time of employment, Criterion provides each employee with a handbook outlining each of our policies and new hire training/orientation is conducted. Criterion also provides regular safety training in all required areas/job functions and has several employees trained in OSHA safety compliance to enforce and update this training. Policies are in place for reporting injuries, electrical safety, machine guarding, handling hazardous materials such as chemicals or blood borne pathogens, etc. These and the company safety policy are reviewed and amended as necessary. Retraining is provided when policies or procedures are changed. Criterion also maintains an OSHA 300 log and updates it when necessary. Criterion sets goals for continuously improving our safety policy, employee training, improvement of workplace safety and reducing the number of on the job injuries. Measurement of Outcomes In the past year, Criterion Technology has not been involved in any investigations or lawsuits relative to the UNGC labor principles. In 2014 we have had 3 reportable OSHA incidents that occurred in the workplace. Criterion has also successfully maintained ISO 9001:2008 certification. Due to training and employee awareness in 2015 we have not had any reportable OSHA incidents in the workplace. *Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Criterion Technology is committed to the health and safety of our environment and community. Proper disposal and storage of chemicals is taught and enforced. Criterion continues to enforce its recycling program and has identified new materials to recycle. In January we began developing procedures for regrinding and reusing some of our plastic scrap and hope to report on that progress next year. Implementation Our policies, work instructions, product specifications, insurance booklets and job descriptions are maintained electronically through the company intranet and we encourage employees to print on both sides of paper sheets. We have a closed loop water system for our injection molding process allowing us to reuse water. We recycle paper, plastic, aluminum and other metals, corrugated cardboard and scrap materials. Recycling bins are placed throughout our facility and employees are encouraged to use them for all recyclable materials. Our heating and air system is programed so that it does not run excessively when the building is unoccupied. Chemicals are disposed of and stored according to state and federal regulations. Our skylights reduce the need to use lights throughout the production areas. Measurement of Outcomes All recycled materials are tracked throughout the year. This has allowed us to monitor progress and set goals for improving our programs. The graphs below compare our past 3 years of recycled materials. In 2014 our acrylic and polycarbonate production waste was again reduced which in turn reduced the am mount of thosse materials recycled. We W continue to become more efficieent managingg the amoun nt of plastic maaterial being wasted in th he productio on process. Our O increaseed ABS quan ntity was duee to an increase of pro oducts produ uced with ABBS. During 2015 we have been n using Nylon n as purge material m and find that usiing the scrap p material haas lowered ourr need for th he virgin matterial and re educed wastee. Recyccled Plasstic 25000 20000 15000 Pounds 20 012 10000 20 013 20 014 5000 0 Misc. M Plastic Acrylic Polycarbona te ABS Nylo on Material Typ pe In 2 2014 we were successfu ul at decreasing our papeer consumpttion despite the fact that we are still printing insttruction manuals in hou use. We werre also able to t increase tthe amountss of paper, co o-mingle and d corrrugated cardboard recyycled throughh an increased effort of employee awareness. In 2 2015 we imp plemented Electronic E traavelers and Daily D shift reeports to agaain reduce o our paper connsumption. The T daily shiift reporting project wass completed in January 22015. Our project on eleectronic travvelers was completed in n July 2015. Recycle ed Mateerials 6000 5000 4000 3000 20 012 20 013 2000 20 014 1000 0 Paper (LBSS) Co-minngle Corruugated Printer Paper (LBS) (LLBS) Caartridges C Consumption (each) (case) Critterion Techn nology has not had any reportable r environmental incidents within the laast year and d has not beeen subject too any statuto ory notices or o prosecutio ons. *Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses sh hould work against a corrruption in all its forms, iincluding exxtortion and bribery. Asssessment, Po olicy and Gooals Critterion Techn nology does not participate in any co orruption, b ribery or exttortion and ddoes not do business witth organizations that are e known to beb corrupt. Criterion C hass a policy aggainst acceptting gifts of aany kind from vendors or o customerss. Imp plementatioon Critterion Techn nology enforrces our no gift g policy. Iff gifts are recceived from vendors or customers they are plaaced in a secure location and are disttributed eve enly to all em mployees during our ann nual Christmas celebration. Any food item ms received area shared amongst all eemployees. Meeasurement of Outcome es Critterion Techn nology has not been invo olved in any legal cases, rulings or otther events related to co orruption or bribery.
