UN Global Compact Report on progress 2015 Deutsche Börse Group endorses the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As a member of the UN Global Compact, Deutsche Börse Group is highly committed to implementing the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption throughout the Group when designing our business processes and strategies. In 2015, Deutsche Börse Group developed a range of initiatives in conjunction with the Global Compact’s ten principles: Deutsche Börse offers updated and extended overview of DAX®, MDAX®, SDAX® and TecDAX® companies’ sustainability reporting As a service-oriented marketplace operator Deutsche Börse considers it a core responsibility to ensure the commercial success and stability of financial markets by means of capital market-oriented transparency initiatives. In this context, it acts in line with the requirements of its stakeholders. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects constitute a significant part of enterprise value and are increasingly taken into consideration by professional investors during the investment process. For this reason, last year Deutsche Börse initiated a survey of the DAX® companies on their publication of sustainabilityrelated information. This survey has been repeated in 2015, and now also covers MDAX®, SDAX® and TecDAX®-listed companies. The tables accessible via the menu item SRI at the Börse Frankfurt website provide a comprehensive overview of the companies’ chosen reporting format (annual report, separate sustainability report or combined/integrated report) and standard(s) applied. In addition, they include details of the contact persons for sustainability matters Link: SRI on Börse Frankfurt Information media and transparency With its range of risk management services, Deutsche Börse Group aims to make a sustainable contribution to society, in particular by ensuring integrity and safety on the markets in its function as a capital markets organiser and by increasing the distribution efficiency of the markets through its price discovery function. The Leipzig-based European Energy Exchange (EEX) operates a regulated and transparent marketplace for trading greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions certificates. In 2015, STOXX Ltd. and Sustainalytics published the study “Global ESG Leaders (?) – Nachhaltigkeit im DAX”. Companies from the blue-chip-index DAX are being evaluated based on sustainability criteria in Germany and the whole world. This study further increases our portfolio’s sustainability transparency. Joining the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative’s ESG Model Guidance Campaign To enhance transparency on ESG information across global markets, United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) created a new resource for the stock exchanges, the “Model Guidance on Reporting ESG Information to Investors: A Voluntary Tool For Stock Exchanges to Guide Issuers in September 2015”. At that time, Deutsche Börse was among less than one third of stock exchanges around the world that was providing guidance to issuers on reporting environmental, social and governance (ESG) information. Deutsche Börse successfully participated in the campaign and closed the guidance gap by sharing its ESG Best Practice Guide that other exchanges can use to develop their own, custom guidance. The campaign, backed by the Principles for Responsible Investment and United Nations Global Compact commended Deutsche Börse as it had already issued ESG reporting guidance. Deutsche Börse further aims to discuss matters such as best practice approaches in sustainability within the SSE and to define the role of capital market infrastructure providers within the sustainability movement and to dovetail the SSE with parallel initiatives. Global employee survey At the end of 2013, Deutsche Börse Group conducted an employee survey, in which 81.6 per cent of the workforce took part. A follow-up analysis, the so called „Pulse Check“ was conducted in 2015. From the employees’ perspective, the Group’s strengths are customer focus, product and service quality and the working environment. At the same time, the survey identified a total of about 400 follow-up measures, which have been launched at group, segment, or department level to address the perceived areas for improvement. According to feedback received from managers, 80 per cent of the defined measures had been implemented by the end of the year. The Group also benefited from the results of the survey in the area of staff management. Over a period of three weeks, more than 1,000 employees visited “People Principles”, an internal online forum, where they discussed guidelines for ethical behaviour among colleagues. The principles the discussion highlighted as the most important for employees were implemented in the company through workshops and other initiatives from the beginning of 2015 onwards in order to put them into practice in everyday work. Code of conduct for suppliers In 2015, suppliers which account for 96.6 per cent (2014: 94.7 per cent) of the worldwide amount of purchases of Deutsche Börse Group have signed our Code of Conduct. The Code is based on the UN Global Compact principles and includes ecological, social and sustainability criteria. Deutsche Börse (Purchasing) continuously improves the ratio of expenses covered by Code of Conduct (CoC) agreements. To do so, we analyse suppliers steered by Purchasing on a recurring basis and partition them utilizing an ABC analysis (into three blocks 70 per cent, 20 per cent, 10 per cent related to spend volume). It is our target to achieve at least a 90 per cent coverage of total expenses with CoC agreements (meaning that all A and B suppliers have to sign). In addition, bigger C suppliers are asked to sign, of course. Furthermore it is mandatory for all suppliers that are on-boarded newly by Purchasing to sign the CoC. Sustainable index products Deutsche Börse Group develops sustainable indices in order to offer responsible investment options to investors, according to environmental, social and economic (ESG) criteria. STOXX Ltd., a subsidiary of Deutsche Börse AG, offers a wide variety of transparent sustainability indices. At present, 30 indices are available, including the index families STOXX® Global ESG Leaders and STOXX Sustainability. Deutsche Börse Group offers five further sustainable index concepts. Raising public awareness In 2015, Deutsche Börse Group renewed its status as principal shareholder of Phineo gAG for another two years. Phineo is an analysis and consulting institute for social commitment, established in 2009 by Deutsche Börse Group together with the Bertelsmann Foundation. Its objective is to provide sustainable support to the nonprofit sector. Using impact analysis, a free-of-charge charity seal of approval, publications, workshops and advisory services, Phineo supports non-profit organisations and investors, such as foundations and companies, in maximising the impact from their commitments. Target female quotas adopted In accordance with the Gesetz zur gleichberechtigten Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an Führungspositionen (German Act on the Equal Representation of Women and Men in Executive Positions), the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG resolved to maintain the existing quotas of women on the two management levels below the Executive Board, i.e. 6 per cent on the first and 10 per cent on the second management level. The Executive Board already set a voluntary target in 2010 for Deutsche Börse Group to increase the proportion of women in middle and upper management to 20 per cent, and in lower management to 30 per cent, by 2020. In 2015, in Deutsche Börse Group’s global operations, these quotas stood at 15 per cent (2014: 15 per cent) for middle and upper management and 27 per cent (2014: 24 per cent) for lower management levels. In the Group’s German locations, they were 14 per cent (unchanged from 2014) and 23 per cent (2014: 20 per cent), respectively. Improving sustainability performance For Deutsche Börse Group, environmental protection is an unconditional commitment to preserving the natural environment and resources. The Group aims to record its own “ecological footprint” as accurately as possible and to steadily reduce it Since we fulfil our role as a market-place organizer to a large extent through the development and operation of IT-based solutions, we place great emphasis on further lowering the Group’s emissions from IT services. In 2015,  We continued to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions in our main locations.  We progressed with the Group-wide dialogue on the issue of Green IT.  We purchased again green power from 100 per cent hydro-electric production for the 2015 operation of all servers located in the Equinix data centre.  The power generated by the company’s own combined heat and power plant covered up to 60 per cent of its energy requirements.  We used shuttle buses between the Eschborn and Luxembourg sites to cut down on individual trips.  We offered job tickets for local public transport to staff in Frankfurt/Eschborn.  We used video conferences more frequently instead of business travel in order to reduce emissions.  We used “double-sided printing” as the default printer setting.  We reduced the number of printed publications.  We sent letters and parcels at the Frankfurt/Eschborn site and parcels at the Luxembourg site via the “Go Green” initiative of Deutsche Post and DHL.  We organised Group-wide “Green Days” to raise awareness of environmental issues among staff.  We included electric vehicles in the list of eligible company cars and offered electric charging stations for electric cars and bicycles.  We buy exclusively environmentally compatible products. These include FSC paper with high thickness at low grammage, recycled toners, and other office consumables as well as small appliances that have been awarded “Blue Angel” or “Energy Star” environmental certification. Employment Rights  As stated in the Code of Ethics, Deutsche Börse Group advocates openness and fairness in the workplace and promotes a culture of open dialogue, trust and mutual acceptance. Employee involvement is an important guiding principle for the corporate responsibility engagement. In Frankfurt and Luxemburg employees are presented in different boards and committees. Deutsche Börse Group has collective bargaining agreements in place that allow, for example, for payment above industry average, flexibility with respect to working time.  Deutsche Börse Group does not tolerate discrimination of any kind. The principles of equal opportunity and non-discrimination regardless of nationality, ethnical background, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation and identity, or disability of any kind are complied with. The Group sets high standards regarding the professional qualifications and personal suitability of our new colleagues. Training and continuing professional development are a top priority at Deutsche Börse. Staffs constantly expand and refresh their knowledge of the financial markets and can also undertake regular training for their communication and organisational skills. Deutsche Börse offers a wide range of internal and external training opportunities to support its staff and their supervisors in mastering their own personal challenges. For example, the Employee Development Planning training course for managers teaches managers how to define appropriate measures to support their staff. Further training opportunities are at the planning stage. Life & Family initiative It is Deutsche Börse Group’s declared intention to achieve a reasonable work/life balance. In 2015, the company offered a number of options designed to achieve a positive work-life balance as part of its Job, Life & Family initiative:  Flextime: employees work according to a wide range of flextime models.  Part-time: possibility to work part-time  Childcare: in addition to providing emergency care and holiday programs, we also provide financial support for childcare. The Childcare service for emergencies and during school holidays service was used in Germany on a total of 120 days.  An emergency parent-child office at the Eschborn and Luxembourg locations  Eldercare homecare: in cooperation with pme Familienservice GmbH, we offer employees a series of seminars informing about assistance programs available for caring for elderly relatives as well as individual consulting in some cases.  Health care: we offer special seminars on work-life balance, coaching and regular health check-ups.  The ability to take sabbaticals: this option was used by one employee in Germany and four in Prague and Luxembourg in 2015. Information on COP reporting Deutsche Börse Group taking part in the UN Global Compact Since July 2009, Deutsche Börse Group has participated in the United Nations Global Compact. As a participant, the company publicly pledges to adhere to the Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. Unlike other financial services providers, such as banks or insurance companies, Deutsche Börse Group holds a unique position in the financial markets segment: its business model as well as the products and services it offers set it apart considerably from other financial services providers. As one of the world’s largest stock exchange operators, Deutsche Börse Group organises markets characterised by the integrity, transparency, and security they offer investors, thereby providing the infrastructure which many service providers of the industry use for their products. Decision in favour of Active Level reporting Due to the characteristics of Deutsche Börse Group’s business model, it is not possible to report in accordance with the “Advanced Level” requirements of the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP). This is due to the fact that the majority of the required information does not apply to the company:  Deutsche Börse Group provides services in the field of financial transactions and the information technology (IT) required for these transactions; it does not manufacture physical products.  Deutsche Börse Group’s servers run on green energy, thereby reducing the company’s ecological footprint as much as possible. As a matter of principle, suppliers are asked to sign the company’s Code of Conduct. However, weighting possibilities across the first links of the primary value chain are very restricted on an overall basis.  As an IT company, Deutsche Börse’s ability to influence climate change is very limited. However, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the responsible use of natural resources are an integral part of its sustainability strategy.  Deutsche Börse Group is a listed company and operates internationally. However, the average total number of employees falls considerably short of 5,300. The majority of employees work at its three European locations (Frankfurt/Eschborn, Luxembourg, and Prague) and its two US locations (New York, Chicago).   According to Global Compact criteria, Deutsche Börse Group fulfils those Advanced Level requirements which are applicable. In addition, the Chairman of the Executive Board, Carsten Kengeter, has taken a stand on the company’s participation in the UN Global Compact in the corporate report.
