UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 REPORT Leadership Engagement In order to reinforce the Company’s commitment, Donna O’Reilly the President & CEO, decided that Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. would join the UN Global Compact Initiative. We believe this will not only help a Global Cause but also provide us with a framework for action and reporting. Letter to Staff Dear Eurow & O’Reilly Team Members, Our Company joined the United Nations Global Compact Initiative. The United Nations Global Compact Initiative supports companies to do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations with the Ten Principles. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As part of this initiative, I would like for us to document everything we do in the following four areas, and publish an annual Communication on Progress detailing the strides we have made towards upholding these Ten Principles. 1. Human rights 2. Labor 3. Environment 4. Anti-corruption Our goal is to conduct business responsibly for a more sustainable future for Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation and the world. Sincerely, Donna O’Reilly President Contents Topic UNGC Principle Page OUR BRANDS 5-6 COMPANY HISTORY 7 PROMOTING THE UNITED NATIONS 8 GLOBAL IMPACT EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS Principle 6 9-10 OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE Principles 1,2,3,4 and 5 11-12 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WORKING CONDITIONS AT 13 MANUFACTURING SITES ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Principles 7,8 and 9 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 15 Our Brands Welcome to Eurow, we are a leading manufacturer of Microfiber, Cotton and Sheepskin products for home and automotive cleaning as well as pet grooming and equestrian markets. Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation, a certified woman-owned business, has developed over 30 years to become one of the nation’s largest suppliers of microfiber textiles. Serving some of the world’s most well-known retailers, we offer high volume direct import and private label programs. Our high-end clients demand premium quality products at the best price possible. With manufacturing dominance in our production facilities, we are able to produce high volume, superior grade textiles at unparalleled savings for our customers. We sell under many different Brands, including but not limited to, Eurow®, Detailers Preference®, CleanAide®, ECP Equine Comfort Products®, Nouvelle Legende®, Esteem®, ECO-EOC®, StraightGreen®, GroomTex®, Strong Shell™, Trek 'N Clean® and Udderly Clean™. Our products can be found at many wholesale and specialty retailers locations as well as online on the most popular MarketPlaces and on our own websites. Our main facility is located in Simi Valley, CA (USA) but we do distribute from many other US Distribution Centers. CleanAide®: CleanAide® is Eurow’s commercial and industrial line of cleaning products. This brand includes premium microfiber antibacterial towels, cleaning mitts and quality mops. Our products encompass a wide range of janitorial needs, while providing cost-effective and more environmentally friendly cleaning solutions. Heavy duty sponges, dusters, dry mops, wet mops, mop poles, and a line of specially designed microfiber towels make this brand perfect for household and commercial use. Detailers Preference®: Detailers Preference® is a leading brand for car detailing products. Some of our best sellers include microfiber towels, sheepskin detailing mitts, and complete car care kits. Our products ensure quality detailing performance with their high absorbency, lint and scratch-free properties. We also carry a variety of high-quality sheepskin and microfiber seat covers in different colors and prints. Nouvelle Legende®: Nouvelle Legende® is our superior quality and luxury home and kitchen product line. High quality kitchen products, such as tablecloths, napkins, aprons, and kitchen towels make this brand perfect for your home or restaurant. We’ve also designed several flame retardant and resistant mitts and gloves for home and restaurant kitchens. The home division of Nouvelle Legende® is comprised of microfiber luxury coral fleece bed sheet sets and throws. 5 Our Brands ECP Equine Comfort Products®: Equine Comfort Products remains unsurpassed in quality, design and utility since we began manufacturing in 1984. As riders ourselves, we are constantly evaluating and updating our products to improve performance and practicality for the horse sports and equine partners we deeply value. Designed by riders and active competitors, our lightweight and breathable saddle pads provide shock absorption, total relief from pressure points, effective heat and moisture management and complete elimination of chafing sore and rubs. Esteem®: Esteem’s proven quality adult incontinence products can provide peace of mind and improve quality of life. Ergonomically designed for both men and women, our Esteem Pads are made of seven layers of material are comfortable and efficient. The top layer, placed against your body, is made of soft poly suede, a dry to the touch fabric after use reduces skin irritation. The inner microfiber and woven rayon layers are lightweight and provide superior absorbency. Our Esteem Pads are economical and environmentally friendly. GroomTex®: GroomTex helps keep you and your home free of animal hair, dander and lint. GroomTex drying towels wick away and trap moisture from your pet after a bath or wet adventure outside. Choose from a variety of sizes to best fit your furry friend. Bathing and grooming mitts help ensure your pet looks its best, while providing gentle cleaning tools. For you and your home, our pet hair removal mitts firmly grab onto and remove hair, lint, and dander from furniture and clothing. Strong ShellTM: Strong Shell is a line of vehicle and accessory covers that provide a durable, protective shield. It is lightweight for easy installation and features an ultra plush lining to spare your finish, providing a scratch-free defense from the elements. The breathable nature of Strong Shell™ makes it easy for moisture to escape from under the cover. Trek N' Clean®: Our expertly designed Trek N' Clean door mat helps keep your floors dry and clean. Its fibers trap water and dirt instantly to remove tough messes. Trek N' Clean is perfect for households with children or pets, and can be used in or out doors. With its no-skid backing, Trek N' Clean is safe to use on any floor surface. Udderly CleanTM: Designed for the dairy industry, Udderly Clean’s reusable towels aide in cleaning and disinfecting cow udders. Increase your profitability by improving sanitary conditions and eliminating one time use towels. Microfiber towels collect contaminants like a magnet and trap them in its fibers without using chemicals. These microfiber towels can be washed and reused hundreds of times. 6 Company History Raymond O’Reilly, an Irishman with a passion, began Eurow Corporation in 1983. Mr. O’Reilly was determined to make the best goods at the lowest cost so the consumer was getting unsurpassed value for their money. Eurow was known for selling single products. Its main product was the sheepskin seat cover. In 2000, Mr. O’Reilly’s daughter, Donna O’Reilly bought the business and changed the name to Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation. Over the years, Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation expanded to a leading manufacturer and global supplier of microfiber and cotton textiles with fully branded product lines. 7 Promoting the Untied Nations Global Compact Below is a chart stating Eurow & O’Reilly’s progress on the 10 principles put forth by the United Nations Global Compact. The percentage is based on the manufacturing distribution between audited versus non-audited factories. All factories are audited, but the percentage below reflects only third party audits. Number Principle Status 1 Human Rights – Protection of Internationally 74.3% Proclaimed Human Rights Complete 2 Human Rights – Not Complicit in 74.3% Human Rights Abuses Complete 3 Labour – Freedom of Association and 74.3% Collective Bargaining Complete 4 Labour – Elimination of Forced Labour 74.3% Complete 5 Labour – Abolition of Child Labour 74.3% Complete 6 Labour – Elimination of Discrimination 74.3% Complete 7 Environment – Environmental Challenges Initiated 8 Environment – Environmental Responsibility Initiated 9 Environment – Environmentally Initiated Friendly Technologies 10 Anti-Corruption 74.3% Complete 8 Employee Demographics Q4/2015 Management/Non-Management Positions by Gender Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. strives to uphold social responsibility by maintaining equal opportunity and gender diversity within its organization. We believe gender diversity allows for a wider range of insight, perspective, and knowledge within the workplace. Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. promotes an environment where the most talented individuals have the opportunity to advance within the Company, regardless of gender and without discrimination. All candidates are assessed equally during the recruitment and selection process, and all hiring decisions are based on the qualifications and experience of each individual. Once hired, Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. is committed to evaluating each employee based on performance, quality of work, and overall value to the Company, regardless of gender. The following charts demonstrate Eurow & O’Reilly Corp’s. commitment to gender equality in both managerial and non-managerial positions during the final quarter of 2015. Please note, as a Company with a relatively low population, the slightest variation within the organization will significantly impact the overall percentages. Q4/ 2015 Female Employees vs Male Q4/ 2015 Female Management / Female NonEmployees: During the 4th quarter of 2015, Management/ Male Management/ Male NonEurow and O’Reilly Corp. was comprised of Management : The following chart shows a a fairly equal number of female versus male higher number of employees than managers employees, which demonstrates Eurow and overall. The distribution of employees within O’Reilly Corp’s commitment to equality in various departments plays an essential role in the workplace. the outcome which shows a higher percent of Male Managers and Male Employees. 33% 21% 58% 42% 21% 25% Female Employees Female Management Female Non Management Male Employees Male Management Male Non Management 9 Employee Demographics (continued) Q4/2015 Management/Non-Management Positions by Gender Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. achieved an absolute equal gender / employee balance during the 4th quarter of 2015. However, we expect the gender balance will fluctuate slightly during periods of growth. As a Company, we will continue to track any variances between men versus women in our workforce, and make an effort to maintain similar ratios. However, we will continue to adhere to our policy regarding equal opportunity, and comply with all applicable laws. Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. prohibits harassment, discrimination, and/or retaliation based on gender, gender identity, race, color, age, religion, national origin or ancestry, physical or mental disability, marital status, veteran status, sexual orientation, and/or any other basis protected by Federal and State laws. These guidelines apply to all terms and conditions of employment, including, but not limited to, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoffs, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training. Q4/ 2015 Q4/ 2015 Female Management Q4/ 2015 Male Management vs Male Nonvs Female Non-Management: As a relatively Management: As with the previous graph, small company, it is essential to begin this data shows a higher number of Male staffing qualified department heads, who Non Managers vs Male Managers. The same will then gradually build their perspective principle of staffing Management before departments by hiring additional employees. adding employees to the equation applies The likeness in the percentages within this with both Female and Male groupings. graph showing Female Managers vs Female Employees demonstrates the foundation for the Company’s future growth and development. 50% 50% 57% 43% Female Management Male Management Female Non Management Male Non Management 10 Our Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation participates in Customer Social Responsibility programs where selected factories have undergone social audits performed by UL and their responsible sourcing group. The scope of UL’s workplace assessments are based on: • Labor Practices • Health and Safety • Environment Additional components can include: • Facility Supply Chain Profile • Ethics and Business Integrity, and • Management Systems Manufacturing 3rd Party Audited by Volume for Social Compliance Eurow works with 7 main factories that produce Factory A, B, D, and F have been audited by 99.0% its products. The other factories not listed a 3rd party independent organization for social produce 1.0% of Eurow’s product. compliance. Factories are re-audited on a yearly basis. Non-audited factories are factories that do not have an official 3rd party 50.0% 46.5% audit report on record. Eurow visits non45.0% audited factories regularly and performs internal audits. Should any deficiencies be 40.0% found, a corrective action plan is put 35.0% immediately into place. Over time, the goal is to have 95% of production volume audited. 30.0% 25.0% 22.4% 19.4% 20.0% 15.0% 25.7% 10.0% 74.3% 5.0% 4.3% 5.0% 0.7% 0.7% 1.0% 0.0% Audited Not Audited 11 Our Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (continued) Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation is one of the few hundred companies that has signed the pledge against forced labor in the Uzbekistan cotton sector. The Government of Uzbekistan practices forced child and adult labor in the harvest of cotton. By signing this pledge, we commit to not source Uzbek cotton for the manufacturing of any of our products until this practice ends. We joined Responsible Sourcing Network and its multi-stakeholder coalition to raise awareness of this issue and press for its elimination. Our pledge can be found on: http://www.sourcingnetwork.org/the-cotton-pledge Responsible Sourcing Network has also recently created the Yarn Ethically & Sustainably Sourced (YESS) initiative which is meant to drive slavery out of cotton production. In addition to Uzbekistan, cotton produced by forced labor has been documented in at least 9 countries. The cotton then makes its way through the value chain into goods sold by major brands and retailers. The goal of YESS is to assist in eliminating the market for cotton produced by forced labor and increase the use of ethically and sustainably sourced cotton. Eurow has endorsed YESS by signing a Statement of Support. Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. is committed to doing our part in bettering the community. The following are some examples of how Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. is working to ensure the health and the wellbeing of our employees, our customers and the community. Recycling is a small but effective way to help preserve the environment. We currently provide paper recycling bins throughout the workplace. We also recycle used ink cartridges. The Company is continuously coming up with new ideas about how we can contribute to the community. We are beginning to look into various local humanitarian programs and animal shelters that may be in need of some of our unsold or returned items. Human Resources will be presenting some options during an upcoming managers meeting. Managers meetings are held weekly in order to ensure employees/ managers are involved in current projects, and have an open forum to give feedback and share ideas. We consistently ensure that our company is using ethical labor practices to demonstrate social responsibility. 12 Working Conditions at Manufacturing Sites Below are the violations that a factory can be cited for. They are broken into 3 major categories: labor, wages and benefits, and health and safety. Labor covers issues such as child labor, forced labor, and any abuse. Wages and benefits ensures any hours worked are paid, overtime is limited, no deductions are taken from pay as punishment, and benefits such as insurance are provided. Health and safety address issues such as working fire alarms and fire extinguishers, protective guards on equipment and ear plugs for operators, valid electrical certificates, and providing a reasonably safe working environment. Factory A Factory B Factory D Factory F Labor Child labor Prison / slave labor Physical abuse Wages and benefits Unpaid wages Exceeded monthly overtime Disciplinary deductions Benefits not offered Health & safety Lack of emergency equipment Lack of protective equipment / wear Lack of electrical maintenance Lack of security Critical violations need to be addressed immediately. Major Legend violations are important but not critical and are addressed None detected within 30 days of detection. Minor violations are less severe and are addressed within 90 days of detection. All violations Minor Violation require a corrective action plan which is signed by factory Major Violation management and agreed to by Eurow. Critical Violation 13 Environmental Impact Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation has taken several measures to reduce its impact on the environment. The warehouse is equipped with R30 insulation under the roof. This type of insulation is key in maintaining a stable temperature. R30 insulation keeps the heat in during the winter, and keeps the heat out during summer. Because of the insulation, there is about a 20 degree difference between the outside temperature and internal temperature of the warehouse. This feature is especially important during hot summer months because it eliminates the need for air conditioning. There is also energy efficient lighting in the warehouse that is motion activated. That way, only the parts of the warehouse that have activity stay lit. This feature helps further limit energy usage. Lighting was converted to electronic ballast technology after the acquisition of the building. The entire building, office and warehouse included, also has special features that help keep temperatures stable. First, the building has membrane roofing, a type of roofing system that is made of rubber used on flat surfaces. The roof is coated with a highly reflective barrier on the membrane. The roof is roughly 50 thousand square feet. The barrier is a polymer with reflective material embedded in it. It helps maintain stable temperatures by reflecting sunlight away from the building and precludes heat from getting into the membrane and into the building. This feature is particularly important at the building’s location where there is no marine layer in the area and temperatures in the summer can reach over 100°F. Eurow & O’Reilly Corporation has a recycling program. Any discarded corrugate from shipping boxes and any used office paper is picked up once a week for recycling. 14 Anti-Corruption Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. expects employees to conduct business according to the highest ethical standards, and to dedicate their best efforts to the interests of the Company. Business dealings that appear to create a conflict of interest between Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. and an employee are not acceptable. Employees must avoid any interest, influence or relationship which may conflict or appear to conflict with the best interests of the Company. For Example: Accepting gifts, entertainment or other benefits from a competitor, customer or supplier of more than a value determined by the IRS trade or business gift guidelines is prohibited. Formal expense forms are required, and must be accompanied by original receipts to show incurred business expenses, before the expenses are approved and a reimbursement is issued All business transactions are conducted via wire transfer so there is an electronic trail for tracking purposes. Transactions that are less than USD $200 may be settled via petty cash. The form of payment is documented in the accounting records along with an invoice or receipt. Petty cash is reviewed periodically to ensure the amount of cash always equals the amount on the receipts plus and leftover cash. 51 Moreland Road Simi Valley, CA USA Copyright © 2016 • Eurow & O’Reilly Corp. • All rights reserved.
