CSR REPORT 2015-2016 1 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 siteimprove.com CONTENTS 01 / Letter from the CEO 06-07 02 / Introduction 08-09 03 / Human rights 10-15 04 / Labor rights 16-39 05 / Environment 40-43 06 / Anti-corruption 44-45 07 / Donations and charity 46-51 08 / Social events 52-59 09 / Goals achieved and set for next year 60-66 01 LETTER FROM THE CEO Since starting this company in 2003, I have had the great pleasure of seeing it grow from strength-to-strength. Not only have we developed from a three-man company to a multinational company employing more than 370 employees across 19 markets, but we have also matured our mission and vision; something which I hope will be obvious to you in this report. In 2010, Siteimprove officially established our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program and joined the United Nation’s Global Compact. Since then, we have established a number of CSR initiatives worldwide, with a particularly strong focus on the UN’s recommended categories of human rights, labor rights, and environment. Where possible we try to form programs with a strategic reference to our global company mission, which is to make the web a better place for everyone. / 01 LETTER FROM THE CEO 6 Financially we can see that the desire to do business with a socially responsible company whose key business functions help make websites better and more accessible continues to be popular. In 2015, we experienced a Additionally, in 2015, we were named one growth of 66%, a revenue increase of 73%, as of Denmark’s best workplaces and one of well as early success in our new subsidiaries Denmark’s 10 best IT workplaces by Great Place in Austria, Australia, Canada, Finland, France, to Work®, a global research, consulting, and and Switzerland. At the end of 2015, we training firm. This was a fantastic acknowledge also welcomed a $55 million (USD) minority of the hard work we have put into making investment from global growth equity firm labor rights a priority, and it has fueled our fire Summit Partners that will allow us to continue to keep improving and investing in employee to develop our solutions to the benefit of our satisfaction and development. customers. To this extend we also invested in moving into Financial stability aside, we have also been larger office premises in both Copenhagen lucky enough to be named one of Minnesota and Minneapolis in January 2016, so that we Business Magazine’s Top 100 Companies to can continue to provide our employees with Work For, for four years in a row! (2012, 2013, the space and amenities needed for them to 2014, and 2015). We credit this to having built a embody our corporate mission of being peoplecompany culture that utilizes the best of both centric, passionate, and innovative. worlds – the relaxed atmosphere and open office space from Denmark, and the resultsLooking ahead to the remainder of 2016, and driven ‘work hard, play hard’-mentality from 2017, we expect customer and revenue growth the U.S. to continue above 50%. Furthermore, we plan to open more offices and continue hiring talented employees in all offices and across all functions. Kind regards. MORTEN EBBESEN / 01 LETTER FROM THE CEO CEO, Siteimprove 7 02 INTRODUCING SITEIMPROVE WHO IS SITEIMPROVE? Siteimprove is an international software-asOrganizations and companies with complex, a-service company founded in Copenhagen, resource heavy websites particularly benefit Denmark, in 2003 by Morten Ebbesen who from our product suite as it makes the daily web is still CEO of the company today. We deliver management process much more efficient. In web governance tools that help companies and the public sectors, our customers are typically organizations control, manage, and maintain ministries, educational institutions, and their websites, and our product suite is used by councils. In the private sectors, our customers over 4,000 customers across Australia, Europe, are found in various industries such as financial, and North America. insurance, and medical industries. We employ over 350 employees, mainly within our headquarters in the heart of Copenhagen and our office in Minneapolis, however, we also have offices in London, Berlin, Vienna, Zürich, Amsterdam, Oslo, Toronto, and Sydney. Over 20 different nationalities are represented in our headquarters alone, making Siteimprove an incredibly diverse workplace. WHO BENEFITS FROM OUR SERVICES? / 02 INTRODUCING SITEIMPROVE Siteimprove’s product suite automates the process of identifying errors and problems on websites, and helps web teams and editors create strong web content strategies. Our scalable software brings value to both newly established companies and large corporations with websites containing vast amounts of information. 8 SITEIMPROVE’S INNOVATIVE SEO (search engine optimization) helps users PRODUCT SUITE of the tool to strengthen their online presence by identifying website problems that should be addressed in order to achieve a higher Our product suite consists of six solutions: ranking in search engines. Quality Assurance, Policy, Analytics, SEO, Response, and Accessibility. We have improved Response monitors website performance and and fine-tuned our suite for more than ten years, potential downtime 24/7 and immediately and usability has always been a main priority. alerts those responsible. We want everyone with web responsibilities Accessibility identifies violations of the to be able to utilize our tools successfully globally accepted guidelines for digital regardless of technical skills. We therefore offer accessibility, WCAG 2.0, that are meant our customers unlimited training and support. to aide in making the online world more inclusive to people with disabilities. Including Quality Assurance automatically identifies an accessibility tool in the web management website errors such as misspellings and process does not just help ensure legal broken links. Our tool crawls the website compliance, it also increases the general every five days and communicates content usability of the website allowing everyone issues in easy to understand reports. regardless of ability to visit and utilize the Policy allows web teams to make sure website. that content, media files, branding, and HTML language comply with organizational Siteimprove helps web teams reclaim control of standards. This tool scans the website for their websites. Functional websites are crucial everything inconsistent with legal, branding, in a digitalized world where an increasing and style policies. It is possible to create rules number of self-service and business critical concerning offensive language, consistency activities are exclusively available online. We in branding and trademarks, file sizes for have positioned ourselves as a global pioneer documents and images, page structure, and and leader in web governance software that much more. allows customers to strengthen their digital presence through the effective management Analytics measures, simplifies, and reports of the user experience on their websites. As web analytics data. This information can be companies and organizations increasingly used to sort and optimize website content and recognize the importance of managing their target web teams’ efforts strategically. Many websites, demand for Siteimprove’s software web analytics tools are difficult to understand increases. and use, but Siteimprove Analytics provides the user with the necessary information and overview to make important decisions. ACCESSIBILITY: Disabilities include everything from OUR WEAPON AGAINST colorblindness or age-related conditions, DIGITAL EXCLUSION to complete vision impairment. People with disabilities are not necessarily able to access and utilize websites as intended. The potential Since 2010, Siteimprove has been a member of accessibility issues are many, ranging from the United Nations’ Global Compact. The Global simple content problems such as poor color Compact is the largest corporate sustainability contrast between text and background, to more initiative in the world, working for a sustainable technical problems that ultimately exclude / 02 INTRODUCING SITEIMPROVE and inclusive global economy that delivers those who utilize assistive technologies. lasting benefits to people, communities, and markets. We have made it our mission to make the web better and more inclusive for all. We believe that accessing and utilizing websites is a fundamental right and that it is wrong to exclude people with disabilities from utilizing websites. Increasing awareness of the importance of accessible websites has become an important social responsibility concern for Siteimprove. 9 10 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS 03 Global Compact Principles 1-2: 1. The company should support and respect the protection of intentionally declared human rights 2. Ensure that the company does not contribute to the violation of human rights As part of Siteimprove’s on-going work to actively put digital accessibility on the agenda and support an inclusive web for all, we have held several web accessibility conferences around the world in the past year. We have also entered into official partnerships with accessibility professionals who share our passion for making the web better and accessible to all regardless of ability or technical expertise. Read about our efforts within digital human rights in this section. / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 11 SPREADING THE WORD WORLDWIDE FOR A BETTER WEB! As Siteimprove continues to grow so too does Finally, in May 2016 we also attended a our commitment to meeting our company conference organized by the CMS (Content mission of making the web better and more Management System) provider Prokom in Oslo, inclusive for all. Norway, where we educated 90 Norwegian councils about how to implement digital One way in which we do this is by holding various accessibility through the use of live examples. conferences all over the world that focus on highlighting digital accessibility, explaining what it is and why it is important, and giving practical advice on how best to implement it. TARGETING THE In September 2015 and May 2016, we held TWIN CITIES: two accessibility events in Reykjavik, Iceland, each for 150 web editors, web masters, and SHARING marketers who wished to learn more about digital accessibility and how best to ensure KNOWLEDGE IN OUR their website is accessible to as many users as possible. Topics covered included why FIRST ACCESSIBILITY accessibility is a need-to-have, not a nice-tohave, live case studies of how other Icelandic MEETUP companies have succeeded, and presentations about the positive overlaps between SEO and accessibility. In collaboration with Target’s digital accessibility team, Siteimprove co-hosted a In October 2015, we also held an important digital accessibility meetup kickoff on February presentation, in partnership with Danish 23, 2016 at Target Plaza Commons in downtown accessibility consultancy firm, Diversa, in Minneapolis, USA. Target is the second-largest which cccessibility consultant Lars Sørensen, discount retailer in the United States, and / 03 HUMAN RIGHTS who has a congenital visual impairment, shared the second biggest company in Minneapolis, his experiences of using magnification and Minnesota. The meetup was established to screen reader programs to access the web for connect passionate accessibility professionals the last two decades. living in and around the Twin Cities area. The group hopes to continue with these events in the future in order to create an inclusive meetup 12 SITEIMPROVE’S BETTER WEB AWARDS Having previously nominated and awarded the Web Enthusiast of the Year, we decided to take it to the next level with Siteimprove’s Better Web Awards in the fall of 2015. The nominees were all individuals or web teams who had demonstrated willingness and ability to improve the quality and accessibility of their organization’s website. for people from all sectors and backgrounds interested in digital accessibility. The goal of the kickoff meeting was to start a discussion, ask the attendees what they thought a successful group would look like, and get a good feel for the different skill sets the group would bring together. The results of the survey distributed during the meetup showed that all skill levels, abilities, and disciplines were represented: web accessibility professionals, developers, designers, user experience professionals, as well as those brand new to the field or those working with accessibility all their lives. All agreed that networking, building a community of accessibility evangelists, and The award ceremony took place in Copenhagen, learning from each other were the desired and prizes were given in four different outcomes from the meetup group. categories: 1. The Quality Assurance Award 2. The Accessibility Award 3. The Award for 0 Misspellings and Broken Links 4. The Better Web Enthusiast of the Year The winners received trophies and medals, as well as monetary awards to donate to a charity of their choice. While this group is just getting started, we are excited to see how the progression helps shed / 03 HUMAN RIGHTS light on how we can make the world a little better for everyone by making physical and digital spaces accessible for all! 13 PARTNERSHIP progress. The user can therefore easily know the number of accessibility issue types and errors WITH DANISH they have addressed. The number of issues still requiring attention are also illustrated, as ACCESSIBILITY well as the specific number of individual pages affected by each issue type. EXPERTS: DIVERSA This progress bar makes it much easier for our users to track their accessibility efforts and see In the spring of 2016, we entered into an official what they are doing well, motivating them to partnership with the Danish accessibility go the extra mile. consultancy firm Diversa. We announced this on May 19, to coincide with Global Accessibility To further increase the value of our Accessibility Awareness Day: GAAD. module, we are working on making it possible to create customizable policies, which would The founders of Diversa, Lars Holm Sørensen allow our users to conduct more personalized and Christina Nahnsen, are visually impaired website checks and thereby target accessibility and have made it their mission to make the issues that are specifically important to their digital world accessible to all. They are experts organization. at locating accessibility issues on websites and apps – including issues that are difficult for automated tools to identify. A NEW PERSPECTIVE: NAVIGATING Regarding the partnership, Diversa said: THE INTERNET WITH ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGIES “ When you have a disability, you already face a number of challenges in As part of our initiative to increase the focus on accessibility education and awareness, your everyday life. Being excluded from Siteimprove brought in Keith Bundy, Assistant common online activities shouldn’t be Dean for Student Development at Dakota State one of them. Combining Siteimprove’s University, and a JAWS certified teacher, to automated accessibility tool with teach about web accessibility along with Kevin our manual expertise and firsthand Rydberg, Senior Digital Accessibility Consultant experience provides the customer at Siteimprove. The purpose of the event was with a much more extensive and timeto help educate staff on some of the different efficient service. “ assistive technologies and techniques people use. Keith also spoke about communication and interaction with individuals with disabilities. IMPROVEMENTS TO SITEIMPROVE’S ACCESSIBILITY MODULE ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ACCESSIBILITY MOTIVATING OUR USERS PROFESSIONALS CONFERENCE As part of our continued focus on making the web more accessible for everyone regardless of In October 2015, Siteimprove representatives disability and level of digital expertise, we are attended the annual International Association constantly working on new ways of improving of Accessibility Professionals conference our Accessibility module. More than two thirds in Nevada, USA. With nearly 160 attendees, of Siteimprove’s users utilize this module, and including representatives from companies such we know that many of them are working hard as Microsoft, Adobe, and IBM, they participated to improve the accessibility of their website. We in sessions covering cognitive accessibility, realize that going through the list of website integration of accessibility principles and accessibility issues can be overwhelming, Howprioritizing accessibility issues. They were / 03 HUMAN RIGHTS ever, a little effort can go a long way, so we deable to share their knowledge and experience cided that a little encouragement was in order. with other companies in the industry, and we are determined to continue developing our To boost our users’ motivation and to knowledge within accessibility for a positive acknowledge their efforts, we have introduced a and sustainable change in digital accessibility. new progress feature bar within the Accessibility module that shows users an overview of their 14 at Dakota State University and is a JAWS certified teacher. He has been a guest speaker at several events for Siteimprove where he talk“ Keith has been blind since birth and is still one of the best web directors ed about the importance of digital accessibility and demonstrated live how blind people naviI have seen work. He ‘reads’ the web gate the internet using a screen reader. faster than I can scan a page for a phone number. It is very impressive to Keith was kind enough to agree to be one of see him work with assistive technology. our ‘beta users’ who would check the website Not only can it be humbling, but it also throughout the redesign process to give us vigave me a much better understanding tal feedback on how he, as a blind user, expeand appreciation of the work rienced navigating our website. At Siteimprove Siteimprove does with people with we always recommend that any company or disabilities “ organization going through a website redesign enlists the services of various disability and Steve Reese, usability experts to ensure that they are seeing their website from as many perspectives as Account Executive, possible. Higher Education. The benefits of involving people with disabilities in web projects far outweigh the extra work, as you gain a much deeper understanding of how users with disabilities are motivated, how effiAt Siteimprove we know that we can not expect cient your site may be, and how effectively all our customers to trust us if we do not practice of your users can be while using your site. By what we preach. As such we knew that when we enlisting Keith’s assistance, we were able to quickly identify potential accesPRACTICE WHAT sibility issues and address them before the problem YOU PREACH – escalated or before it became too late in the process to make those THE ROAD TO changes. One of the main mantras that we AN ACCESSIBLE try to teach people when we talk about web accessibility is that WEBSITE ‘it is a process, not a project’. This requires that we stay educated on the developments in accessibility, decided to start our website redesign process which is why we ensure ongoing staff educain September 2015, we had to ensure that the tion and training. finished product was a fully accessible website that met the WCAG 2.0 AA guidelines. / 03 HUMAN RIGHTS In order to achieve this, one of the first things we did was consult with our Senior Accessibility Consultant, Kevin Rydberg, to make sure that all the necessary steps such as choosing a CMS and choosing a coding provider were done correctly. Once the project had commenced we then enlisted the help of Keith Bundy. Keith is the Assistant Dean for Student Development 15 16 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 LABOR RIGHTS 04 Global Compact Principles 3-6 3. The company should support the right to unionize and effectively recognize the right of collective bargaining 4. Support the eradication of all forms of forced labor 5. Support the effective eradication of all forms of child labor 6. Eradicate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 17 SITEIMPROVE EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION Our employees are our biggest asset and their happiness determines our success. It therefore brings us great joy when we are officially recognized as a top workplace. In June, 2015, Siteimprove was recognized FOCUS ON WHERE WE CAN DO by the Star Tribune as a top workplace in BETTER the state of Minnesota, USA. Star Tribune’s Top Workplaces Award recognizes the most We are very proud of the assessments, as they progressive companies in Minnesota based confirm our perception of Siteimprove as a great solely on employee opinions measuring workplace. There are, however, areas where engagement, organizational health, and we as an ambitious, fast growing organization satisfaction. The analysis included responses wish to improve. As a result, we have launched from over 69,000 employees in public, private, a number of initiatives together with and non-profit organizations. We are excited the consultants from Great Place to and proud to see our efforts recognized. Work® with the purpose of clarifying what we can and should do in In November, 2015, Great Place to Work®, a order for Siteimprove to be the best global research, consulting, and training firm, possible workplace. named Siteimprove one of Denmark’s best workplaces and one of Denmark’s 10 best IT Increasing our focus on professional workplaces. The assessment was made based employee development is a main on Great Place to Work’s rigorous Trust Index priority, which is why we in May Employee Survey. 127 companies in Denmark 2016 hired an experienced Human participated in the survey that evaluates Resource Director. With her expertise, workplaces against five criteria. we will be able to improve our approach to employee development, The first three – credibility, respect, and fairness and address the employee feedback – give an insight into whether employees trust from the satisfaction surveys. In the management, while the remaining two – pride fall of 2016, Great Place to Work® will and community – assess whether employees carry out a new assessment among are proud of their role in the company and the all Siteimprove employees allowing company as a whole. us to determine the impact of our initiatives and track our progress. BREAKING DOWN THE NUMBERS ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS The main results from the Great Place to Work® employee satisfaction survey found that As is common practice, we track employee Siteimprove is: absence due to illness. In our European offices, the number has risen from 1.41% in 2013 to 2.25% –– A friendly workplace where you can be in 2015, however we are not hugely alarmed by this increase as it is still below the average for / 04 LABOR RIGHTS yourself. private sector companies. We will, however, –– A place where management is honest and continue monitoring the development just as ethical in its business practices, and it trusts we continue our focus on creating a good work people to do a good job without watching environment for all Siteimprovers. over their shoulders. –– Great at celebrating special events. 18 MOVING ON UP: OUR VERY OWN BUILDINGS December 2015 was a particularly busy month for Siteimprove, as our organizational growth made it necessary to find new premises in Copenhagen and Minneapolis. The Minneapolis Siteimprove team packed their The Copenhagen office moved into a beautiful boxes and said goodbye to the Normandale office building in central Copenhagen with a Office Park in Bloomington, Minnesota, and view of the harbor. The new headquarters has moved to a brand new building. This new space four times as many square meters than the includes a gym space with showers, and gives previous office providing each employee with us the possibility to enjoy a daily lunch service. more space, more meeting rooms, an in-house gym, a sunlit outside terrace, and a custommade lounge bar where employees can socialize after work. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 19 We know that regular exercise improves people’s overall health and resistance to illness. Physical exercise promotes the release of moodelevating endorphins, and it reduces stress, and boosts energy levels. We offer a professionally instructed yoga class each month that focuses on strength and flexibility for a balanced and productive body and HEALTHY mind. For those who prefer to exercise exBODY ternally, we offer special membership agreements with two of the biggest fitness chains in Denmark. AND WALKING AND TALKING FOR HAPPINESS HAPPY MIND Every second week, Siteimprove’s London office takes a half an hour to walk as a group to one of the many excellent cafes in the surrounding area. We believe that good health contributes The idea is simple: get everybody out of the office for some fresh air in the middle of the towards being a happy employee day, while enabling people from different teams which is why we try to make it as easy to talk and socialize. A simple but effective as possible for Siteimprovers to take scheme, this has had a positive impact on care of their health. One initiative we productivity and happiness within the office. have established is an in-house fully equipped gym in the headquarters in Copenhagen. The main objective is to support our employees’ health and well-being by providing the necessary facilities for physical workout at a convenient location. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 20 MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS DAY – DID YOU KNOW 1 IN 4 ADULTS HAVE MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS? The London office took part in Mental Health LUNCH TIME TED TALKS Awareness Day on 10 October 2015. The idea behind the annual day is to raise awareness TED is a non-profit devoted to spreading ideas, of what can be done to ensure that people usually in the form of short, powerful talks. with mental health problems can live with dignity. Considering 1 in 4 adults in the United Every second week, the London office sees a Kingdom suffer from mental health problems, different and topical TED Talk. After the talk, Siteimprove wanted to support the awareness the office spends 10-15 minutes discussing campaign and bring to life some of the actual the content of the talk and everybody comes effects from these illnesses. out feeling energized, engaged, and ready to continue their day. The day was divided into different sections starting with healthy breakfast smoothies. This set the tone for what would be a cleansing and relaxing day at the office. Various facts and statistics relating to different conditions were on display throughout the office to educate about the different aspects of mental health and how it can affect people. A healthy lunch was provided, along with information about how different types of food can help improve concentration, happiness, productivity, and overall positivity within the work environment. Pamphlets were also handed out summarizing the important statistics. Throughout the day 20-minute massage slots were available, and at the end of the day a 15-minute group meditation session was held. Everybody supported the day and the feedback was great. Overall, it enhanced knowledge of how to support a great psychological work environment, and since then monthly massages have been introduced. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 21 #FITIMPROVE 2016 LET’S GET MOVING! Following on from the success of the 2015 Fitimprove competition, which we organized in recognition of WHO’s World Health Day in April, we decided to organize a new round of fitness challenges across all offices: Fitimprove16. The goal was to motivate our employees to get up and get moving while having fun doing it! There were two main categories during the month of April: cycling and running/ walking. The main purpose of Fitimprove is not to reward those who can run or cycle the longest, but to acknowledge those who make an effort to lead a healthier lifestyle. Therefore, we tracked both distance and time spent. At the end of the month, four employees’ consistent efforts were rewarded with Apple Watches and Garmin tracking / 04 LABOR RIGHTS devices. 22 To boost motivation even more, weekly challenges were arranged throughout the month. They involved exercising with friends, planking and push up competitions across all offices, and dressing up in eye-catching workout outfits. The winners were rewarded with restaurant dinners, new sportswear, and relaxing massages to tend to sore muscles. A Social Ambassador prize was also awarded to the person who shared the most Fitimprove16 moments on social media using the hashtags #fitimprove16 and #siteimprove. The Social Ambassador won a GoPro camera for capturing more beautiful moments. One of our cycling winners even decided to donate his Garmin prize to the non-profit organization Médicos Sin Fronteras that delivers emergency aid to people threatened by armed conflicts, violence, epidemics, and natural disasters. Ultimately, Fitimprove16 was a great success! In total, our Fitimprovers managed to walk/run 2,375 km and cycle 5,684 km. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 23 ”Fitimprove16 has been a fun social event the whole month, and while I haven’t lost any weight it has at least succeeded in making me think about it before I eat something I shouldn’t eat.” Bo Vejgaard, Director of Business Innovation, Denmark “Fitimprove was the reason I started working out again after having been ‘‘pregnant‘‘ along with my fiancée for the last 9 months. It was so nice to go out for a run again and the pants already fit better!“ Sigurður Orri Guðmundsson, Key Account Manager, Iceland “Being new in the company, the Fitimprove challenge made it super easy to connect with my sporty colleagues. Somedays it even felt like a virtual race. Overall, I cycled about 750 km through sun, snow, rain, and wind.” Julia Grässer, Account Manager, Switzerland ”This competition has helped me being more active, and I think that competing against other coworkers was a real motivation factor. It made it ten times more fun!” Christoph Zerr, Market Analyst, Denmark “I love working for a company that invests in the health of their employees. This challenge has definitely upped my game and made me more fit to participate in other active groups. Seeing what coworkers have accomplished and knowing that you’re not in it alone is a huge motivation.” Aleah Niemczyk, Graphic Designer – Multimedia Specialist, USA SITEIMPROVE CROSSING BORDERS Siteimprove operates in 19 markets and employs 25 different nationalities around the world. Meet some of our employees who crossed borders B EN TOR ST INE KRI RYTT TENSEN CHRIS CEO of Office Manager Siteimprove Inc. TORBEN, from Denmark to Minneapolis KRISTINE, from Denmark to Sydney How did you end up working in Siteimprove’s Minneapolis office? How did you end up working in Siteimprove’s Sydney office? I fell in love with a woman from Minnesota and decided to move to Minneapolis to be In 2015, Siteimprove was looking for with her. Looking back at it now, it ended an Office Manager for the launch of the up being a great decision! I was able to Sydney office. The combination of my convince her to marry me and was put in Danish background and more than 12 charge of opening Siteimprove’s office in years’ professional experience working Minneapolis, which has turned into a huge in Australia made the job right for me – success! luckily Siteimprove thought the same and I joined the company in October 2015. What is it like working in an international environment at What is it like working in an Siteimprove? international environment at Different backgrounds and nationalities Siteimprove? bring many different perspectives, which broadens everyone’s mindsets towards At Siteimprove we are one global team life and work-related tasks. It enables us the physical distance is no boundary in to solve situations more efficiently and the digital age and the cultural diversity see opportunities for the future. represented across the company’s different offices creates a work environment enriched by diversity of thought and makes it a rewarding place to work. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 28 AYA VIJ AJA N R NATAR VIC TO Director of Quality RIOS Engineering Front End Software Developer VIJAYA, from India to Copenhagen VICTOR, from Colombia to Copenhagen How did you end up working in Siteimprove’s Copenhagen office? How did you end up working in Siteimprove’s Copenhagen I have been living and working in office? Copenhagen for almost 11 years now. I came to Denmark to work as a software One of my ex-colleagues currently developer and gain experience in a foreign working at Siteimprove approached country. Siteimprove offered me the ideal me asking if I would be interested in a conditions in order to develop my career position with Siteimprove. After hearing and my skills as a front-end developer. It all the good words he had to say about is very exciting to contribute to the great the company, I read about the company success that the company is currently and it has a fascinating history which experiencing inspired me to work at Siteimprove. What is it like working in an What is it like working in an international environment at international environment at Siteimprove? Siteimprove? The international environment at It is great to hear about different Siteimprove is admirable. It makes the perspectives and different backgrounds. teams multi-dimensional and encourages An international environment helps us us to look at the work and problems from to understand our customers’ needs different perspectives, which enables us better since we are expanding all over the to arrive at creative solutions. It’s a lot world. It is also great to learn about all of fun to work with so many nationalities, the different cultures and learn about so we never run out of interesting topics to many places I have not visited yet. talk about. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 29 SAY HELLO TO MET TE OUR IO ROZAR Development Assistant Meet METTE! It is common for students in Denmark to have a part-time job What do you study? related to their studies. It is a great I study Computer Science at way for them to learn about the Copenhagen University. business community and apply their theoretical learnings, and it What do you do at Siteimprove? is a great way for companies to I work in the Platform team in work with young and ambitious Development and assist in various talents. Siteimprove employs 32 projects. My latest project included designing API keys for our system. part-time student assistants in our HQ in Copenhagen. Say hello What do you like about working at to three of them! Siteimprove? I like working in a challenging and fast moving environment. You will never get bored at Siteimprove! / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 30 PART-TIMERS! TA AS AGA ELI KOWSK A STEIN S N I EC I BOREN Market Analyst Graphic Design Assistant Meet AGATA! Meet ELIAS! What do you study? What do you study? I study Organizational Innovation I study Digital Concept Development and Entrepreneurship at Copenhagen at Copenhagen School of Design and Business School. Technology. What do you do at Siteimprove? What do you do at Siteimprove? I monitor and gather a lot of information I work in marketing to help ensure about the market conditions and look that Siteimprove’s visual identity is for potential business opportunities. I maintained and continuously developed. monitor sales trends, prepare reports and present them to management. What do you like about working at Siteimprove? What do you like about working at Siteimprove? Working together with talented people, who have a common goal. I like the atmosphere and the feeling of being part of one big family. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 31 STUDENT EMPLOYEES JOINING US FULL TIME Meet Andreas and Maria and hear about their Siteimprove experience! ANDREAS, 25 Software Developer, Siteimprove’s Analytics Team Education: Master in Information Technology Bachelor in Software Development Andreas joined us as a full time How was the transition from student employee to full time employee? software developer in the fall of 2015, but has actually been a It was really good. My managers really wanted Siteimprover since 2011 when he me to join the team full time, which made me feel that my contribution truly mattered. joined us as a student worker. Socially, I have always felt 100% involved, but it wasn’t until I started full time that I felt like a How would you describe your Siteimprove “true developer”, which feels great! experience as a student employee? Do you see yourself working at Siteimprove in Having a part time job next to my studies five years? worked quite well for me, as my colleagues highly respected that school was my first Yes, I think I do. I want to see what the company priority. Whenever I had a deadline at school, evolves into what my part will be, how I’ll they were very flexible with my working hours. contribute, and what I’ll learn. On one hand, it can be challenging to grow as fast as we do, Were your work tasks related to your studies? but on the other hand, that growth also makes room for career development, which I think is The tasks I carried out when I was a student important. were somewhat different from my class syllabus, however, I think that was positive Would you recommend “the Siteimprove because school tends to be very theoretical experience” to other students? whereas a job offers real experience. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS Yes, I would and I have been doing so. It is great However, I would say that the tasks I was to get work experience while studying, and this responsible for when I was a student are quite is a workplace that appreciates that you are different from the ones I carry out now, since studying. For me it was really good. Siteimprove being at work two or three times a week did not is a very student friendly company and I would always harmonize with team deadlines. Now I definitely recommend it. have many tasks and more deadlines, which is 32 good and what I wanted. MARIA, 26 Strategic Communications Specialist, Siteimprove’s European Marketing Team Education: Master of Arts in International Business Communication Bachelor in International Business Communication, European Studies and English Maria joined our European I had already been working here for two and a half years when I started full time, so I knew marketing team full time in the the house, management, and my colleagues spring of 2016. However, she has here in Copenhagen. Contributing full time is an been a Siteimprover since the exciting challenge, but it was a definite upside that I was already a Siteimprover as my new fall of 2013 when we were only responsibilities and work load kept me busy 60 employees globally. without also having to figure out who’s who and what’s what. How would you describe your Siteimprove experience as a part time employee? Do you see yourself working at Siteimprove in five years? I enjoyed my student position very much. My tasks were interesting and I knew my I do. I feel like I have a lot to do, and space to contributions mattered. I was provided with evolve in the company. If you had asked me the flexibility I needed to combine my studies three years ago though, I don’t think a software with work, which was especially important company would have been my immediate during exams or the final weeks of writing my answer. That’s one of the reasons why it is master’s thesis. so beneficial to have a part-time job whilst studying it can open your eyes to companies Would you say your work tasks were related to and industries you didn’t know could be a good your studies? match for you. Yes, professional communication in Danish Would you recommend “the Siteimprove and English has been a distinct focus area experience” to other students? throughout my education and I definitely / 04 LABOR RIGHTS utilized this knowledge in my student position, Definitely. Siteimprove offers a great such as translating material regarding new professional environment but also a fantastic updates to Siteimprove’s product suite. social environment. It’s fun to be a part of a company in such rapid growth as it Can you tell us about the transition from creates exciting opportunities. I’ve found that responsibility is given to those who opt in and student employee to full time employee? can manage it. 33 34 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 It is of great importance that new employees feel welcome and are properly acclimated when they join Siteimprove. As such, all new employees take part in an introduction program. We run introduction programs approximately once a month. The program consists of different sessions that we believe are useful for getting started in the best possible way, such as product demonstrations, and an overview of the various departments. WELCOMING We typically arrange a mix of theoretiNEW COLLEAGUES cal knowledge, hands-on trainFIRST IMPRESSIONS ing, and social activities such as team dinners MATTER and after work drinks with new colleagues. In addition to the introduction program, new employees are assigned a mentor to help answer any questions. Normally, new employees start in groups of two to six, so no one goes through the introduction week alone. At the end of the introduction week, we ask participants for feedback in order to help us keep improving our program. New employees often report that the program was very useful, and that they find it a good start to their employment with Siteimprove. / 04 LABOR RIGHTS 35 WE VALUE OUR EMPLOYEES’ PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT, AND AS SUCH INDUSTRY RELEVANT CONFERENCES, SKILL TRAINING, AND KNOWLEDGE SHARING ARE A PRIORITY TO US. HERE IS A SELECTION OF THE ACTIVITIES SITEIMPROVE EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATED IN, IN THE PAST YEAR: Members of Accounting completed Our American sales professional development courses department completed in the areas of statistics, VAT, and custom-made sales training. payroll systems. Our Product Owners attended a Members of Accounting went Best Brains certification course across the Atlantic for internal relevant to their responsibilities. knowledge sharing. / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 The Minneapolis office created a Learning and Human Resource staff participated Development Business Partner position with the in a HR network group for knowledge purpose of delivering a world class employee sharing facilitated by Great Place to development program. Work® . Our Information Security Manager Members of Business Intelligence and participated in an information security Development completed an Advanced conference to remain updated on the latest C# course facilitated by an external industry knowledge. consultant. 36 The German-speaking Our European sales sales team went to the departments travelled to Minneapolis office for sales Copenhagen for strategic training and team building. sales training. A member of Support attended AlterConf – a Customer Experience went to the conference debating the limited definitions of Minneapolis office for knowledge diversity to create a deeper and more nuanced sharing and team building. conversation in the tech and gaming culture. / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 User Experience employees took part in a userOur Chief Technology Officer generated conference for inspiration and knowledge completed a supplementary sharing to learn how to make Siteimprove’s tools more education in Management for engaging and even easier to use. Growth. A member of Marketing A member of Development attended an completed a Google AdWords international accessibility conference workshop. focusing on how to improve the accessibility of PDFs. 37 FUN FACTS: AVERAGE AGE: 30 NEW HIRES SINCE MAY 2015: 199 EMPLOYEES: 350 62% 38% CANADA UNITED STATES SITEIMPROVE MARKET PRESENCE NORWAY DENMARK SWEDEN ICELAND FINLAND UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY BELGIUM FRANCE IRELAND ITALY AUSTRIA SWITZERLAND NEW ZEALAND NETHERLANDS SPAIN AUSTRALIA 40 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 ENVIRONMENT 05 Global Compact principles 7-9: 7. The company should support a careful approach to environmental challenges 8. Take initiatives to promote increased environmental responsibilities 9. Encourage the development and dispersion of environmentally friendly technologies / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 41 MINIMIZING SITEIMPROVE’S CARBON FOOTPRINT As a software-as-a-service company, we are concerned with the amount of energy used to cool our data servers. As such, we have chosen a data center that meets our expectations regarding sustainable energy consumption and optimal data security. Our data center, Interxion, has received multiple environment awards. They support and consume energy from sustainable and low carbon sources to the greatest extent practical, and 90% of their power comes from sustainable sources, including water, solar, and wind. Interxion operates with innovative technology that utilizes groundwater as a cooling agent for the servers. The system makes it possible to store cold winter air 70 meters below ground and utilize it for continuous cooling in the / 05 ENVIRONMENT summer. This ensures the right temperature for the servers at all times, whilst minimizing the need for traditional cooling compressors. Interxion’s continuous focus on optimizing their energy efficiency, reducing carbon emissions, and cutting waste reassures us that they are 42 the right data center for Siteimprove. SUSTAINABLE ENERGY CONSUMPTION For a number of years, Siteimprove has had a climate partnership with Denmark’s largest energy provider, DONG Energy, through which we have supported the production of sustainable energy. Having recently moved into new headquarters, we are now in the process of carefully examining the options available via DONG Energy to ensure Siteimprove operations are supported by carbon-neutral energy production. NO REASON FOR FOOD WASTE / 05 ENVIRONMENT In an effort to eliminate food waste in the office, we encourage our employees to bring home excess food from the daily lunch caterer. Both our employees and the environment benefit from this policy! 43 ANTICORRUPTION 06 Global Compact principle 10: 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery Despite working in a low risk market, we have a firm policy in regards to corruption and bribery. In the event that an employee should receive a present, or any form of bribery from a supplier or customer, the employee must notify his or her manager immediately. Failure to report may have consequences for future employment with Siteimprove. For over 10 years, Siteimprove has been using our values; people-centric, innovative and passionate, to guide us in our mission of making the web better for all through our easy to use online web management solutions. These values and mission are embodied through the strategic work we do with corporate social responsibility, and I encourage reading more about our work and achievements throughout the year in detail in this report. In the last year, our revenue grew by 54 per cent and we hired 100 new employees, and while rapid growth is not always easy the outcomes have been absolutely amazing. We have opened three new offices in Norway, Canada and the Netherlands, providing job opportunities and solutions for real business problems. Another key growth area for Siteimprove has been the work we do in the accessibility sphere. Besides updating our tool to the benefit of our 2700+ customers, we have also collaborated with key accessibility consultants to highlight how we help make the digital world a better place for everyone, regardless of ability. The partnerships between Siteimprove and these consultants, all of whom are blind, has cultivated in a number of hugely successful accessibility events in which people have thrived from seeing first-hand the difficulties an inaccessible website can cause. / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 46 DONATIONS AND CHARITY 07 At Siteimprove, we realize that we are in many aspects fortunate individuals. In the past year, we have tried to support our local communities by providing a helping hand, either literally or financially, to a number of causes. / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 47 PRODUCING SMILES: CREATING THERAPY TOYS FOR FRASER CHILDREN Siteimprove partnered with Fraser, a local nonprofit in Minneapolis serving children and adults living with disabilities, to create therapy toys that help with learning and sharing. / 07 DONATIONS AND CHARITY Siteimprove employees gathered to create “floam” for the Fraser’s Day Treatment Program. Floam is not only a delightful toy that brings smiles to children’s faces, but it is also commonly used in learning and therapy As a whole, Siteimprove made a total of 110 settings. Fraser uses floam to teach children bags of floam, giving 110 children in the Fraser’s colors, help them learn to count, and help them Day Program toys. discover different shapes. They also use floam to ease anxiety, demonstrate the concept of 48 sharing, and encourage flexibility. SUPPORTING THE WORK OF DAN CHURCH SOCIAL IN DENMARK In addition, Siteimprove employees donate used but functioning mobile phones once a year to those less fortunate. Dan Church Social ensures that the phones are passed onto individuals who need them, and in 2016, our phones were donated to a homeless shelter in Copenhagen that is open day and night for people in need of food, care, and a place to rest. / 07 DONATIONS AND CHARITY In 2015, Siteimprove entered into a partnership with Dan Church Social, a voluntary social charity organization that supports the socially marginalized. Through this partnership, we have committed to financially supporting the work they do to help the homeless, the lonely, and families in need. 49 SPONSORING LOCAL SOCCER TEAMS We are proud to employ people who actively 19 different nationalities and various social contribute to the development of their local backgrounds. Soccer is far from the only skill communities. One example is IT operations’ taught at practice as most of these boys come Michael Curran. He is part of a team of from homes with very few financial and social volunteers who coach three local soccer resources. teams in Copenhagen comprised of boys from / 07 DONATIONS AND CHARITY 50 During practice, mutual respect and positive attitudes are just as important as fast dribbling and spot on passing. Playing soccer brings these boys together. They do not just learn how to play as team, they also learn what it means to be part of a team and to support and respect each other and their differences. In May 2016, the boys and coaches went to Prague for the international Strahov Cup, an event attended by more than 130 soccer teams from more than 16 countries. Siteimprove CEO Morten Ebbesen decided to sponsor a complete set of sportswear for each of the boys, making this their first time playing in matching gear like a true team! The boys were thrilled. Not only did they have matching Nike sportswear both on and off the field, they also brought home medals and a beautiful trophy for securing both a second and sixth place position. / 07 DONATIONS AND CHARITY 51 52 / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS 08 SOCIAL EVENTS CORPORATE SOCIAL –– Bagel Monday – The CSR heroes ordered RESPONSIBILITY TAKEOFF: bagels for the whole office. No small feat this office can eat! LAUNCHING A NEW COMMITTEE –– Love is in the air – Bringing us back to In our efforts to drive engagement among emelementary school days, the CSR heroes ployees, Siteimprove’s Minneapolis office crebrought in Valentine’s Day balloons, ated a Corporate Social Responsibility Comcards, and candy for the whole office. mittee, consisting of three coordinators and two office heroes. These are rotating positions –– Fuel Up – Chef Colin helped the CSR that allow employees to have a greater voice heroes whip up some great and healthy in regards to CSR. The coordinators hold their smoothies! Green, purple, and gold position for a year, and plan quarterly outsmoothies were provided for all to enjoy. reach events, that also focus on bringing the company together as a whole. The office hero –– Aaaand Stretch! – In mid-March, the positions rotate every three months with a foCSR heroes had a yoga instructor come cus on planning a variety of activities for Sitein and lead a class for our hard working improve staff to make the workplace more fun. Siteimprovers. Throughout the past year, office heroes have planned: –– Second Harvest Food Drive – After being pampered all quarter long, we decided to give back. From March 8 to March 22, 2016, our CSR heroes led an officewide food drive where the winning team received a gift card to their favorite restaurant. –– Yogurt Parfait Day Since breakfast is the most important meal of the day, and many skip due to busy mornings, the office heroes created a yogurt parfait bar. Employees were welcomed to create their own parfaits with a mix of Greek yogurt, granola, and assortment of fruits. / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS 53 SITEIMPROVE The event was thoroughly enjoyed by all, with the new starters quickly picking up on the SUMMER Siteimprove culture and everybody getting to know each other better. PARTIES 2015 In similar style, our Copenhagen office arranged for a fun afternoon of games and sun bathing in one of the city’s beautiful parks. Afterwards, everyone went for dinner and drinks at a popular Copenhagen restaurant. SUMMER BOAT PARTY ON LAKE MINNETONKA BARBECUE, DRINKS AND A 5K RUN IN Employees from the United States and Canada COPENHAGEN boarded the biggest boat to date for the annual boat cruise on Lake Minnetonka. It was a We are a competitive bunch who never passes perfect summer afternoon – the sun was out, up on the opportunity for good food and drinks. Participating in the yearly DHL Stafet (a five kilometer relay race) in Copenhagen has therefore become a true Siteimprove tradition. The last Friday of August 2015, our Siteimprovers reported for relay or cheering duty at our designated tent. It was a fun and festive day with cold drinks and delicious barbecuing. We are looking forward to doing it again in 2016! the weather was warm, and the drinks were cold. Between the on-boat DJ and the wide array of food choices, Siteimprovers had an amazing time. It is always fun when the team kicks back and relaxes together. SUMMER SPORTS IN THE PARK Playing sports together is great for building team spirit and bonding between colleagues. Our London office decided to combine the yearly office summer party with a fun sports day in a Central London park. The afternoon was laid out to promote competitiveness and physical activity, and everyone was split into four random teams ready to race! / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS The variety of races included three legged, hopper balls, egg and spoon, wheel barrow, and passing a pint of water through the team without spilling. We continued with a variety of ball sports followed by a final game of rounder. Afterwards, the group headed off for a fun filled evening of food and drinks. 54 SITEIMPROVE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY PARTIES 2015 CHRISTMAS PARTY TEAM BUILDER To celebrate the holidays, our London office took part in a surprise team building activity based on the TV game show “The Cube”. The game was brought to life with a real cube and challenges taken directly from the show. Based on the idea that even straightforward tasks become extremely challenging when confined and put under pressure inside a small, enclosed area, the challenge involved catching, throwing, estimating, reacting, memorizing, balancing. The event was thoroughly enjoyed and set the tone for a well-deserved end of year party. The Cube really brought out the competitiveness of individuals as well as the tactical genius in others. BACK IN THE 1970’s! CHRISTMAS DINNER & DANCING Groovy guys and gals from the United States office donned their best 70’s apparel for this Our Copenhagen based Siteimprovers closed a / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS year’s throwback-themed holiday party. It fantastic 2015 in style with a festive Christmas is always neat to mingle with coworkers and party at our new headquarters. A beautiful meet their families around the holidays. With buffet dinner was served and professional live band Boogie Wonderland, a funky photo bartenders made sure no one went thirsty – booth, and a cool costume contest, the evening this was particularly important as the dance was totally rad. It was the perfect time to floor was on fire! It was a fun night enjoyed by reflect on another year of accomplishments all. and hard work. 55 FANTASTIC It is the first day at Siteimprove’s brand-new Australian office which opened in 2015. Opening an TEAM SPIRIT office in the land down under marked another milestone in Siteimprove’s incredible growth process. During their very first lunch together, the newly formed Australian team quickly discovered a At Siteimprove, we are committed not only common passion for sports. When our Sydneyto our customers but to each other. What siders heard about team competitions in a better way of building upon this than to share nearby recreation center, they did not hesitate. the emotional roller-coaster ride of glorious Soon, the first Siteimprove Volleyball Team was wins and hurtful defeats that are common officially registered and new jerseys ordered. in team sports? Join us for a quick sports coverage around the world and get to know our Just one catch: nobody in the office had ever Siteimprove employee sport initiatives. played indoor volleyball before except for Kenny who was immediately appointed captain, coach, and team manager. From this point, the office meeting room was regularly transformed SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA into a coaching zone after work. After a bumpy start, the season began and our brave Aussies won their first matches. They even competed for a top position that could earn the team playoff honors in the first season. More important, however, is the distinct joy and team spirit the weekly games have created within the office. “ It really gets our blood pumping, which is especially great after being busy in the office all morning, and everyone in the office plays. We started “ If you told me half a year ago that with six people and the team I would be playing volleyball again… has grown with each new hire. with my colleagues, during We don’t even mention it as an $ lunchtime? I would have laughed and optional activity anymore – it has not believed a single word . ” ” / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS almost become mandatory, Kenny Wiguna, Account Executive Kenny Wiguna in the Health and Government sector, Siteimprove Australia. 56 PHOTO BY SHARYN MORROW MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA, THE UNITED STATES aid: Warm weather and ever-lasting sunshine “ After a long, dark winter, it feels so great to finally get might not be the first things that come to mind when thinking about the Twin Cities. Winters outside again and enjoy the fresh in the Midwest tend to be long and spring is air without freezing your fingers the season that everyone looks forward to. The reason for this? Spring season is softball off . ” season in Minneapolis. Lauren Bachmeier, Playing softball has become a team tradition a hard-working Account Executive for our American colleagues. More than three and extremely talented catcher. The years ago, the first Siteimprovers gathered upcoming season will be her second for a round of pitching, hitting, and catching for the Siteimprove Softballers, whose after work. Today, our mixed team regularly competes in the local league, and around 15 fellowship and welcoming atmosphere Siteimprovers typically participate, supported is highly appreciated. by cheering colleagues and friends. “ On match days, we leave the office together and arrive in good time to set up a barbecue. After the match, we eat together / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS everyone is welcome and friends and family sometimes join us. It’s a great way to get to know each other better “ PHOTO BY SHARYN MORROW 57 COPENHAGEN, DENMARK Using the weather as an excuse has never appealed to our Icelandic sales superstar Orri Guðmundsson. Coming from an island surrounded by the rough North Atlantic and cold Artic Oceans, he is basically immune to wind, rain, and low temperatures: “ It takes a real force of nature to stop me from playing football ” Orri Guðmundsson This was a lesson many Siteimprove opponents had to learn the hard way during last year’s season. The multicultural environment characterizing Siteimprove can easily be seen on a given seven-a-side match, as there are often as many different nationalities on the field as there are Siteimprovers. / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS 58 The team also enjoys watching international games together. Though they might not always agree on which team to support, all is quickly forgotten once setting foot on the field. Sports brings us closer together and that is what Orri values most: “ Playing with the guys is fantastic and even if we do not win every single game, we have a superb time! “ / 08 SOCIAL EVENTS 59 60 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 GOALS 09 ACHIEVED AND SET FOR NEXT YEAR 61 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 HUMAN GOALS ACHIEVED AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS GOALS FOR 2016/2017 RIGHTS 2015/2016 We improved our accessiContinue developing the CONTRIBUTE TO bility service by introducSiteimprove Accessibility ing a new progress feature module to help private and MAKING THE WEB bar within the accessibility public web teams increase BETTER AND MORE module that shows users an the accessibility of their orINCLUSIVE TO ALL overview of their progress. ganization’s website. This makes it much easier for our users to track their accessibility efforts and see what they are doing well, motivating them to go the extra mile. Continue offering SiteimWe introduced the possiprove Accessibility Certibility of creating customizfications free of charge to able policies, which allows customers. our users to conduct more personalized website checks and thus target accessibility issues that are especially important to their organization. We hosted accessibility Continue hosting conferences and events accessibility themed events in Iceland, Denmark, and for customers and nonNorway. customers in 2016 and 2017. We hosted the Better Web Awards in Copenhagen, where Siteimprove customers received trophies and checks for charity in recognition of their willingness and ability to improve the quality and accessibility of their organization’s website. Continue to work closely with accessibility experts to / 09 GOALS ACHIEVED AND SET FOR NEXT YEAR In collaboration with senior continuously increase our accessibility consultant, knowledge of digital accesKevin Rydberg, we resibility. designed and launched Siteimprove’s website in compliance with WCAG 2.0 Siteimprove’s London office AA guidelines. is looking at two options for raising awareness within We hired an accessibility accessibility in corporation expert and product owner with the charity Orbis. based in our headquarters in Copenhagen. 62 In celebration of Global Continue offering FREE ACCESSIBILITY Accessibility Awareness Day educational material on (GAAD) on 19 May 2016, we web accessibility in multiple CONSULTING AND produced a number of free languages on Siteimprove’s EDUCATION educational materials on website free of charge. accessibility. The content included a video, an eBook, and a blog post. To maintain experienced and new staff’s general knowledge of accessibility, we had accessibility experts Keith Bundy and Kevin Rydberg educate the Minneapolis office in the field of assistive technologies. PARTNERSHIPS We entered into an official We will continue to look partnership with the Danish for partnerships that WITHIN accessibility consultancy can support our mission ACCESSIBILITY firm Diversa that will benefit of making the web more all Siteimprove customers in inclusive to all. Denmark. In collaboration with Siteimprove’s Dutch FACILITATION OF Target’s digital accessibility Customer Success Manager team, we co-hosted an will participate in quarterly NETWORKING accessibility meetup kickoff web accessibility expert in February in Minneapolis, group meetings facilitated USA. The meetup was by the Central Government established to connect in the Netherlands. passionate accessibility professionals living in and around the Twin Cities area. Attendees included web / 09 GOALS ACHIEVED AND SET FOR NEXT YEAR accessibility professionals, developers, designers, user experience professionals, as well as those brand new to the field and those working with accessibility all their lives. 63 LABOR GOALS ACHIEVED AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS GOALS FOR 2016/2017 RIGHTS 2015/2016 ENSURE A HEALTHY Siteimprove was officially PSYCHOLOGICAL recognized as a great workplace twice in 2015: WORK ENVIRONMENT FOR ALL SITEIMPROVE • We were named one EMPLOYEES of Star Tribune’s Top Workplaces in Minnesota based solely on employee opinions measuring engagement, organizational health, and satisfaction. • Global research, consulting, and training firm Great Place to Work® named Siteimprove one of Denmark’s best workplaces and one of Denmark’s 10 best IT workplaces. Continue our focus on creating a good and inspiring As a result of the employee work environment for all satisfaction survey Siteimprovers. We will track conducted by Great Place our progress with a second to Work® in Siteimprove’s Great Place to Work® headquarters, we hired assessment covering all an experienced Human Siteimprove’s offices in the Resource Director who will fall of 2016. be responsible for improving our approach to professional employee development. ENSURE AND Our Copenhagen and Minneapolis offices moved ENCOURAGE A into new premises providing PHYSICALLY HEALTHY much more space for WORK ENVIRONMENT Siteimprove activities and FOR SITEIMPROVE employees. / 09 GOALS ACHIEVED AND SET FOR NEXT YEAR EMPLOYEES An ergo-therapist came and gave advice on correct desk work positions. CONTINUOUS We continued holding biContinue biweekly staff weekly or monthly staff meetings to share internal FOCUS ON EMPLOYEE meetings across our offices news and updates. Introduce WELFARE with colleagues working internal newsletters to from satellite offices make this information more attending via live feeds. accessible to all employees. We introduced special mem64 bership agreements with two of the biggest fitness chains in Denmark. Our London office initiated In-house gym space in bi-weekly walks to get our Copenhagen and everyone out of the office Minneapolis offices to make for some fresh air and it as easy as possible for our socializing in the middle of Siteimprovers to take care of the day. their physical health. Continue our focus on We arranged Fitimprove health-improving initiatives for the second time: a in all Siteimprove offices. companywide fitness challenge to encourage We will continue facilitating employees to increase their annual Fitimprove physical activities. challenges in all offices. We now run introduction Our Copenhagen office will programs in our Copenhagen once again participate in the and Minneapolis offices yearly 5 km relay race called approximately once a month “DHL Stafetten” in August for new hires. The program 2016. consists of different sessions that we believe are useful We will continue improving for getting started in the our introduction program best possible way, such as based on feedback from product demonstrations, and both new and experienced an overview of Siteimprove’s Siteimprove staff. various departments. New employees are also assigned a mentor to help answer any questions. COMPANY BONUS Company bonus based In future years, the PLAN on 2015 results allocated company bonus may be paid among all employees (hired as determined in the sole before 2016) in the spring discretion of the board of of 2016 based on length of directors. employment. ENVIRONGOALS ACHIEVED 2015/2016 GOALS FOR 2016/2017 MENT / 09 GOALS ACHIEVED AND SET FOR NEXT YEAR We continuously collaborate We will continue our with environmentally collaboration with green responsible data centers. primary suppliers. Upon moving into new We encourage our headquarters, we are now employees to bring home working on examining excess food from the daily the options available via lunch caterer to minimize DONG Energy to ensure food waste. Siteimprove operations are supported by carbon-neutral energy production. We will continue our focus on minimizing food waste. 65 SOCIAL GOALS ACHIEVED AND GOALS FOR 2016/2017 ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS CHARITY 2015/2016 In the past year, we have We will continue prioritizing arranged several social social events such as events and parties for our Christmas and summer Siteimprovers to enjoy. We parties in the year to come. believe this is important, as it creates fun memories and strengthens employee ties. In the past year, we have We will continue to search provided a helping hand to a for charities and initiatives number of local charities. that support Siteimprove’s ultimate goal of securing an accessible web for all. / 09 GOALS ACHIEVED AND SET FOR NEXT YEAR 66 67 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 68 / SITEIMPROVE CSR REPORT 2016 2017 SITEIMPROVE.COM
