Communication on Progress Year: 2015/2016 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact To Our Esteemed Members/Stakeholders The Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) reaffirms its commitment and support of the United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. This annual Communication on progress, describes our actions during the past one year to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles in to our daily operations as an Employers umbrella body in Kenya. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders in all relevant forums and channels to add value in the work we do as we serve our members. Yours Sincerely, JACQUELINE MUGO, MBS. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR-FKE _______________________________________ 23rd April 2016, Page 1/8 Company name: Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) Sector: Business Associations-Trade Union Number of employees: 57 Staff members(31 male and 25 Female) UN Global Compact signatory since: 13th February 2007 Contact person: Isaac Kiema Address: P.O. Box 43811-00100 Nairobi Email: ikiema@fke-kenya.org Phone: +254 20 2721929/48/49/52 Brief description of nature of business The Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) is Kenya's leading employers’ organization in advocacy, industrial relations, employment laws and related value-add services through management, consultancy and training. FKE has been representing employers' interest both locally and internationally since 1959. FKE has a wide network that has enabled it to play a critical part in member engagement and service delivery. Employers’ interests are always safe guarded, due to FKE’s representation in various taskforces, committees and boards. At a national level the management board is involved in various forums where key issues of importance to the private sector are discussed including promotion of public-private sector dialogue, which is critical for enhancing a business friendly environment. FKE represents employers' interests in various forums, boards and institutions such as the Labour Advisory Board, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), the African Union Labour and Social Affairs Commission and Directorate of Industrial Training; among others. The Federation runs programs and services across the country through branch networks, open courses and clinics. In addition, FKE also provides regular updates on economic indicators to allow members to make informed management decisions. Page 2/8 Scope of this COP Federation of Kenya Employers is an Employers Umbrella body in Kenya. All its activities are aimed at supporting Employers in the country through Policy advocacy, and championing the interests of employers. In addition, the Federation supports good governance and management practices and develops sustainable institutional capacity and competence among its members. Therefore scope of this COP covers all the four areas beginning from 23 rd April 2015 to 23rd April 2016. Page 3/8 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally UN Global Compact proclaimed human rights principles covered: Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses A brief description of our Processes or Systems: The Federation of Kenya Employers is an Employers umbrella organization core values are to Uphold the principle of tripartism in the promotion of social policy Maintain confidentiality in its dealings with members, Promote the principles of diversity, transparency and integrity, Maintain good governance and a national character in representation of its organs and staffing Practice professionalism in its service. Therefore no case of Human Rights violation was reported at the Federation among its staff members. Human Rights Activities implemented in the last year: The Federation of Kenya Employers continued to build the capacity of Employers in promoting the rights of Employees at the work place. This included Collective Bargaining Current agreements which entrenched protection of Human Rights and fighting employee discrimination at work. In addition we had trainings on Occupational Safety and Health, Labour laws which include the Work Injury Benefits Act. We conducted all these training with a main goal of ensuring that human rights at work place especially those of the Employees are protected. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company: Federation of Kenya Employers engaged its staff at the end of year 2015 with reviewing our organizational performance thus developing our service Charter which guides FKE in how it handles both Internal and external customers. Activities planned for next year:  Continue Implement the FKE HIV Workplace policy Human Rights  Train staff on Occupational Safety  Implementation of FKE service Charter. Future Page 4/8 Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and UN Global Compact compulsory labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation A brief description of our Processes or Systems: FKE has been committed to ensure that companies uphold Employee rights at the workplaces. This includes both internal and external levels. No cases of Labour rights violations were reported at the Federation of Kenya Employers. Activities implemented in the last year: The Federation continued to assist members in settling trade disputes at their respective county Labour Offices or Federation of Kenya Employers offices. A total number of 93 Labour Right trade disputes were attended to by FKE officers. This was down from the 113 recorded in the previous year and 157 in 2013. A total of 1,482 disputes were reported in the Country. Current The reduction in the number of disputes involving members of the Federation is indicative of the progress made in empowering them to handle matters internally. The nature of interventions included both in house and open trainings on topics such as discipline management, termination of employment contracts and effective negotiation skills. Issues which were dealt with touched mostly on redundancy, alleged wrongful terminations and dismissals, Collective Bargaining Agreements, outsourcing auxiliary functions to subcontractors, recognition and de-recognition of trade unions and level of union representation. Activities planned for next year: Labour Rights We plan to engage all Labour related stakeholders in the process of ensuring a conducive labour environment in Kenya and strengthen the Tripartite relationship for a sound industrial Relations. Future Page 5/8 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges UN Global Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental principles covered: responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment A brief description of our Processes or Systems: The Federation of Kenya Employers is committed to ensuring protection of Environment by itself and member companies; however no activity on Environment was carried on in Current the year. Activities planned for next year: Environment  Engage Employees in environmental conservation initiatives in Kenya. Future Page 6/8 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including principles covered: extortion and bribery Commitment: Federation of Kenya Employers as an Umbrella Employers body is committed to raising its voice to point out where corruption takes place and recommend for necessary action by relevant stakeholders or Government systems. A brief description of our Processes or Systems: Anti-corruption The Federation is not a business running institution, thus the secretariat deals with FKE members with dignity and honesty. Therefore no cases of corruption were reported at FKE. However, the Federation continues to point out any corruption mentioned in public domain involving public funds or Employers and Employees funds. Current Activities implemented in the last year: The Federation engaged key stakeholders to fight corruption in Kenya Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company: In 2014 there were no cases of conflict of interest reported in FKE. There were no reported cases about attempt of bribery as well. Through the above mentioned activities, FKE has continuously received recognition as a reputable and strong Employers Umbrella organization in the region. Activities planned for next year: Anti-corruption In year 2013/2014 there were no cases of conflict of interest in the company. There were no reported cases of bribery as well. We did not receive any related complaints during the year. The goal for the next years is to sustain this performance of no complaint or report. Future Page 7/8 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? The Federation of Kenya Employers intends to post this COP on its website and the FKE annual reports in the best practice of sharing information with our stakeholders and FKE members. Donations, awards We support the community in various activities among them are: Through the FKE flagship product the “Adopt A School initiative” we continue to support local schools to ensure communities have their children in schools and more so in better learning environments and have easy access to education. Page 8/8
