tesa SE: Our responsibility – Our commitment 2015 Report A living tradition of responsibility Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations (World Economic Forum) Global Compact January 31, 2001 at the World Economic Forum in Davos: The then UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, calls upon internationally operating companies to actively respond to the challenges of globalization. His vision: A global pact with universally applicable social and environmental principles. Companies from some 170 countries, international employees’ The ten principles of the UN Global Compact associations, civil society groups, governments and UN organizations have now joined the Global Compact. Under the patronPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the proage of presiding UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the world’s tection of internationally proclaimed human rights; largest corporate citizenship initiative continues to grow. The and pact’s ten underlying principles in the areas of human rights, Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human labor standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption rights abuses. have long been part of tesa’s corporate values. The membership Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associaof tesa in the Global Compact underscores this lively tradition. tion and the effective recognition of the right to tesa SE’s entire commitment is based on a continuous improvecollective bargaining; ment process. In the current progress report for 2015, tesa proPrinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and vides insights into the development of its activities and projects compulsory labor; – with regard to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and its corporate responsibility strategy. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 2015 Progress Report As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, tesa has continuity as well as a constant improvement process. With undertaken to provide an annual report documenting the promore than 50 affiliates around the world, countless projects are gress of its activities and measures. This serves the purpose of involved in these efforts. For this reason, this report is limited to engaging in regular dialogue with the environment and docuan exemplary selection of current activities and measures. Since menting the projects in which tesa is implementing and reinforc2008 we have been publishing an online version of the Progress ing the ten principles of the Global Compact within the company. Report. Apart from the fact that this format makes it more easily The 2015 Progress Report will give you an overview of our global accessible, it also allows for regular updates. More information commitment in the areas of human rights and labor standards, about the topics of products, the environment, employees and environmental protection, fighting corruption, and society. tesa society can also be found in the “Responsibility” section of the traditionally pursues a sustainable approach that both ensures tesa website at www.tesa.com/company/responsibility. Declaration of support Human rights and labor standards A member out of conviction The human factor for success Mandatory values and sustainable business policies are The defining topics in 2015 included a culture of feedback traditionally the prerequisites for the economic success of and dialogue, employee training and qualifications, as well as tesa SE. >> Page 4 occupational health and safety. >> Page 5 Environmental protection Compliance and fair competition Consistent further development Integrity and proper conduct All tesa locations have very high standards. We are tesa pays strict attention to compliance with laws and guideconstantly evolving from this high level. lines. A central co-ordination unit combines all associated >> Page 12 processes and activities. >> Page 17 tesa connects Social Commitment Strategy with regional facets The slogan “tesa connects” is associated with our corporate social responsibility program, comprised of activities designed to make it easy for tesa employees around the world to become involved in a meaningful fashion. >> Page 18 3 Declaration of support “Taking responsibility has a longstanding tradition at tesa: it is seen as an important investment for the future.” The year 2015 was a special one for us, as some 1,000 employOffenburg site substantially reees moved into our new, ultra-modern headquarters building just duced carbon emission. A similar outside Hamburg. That represented a big step forward for the system is thus under construcfirm and for me personally as well as the new CEO, as the move tion at the Hamburg plant, and optimally sets the stage for systematically executing on the plans we are currently looking at the Dr. Robert Gereke, the company has in place. As one of the world’s leaders in potential for rolling these out at CEO of tesa SE self-adhesive technology, our business has grown by delivering international tesa sites. Product innovation, quality and progressive technologies. Construction development is increasingly focused on the environmental imwork to build a similar facility has begun at the plant in Hamburg, pact resulting from customer use. and options are currently being reviewed regarding additional international tesa production sites. Innovation, quality and techThe group also continued its efforts in 2015 to cultivate a corponological advances remain the chief focus of product developrate culture of communication and dialogue. Frank talks between ment. The assumption of responsibility is one of the supporting staff and managers are essential, as they form the basis for mupillars for our activities. We underscore this tradition of a sustaintual trust, elevating job satisfaction to high levels. In the year unable business policy through our membership in the United Nader review tesa drew up another new employee survey to be tions’ Global Compact. conducted at tesa headquarters starting in April 2016. The tesa plant in Offenburg received recognition twice in 2015 of the faThe new corporate headquarters in Norderstedt opened on vorable work environment maintained there, receiving the Initiaschedule in September 2015, marking the conclusion of three tive Ludwig Erhard Award for holistic management and the family years’ construction work. Since the end of the year, the tesa NET Award presented by the state of Baden-Württemberg for headquarters has been the corporate center for research and work-life balance standards. technology, greatly enhancing international competitiveness. The ‘one tesa’ project is already paying off through heightened busiThe extensive tesa continuing education program was further ness process transparency, flexibility and competitiveness, addiexpanded in 2015 including both seminar offerings at the new tionally improving teamwork and refining the tesa corporate culheadquarters in Norderstedt and online courses, giving employture. Employee interests and environmental concerns were taken ees access to even more digital training modules allowing learninto account in planning for the new headquarters. As examples, ing anywhere and anytime, including a dedicated online training the building complex was constructed in accordance with the portal for our locations in Asia. most recent energy efficiency regulations (ENEV 2014), all office workspaces are equipped with height-adjustable desks, and Our commitment to social responsibility was further demonstratemployees benefit from the health-enhancing company gym and ed in the year under review in relation to the official company canteen. Additionally, the new building is fully handicapped-acobjectives of “help, donate, support, protect”. “tesa connects” is cessible. our slogan for the range of employee volunteering activities and projects worldwide. Binding environmental targets have been defined for tesa production sites worldwide for several years now. A range of measFurther information about the topic of responsibility at tesa can ures large and small have meant that all tesa plants adhere with be found on tesa’s “Responsibility” page on the Internet: very strict environmental standards, and implementation of these www.tesa.com/company/responsibility. measures continued unabated in 2015. During the year under review the company locations in Offenburg and Hamburg reWe will continue to pursue our sustainable business policy in ceived energy management certification under ISO 50001. This keeping with the UN Global Compact going forward. reliable energy management system, including high-tech monitoring, is being utilized at most tesa locations worldwide. This maximizes transparency regarding corporate energy consumption, allowing the design of effective control measures. In 2015 the firm began environmentally friendly in-house power generation, which has gone well. The new trigeneration system at the Dr. Robert Gereke 4 Human rights and labor standards The human factor for success People – employees as well as customers and suppliers – are health and safety tesa was once again able to continue the posithe foundation for the success of tesa’s business. For this reative trend of previous years. tesa’s reportable number of accison, tesa believes it is just as important to respect and support dents is considerably lower than the industry average. The topic international human rights as it is to have impeccable working of compliance was an item on tesa’s agenda once again. Among standards. tesa has made a full commitment to this in an internaother activities, preparations were completed for rollout of a new tionally applicable tesa Code of Conduct and in the global tesa system-linked reporting tool for heightening activity status and Purchasing Charter for collaborating with suppliers. The subrisk transparency on a global basis. Issues relating to antitrust stance of the behaviors and rules associated with these measlaw were addressed in training sessions and regular communicaures were also an integral part of numerous employee training tion measures. and qualification measures in 2015. In the area of occupational Code of Conduct Purchasing Charter Mandatory rules of conduct Minimum standards in strategic purchasing The tesa Code of Conduct defines clear values and A standard process is used throughout the group to qualify, behavioural guidelines for all employees of the tesa Group. evaluate and develop suppliers. This allows us to ensure our >> Page 6 mandatory minimum standards around the world. >> Page 7 Employees Occupational health and safety Continuing education and corporate culture A low number of accidents Our employees are the most important capital for securing our Thanks to high standards and preventative measures, the rate success. Our corporate culture and targeted support initiatives of reportable accidents was once again significantly lower than take this fact into account. >> Page 7 the industry average in 2015. >> Page 11 5 Human rights and labor standards Code of Conduct The tesa Code of Conduct defines values and clear, behavioral guidelines. Mandatory rules of conduct Respect, honesty, trust, tolerance and integrity – these principles The tesa Code of Conduct establishes our most important of business activity have not only made us successful in the past. principles in a total of six subject areas: They also guide us now and will continue to do so in the future. The associated rules of conduct have been laid down in a global1. Compliance with legal regulations ly binding Code of Conduct. As in previous years, we continued tesa conducts its business lawfully and strictly complies with the to reinforce the content in 2015 by using various communication laws of the countries in which it operates. and training measures. 2. Fair competition With its rules and criteria, the tesa Code of Conduct, which is tesa does not obtain any market advantages through unfair or derived from our corporate values and the ten principles of the illegal practices. UN Global Compact, provides clear orientation. It boosts confidence in the performance and integrity of the tesa Group. Re3. Protection of tesa assets gardless of their position or function, we expect all employees to tesa is careful with the proprietary information, assets and restand by our ethical principles and to act consistently based on sources of the company. them. As role models, our managers exemplify the rules of conduct and actively communicate them. Since introducing the 4. A socially acceptable working environment Code of Conduct, all managers are required to complete a webtesa guarantees a socially acceptable, safe and motivating workbased training program. tesa also provide all levels of manageing environment. tesa strongly opposes child and forced labor, ment with presentation materials to support them in the ongoing discrimination and the like. We also expect the same from our communication process with employees. To ensure that this business partners. issue is permanently present, the Code of Conduct is also an integral part of tesa’s orientation seminars for new employees, 5. Personal integrity management training programs, the “Sales Qualification Protesa fosters a high degree of personal integrity and fairness gram” for employees in sales, and tesa’s Management Developamong its employees and avoid situations in which personal ment programs for managers and junior managers. interests conflict or could conflict with those of the company. New whistleblowing system 6. Social Commitment tesa takes its responsibility for future generations seriously and The groundwork for a new global compliance network was laid in strives for sustainable development in all relevant areas – eco2015. Rather than having one single go-to for all countries, going nomical, ecological and social. forward seven staff members across four time zones who speak six languages will be acting as contact for compliance tip-off issues. This system will facilitate confidential disclosures by whisThe tesa tleblowers, lowering worldwide reluctance to report potential Code of Conduct Download violations. „Code of Conduct“ 6 Human rights and labor standards Purchasing Charter Standard criteria are used at all locations to qualify, evaluate and develop suppliers. This allows us to ensure our mandatory minimum standards around the world. Minimum standards in strategic purchasing Responsible corporate governance over the long term requires in accordance with the ten basic principles of the UN Global looking beyond their boundaries of the company itself. This is our Compact. In its collaborations, tesa strives towards long-term firm conviction at tesa, which is why company-internal rules of strategic partnerships and a continuous improvement process. conduct have long applied to relationships with suppliers around This includes mutually agreed goals and their verification, site the world. In order to provide a standard framework for its intervisits as well as certification in accordance with the environment nationally applicable minimum standards in the areas of human and quality standards ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. rights, labor standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption, tesa’s strategic purchasing division adopted the tesa Purchasing Charter in 2008. As a result of the terms and condiDownload tions of contracts, suppliers make a binding commitment to act „Purchasing Charter“ Employees Our employees are the most important capital for securing our success. Our corporate culture and targeted support initiatives take this fact into account. Quality and corporate culture show responsibility and initiative. Important components of our The commitment and expertise of our employees is the basis future-oriented HR policy include the targeted training of qualified for the worldwide success of tesa. We promote trust between employees, continuous further education and a very diverse employees and management, encouraging every individual to range of offers for actively promoting the well-being of our em7 Human rights and labor standards ployees. The new tesa headquarters was in fact designed in part a good employer overall. The next such survey there is planned taking these policy objectives into account. The ultra-modern for 2017. facility features height-adjustable desks at all office workstations for example, a company gym and a canteen where fresh and Human resources, leadership and training healthy foods are served. The new complex is fully accessible by tesa stepped up its systematic strategic personnel development people with disabilities. efforts in 2015 to prepare internal successor candidates in advance for key positions at the international level. The firm has A culture of feedback and dialogue developed a new competency model augmenting the existing tesa strives to maintain a culture of communication and dialogue talent management standards. The model is to be implemented with employees across all regions, utilizing career pathways and within all personnel development instruments worldwide to enperformance review meetings for example as a tool promoting hance the firm’s ability to assess the performance and potential trust between staff and managers. In 2015 as in previous years, of our staff members. In the year under review, a uniform global such one-on-one dialogues were held, giving both parties a fotemplate for staff performance appraisals was developed based rum for providing constructive feedback, framing expectations upon the model which is to be initially introduced for manageand actively structuring the cooperative relationship. ment before eventually being rolled out to all staff levels. The tesa Intensive Leadership Program was continued, which is a specialThe firm conducts regular employee surveys in an effort to ized training concept designed to prepare up-and-coming manastrengthen our corporate values and continuously improve emgerial talent for the challenges ahead. The Program was attendployee satisfaction and retention. While the feedback is consisted by 28 employees in 2015. ently positive in general, several optimization measures have been introduced worldwide as a result. The Hamburg tesa plant expanded its array of training offerings, Machinery and system operator training sessions started in the In 2015 there a great deal of attention was given at tesa headyear under review as well as industrial mechanic training coursquarters to the findings uncovered in the last employee survey es. Chemical, electronics and mechatronic technician courses conducted. Teams of managers and staff across all functional are being added in 2016. This is part of tesa’s strategic response areas met in the framework of a series of some 20 workshops to to developments in individual business areas affected by demodevelop concrete agreements on how to further improve the graphic shifts. corporate culture. The next employee survey, the design of which was completed in the year under review in partnership Targeted continuing education with leading HR consulting firm Aon Hewitt, will be devoted to Ongoing investment into the targeted qualification of employees gauging the effectiveness of measures taken. The survey is slatis part of tesa’s corporate strategy. In line with this, the current ed to be conducted in April. reporting year was once again marked by wide-ranging measures. The last employee survey at the tesa plant in Hamburg indi­cated that employee satisfaction there is in the upper third in The Sales and Marketing Qualification Program continued with a nationwide comparison. In addition to quantitative results, great intensity in 2015, involving 121 training sessions conducted comment fields are provided on the survey questionnaire solic­ over 15 days, attended by roughly 1,025 employees. In addition iting insights regarding the company of a more qualitative to introductory training courses for new hires, the training pronature. Many employees took the opportunity to highlight the gram includes specialized courses tailored to the needs of indipositive relationship they have with their managers, rating tesa vidual business areas such as Sales, whose staff members for 8 Human rights and labor standards example receive training combining technical knowledge and Open Course Program sales competencies. tesa has a separate training program in In addition to courses on specialized and function-specific skills place for research and development personnel focusing on reletesa offers an open course program allowing study of a range of vant topics such as patents and quality management. Consisting varied topics. In the year under review 250 staff members particiof 27 training days, the program was attended by 114 employees pated in training courses on presentation and project managein 2015. ment skills, which have been quite well-attended generally in recent years. The tesa offering of language and IT training coursThe tesa Purchasing College conducted a further round of es was expanded in 2015, attended by 70 personnel in the year four training sessions in 2015, attended by 40 personnel. under review. This fairly new program for international purchasers comprises custom-made training sessions in which participants acquire Additional courses were set up as part of the “Treffpunkt Weitera broad skillset for international cooperation in line with glo­bildung” continuing education offering in connection with moving bal standards. In future, tesa plans to open up the training of the Hamburg office to the new location in Norderstedt just courses to employees in different roles involving individual puroutside town. The diverse offering, which was originally created chasing. many years ago by our parent company Beiersdorf, enables employees to complete training in their spare time. The first three In 2015 the tesa plant in Hamburg continued its successful line training seminars conducted at the new tesa headquarters starttraining offering as well as the Open Production project, in which ing in autumn 2015 were attended by 35 staff members. Plans employees are able to gain practical experience in areas they are are to expand the training offering to 11 seminars in 2016. not usually involved in. Temporary deployment in different proCourse enrollment is open to Beiersdorf and Tchibo employees duction areas affords a comprehensive understanding of the as well, promoting networking throughout the corporate group. manufacturing process, strengthens cooperation and catalyzes improvements. In the year under review the tesa plant in HamResponding to the trend towards virtual seminars, in 2015 tesa burg augmented the long-established Management Orientation launched a series of online learning modules and a digital version Stop, in which staff rate their managers using a point system, by of the Onboarding sales training course, which employees can adding on a TEAM Orientation Stop. This feedback instrument is utilize for further education from anywhere and at any time of designed to allow identification of areas where action is needed day. Our locations in Asia have their own platform called Learnwithin teams and help staff recognize hidden improvement poing Hub Asia, from which an array of digital training courses is tential on their own, creating opportunities to build on existing offered. These include training modules for familiarizing new hires team strengths. with the tesa corporate culture and business areas. Additional international skill enhancement programs will be introduced in The topic for the annual tesa team training held in 2015 was plant 2016 such as an e-learning academy specifically for supply chain production strategy and its significance to each individual staff personnel. member. Attended by 500 employees, the training event was moderated by the respective area managers, and involved realHealth and well-being world-oriented open-floor discussions of rules of cooperation, tesa wants its employees to feel and be healthy. That’s why a uniform management expectations and the need for clear central team of experts from the occupational health service, social coordination of expectations. The training also involved a look counseling, the works council and the severely handicapped back at past events and topics such as workplace safety, quality, representatives panel together developed a modern health manleadership and shared expectations. agement program for the new headquarters in Norderstedt, 9 Human rights and labor standards which includes the tesa sport club. The club offers top-quality The tesa plant in Offenburg received recognition twice for work endurance and strength training equipment and a range of environment quality in 2015, first of all from the organization Initicourses like spinning, yoga and ‘back power’, a lunchtime ‘active ative Ludwig Erhard Preis e.V., which presented its award for break’, physiotherapy and massage therapy. This array will be holistic management practices in the SME category. The judges’ expanded in 2016 to include personal health checkups and indipanel cited the plant’s impressively solid and longstanding leadvidual risk analyses. tesa employees and their family members ership culture, social and environmental responsibility practices have the possibility as well to utilize the Beiersdorf athletic assoand culture of open communication and trust. Additionally the ciation to keep in shape through low-cost memberships. Hamplant received the familyNet Award from the state of burg’s fourth-largest company athletic association offers over 40 Baden-Württemberg for LIFE+,a progressive work-life balance different types of sports. The parent company’s workplace wellpolicy initiative. The holistic approach taken by the tesa plant in ness offerings are quite popular as well, as are the health and Offenburg extends as well to addressing the effects of demofitness offerings at other locations. graphic change. Supplementing the tesa sport club, the corporate headquarters The group’s international affiliates are also active in promoting in Norderstedt promotes active lifestyles by providing commuting employee health, with tesa location North America in Charlotte, bicycles for sale or rent. Health is a concern in the offices too, USA planning for example to introduce a Mental Health Awarewhere all work stations have height-adjustable desks to minimize ness Training program in 2016. The program is designed to back strain. All employees receive information and tips about educate employees on ways to guard against stress, improve maintaining good posture both sitting and standing from the mental health and better handle difficult workplace or customer company’s in-house ergonomics desk. Good nutrition is also situations. important, which is why the new company cafeteria offers freshly prepared local foods and a varied menu of healthy meals including a daily WellFit dish with less than 700 calories. The Health Working Group presented its activities at the tesa plant in Hamburg in 2015, adopting the slogan ‘Healthy – Body and Soul’. This annual program of events involved a range of courses held in the plant’s own fitness room (yoga, table tennis, back training etc.) and team events such as group running. Employees again had four days to have their current fitness level checked out, including heart and other organ functions. As motivation to exercise daily, a skiing course is offered for both beginners and advanced skiers. The teams also formed health circles to address current health-related issues, discuss problem areas and come up with solution ideas jointly with their managers. Cutting-edge work time models for the various stages of life were additionally introduced, including the ‘Parent-Child Office’ and the ‘57 Plus’ arrangement for older workers interested in reducing their weekly work hours without major loss of income – both aimed at improving work-life balance. 10 Human rights and labor standards Occupational health and safety The health and safety of employees are a top priority at tesa which places the emphasis firmly on prevention with high standards and targeted measures. Strict regulations The Occupational Safety Guidelines, which are based on the includes all parties involved. The foundation for targeted soluinternational standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and tions and appropriate risk reduction is the so-called STOP princiSafety Assessment Series), apply for all tesa locations around ple, which outlines four categories: substituting, technical, organthe world. In November 2015 the tesa plant in Italy received initial izational and personal. This way, measures can be categorized OHSAS 18001 certification. and evaluated. Targeted risk assessment and prevention measures are essential In order to ensure that its high demands for occupational health however for optimal protection against injury and work-related and safety measures are consistently pursued and implemented, hazards. As in previous years, the accident rate at tesa was sigtesa factors in occupational health and safety considerations nificantly below the industry average of 14.5 percent, as tracked from the beginning when planning new plants projects. Here the by the employers’ liability association. The worldwide group rate focus is on the early identification and elimination of potential was 2.3 accidents per 1,000 employees. This shows that tesa is risks. tesa’s safety standards are thus already incorporated into on the right track with its high safety standards, occupational the drafting of specifications. The whole construction and manuhealth measures and training programs. facturing process is accompanied by regular status enquiries. Even before a new plant is handed over, all the important locaGeneral safety rules were adopted for all areas of the new corpotion details are checked directly in situ in a “Factory Acceptance rate headquarters in Norderstedt in 2015 and staff members Test”. Then a “Site Acceptance Test” is carried out before the trained accordingly. The measures conducted on an ongoing plant eventually begins production. This test involves additional basis at all tesa locations include providing detailed operational checks on all safety-related functions, with optimization measinstructions for all production equipment, targeted at-machine ures taken where necessary. briefings and a range of educational and training courses on such topics as proper conduct for safety and health, explosion and fire prevention and fire extinguisher usage. Such regular worldwide offerings heighten employee awareness. Internal accident avoidance processes make a significant contribution to hazard reduction. These are based on a combination of systematic hazard identification and risk assessment, employee responsibility, and a continuous improvement process, which 11 Environmental protection Global initiatives Leaving an intact environment for subsequent generations is one ducted to facilitate systematic action upon the obligations we of tesa’s stated corporate goals. tesa’s “green thread” is based believe are incumbent upon the company. In these audits, tesa on a precautionary approach: We promote the international exassesses whether process procedures and regulations are being change of information between our environmental experts and correctly adhered to. The firm also regularly conducts matrix actively take the initiative. Part of this strategy is the development audits in connection with external certification auditing and moniof tesa’s own production technologies, which enable it to manutoring to verify adherence by all sites certified under for internafacture without the use of solvents. We are increasingly demontional environmental standard ISO 14001. Where required, tesa strating our commitment at the product level as well, as illustratmakes corrections and introduces measures for continuous imed by the tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand: a full range of eco-friendly provement and to ensure the utmost efficiency in the use of reoffice products. For over four years, tesa has been active in the sources. do-it-yourself sector with corresponding offerings. Of course, we also abide by minimum standards and legal retesa has defined its position in globally binding environmental quirements in all areas in which we are involved. In order to corguidelines. These guidelines dictate the standards for the comrectly implement the different countries’ laws, rules and regulapany’s actions to all employees and are meant to further raise tions, which can sometimes vary, tesa has employees who are environmental awareness. Ongoing monitoring of performance familiar with local laws and can ensure compliance at all of its indicators and regular internal production site audits are conproduction sites. The tesa environmental program Climate protection Corporate environmental protection Raising awareness Specific areas of activity and clearly defined projects are the key tesa operates climate protection measures on its own initiative to tesa’s successful environmental management program. All and responsibility in order to leave an intact environment for tesa locations around the world have high standards. >> Page 13 subsequent generations. >> Page 14 Resource conservation Environmentally friendly products The efficient use of raw materials Consumers benefit from tesa Efficient use of raw materials and resources is important to Sustainably produced goods like the tesa ecoLogo® range us in terms of sustainable business policy. protect the climate. The winners? People all over the >> Page 15 world. >> Page 16 12 Environmental protection The tesa environmental program Specific areas of activity and clearly defined projects are the key to tesa’s successful environmental management program. All tesa locations have very high standards. Corporate environmental protection Systematic efforts commenced in 2001 to set up a company burg started up a CCHP (trigeneration) system, which in 2015 environmental management system, which has undergone conalready yielded a significant reduction in carbon emissions, and tinuous further development ever since. It is above all the worldis being studied for potential rollout to other production sites. wide plants that have contributed to tesa regularly exceeding the firm’s ambitious goals. Since establishment of the environmental program, tesa has substantially reduced emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) – by more than half. In addition, there Environmental program: have also been significant reductions in the consumption of solGoals achieved between 2002 and 2015 vents, CO2 emissions and generation of waste for disposal. Energy use 24 percent In the interest of climate protection and resource conservation CO2 19 percent we also regularly review whether there are more environmentally friendly alternatives to the raw materials currently employed. This Solvent use 41 percent involves referencing studies of the ecological balance sheet of our products and analysis of environmental impact over their Waste 77 percent entire useful lives. Additionally, for many years now the firm has deployed environmentally friendly technologies and patented VOCs 91 percent processes “made by tesa”. Care is taken to minimize energy consumption, which is why the Offenburg and Hamburg plants (like all tesa production sites) Highlights, key figures and successes of the are certified for the environmental standard ISO 14001, and in the first quarter of 2015 were additionally energy management tesa environmental program certified under ISO 50001. The new tesa headquarters, built in accordance with the latest energy efficiency regulations (ENEV In 2002 the tesa plant in Offenburg put an eco-friendly pro2014), is up next to be certified in 2016. duction system for the solvent-free manufacturing of masking tape into operation. That was just the beginning: today the over Good initial results have been seen from environmentally friendly 60 percent of the plant’s entire production takes place without in-house power generation. In late 2014 the tesa plant in Offensolvents. 13 Environmental protection In 2005 tesa received the B.A.U.M. environmental prize and its control unit. The first tesa ecoLogo® products also started the “Responsible Care Prize” for the consistent and successful conquering the office supplies market. development of a holistic environmental management system. In 2011 tesa succeeded in making a technological breakIn 2006 , five years after launching its environmental program, through at the plant in Hamburg. The globally unique and patentesa saw positive results from successfully reducing the amount ted ACX technology enabled the eco-friendly production of of energy and solvents consumed. double-sided acrylic adhesive tapes for high-strength permanent adhesive bonds. A second environmental program was passed for the period between 2007 and 2012 – with a focus on reduced emissiIn 2013 , tesa introduced an energy management system at its ons of volatile organic compounds, also known as VOC emissions. German production sites to sustainably reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions even further. The “Green Car Policy” was In 2007 an innovative system for heat recovery at the tesa launched that same year. Low-emission cars are to significantly plant in Offenburg considerably reduced energy consumption. reduce the CO2 emissions of the entire fleet from an average of 161 to 140 grams per kilometer. In 2009 tesa reported significant advances in the emission of volatile organic substances. VOC emissions were down 50 perIn 2014 tesa’s Offenburg factory began operating a CCHP cent compared to 2001. One year later the figure was already at (combined cooling, heat and power) system for environmentally minus 58 percent. friendly in-house power generation. The German production sites of Hamburg and Offenburg are each implementing an ultra-modern In 2010 , the tesa plant in Hamburg installed a new, state-ofenergy monitoring system as part of their energy management. the-art ventilation system. That same year the technology center at tesa’s headquarters in Hamburg received funding from the In 2015 the energy management systems were introduced at Hamburg Authority for Urban Development and Environmental the production sites in Hamburg and Offenburg, Germany are Affairs to modernize the technology in the ventilation system and certified under the international standard ISO 50001. Climate protection Employee awareness measures and environmentally friendly production methods are part of the firm’s climate protection agenda. The tesa plant in Offenburg started operation of an ultra-modern In November 2015 the tesa plant in Hamburg commenced work trigeneration (CCHP) system in late 2014, enabling environmento install a similar cogeneration system which will be yielding tally friendly power generation from natural gas, waste heat and significant carbon emission reductions starting in the spring of cold. Heat for plant usage and cooling for the climate control 2016. The cutting-edge system will enable simultaneous in-plant system are also generated. In line with planning, in 2015 already generation of electricity and heat. The mechanical energy prithe site recorded a roughly 3,600-ton reduction in carbon emismarily generated is converted directly into electrical energy, while sions for the year. heat generated in the process can be captured for building heating or use in production. 14 Environmental protection In addition to eco-friendly methods and other measures that we they familiar with ongoing operations, they also continually help use to keep up with the latest technology, raising the awareness us save energy, lower carbon emissions and reduce costs of our employees is also part of our commitment. Not only are thanks to their knowledge and ideas. Resource conservation tesa handles raw materials and resources efficiently. Environmentally friendly technologies and good waste management are deemed important. During the year under review, the tesa production sites in Hamposal after use. With the help of the so-called life cycle analysis burg and Offenburg, Germany focused their efforts on further method, tesa will determine the parameters that affect the ecodevelopment of their respective energy management systems. logical footprint of its products. The goal of this life cycle analysis Numerous staff training sessions were held on tesa energy poliis to discover the best options for every product – not just incies in the first quarter 2015 in connection with the two plants’ house at tesa, but always in collaboration with suppliers and successful certification under the international standard ISO service providers. 50001. Additional energy-saving measures were identified and projects designed accordingly for inclusion in the sites’ energy Waste management management agendas. Modern energy monitoring systems are All production of goods involves the generation of waste. In order in place for tracking energy consumption, affording heightened to reduce this in a sustainable manner and to protect the envienergy efficiency and transparency. The systems are continuousronment and resources, we run regular training courses to enly expanded and improved, such as by the installation of new sure that all those involved are conscious of the need to avoid meters in 2015. unnecessary waste and to recycle appropriately. In addition, we are constantly seeking new technical solutions and cooperation The tesa plant in Hamburg invested in a new production hall in partners to enable us to maximize recycling. 2015, specially designed for energy efficiency. Seven hundred LED lamps and motion detectors were installed for the hall’s lighting system, the combined use of which will keep energy consumption roughly two-thirds lower than if conventional lighting were used. Life cycle analysis A great deal of environmental pollution is caused outside one’s own company while manufacturing products. The firm is thus focusing more sharply on the entire product life cycle from raw materials to processed materials, production, transport and dis15 Environmental protection Commitment at the Product Level Products for conserving energy and sustainably produced goods help to protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. Consumers benefit from tesa For quite some time, tesa has been consistently transferring its converted over to the ecoLogo® format; tesa thus now only sells environmental commitment at the product level. tesa ecoLogo® ecoLogo® glue sticks, no conventionally made ones. The compais a constantly expanding range of environmentally friendly conny’s ‘green’ range of ecoLogo® products has been sold in hardsumer product solutions which have received multiple awards in ware, DIY and other stores for several years now, which includes recent years. These solvent-free adhesives and their packaging painting, repair and packing tapes. There consumers can also are mostly made of biological and recycled. The compactly defind energy-saving products like tesamoll® for sealing gaps signed Smart ecoLogo® tape dispenser for example meets high around windows and doors, as well as tesa® ISO SYSTEM for environmental standards, made 100% from recycled plastic via easy roof insulation. materials-minimizing methods. Also in 2015, all glue sticks were 16 Compliance and fair competition Adherence to laws and internal guidelines is something that goes without saying at tesa. A central co-ordination unit combines all associated processes and activities. Compliance Integrity and proper conduct Fair competition tesa traditionally stands for trust. This includes virtues that guarFor quite some time our activities have focused on antitrust law, antee free markets and fair competition as well as protecting which promotes a free economy and prevents clearly restrictive people and the environment. The tesa group firmly rejects any practices. To do this, tesa successfully introduced the “tesa Antiform of corruption as well as any illegal or immoral behavior. In trust Compliance Program” throughout the company a few years order to be able to consistently ensure this worldwide, we activeago. It serves to raise awareness on issues relating to antitrust ly protect our company and our employees against possible law and enable the implementation of a worldwide functional risks. In 2015 the firm once again actively addressed the issue of antitrust law compliance system for the entire tesa Group. Becompliance and our system of values as laid down in the globally sides providing relevant information on antitrust law and educatapplicable tesa Code of Conduct. Supporting activities included ing about possible violations, we set up internal communication refresher courses designed to keep the firm’s worldwide antistructures and a network of competent attorneys. In addition to corruption policies a forefront consideration for all staff. Also in refresher training, further intensive classroom training sessions the year under review, the groundwork was laid for rollout of an on the subject were held for multipliers in 2015, which involved efficient system-linked reporting instrument designed to further the identifying of high-risk countries where local authorities are increase transparency regarding the status of the global tesa increasingly active in pursuing anti-trust matters. Training course compliance management system. content was thus translated into the respective local languages and tailored to take account of local legal particularities. Communication measures are being continuously implemented via in-house media. Detailed and specific compliance information We also offer a permanent topic-related platform on the tesa is provided to raise awareness and minimize breaches resulting intranet. This page allows employees worldwide to find out about from ignorance of laws and regulations. Since late 2010 employconduct that complies with antitrust law in their day-to-day busiees have had the ability to contact the Compliance Coordination ness dealings and helps them find competent advisors. Training desk for any questions and in case of doubt. The central coordiseminars are conducted in the local language in these countries, nation desk is tasked with advising, setting international standthe material for which factors in specific considerations under ards and ensuring efficient bundling of all compliance processes. local laws. Its duties also include preparing status reports for the management team. The Compliance office combines a total of eleven In our international regions, guidelines that have been modified to fields. Specialists in various staff functions provide expert advice take into account the legal requirements in the respective counon matters concerning anti-corruption, labor and competition tries and a catalog of examples of correct and incorrect conduct law, information technology and data protection, antitrust law, lay down what is and what is not permissible under antitrust law. financial regulations, environmental protection, workplace safety, and trademark and patent law. 17 Social Commitment Strategy with regional facets The assumption of corporate responsibility is part of tesa’s coran approach that makes it easy for employees worldwide to porate philosophy. Out of the conviction that all sides win, tesa get involved for the good of society in a meaningful way. At the gets involved at several levels worldwide – in the form of donasame time, the program creates a bridge to the core tesa tions, sponsor memberships and sponsorships as well as competencies and strengths of the company – its inventiveness through volunteer involvement on the part of employees. and spirit of ingenuity, orientation towards solutions, practical aid and team spirit. Help, donate, support, protect – the four pillars of the “tesa connects” corporate citizenship program. The objective is to take tesa tesa helps donates tesa helps tesa donates Good neighborly relations Uncomplicated help In the immediate vicinity of our locations tesa teams get tesa supports the victims of natural disasters or other stuck in on local projects, thus supporting the community. crises through targeted donations of money and products. >> Page 19 >> Page 20 tesa tesa supports protects tesa supports tesa protects Improving prospects for the future Active conservation With a focus on science and technology, we invest in the Specific environmental projects preserve nature and help to futures of children and young people. improve the quality of life in the region. >> Page 21 >> Page 22 18 Social Commitment tesa helps: Here‘s to good neighbors Neighborhood assistance that is needed in the immediate vicinity of tesa locations – that is the core thought behind “tesa helps”. On-site tesa teams on every continent get involved project by project and support the community. The tesa headquarters continued its partnership with the viding all the materials) made paper flowers and race cars for non-profit volunteering organization “tatkräftig – Hände für Hamyoung hemophilia patients along with balloon animals, clothesburg” in 2015. According to the motto “1 day, 1 team, 1 goal”, peg constructions and glass decoration using tesa glitter pens. the organization lends a hand in the form of volunteer helpers A similar crafts afternoon for children with leukemia was held by at over 150 institutions that require support. In the year under eleven employees of the Czech affiliate at the Motol University review, more than 60 employees volunteered in charitable proHospital Transplant Center in Prague. jects, helping social institutions for example by performing extensive landscaping and handywork with tools, wood and paint. Runs for charity in France, Spain and Colombia A “tesa helps” joint project with “tatkräftig” has now become an tesa employees in France participated in the “Course des Héros” integral part of the first year of apprenticeship at the tesa plant in charity run for the fifth time in 2015. These athletic tesa staff Hamburg. members completed a six-kilometer run for which they had collected a total of 10,000 euros in advance donations from friends, family and colleagues to benefit the organization “Action EnGlobal commitment fance”, which supports needy children and adolescents. At the Oxfam Intermon Trailwalker event, six tesa colleagues from Spain The affiliates also provided active aid in their vicinities in 2015. covered 100 kilometers in less than 32 hours. Donations raised The social commitment of tesa employees is a tradition in went to the organizer Oxfam, which will use the money in the France, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK, Turkey, organization’s fight against global poverty. And in Colombia, Mexico, Colombia, Japan, India, China and many other coun24 employees ran in the “Carrera de la Mujer” to benefit a fountries. Examples: dation for female cancer patients. Eight employees participated in the Marriott 6K Run for Fun to raise funds for the “Instituto Colorful afternoons for children in the Netherlands, Slovakia Tobías Emanuel”, which provides daycare and schooling for blind and the Czech Republic and deaf children and youth. Employees of the Dutch affiliate in Hilversum began supporting the “Stichting Het Raakt U” foundation in 2015. Fifteen employPromoting integration in Belgium and the UK ees of the firm organized an activity day for severely disabled Employees of the Belgium affiliate supported the tesa-sponsored children at the Orthopedagogical Daycare Center De Pompon Special Olympics National Games for the third consecutive year (ODC) complete with funny clown, scrumptious pancakes and in 2015, assisting mentally handicapped children and adults becovered wagon ride. In Slovakia there were craft-making activifore, during and after the judo competitions, providing encourties for the “Deti Slovenska” foundation, as tesa employees (proagement and promoting their social inclusion. tesa UK again 19 Social Commitment supported the Walnuts School for autistic children in Milton Keynes. In addition to a donation earmarked for the school to purchase several appliances in 2015, a number of teens were given opportunity every Tuesday to get a look inside the working world at tesa. Accompanied by teachers the students worked a two-hour mini-shift at a packing station. This involved the sort of repetitive activities that suit people with autism. tesa donates: Uncomplicated help We support people in impacted regions – as well as selected institutions in their daily routine – with targeted funds and product donations. In 2015 the Hamburg and Norderstedt locations introduced ‘lefthelp young people and their families by donating 680 euros to over change’ donations, in line with the slogan: ‘small gesture, the “Grossstadt-Mission” project, which is an initiative for providbig impact’. The concept is simple so participation is easy: eming educational counseling and support to young people in ployees donate the cents amount of their bottom-line monthly troubled life situations. The ‘leftover change’ collected by all of pay (i.e. 0.01 to 0.99 euro) to non-profit organizations in their these tesa companies in 2016 is to be donated to the mentoring communities. The money collected, amounting to a maximum of project “Zeit für Zukunft – Mentoren für Kinder e.V.” Socially dis11.88 euro per employee and year, is credited to a separate tesa advantaged children and youths between the ages of six and donation account. Between the start of the campaign in Septemsixteen meet two to four times a month for at least one year with ber 2014 and the end of December 2015 the three tesa locations an adult mentor whose role is to build up their self-confidence collected approximately 3,100 euros. Management then rounds and promote their personal development. up and doubles the individual amounts. The collection and provision of donations is also a good tradition tesa SE donated the company portion (4,200 euros) to the in the tesa affiliates: The international tesa locations outside “Plan haben” initiative of the crime prevention council of the city Germany donated almost 150,000 euro to various causes in of Norderstedt, aimed at providing adult supervisors to youths 2015. The Singaporean affiliate contributed a large amount to the with behavioral problems who act as a contact for trusted adregional Red Cross effort to aid earthquake disaster victims in vice. The ‘leftover change’ collected by the Hamburg tesa plant Nepal. (1,410 euros) was donated to the non-profit “Neuwiedenthal aktiv e.V.”, an organization working with children and youth and for the greater community. The tesa Converting Center contributed to 20 Social Commitment tesa supports: Education secures a future Under “tesa supports” tesa combines education projects through which it aims to open up future prospects to children and young people. Here there is a focus on the themes of science and technology as important prerequisites for the preservation of our livelihoods as well as technological and social progress. In Germany and numerous affiliates, these objectives are linked to specific projects. Introducing teens to MINT career paths which provides English as a second language scholarships. tesa SE in Germany has been partnering with the natural The Guatemalan affiliate finances a partial scholarship for a stusciences and technology initiative NAT since 2014. In Hamburg dent otherwise unable to afford higher education, while tesa and the surrounding metropolitan area, NAT networks schools India donates to the “Nanhi Kali” organization which offers primawith universities, colleges and technology-driven companies. ry school education opportunities to disadvantaged young girls. The objective is to make it possible for adolescents to get a variIn September 2015 tesa tape North America began sponsoring a ety of insights into various occupational fields. tesa launched its four-year study program concentrating on automotive technolofirst 90 Minutes MINT program (MINT = Mathematics, IT, gy. The EcoCAR program is devoted to the development of an Natural sciences, Technology) in early 2015. In this program, extremely energy-efficient high-performance vehicle. tesa employees take a little less than two teaching hours to give school students real-life insights into their working lives. In addition to practical projects and excursions like this, tesa has supported the NAT initiative financially by taking out a sponsoring membership. Adhesive technology outreach in Japan tesa’s Japanese affiliate was again active in the Tsukuba Science Festival in 2015. Held in Tsukuba, the famous ‘City of Science’, the event is aimed at introducing young people to the world of science through fun experiments and games. The scientists of tomorrow were able to experience fascination aspects of bonding technology at the tesa stand. Sponsoring educational initiatives Several tesa affiliates now regularly contribute funding to educational initiatives like the Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey, which offers informal education programs for children and the Mexican “Fundacion para la Proteccion de la niñez” 21 Social Commitment tesa protects: Active for the environment Environmental protection and sustainable management of natural resources are part of the tesa business strategy. Engagement on the production and product level is complemented by specific projects for preserving nature and improving the quality of life in the region. Since 2011 we have been working to preserve the sensitive eco“Stapeler Rens” forest, which is to be afforested as a protected system of the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve “Niedersächsische habitat zone within the biosphere reserve where nature is left to Elbtalaue”, not far from Hamburg. Thanks to employee volunteertake its own course. ing in three afforestation projects ongoing in 2015 – plus financial support – a host of trees typical for the region were planted which will increasingly provide habitats for birds and insects. Additionally during the year under review, funding was provided for nearly 20,000 plants for the nature dynamics area of the Contact: tesa SE Hugo-Kirchberg-Straße 1 D-22839 Norderstedt, Germany Tel.: +49(0) 40-88899-6597 Fax: +49(0) 40-88899-186597 responsibility@tesa.com www.tesa.com/company/responsibility 22
