STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE PEOPLE SAFETY AND HEALTH ENVIRONMENT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES PEOPLE SAFETY AND HEALTH ENVIRONMENT TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT US 3 OUR PEOPLE 90 Message from the CEO 4 2015 Highlights 90 Message from the Executive Management Approach 91 Vice President, Corporate Affairs Our Workforce 93 and Sustainability 5 Employee Recruitment and Key Performance Goals 8 Development 94 Map of Projects and Operations 10 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 98 Our Company 11 Labour and Management Relations 102 Our Vision and Values 15 Our People Case Studies 104 Corporate Governance 18 SAFETY AND HEALTH 107 Commitment to External Initiatives 22 2015 Highlights 107 ABOUT THE REPORT 23 Management Approach 108 Scope and Content 24 Safety at Goldcorp 112 Boundary and Limitations 25 Safety and Health Committees 116 Restatements 26 Safety Performance 117 GRI Content Index 27 Occupational Health 119 Assurance 28 Emergency Response 121 Forward-Looking Statements 29 Safety and Health Case Studies 123 OUR PRIORITIES 31 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 125 Materiality Analysis 32 2015 Highlights 125 Methodology 33 Management Approach 126 Your Questions and Concerns 34 Materials 128 Top Material Topics 36 Water Management 136 Goldcorp and the SDGs 41 Waste and Hazardous Materials STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 46 Management 139 Biodiversity Management 142 2015 Highlights 46 Environmental Compliance 145 Management Approach 47 Transportation 146 Governance and Accountability 49 Environmental Stewardship Executive Compensation 53 Case Studies 147 Business Ethics and Compliance 54 Public Policy Advocacy 58 MINE CLOSURE 149 Enterprise Risk Management 59 2015 Highlights 149 Stategy and Governance Case Studies 61 Management Approach 150 COMMUNITIES 64 Objectives and Initiatives 152 Mine Closure Case Studies 154 2015 Highlights 64 Management Approach 65 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES 157 Sustainable Benefits for Communities 69 GRI INDEX 160 Community Engagement 74 Human Rights 79 GLOSSARY 171 Indigenous Rights and Engagement 84 CONTACT US 176 Resettlement 86 Communities Case Studies 87 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 2 ABOUT US At Goldcorp, sustainable and responsible mining is a companywide commitment rooted in our values as an organization. TOGETHER We are committed to creating social and economic benefits for all of our stakeholders, at every phase of the mining We cannot achieve our goals alone. We work lifecycle, from early exploration, through to the mine’s eventual as a team with all others in the organization, closure and reclamation. and we also build collaborative partnerships with communities, governments and all We believe in safe production, acting ethically, respecting other stakeholders for mutual success. all our stakeholders, open communications, empowering others and innovation. We are committed to being responsible stewards of the environment and to complying with the CREATING highest applicable health and safety standards. These are core values and strengths that guide our decision-making, everywhere we do business. We call our approach to doing business Together, Creating We find and mine gold safely. Everything Sustainable Value. we do through the organization, across locations, is focused on safe production and creating sustainable value. SUSTAINABLE VALUE We create value for our investors and our employees. We also create careers and support community development activities, and our operations create wealth on a local, regional and national level every day. We are committed to making sure that the places where we operate are left in as good or better condition than how we found them. We work hard to make a lasting positive impact on people’s lives throughout our business. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 3 ABOUT US MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Welcome to Goldcorp’s Sustainability Report for 2015 – the company’s tenth, and my first as President and CEO. As a newcomer to Goldcorp – although a mining industry veteran – I would like to say how impressed I am by this company’s commitment to sustainability and its diligence in applying the principles of Together, Creating Sustainable Value throughout every facet of its operations. The level of rigour, the professionalism, and the depth I have observed in our sustainability team are to be commended. I would like to recognize, with gratitude, the contributions of Chuck Jeannes, my predecessor. Thanks to his dedication and vision, I take over an organization that is internationally respected for its consistent, disciplined approach to sustainable practices. In today’s extractive industries, sustainability is not a frill – it is foundational, like reserves in the ground. If you don’t have reserves, you don’t have a mine. If you don’t have safe, sustainable practices, you won’t maintain your social license to operate. Transparent, honest and forthright stakeholder engagement begins at the very earliest stages – from the moment the first exploration drill hole goes into the ground. You only have one chance to make a first impression, and if we don’t build trust during those early engagements, it can be difficult or impossible to rebuild a tarnished image. What I see at Goldcorp is a company that does sustainability right – one that is widely perceived as a leader in sustainability and best practices. We apply the International Council on Mining and Metals’ Sustainable Development Framework and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We are a signatory to the UN’s Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and apply its principles in our operations. All of these best practices give us a competitive advantage in building trust with new communities. In 2016 and beyond, the emerging issue that faces us and our industry is water management. Mining requires water, and the increasing scarcity of water affects all of our activities, in every region and country. Over the coming year, we will begin a series of initiatives that will build on our existing Water Stewardship Strategy to tackle the challenge of water use head on. This is a major effort that will require innovation, creativity and discipline, but I am confident of our abilities. I am also confident in the necessity and the ultimate value of water conservation to our business. Improved stewardship of our water resources will give us a competitive advantage, socially, practically and economically. I want to thank the people of Goldcorp, and the Goldcorp Board, who have demonstrated their confidence in me. I look forward to working hard, alongside all of you, as we focus on our strategic goals: continuous improvement of our safety practices; ongoing diligence in our environmental stewardship, with a new focus on water conservation strategies; and tireless dedication to maintaining our strong partnerships with our local communities to maximize the social and economic benefits that our operations can provide for all. David Garofalo President and Chief Executive Officer Goldcorp Inc. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 4 ABOUT US MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND SUSTAINABILITY At Goldcorp, 2015 was a year in which we made great strides in sustainability. We recognized the fundamental importance of sustainability at the highest levels of our company by enhancing our Six Pillars – the internal principles that guide our vision and day-to-day decision-making – to include sustainability. This is a meaningful change which reflects a cultural shift that will ripple throughout our company for years to come. 2015 was a critical year for sustainability at Goldcorp. We embedded our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) on the ground at every one of our mines. We designed training programs related to the SEMS and its standards. There were self-assessments and compliance audits. Sites created action plans to ensure the SEMS standards were met within the local context. The early results have been very encouraging – especially when I see the extent to which our mine sites are taking responsibility for their own sustainability management. In early 2015, continuing our objective of developing relationships with communities near our operations, we signed a Collaboration Agreement with the Wabauskang First Nation in northwestern Ontario, near our Red Lake mine. Not only does this pivotal agreement pave the way for longterm economic benefits for the Wabauskang First Nation, but it marks our sixth First Nations partnership in Canada. RECOGNITION OF OUR SUCCESS For years, we have participated in industry associations, and our SEMS incorporates best-in-class international standards and benchmarks. In 2015, we were broadly recognized as an industry leader, in Canada and internationally, and beyond the extractive industries. For the third consecutive time, we were named to the NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability Index, which ranks us among the top 100 companies in the world for sustainability reporting and performance. We were named one of Canada’s 50 Most Socially Responsible Corporations by Sustainalytics. We also received four awards that were especially close to my heart, because they acknowledge the quality and transparency of our sustainability reporting. Goldcorp was selected by the Finance and Sustainability Initiative (IFD-FSI) as having the best corporate sustainability report. In addition, the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada honoured us with the Overall Award of Excellence for best reporting of all public companies in Canada and the Awards of Excellence for Sustainability Reporting and Corporate Reporting for the mining industry. We will continue to engage with our stakeholders and strive for continuous improvement in the transparency of our disclosure, and maintain the trust that we have established with our communities and other stakeholders. To this end, in 2015 we mapped our highest-priority material topics, internal initiatives and strategies to meet the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. While some of the UN’s goals are not specific to the mining industry, the exercise helped us see where synergies may exist and where there may be gaps. As our sustainability strategy evolves, we plan to align our efforts more closely with these goals. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 5 ABOUT US STEWARDSHIP OF THE ENVIRONMENT Throughout the year, we noted rising industry and community concerns over mine tailings management. We are responding to this emerging issue with our Tailings Stewardship Strategy. This initiative has already raised the bar on diligence and technology for tailings safety at our operations. This year, under the guidance of our new President and CEO, David Garofalo, we are setting our sights on water, and on strategies and innovative solutions for reducing our water footprint. As water becomes increasingly scarce and precious, we want to work with communities and governments and place ourselves at the leading edge of the search for solutions. INNOVATING FOR SAFETY The primary aspect of sustainability is our ability to protect the health and safety of our people. In 2015, while our overall safety statistics continued to improve, we did not achieve our number one objective: that everyone in our workforce goes home safely at the end of the day. In November, there was a fatality at the Musselwhite mine and, in April 2016, there was a fatality at the Marlin mine. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our colleagues and friends. In response, we have continued our investigation into the root causes of incidents such as these, and we have increased our efforts emphasizing work practices and attitudes that focus on preventative safety. We are also exploring new solutions, through innovative technologies, equipment and processes, that we hope will ultimately improve health and safety, while also increasing productivity. I feel strongly that innovation is a key tool for sustainability in all its aspects. PARTNERING WITH PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES Our mining operations have a major impact on their surrounding regions. While we provide important economic opportunities, our operations also raise concerns to communities. Everywhere we operate, we strive to build and maintain mutually beneficial relationships. This year, when I attended the inauguration of the Éléonore mine in Québec, I felt proud to be part of Goldcorp. Many people commented on the positive spirit of the event, and how the communities felt respected and included. For me, that moment encapsulated the value of years of relationship-building and collaboration with First Nations, local communities, and government, and demonstrated that there is, truly, a different way of doing business. RESPECTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTING TO THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY For years, we have continually advanced our commitment to human rights across our operations, and in 2015 we reviewed and updated our Human Rights Policy. Our updated policy was expanded to comprehensively address rising stakeholder expectations as well as our external commitments, such as our memberships to the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). New additions to this policy include comprehensive clauses on community consultation, accommodation and grievance processes; commitment to the Conflict-Free Gold Standard; and resettlement planning. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 6 ABOUT US In addition, applied to become signatories of the UN’s Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and I am pleased to say that in early 2016, we were accepted without conditions. We also joined the World Economic Forum, which brings opportunities to learn and contribute with policy makers and industry leaders at the global level on issues of sustainable growth and social welfare. Finally, we developed a new Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy that includes risk-based business planning and integrates CSR consistently within the overall sustainability programming of our company. Moving forward, this strategy provides a framework for continuous performance improvement in the areas of stakeholder engagement, sustainable economic benefits, and human rights. 2016 AND BEYOND 2016 is proving to be a year of continued market volatility, but we are well positioned for sustainable progress. In times such as these, it is incumbent on us to be intelligent in how we invest, for maximum societal and business impact. We need to move past traditional ways and strategies and look to innovation for efficiency; energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions; water conservation; and improved workplace safety. In closing, I want to acknowledge the communities and stakeholders – from Indigenous groups to the academic and non-profit sectors to the investment community – who have engaged with us on sustainability issues over the past years. The dialogue has been constructive and has had a tremendous influence on us and how we do business. Thank you and we look forward to continuing this interaction. I also want to state my pride in the Goldcorp team, from our corporate offices through every one of our operations, who take their responsibilities so seriously, and are so effective in changing the way mining is done. We are all ambassadors of Goldcorp, wherever we work and whatever we do. I look forward to working closely with our new President and CEO, David Garofalo, and also want to express my gratitude to our outgoing President and CEO, Chuck Jeannes. Chuck spearheaded the vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. His supportive leadership has been instrumental in bringing us all to where we are today. Thank you, Chuck. Brent Bergeron EVP, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Goldcorp Inc. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 7 ABOUT US KEY PERFORMANCE GOALS GOAL MET The following table highlights progress made towards our short-term GOAL PARTIALLY MET sustainability goals. We will continue to review our goals moving forward with a strategic focus on long-term sustainability performance. GOAL NOT MET GOALS 2015 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION MOVING FORWARD Strategy and Governance Diversify our Under the Catalyst Accord, in April 2015, we Continue our efforts to diversify our management and achieved our commitment of increasing the management and governance bodies. governance bodies percentage of women on our Board to 25% by 2017. We are proud to have met and exceeded this commitment. Female representation on the Board increased to 27% in 2015. In May 2015, we made Diversity oversight a formal component of the role of Anna Tudela, VP of Diversity, Regulatory Affairs & Corporate Secretary. A Diversity Committee was subsequently established to lead our diversityrelated initiatives. Update the During 2015, we completed a critical review of Continue our internal assurance requirements of the our SEMS, applying lessons learned from our first process to consistently apply SEMS Sustainability Excellence full year of utilization. We also completed SEMS across all sites. Management System audits in three operating sites and established (SEMS) and conduct metrics for SEMS performance measurement SEMS assessments in and reporting. three operating sites Implement Goldcorp’s During 2015, we undertook significant efforts Continue our efforts to implement anti-bribery and antiin managing bribery and corruption risk. and strengthen our anti-bribery and corruption program Milestones include the development of a global anti-corruption program. across our operations tool to conduct risk assessment on third parties, an updated Political Contributions Policy, the implementation of our Third-Party Due Diligence Standards, and the execution of anti-corruption training. Communities Enhance stakeholder During 2015, we continued enhancing our Plan and implement the commitments partnerships partnerships and working collaboratively with made in our community agreements. our stakeholders. In January 2015, the Red Lake Gold Mine signed an agreement with the Wabauskang First Nation, formalizing a partnership that was more than four years in the making. Goldcorp became member of the Mining Association of Canada and the World Economic Forum. We also formed a partnership with the Canadian Heart and Stroke Foundation and became an Employer Partner of the Canadian Centre for Diversity and Inclusion (CCDI). Advance to ensure During 2015, we updated our Human Rights Roll out a company-wide training on human rights are Policy and became signatories of the Voluntary human rights and broaden awareness respected at Goldcorp Principles on Security and Human Rights in of our Human Rights Policy across our January 2016. We continue to comply with the operations. Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Develop a new In 2015, we developed a new CSR strategy and Implement our CSR strategy across Corporate Social implementation plan. The CSR Strategy includes the company. Responsibility (CSR) risk-based business planning that integrates Strategy CSR consistently within the overall sustainability programming of our company and provides a framework for continuous performance improvement in the areas of stakeholder engagement, sustainable economic benefits, and human rights. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 8 ABOUT US GOALS 2015 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION MOVING FORWARD People at Goldcorp Design and implement In 2015, we designed and implemented STEPUp, Evaluate the lessons learned through a behaviour-based our leadership program. Launched in August the pilot phase and integrate them competency and 2015, pilot programs were conducted at our into our leadership training program leadership development corporate offices and our Red Lake, Musselwhite moving forward. program and Peñasquito mines. Roll out Growing Throughout 2015, the Growing Choices program Broaden the scope of activities and Choices, the second was successfully rolled out to sites and offices. engage employees on other ways phase of our Creating Over 350 women from across the company to increase diversity throughout Choices initiative graduated from the program. Growing Choices is the organization. the second component of Creating Choices, our training, development and mentoring program for women. Safety and Health Achieve zero fatalities A fatality occurred at the Musselwhite mine on Achieving zero fatalities is always our November 25, 2015. main goal. Unfortunately, there was a fatality at the Marlin mine prior to the publication of this report. We will continue our efforts to ensure there are no more fatalities in the remainder of the year. Investigate and close 93% of PFO investigations were closed within the Investigate and close all PFOs within out all Potential Fatal 30-day investigation period. 30 days. Occurrences (PFOs) within 30 days Reduce All Injury Our AIFR, which includes employees and Reduce our AIFR to 1.14. Frequency Rate (AIFR) contractors, was 1.26 per 200,000 hours worked – by 10% a 16% improvement compared to 1.50 per 200,000 hours worked in 2014. Environmental Stewardship Implement the Tailings During 2015, every wholly owned active mine Look into new methods to manage Stewardship Strategy site at Goldcorp had each of its tailings facilities tailings and waste rock with less water, across all of our and water retention structures inspected and thereby reducing our water footprint. operating sites reviewed by qualified third-party tailings experts. Provide additional stability (physical Site-specific technical training was provided at all and geochemical) for our waste rock active sites for tailings facilities operators. and tailings facilities. Assess performance During 2015, we established site-specific energy Conclude the Goldcorp Energy against water and targets. We also met the milestones established Strategy and assess our performance energy targets for 2015 in the Water Stewardship Strategy against the five-year targets that were according to each site’s milestone schedule. described in that strategy. This will help us determine what the next phase of our Energy Strategy will look like. We will complete a pre-feasibility study for a major renewable project (the Cerro Negro wind farm). We will continue executing against the Water Stewardship Strategy milestones as per the schedule developed by each site. This will continue through 2016 and 2017. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 9 ABOUT US MAP OF PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS Alumbera, Argentina Minerals produced: Gold/Copper Gold production: 73,700 oz Ownership: 37.5% Musselwhite Borden, Ontario, Canada ONTARIO, CANADA Exploration project as at December 31, 2015 Camino Rojo, Mexico Exploration project as at December 31, 2015 Cerro Negro, Argentina Minerals produced: Gold/Silver Gold production: 507,400 oz Ownership: 100% Cochenour Cochenour, Ontario, Canada ONTARIO, CANADA Exploration project as at December 31, 2015 Éléonore QUÉBEC, CANADA Éléonore, Québec, Canada Minerals produced: Gold HEAD OFFICE Gold production: 268,100 oz VANCOUVER Borden Ownership: 100% Red Lake ONTARIO, CANADA Los Filos, Mexico ONTARIO, CANADA Porcupine Minerals produced: Gold ONTARIO, CANADA Gold production: 272,900 oz Ownership: 100% REGIONAL OFFICE TORONTO Marlin, Guatemala Minerals produced: Gold/Silver Gold production: 168,600 oz Ownership: 100% Camino Rojo MEXICO Musselwhite, Ontario, Canada REGIONAL OFFICE Minerals produced: Gold Peñasquito MEXICO CITY Gold production: 270,300 oz MEXICO Ownership: 100% Pueblo Viejo Los Filos DOMINICAN REPUBLIC NuevaUnion, Chile MEXICO Exploration project as at December 31, 2015 Ownership: 50% Marlin Peñasquito, Mexico GUATEMALA Minerals produced: Gold/Silver/Zinc/Lead Gold production: 860,300 oz Ownership: 100% Porcupine, Ontario, Canada Minerals produced: Gold Gold production: 274,300 oz Ownership: 100% Pueblo Viejo, Dominican Republic Minerals produced: Gold/Silver/Copper Gold production: 381,700 oz Ownership: 40% Red Lake, Ontario, Canada Alumbrera Minerals produced: Gold ARGENTINA Gold production: 375,700 oz NuevaUnion Ownership: 100% CHILE Operations Development Joint Venture Operations Cerro Negro Joint Venture Development ARGENTINA Offices Goldcorp 2016 Locations Map All production as at December 31, 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 10 ABOUT US OUR COMPANY Goldcorp is a leading gold producer focused on responsible mining practices with safe, low-cost production throughout the Americas. A portfolio of long-lived, high-quality assets positions us to deliver long-term value. Our operating cash flows are from the sale of gold and by-products, such as silver, copper, lead and zinc. In 2015, our operations, projects and offices engaged in gold mining and related activities including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation. We were organized into two operating regions (Canada and Latin America). Goldcorp’s vision is Together, Creating Sustainable Value. Our strategy is to build and acquire mines, grow net asset value, deliver cost savings, maintain an investment-grade balance sheet and operate responsibly in politically stable jurisdictions. Headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, we employ and contract over 15,800 people at operations and development projects throughout the Americas. For centuries, people have been In 2015, we achieved record gold production of 3.46 million ounces. drawn to gold and silver, and the We paid over $680 million in wages and salaries and over $550 million to two metals have a remarkable subcontractors. We will continue to focus on effective operating and capital range of uses, both decorative cost management going forward, while ensuring we create sustainable and practical. According to value for our shareholders, employees, contractors and partners. For a the World Gold Council, 60% full review of Goldcorp’s 2015 financial performance, please refer to our of all gold produced is used in audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, making jewelry. Gold is also 2015 as well as our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2015. used in aeronautics, electronics, medicine, nanotechnology and many industrial processes. Silver, like gold, is employed in crafting beautiful jewelry, as well as fine cutlery and mirrors. It is also widely used in electronics, pharmaceuticals, and in photography, along with its halide salts, like silver nitrate. Both gold and silver are still recognized as enduring sources of value and are traded as bullion in commodity markets around the world. As a member of the World Gold Council and the Silver Institute, Goldcorp supports industry-wide efforts to ensure the responsible production of gold and silver. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 11 ABOUT US KEY STATISTICS Key performance indicators for 2015, 2014, and 2013 (dollar amounts Goldcorp’s Principal are US$): Producing Mining Properties at December 31, 2015 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) 2015 2014 2013 The Red Lake, Éléonore, Porcupine Gold production (thousands of ounces) 3,464 2,871 2,667 and Musselwhite gold mines in Gold sold (thousands of ounces) 3,591 2,673 2,597 Canada; the Peñasquito gold/silver/ Total cash costs – by-product (per gold ounce) $605 $542 $553 lead/zinc mine and the Los Filos Total cash costs – co-product (per gold ounce) $685 $668 $687 gold mine in Mexico; the Marlin All-in sustaining costs (per gold ounce) $894 $949 $1,031 gold/silver mine in Guatemala; and Adjusted operating cash flow ($ millions) $1,437 $1,393 $1,601 the Cerro Negro gold/silver mine in Argentina are all 100% owned For more information on our key statistics, markets served and financial by Goldcorp. We held partial performance measures, please refer to our Management’s Discussion and interests in our remaining principal Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2015. production mining properties – the Alumbrera gold/copper mine OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE (37.5% interest) in Argentina and the Pueblo Viejo gold/silver/ Goldcorp is a leading gold producer engaged in gold mining and related copper mine (40% interest) in the activities including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation. At Dominican Republic. December 31, 2015, our principal producing mining properties comprised the following: BY-PRODUCTS GOLD SILVER ZINC LEAD COPPER Canada Éléonore X Musselwhite X Porcupine X Red Lake X Latin America Alumbrera X X Cerro Negro X X Los Filos X Marlin X X Peñasquito X X X X Pueblo Viejo X X X For more information about our exploration and development projects, please refer to our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2015. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 12 ABOUT US SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING 2015 In 2015, there were a number of important events, as per our financial highlights: • On December 23, 2015, Goldcorp announced we had successfully decommissioned the El Sauzal mine in Mexico in accordance with the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC). El Sauzal is the first mine in the world to be decommissioned in accordance with the ICMC. • On November 24, 2015, we announced that the company and Teck Resources Limited had combined their respective El Morro and Relincho deposits into a 50/50 joint venture. In June 2016, the joint venture was given the interim name of NuevaUnion. • On March 13, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Probe Mines Ltd. Probe’s principal asset is the Borden gold project in Ontario, 160 kilometres west of our Porcupine mine. • On March 12, 2015, we announced that the Peñasquito mine had reached a definitive court-approved settlement with the Cerro Gordo ejido relating to surface land rights to 600 hectares of land located within the confines of the Peñasquito mine site. • On February 20, 2015, we completed the sale of the Wharf mine in Lead, South Dakota to Coeur Mining, Inc. • On January 30, 2015, we announced that we had signed a Collaboration Agreement with the Wabauskang First Nation. The agreement paves the way for long-term economic benefits for the northwestern Ontario First Nation and provides a framework for strengthened collaboration in the development and operations of the Red Lake Gold Mines. With the signing of the agreement, we now have collaboration agreements in place with First Nations at all of our operating mines in Canada. • Cerro Negro and Éléonore declared commercial production effective January 1, 2015 and April 1, 2015, respectively. Further information regarding these changes is available in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2015. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 13 ABOUT US SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT A mine is a massive operation, and its supply chain is equally complex. Hundreds of thousands of items, from food to tires to construction materials, arrive in a constant flow. The role of our Supply Chain Management team is to ensure that each item is safely and responsibly sourced and shipped cost-effectively and on time. Goldcorp’s Supply Chain Management teams operate at the global, regional and mine site levels to manage contracts with suppliers, ranging from multinationals to nearby small businesses. Selecting which vendors to partner with is much more than seeking the lowest price. Supply chain management is a balance of requirements and priorities, from ethics and anti-corruption, to labour standards and local procurement. Every vendor relationship must meet our economic, logistical and sustainability standards. Guided by our Goldcorp Commercial Practices, the Supply Chain Management team applies due diligence in vendor selection. They must be assured that our providers are capable – organizationally, technically and financially – to reliably deliver the top-quality supplies or services that our mines’ operational performance depends on. Collectively, the Supply Chain team across the organization exceeded their cost savings targets for the year, without compromising reliability, quality or ethics. In addition, we support and implement the World Gold Council’s ConflictFree Gold Standard, which allows gold-mining companies like us to provide assurance that the gold has been extracted in a way that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful conflict, or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international law. For more information on our 2015 findings, please see the Human Rights and Security section, under Communities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 14 ABOUT US OUR VISION AND VALUES By balancing economic At Goldcorp, safe, responsible mining and sustainability excellence are prosperity, environmental company-wide commitments, which are at the core of all our activities stewardship and social and every business decision we make. We work to achieve a balance of economic prosperity, environmental stewardship and social responsibility responsibility, we strive that extends beyond the operating lives of our mining operations. to achieve a positive impact that goes beyond VALUES AND PILLARS the operating lives of our mines. At Goldcorp, our vision Together, Creating Sustainable Value describes why we are in business. Our values allow us to stand apart – they shape our culture and drive our success going forward. Our six pillars guide what we do every day. They support our strategy, guide our vision and are grounded in our values. In early 2015, we changed the Growing Partnerships pillar to Growing In early 2015, we changed Sustainability, which, in addition to partnerships, also encompasses the Growing Partnerships environmental stewardship and corporate social responsibility. We believe this change better supports our vision going forward. Goldcorp aims to pillar to Growing create a culture and working environment that sets the standard among Sustainability, which, in our peers for sustainable mining operations. Sustainability is a core part of addition to partnerships, what we do. also encompasses We believe that when we get the top three pillars right – growth in Sustainability, People and Safety – the bottom three pillars, which are all environmental stewardship focused on growing our net asset value, will naturally follow. and corporate social responsibility. We believe this change better supports our vision going forward. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 15 ABOUT US PILLARS: Growing People is about providing opportunities for personal and professional growth for everyone, and developing our people to their fullest potential. We value and respect each individual’s contributions. Growing Safety is an integral requirement of our business. We are committed to protecting our people by looking out for each other, by recognizing the complexity of the task at hand, and by enhancing our abilities to recognize and deal with risk. Growing Sustainability is about being accountable for leaving a positive economic, social and environmental legacy everywhere we operate. Our results are driven by good governance, collaborative partnerships, innovation and responsible stewardship of resources. Growing Margins requires all of us to consider the financial implications of our decisions and exercise financial discipline. Strong margins will ensure Goldcorp remains one of the lowest-cost senior gold producers and will allow us to deliver on our commitment to shareholders. Growing Reserves is fundamental to the long-term viability of our business. By replacing the gold we produce, we provide the resources for future development. Growing Reserves ensures our future. Growing Safe Production reflects a desire to get better in quality and output against whatever technical measure is relevant to where we work. Our overall gold production is the result of thousands of different technical inputs. VALUES: Safe Production: No ounce of gold is worth risking our life. At Goldcorp, we believe in creating a workplace that is Safe Enough for Our Families. Acting Ethically: Treat people with respect and act with integrity; abide by our Code of Conduct and avoid discrimination, bribery or corruption of any kind. Ethics is more than a set of rules – it is about having the courage to say and do the right thing, no matter what. Respecting All Our Stakeholders: Build partnerships, be a team player, and treat people fairly. Truly listen to those that are impacted by what we do. Open Communication: Speak up and admit when you (or we) have made a mistake. Share ideas; be honest. Through open communication, fresh new ideas will come forward, and that is how we will continue to be successful. Empowering Others: Help others succeed. Lead by example, be a good mentor and a lifelong learner, recognize good work, take responsibility, and celebrate the wins. Innovation: Be resourceful and always look for new and better ways of doing things. The freedom to come up with great new ideas and to take reasonable risks to implement them is part of our culture and key to our success. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 16 ABOUT US VISION: TOGETHER, CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE Together: We cannot achieve our goals alone. We work as a team with all others in the organization, and we also build collaborative partnerships with communities, governments and stakeholders for mutual success. Creating: We find and mine gold safely. Everything we do through the organization, across locations, is focused on safe production and creating sustainable value. Sustainable Value: We create value for our investors and our employees. We also create careers and support community development activities, and our operations create wealth on a local, regional and national level every day. We are committed to making sure that the places where we operate are left in as good or better condition than how we found them. We work hard to make a lasting positive impact on people’s lives throughout our business. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 17 ABOUT US CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our values are reinforced through good governance and strong leadership. We implement these values through our internal systems and corporate policies and guidance. All of our employees and contractors must comply with our Code of Conduct and related corporate policies. Together, these ensure that best industry standards and ethical practices are implemented throughout the organization, and that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations and standards. Acting ethically is a Goldcorp value, and the Code is intended to help us achieve and maintain our commitment to act with integrity. POLICY AND GUIDANCE STRUCTURE Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct is Goldcorp’s commitment to acting ethically and a key component of our company’s values. It is intended to be more than T AND KEY just a policy; it is a tool to help us achieve and CIES maintain our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity. It is applicable to all employees T AND KEY and contractors. CIES Sustainability Excellence The SEMS is our integrated management system T Management System (SEMS) focused on Safety and Health, Environment, K AND KEY framework and standards Corporate Social Responsibility and Security. CIES T AND KEY SEMS provides the framework for sustainability CIES management and specific performance standards K to implement our policies consistently across the company. It applies to all phases of the business, from property acquisition and exploration, through ANCE, K construction and production, to reclamation D TOOLS and closure. K Corporate guidance, Sites develop context-specific tools and procedures ANCE, procedures and tools that respond to their specific needs. These tools D TOOLS and procedures are in alignment with our corporate policies and include, but are not limited to, siteANCE, level grievance procedures, site-level security D TOOLS ANCE, management plans and site-level hazardous material management procedures. D TOOLS Training We train our employees and contractors in order to ensure our workforce respects and applies our policies, standards, procedures and tools across the company. Examples of these trainings include: anti-bribery and anti-corruption training, human rights training, safety leadership training and ethics training. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 18 ABOUT US KEY CORPORATE POLICIES The policies that guide our workforce are the backbone of our performance. Strategies and actions A description of key policies is in the following table and some of these guided by strong policies policies can be found on our website. drive our performance. GOLDCORP’S CORPORATE POLICIES Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy further elaborates on Goldcorp’s zero tolerance to bribery and corruption by outlining specific prohibition of commercial and public bribery as well as facilitation payments. The policy also includes specific compliance requirements for gifts and entertainment, political and charitable contributions, third-party risk management and transparency of our books and records. The principles included in our Code of Conduct summarize what Goldcorp expects from each of us and provides valuable advice on how to conduct our work with integrity. Our Goldcorp Investment Framework (GIF) provides direction over major investments decisions that meet our financial and operational criteria, including sustainability considerations. It helps guide our investment decisions to allocate capital to projects with the highest, risk-adjusted rates of return. The Framework ensures investments are aligned with our vision, pillars and values and achieve optimal shareholder value based on a consistent and sustainable decision-making framework. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy provides guidelines to develop meaningful and effective strategies for engaging with stakeholders, establish grievance mechanisms, identify socio-economic opportunities and make meaningful and sustainable contributions to the communities where we operate. Our Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy ensures that we meet our obligations under securities laws and stock exchange rules. The policy includes guidelines on disclosure of material information, the confidentiality of undisclosed material information and the preparation and release of communications made on Goldcorp’s behalf. It prohibits anyone from trading in our securities when that person is in possession of material, non-public information and provides for the imposition of trading blackout periods. Our Diversity Policy commits us to workplace diversity and sets out the guidelines by which we will endeavour to increase diversity throughout the company, including at the Board level. Our Donations Policy establishes guidelines for the administration of our corporate giving program. It outlines the four key areas of priority for philanthropic activities, which include education, health, community development, and arts and culture. The Environmental and Sustainability Policy states that Goldcorp and our subsidiaries are committed to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. Resources will be focused to achieve shareholder value without neglecting our commitment to sustainable development. The needs and culture of the local communities will be respected. The Human Rights Policy commits us to integrate human rights best practices into all of our business and decision-making processes. The policy mandates that we operate in a way that respects human rights of employees and the communities in which we operate. International humanitarian laws were consulted in developing the policy and it includes our commitment to seek to establish constructive dialogues and partnerships with a variety of stakeholders on human rights performance. The Occupational Health and Safety Policy ensures that we develop and implement effective management systems to: identify, minimize and manage health and safety risks; promote and enhance employee commitment and accountability; provide training and information; strive for continuous improvement by setting targets and measuring results; and provide the resources to achieve a safe and healthy work environment. The Security Policy commits us to respecting human rights and promoting the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 19 ABOUT US SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SEMS) At Goldcorp, sustainability is both a foundational component and functional The Sustainability element that applies company-wide. Excellence Management Created and rolled out in 2014, the SEMS is our integrated management System, or SEMS, provides system for Safety and Health, Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Security. Composed of a framework and clearly defined an integrated platform standards, the SEMS provides organizational structure, responsibilities for delivering on, and and practices for implementing and maintaining a desired level of measuring the impact sustainability performance. It is designed to apply across the entire mining life cycle. Through its implementation, we will be able to deliver on our of, our sustainability commitments, measure and monitor our lasting positive impact and commitments and achieve our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. objectives. Historically, the various components of sustainability – whether it was CSR, health and safety or environment – have been viewed as separate responsibilities. SEMS incorporates sustainability into our core business at all levels, so that our workforce understand they all have a role to play in implementing sustainability at Goldcorp. In 2014, we rolled out the system and built the capacity for a rigorous monitoring and reporting process. Since then, we have conducted six internal audits. These audits provided insight into the practicality and status of the integration of the standards into our daily operations. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 20 ABOUT US THE SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SEMS) The SEMS is Goldcorp’s integrated management system composed of a framework and a set of standards for implementing and maintaining a desired level of sustainability performance throughout the company. It is intended to be fully integrated into all core business functions and emphasizes responsibility and accountability at all organizational levels. EXECUTE > OVERARCHING SEMS STANDARDS SEMS The SEMS framework has a set of overarching standards that are applicable STANDARDS across the company and throughout the mining life cycle. These standards represent performance benchmarks that all of our sites are expected REV I EW > P L AN > to meet. SEMS SEMS STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC AREAS In addition to the overarching standards applicable to all functions, the SEMS contains standards specific to Safety and Health, Environmental Protection, Corporate Social Responsibility and Security. Safety and Health Standards: < IM P R OV E Help Goldcorp create a safe and healthy workplace by stipulating the requirements for implementing and monitoring safety practices, initiatives and programs. Environmental Protection Standards: Stipulate the requirements for the effective management of materials, water, energy, and waste and hazardous materials. They define the requirements for environmental monitoring and exploration, closure, and reclamation planning. Community Relations Standards: Require each Goldcorp operation to understand the local social, cultural, economic, political and institutional context and create locally adapted engagement and impact management plans. Security Standards: Help Goldcorp ensure that security management at all sites reflects our commitment to respect human rights, everywhere we do business. GOLDCORP SEMS OBJECTIVES (CYCLE) The SEMS core objectives are designed to cover all aspects and activities that have the potential to affect the sustainability of our sites and the communities where we operate. PLAN > Establishing objectives, process and structure necessary to deliver results and desired outcomes EXECUTE > Implementing plans or processes to consistently and effectively manage risk and meet regulatory and voluntary commitments REVIEW > Monitoring and evaluating performance and results IMPROVE > Sharing leading practices and developing a culture of continued improvement 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 21 ABOUT US COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES As a multinational company with responsibilities to our people, our communities, our industry and the environment in the areas where we operate, we have been steadily increasing our presence on national, international and industry-specific boards and organizations. In keeping with our commitment to social responsibility, we have adopted a number of voluntary codes and other external instruments that we consider particularly relevant to our business. We will continue to monitor the advancement of sustainable development initiatives in civil society to ensure we remain a responsible company wherever we do business. The table below summarizes our external commitments and initiatives: EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS AND INITIATIVES EXTERNAL STANDARDS AND COMMITMENTS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS The Catalyst Accord Canada Association for Mineral Exploration BC Business for Social Responsibility Extractive Industries Transparencies Initiative International Council on Mining and Metals Devonshire Initiative International Cyanide Management Code Mine alliance (Québec) World Economic Forum World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Mining Association of Canada Transparency International Standard United Nations Global Compact Mining Industry Roundtable on Safety Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Plenary (as of 2016) United Nations Declaration of Human Rights Ontario Mining Association Boreal Leadership Council United Nations Guiding Principles on Business Québec Mining Association and Human Rights The Voluntary Principles on Security and Prospectors and Developers Association Human Rights (signatory as of 2016) of Canada World Gold Council For a more detailed description of our memberships and commitments, please visit Memberships and Commitments on our website. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 22 ABOUT THE REPORT Open communication is one of our core values and is embodied in our Our annual Sustainability annual Sustainability Report. Each report is a milestone on our sustainability Report is a valuable journey that shows our stakeholders both how far we’ve come and how much farther we can go. opportunity to connect This is Goldcorp’s tenth annual Sustainability Report that discloses the with our stakeholders and economic, environmental and social impacts of our operations. This report better understand and follows the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 4.0), the address the issues that United Nations Global Compact and the International Council on Mining and Metals. This year’s report is a G4 Core report. matter the most to them Our annual Sustainability Report provides us with a valuable opportunity and to our business. to engage our stakeholders and respond to issues that matter the most to them and to our business. It will continue to inform company risk management, strategy development and stakeholder engagement activities as we work to further focus and prioritize our sustainability and corporate social responsibility initiatives. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 23 ABOUT THE REPORT SCOPE AND CONTENT Information in this report covers the 2015 calendar year, which coincides We have designed this with the company’s financial year. report to be accessible to a We report annually on our sustainability performance. Our previous Sustainability Report covered the 2014 calendar year and was published in number of different readers. June 2015. A PDF format is available As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), for those who may want Goldcorp is committed to following a set of 10 principles and supporting to conduct an in‑depth position statements, public reporting of related performance and analysis. The online version independent assurance of sustainability performance. allows readers to navigate A key part of our commitment to public disclosure is to report in line with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Mining and Metals easily to specific sections Sector Supplement. The GRI provides reporting principles and reporting of interest. Both our guidance to help define report content, ensure the quality of reported online and PDF versions information and set the report boundary. Under the G4 guidelines, companies must focus their reporting on topics that are specifically of the report contain a material to them and their stakeholders. As a result, our 2015 Sustainability GRI index to help organize Report discloses information on the GRI indicators that respond to our sustainability content based most material topics. on a specific GRI indicator. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 24 ABOUT THE REPORT BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS This report covers Goldcorp’s managed operations. In 2015, we had eight operating sites in four countries under our management: Canada, Mexico, Guatemala and Argentina. Data that is reported in the following sections: Our Company, Key Statistics, Contributions to and from Government, and Mine Closure follows the reporting procedures utilized in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2015. Some, where noted, are non-GAAP measures on an attributable basis, which include discontinued operations and our share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. The table below summarizes Goldcorp’s sites. There were no specific limitations on the scope or boundary of this report. SITE LOCATION TYPE OF SITE MANAGEMENT % INFORMATION REPORTED Musselwhite Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Porcupine Gold Mines Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Red Lake Gold Mines Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Éléonore Québec, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Los Filos Guerrero, Mexico Operation 100% Fully reported Peñasquito Zacatecas, Mexico Operation 100% Fully reported Marlin Guatemala Operation 100% Fully reported Cerro Negro Santa Cruz, Argentina Operation 100% Fully reported Borden Ontario, Canada Exploration project 100% Select data reported Camino Rojo Zacatecas, Mexico Exploration project 100% Select data reported Cerro Blanco Guatemala Exploration project 100% Select data reported Cochenour Ontario, Canada Exploration project 100% Select data reported El Sauzal Chihuahua, Mexico Closed 100% Select data reported Equity Silver British Columbia, Canada Closed 100% Select data reported San Martin San Ignacio, Honduras Closed 100% Select data reported Alumbrera Catamarca, Argentina Operation – joint venture 37.5% Managed by Glencore plc. Select data reported, where noted. Pueblo Viejo Dominican Republic Operation – joint venture 40% Managed by Barrick Gold Corporation. Select data reported, where noted. NuevaUnion Atacama, Chile Exploration project – joint 50% Managed with Teck venture Resources. Select data reported, where noted. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 25 ABOUT THE REPORT RESTATEMENTS Below are restatements of historical data that were found to be in error or subject to change during the 2015 data collection process. These data have been corrected or adjusted in the body of the 2015 Sustainability Report. Goldcorp follows the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) guideline for reporting safety performance. In 2015, we reassessed some previous incident rates to ensure that all sites classified incidents consistently under this guideline. As a result, some incidents were reclassified as reportable that were previously not included, and we have restated our 2014 All Injury Frequency Rate to reflect this reclassification. The 2014 number has been corrected to 1.50 from 1.38. Emissions data for 2013 and 2014 were also recalculated to include all the currently operating sites for better comparison with 2015. Sites in Latin America have been recently developing the methodology and further refinements in following years should be expected. Additionally, we have restated our workforce data (including employees by region and gender), as well as local employment and wages, and local procurement, based on our new organizational structure of our two operating regions (Canada and Latin America). The data collected for this report has been gathered using robust systems and tools currently in place for the reporting year. Continuous improvement of our data collection and analysis processes is an ongoing focus for Goldcorp. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 26 ABOUT THE REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX The GRI G4 Reporting Framework and the Mining and Metals Sector Click here to learn more Supplement have been used to develop the 2015 Sustainability Report. More information on the framework can be found on the GRI website. In about GRI indicators that addition, this report features a GRI Content Index tool to allow our readers were only partially reported. to easily identify data that corresponds to a GRI indicator. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 27 ABOUT THE REPORT ASSURANCE We use a number of internal controls and monitoring systems as part of our process for managing and reporting information. These internal systems are important to the overall integrity and credibility of this report. For example, we use a sustainability data management software for the collection of 2015 sustainability data. This web-based software is linked to the GRI and provides an audit trail to increase the rigour and transparency of data collection. The system is designed for one person to enter and submit the data, which is then verified by a different individual prior to being consolidated at the corporate level. External Assurance: Ernst & Young LLP was engaged to provide limited assurance on selected assertions and selected performance information included in our Sustainability Report for the year ended December 31, 2015. For the full text of Ernst & Young LLP’s assurance statement, click here: Goldcorp 2015 Sustainability Assurance Statement. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 28 ABOUT THE REPORT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains “forward-looking statements”, within the meaning of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the United States Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” under the provisions of applicable Canadian securities legislation, concerning the business, operations and financial performance and condition of Goldcorp. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, the estimation of Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources (as defined in the mineral reserves and mineral resources tables located at www.goldcorp.com) the realization of Mineral Reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, costs of production, targeted cost reductions, capital expenditures, free cash flow, costs and timing of the development of new deposits, success of exploration activities, permitting time lines, hedging practices, currency exchange rate fluctuations, requirements for additional capital, government regulation of mining operations, environmental risks, unanticipated reclamation expenses, timing and possible outcome of pending litigation, title disputes or claims and limitations on insurance coverage. Generally, these forwardlooking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “plans”, “expects”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates”, “believes” or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will”, “occur” or “be achieved” or the negative connotation thereof. Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of factors that, if untrue, could cause the actual results, performances or achievements of Goldcorp to be materially different from future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Such statements and information are based on numerous assumptions regarding present and future business strategies and the environment in which Goldcorp will operate in the future, including the price of gold and other by-product metals, anticipated costs and ability to achieve goals. Certain important factors that could cause actual results, performances or achievements to differ materially from those in the forwardlooking statements include, among others, gold and other by-product metals price volatility, discrepancies between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and mineral resources and metallurgical recoveries, mining operational and development risks, litigation risks, regulatory restrictions (including environmental regulatory restrictions and liability), changes in national and local government legislation, taxation, controls or regulations and/or change in the administration of laws, policies and practices, expropriation or nationalization of property and political or economic developments in Canada, the United States and other jurisdictions in which Goldcorp does or may carry on business in the future, delays, suspension and technical challenges associated with capital projects, higher prices for fuel, steel, power, labour and other consumables, currency fluctuations, the speculative nature of gold exploration, the global economic climate, dilution, share price volatility, competition, loss of key employees, additional funding requirements and defective title to mineral claims or property. Although Goldcorp believes its expectations are based upon reasonable assumptions and has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual actions, events or results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause actions, events or results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Goldcorp to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: risks related to international 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 29 ABOUT THE REPORT operations including economic and political instability in foreign jurisdictions in which Goldcorp operates; risks related to current global financial conditions; risks related to joint venture operations; actual results of current exploration activities; actual results of current reclamation activities; environmental risks; conclusions of economic evaluations; changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined; future prices of gold and other by-product metals; possible variations in ore reserves, grade or recovery rates; failure of plant, equipment or processes to operate as anticipated; risks related to the integration of acquisitions; accidents, labour disputes; delays in obtaining governmental approvals or financing or in the completion of development or construction activities and other risks of the mining industry, as well as those factors discussed in the section entitled “Description of the Business – Risk Factors” in Goldcorp’s most recent annual information form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. Although Goldcorp has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof and, accordingly, are subject to change after such date. Except as otherwise indicated by Goldcorp, these statements do not reflect the potential impact of any non-recurring or other special items or of any dispositions, monetizations, mergers, acquisitions, other business combinations or other transactions that may be announced or that may occur after the date hereof. Forward-looking statements are provided for the purpose of providing information about management’s current expectations and plans and allowing investors and others to get a better understanding of Goldcorp’s operating environment. Goldcorp does not intend or undertake to publicly update any forward-looking statements that are included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 30 OUR PRIORITIES We at Goldcorp know that only by understanding the economic, Materiality – what matters environmental and social impacts that matter most to our business, to our most for us and our stakeholders and to society at large can we realize our vision: Together, Creating Sustainable Value. stakeholders. In 2015, we conducted a materiality analysis in order to better understand and target our priorities. A materiality analysis is a strategic review of the topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself and its stakeholders. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 31 OUR PRIORITIES MATERIALITY ANALYSIS For the purpose of this report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative’s definition of materiality: “Those topics and indicators that reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.” These material topics can have a significant financial impact and are also relevant for stakeholders who focus on our financial results. Conducting a materiality analysis creates value for Goldcorp in four distinct ways: Provides an Helps prioritize Informs risk Improves opportunity to sustainability management and understanding engage with reporting topics strategic planning and response to stakeholders and and targeted stakeholder discuss what communications needs and matters most for stakeholders concerns to them Understanding the sustainability impacts that matter most to our business and stakeholders enables us to focus our efforts on our key challenges and opportunities, which in turn will contribute to Together, Creating Sustainable Value. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 32 OUR PRIORITIES METHODOLOGY Our 2015 materiality analysis was designed in accordance with the new GRI G4 materiality requirements and the GRI Principles for Defining Report Content. We defined the purpose and objective of our materiality 1. METHODOLOGY analysis, collected information and designed interview and DESIGN engagement instruments. We reviewed global and industry reports, relevant laws, 2. RESEARCH AND regulations, international agreements, voluntary agreements IDENTIFICATION of strategic significance, media scans, internal documentation OF MATERIAL TOPICS and government briefs, among other sources. We applied a relevance scale ranging from 0 to 4 to assess the topic’s level of importance and impact for our stakeholders and 3. MATERIAL TOPIC for the company. We took into account the sustainability ASSESSMENT impacts, risks and opportunities of our operations, the main AND PRELIMINARY topics and future challenges for our sector as reported by our PRIORITIZATION stakeholders and industry peers, and the critical factors for enabling our organizational success. We applied the GRI’s Principles of Completeness and 4. ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder Inclusiveness, and engaged internal and external AND VALIDATION stakeholders in in-depth interviews to validate the topics. 5. REVIEW AND FINAL The results of these interviews were aggregated and CATEGORIZATION analyzed, resulting in a final categorization and prioritization AND PRIORITIZATION of material topics. Stakeholders that participated in our materiality analysis included employees, nongovernmental organizations, industry associations, socially responsible investors, community members, First Nations groups and government officials.1 1 A total of 51 stakeholders participated in our 2015 Materiality Analysis. Out of these 51 stakeholders, 65% were external (community members and Indigenous Peoples, investors, non-governmental organizations, industry associations, and government officials) and 35% were internal (employees and members of the senior management team). 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 33 OUR PRIORITIES YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS During our materiality analysis engagement, some questions and concerns related to our sustainability performance were raised. In hopes of better responding to these questions and concerns, we have summarized the main themes discussed and provided responses: THEME YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS WHAT WE ARE DOING ABOUT IT Human Rights How is Goldcorp managing the respect of • After engaging with some of our external stakeholders, we human rights? updated our Human Rights Policy to include clauses on grievance mechanisms; the Conflict-Free Gold Standard; free, prior, and informed consent; rights of Indigenous Peoples; resettlement planning; and potential measures in the event of non-compliance. In addition, in early 2016, we became a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and will continue to ensure we comply with the Principles in our operations. • In 2016, we will roll out a company-wide human rights training program to better train our workforce in human rights and human rights risks, and in reporting potential or actual violations. For more information, please see our Human Rights section, under Communities. Environment The mining sector has seen a number of • We recognize the important environmental aspects of tailings-related incidents in recent years. How is waste rock and tailings management. For this reason, we Goldcorp mitigating risks in this area? have included specific SEMS standards to manage them. Additionally, we developed a Tailings Stewardship Strategy in 2014, and implementation began in 2015. This is a management strategy developed to ensure best practices are implemented for proper construction, operation, maintenance, monitoring and, ultimately, closure of our tailings storage facilities. For more information, please see the Waste and Hazardous Materials Management section, under Environmental Stewardship. Mining has actual and potential environmental • Our strategy is to identify and proactively mitigate and impacts. What is Goldcorp doing to minimize its manage our environmental impacts. We have embedded our footprint? environmental stewardship strategy in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS), which provides us with a standardized, systematized approach to environmental management in key areas, including specific strategies for Water Stewardship, Energy Management and Tailings Stewardship. In addition, our Water and Energy Stewardship Strategies are helping us understand and manage our water and energy footprint. For more information, please see our Environmental Stewardship section. What is Goldcorp’s strategy around mine • We are committed to building a positive legacy throughout closure and legacy management? the mine life, closure and post-closure phases of the cycle. On December 23, 2015, we announced that the El Sauzal mine was the first mine in the world to be successfully decommissioned in accordance with the International Cyanide Management Code. In order to respond in more detail to this issue, we created a new section in the report specifically describing our approach to Mine Closure and Reclamation. Sustainable Economic How does Goldcorp contribute to local • Our CSR strategy guides us in developing sustainable Benefits economies? economic benefits for the communities where we operate. The focus is on local employment, procurement and contributions. For more information on our CSR strategy, please see the CSR Management Approach, under Communities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 34 OUR PRIORITIES THEME YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS WHAT WE ARE DOING ABOUT IT Sustainable Economic Are Goldcorp’s community contributions • We contribute to the economic development of host Benefits sustainable? Is the company generating positive communities and countries through a variety of methods. impacts in local communities? We recognize that we have the ability to impact and influence the local and regional economies around our sites. This is why we are working to create long-term social and economic benefits that do not leave a legacy of dependence. Our approach to this is multifaceted and incorporates: local hiring and procurement initiatives, including training; capacity building; direct community contributions through donations and investments; and infrastructure investment. For more information, please see the Sustainable Benefits for Communities section, under Communities. Diversity and Equal How is Goldcorp promoting a more diverse and • We have a Diversity Policy and are implementing the policy Opportunities inclusive workplace? across our operations. In 2015, our President and CEO signed the CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, a joint initiative of the UN Global Compact and UN Women. A new Growing Choices program for women was launched to extend the existing Creating Choices program. 350 women graduated from Growing Choices in 2015. For more information on our Diversity Initiatives, please see the Diversity and Equal Opportunities section, under Our People. Stakeholder Engagement How does Goldcorp ensure it is inclusive and • Effective stakeholder management is fundamental to the transparent with all its stakeholders in its sustainability of our operations. Stakeholder management engagement processes? is a multi-step process that recognizes the unique values and interests of different stakeholders and the ways they are impacted. • Local site management, along with corporate and regional management, are responsible for identifying, mapping, prioritizing and engaging with a variety of local, national and international stakeholders on topics related to our operations. This is a continuous process, which requires regular monitoring for effectiveness. A detailed breakdown of our engagement approach can be found in our Community Engagement section. Safety and Health How do you ensure that you operate in a way • Over the past five years, our All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) that is Safe Enough for Our Families? has improved by 35%, from 1.94 in 2011 to 1.26 in 2015, while the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has improved by 19%, from 0.31 in 2011 to 0.25 in 2015. Additionally, we had 162,196 employee safety engagements across our operations this year, exceeding our target by 19%. • In addition, reporting and investigating Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs) is a critical part of preventing fatalities and achieving our number one objective: Zero Fatalities. In 2015, there were 107 PFOs compared to 89 in 2014. This increase is largely due to greater awareness and reporting of incidents that had near-fatal consequences. The improvement in reporting and investigation of PFOs will continue to remain a focus across Goldcorp as we continue to emphasize the importance of prevention, mitigation and communication of these types of incidents. For more information, please see our Safety and Health section. Business Ethics and Are you advocating and collaborating with • Goldcorp participates in government outreach related to Compliance peers and government to ensure the industry the mining industry. For example, in 2015, we assembled operates with the best standards, sharing the Ontario Mining Roundtable, a unique gathering knowledge and best practices? of approximately 90 senior leaders, including cabinet ministers, chief executive officers, banking executives, First Nations leaders, experts from the mining industry, mining capital markets, the Government of Ontario, and associated supply and service industries, in order to discuss Ontario’s mining and related industries from an innovative perspective. For more information, please see our Public Policy Advocacy section. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 35 OUR PRIORITIES TOP MATERIAL TOPICS The highest-priority material categories and topics form the main content of our annual Our material topics Sustainability Report. These are the interests, topics and expectations raised by our are organized in stakeholders during our materiality analysis, and they also reflect our core opportunities five categories: in contributing to sustainable development in the areas where we do business. Strategy and Governance The Materiality Matrix illustrates the distribution and ranking of the topics. This 2015 Sustainability Report reports on the topics in the mid-to-high quadrants of the Materiality Communities Matrix. Our material topics are organized in five categories1: Our People • Strategy and Governance Safety and Health • Communities • Our People Environmental Stewardship • Safety and Health • Environmental Stewardship CATEGORIES: STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP OUR PEOPLE CRITICAL IMPORTANCE Waste and Hazardous Material Management Stakeholder Engagement Human Rights Environmental Compliance Rights and Engagement HIGH IMPORTANCE of Indigenous Peoples Water IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Management Workforce Safety and Health Sustainable Benefits Economic for Communities Enterprise Risk Impact Management Governance and Accountability AVERAGE IMPORTANCE Energy Management and Climate Change Biodiversity Diversity and Equal Management Opportunities LOW IMPORTANCE Supply Chain Management Research and Development LOW IMPACT AVERAGE IMPACT HIGH IMPACT CRITICAL IMPACT INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS 1 All of the topics are material for all of our operations. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 36 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY Ensuring senior management is accountable Employees for environmental, social and economic Socially responsible investors issues. Maintaining the highest ethical Non-profit organizations standards to prevent human rights Industry associations violations, corruption and bribery throughout Indigenous groups and activities and supply chains. Complying community members Government with all applicable laws, regulations and company policies. 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Managing issues and events that could cause Employees reputational, financial, political, operational Socially responsible investors and/or strategic impacts. Ensuring we have Non-profit organizations robust risk management processes at the site, Industry associations regional and corporate levels to assess both Indigenous groups and internal and external risks that could impact community members Government Goldcorp. One of the many ways we manage our external risks is through the country risk 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 assessment exercises, which are conducted quarterly in countries where Goldcorp is active. Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH Ensuring a safe and healthy work Employees environment for our workforce. Socially responsible investors Non-profit organizations Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 37 OUR PRIORITIES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Ensuring stakeholders participate in early, Employees meaningful and transparent ongoing Socially responsible investors engagement. Non-profit organizations Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder HUMAN RIGHTS Ensuring human rights are upheld through all Employees business activities. Socially responsible investors Non-profit organizations Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder RIGHTS AND ENGAGEMENT OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES Engaging early and transparently with Employees Indigenous Peoples to build strong and Socially responsible investors collaborative relationships. Non-profit organizations Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ECONOMIC IMPACT Creating positive economic impacts for Employees communities in which we operate. This Socially responsible investors includes both direct and indirect economic Non-profit organizations impacts through the tax revenues and royalty Industry associations payments we direct around the world, Indigenous groups and community members capital expenditures made through local Government capacity-building, and purchase of goods and services in the communities where our mines 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 are located. Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 38 OUR PRIORITIES SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS FOR COMMUNITIES Strategically investing to build Employees partnerships and local capacity through Socially responsible investors community investment, procurement and Non-profit organizations employment activities. Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Reducing energy consumed and greenhouse Employees gas (GHG) emissions. Investing in alternative Socially responsible investors energy sources for operational efficiencies Non-profit organizations and cost savings (e.g., solar, wind, etc.). Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Ensuring the highest standards of integrity Employees and compliance with applicable laws, Socially responsible investors regulations and company policies. Non-profit organizations Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder WATER MANAGEMENT Optimizing water consumption and discharge Employees while maximizing water quality. Socially responsible investors Non-profit organizations Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 39 OUR PRIORITIES BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Integrating long-term sustainable approaches Employees to support biodiversity. Contributing to Socially responsible investors integrated approaches to land use, from Non-profit organizations development through operation and closure Industry associations (e.g., alterations of landscape, vegetation Indigenous groups and removal and wildlife habitats). Actively community members Government reclaiming land and safely restoring legacy assets and dormant properties. 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder WASTE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL MANAGEMENT Managing the sourcing, transport, use and Employees disposal of waste, including recycling and Socially responsible investors tailings management. Non-profit organizations Industry associations Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Encouraging diversity of gender, ages, Employees cultures, backgrounds and skills throughout Socially responsible investors the Board of Directors, management team, Non-profit organizations employees, contractors, business partners Industry associations and suppliers. Indigenous groups and community members Government 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 40 OUR PRIORITIES GOLDCORP AND THE SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations and its member states, are ambitious and will require collaboration among many sectors. The role of the private sector, and companies like Goldcorp, is critical in this new, universal set of goals to eradicate poverty, protect the planet and advance prosperity by 2030. THE SDGs AND THE ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR Businesses like Goldcorp have a tremendous impact on communities. We provide local jobs and use local supply chains, which in turn create jobs and build human capital. We build physical and institutional infrastructure and support technology transfer. The resulting growth in products and services can have multiplier effects that improve communities’ financial sustainability. IDENTIFYING OUR PRIORITIES AND ALIGNING OUR EFFORTS Our materiality analysis is an important first step toward achieving the SDGs. By engaging with our stakeholders and learning their concerns and priorities related to sustainability, we can improve our understanding of the economic, environmental and social impacts that matter most to them, as well as to our business and society at large. As a first step, we have mapped our top material topics, internal initiatives and strategies to the SDGs. We know we can play a key role in achieving the SDGs and each one of these Goals contributes to the sustainability of our operations. Therefore; this mapping exercise has helped us understand where synergies exist and where gaps should be addressed. We have provided information on how our current initiatives and activities can support the achievement of these goals. As our sustainability strategy evolves, we will align our efforts with the SDGs to minimize the negative impacts and maximize the positive ones. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 41 OUR PRIORITIES GOAL: Health: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all, at all ages Mining companies can facilitate health and well-being through addressing safety and health risk factors in their workforce and, in some cases, in local communities. The “Safe Enough for Our Families” motto represents the importance of protecting safety and health at work, at home and in our local communities. Our strategy is to nurture a culture of safety and health in the workplace and to equip our employees with the tools, training and attitudes of continual safety awareness. In 2015, we carried out safety training and coaching, risk assessments, employee engagement, emergency preparedness programs and safety audits. More than 162,000 employee safety engagements were held this year, 19% over our target. Our All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) has improved by 35% over the past five years, and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has improved by 19%. For more information, please see the Safety and Health section. GOAL: Education: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Mining can contribute to quality education through investments in technical and educational training programs. At Goldcorp, we invest in educational programs that support childhood, youth and adult development in local communities. We also invest in research related to our business. A new Industrial Mechanics program that we supported financially will provide skills and technical training to 15,000 students in northern Chile. Similarly, in Mazapil, Mexico, the CONALEP trades training scholarship program has graduated hundreds of local youth, with more than 90% finding post-graduation employment with our financial support. In Guatemala, we provided scholarships to 150 students through a partnership with CAN-Educate. Near Musselwhite, we partnered with the Oshki-Pimache-O-Win Education and Training Institute (OSHKI) on the Aboriginal Mining and Skilled Trades Entry Project (AMSTEP), which just graduated its first class of First Nations students. Near our Vancouver headquarters, we supported Pathways to Education, a program of academic, social and financial support for high-school students in low-income communities. For more information, please see the Sustainable Benefits for Communities section. GOAL: Women: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Mining can promote gender equality through investment in initiatives that work towards gender parity and equal pay for equal work. Diversity and Equal Opportunities is one of our most important material topics. We strive to foster an open and inclusive workplace environment and strongly support the principle that all individuals should have an equal opportunity to participate in our company and achieve their full potential. In 2015, a Vice President of Diversity was appointed and a Diversity Committee was established. Also in 2015, our President and CEO signed the CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, a joint initiative of the UN Global Compact and UN Women. For more information, please see the Diversity and Equal Opportunities section. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 42 OUR PRIORITIES GOAL: Water: Ensure access to water and sanitation Mining generally uses significant quantities of water. The mining industry can ensure adequate access to clean water and sanitation by reducing its water footprint, ensuring the quality of water discharges and sharing water monitoring data and expertise with partners. Water Management is one of our top material topics. We have a Water Stewardship Strategy, which requires that every Goldcorp site must establish water milestones for their local environment. The process is underway and will continue through 2016 and 2017, and water recycling has improved as each site has made progress on their water stewardship strategies. For more information, please see the Water Management section. GOALS: Energy and Climate: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, and take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Mining is energy-intensive. While energy efficiency is a necessary focus, mining can invest in energy efficiency measures and incorporate renewable energy into its power supplies. In addition, mining can adapt to climate change by working to reduce our carbon footprint and by engaging in dialogue with stakeholders to enhance adaptive capacities and integrate climate change measures into policies and strategies. Energy Management and Climate Change is one of our top material topics. Climate change is now firmly established on our agenda and is an integral part of our business management practices. Our Energy Stewardship Strategy ensures that we continue to take active steps to better manage our energy use and minimize our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We assess climate-related risks as part of our annual site-level and enterprise risk assessment processes. We continue to work on improving our energy efficiency and on monitoring the development of energy-efficient products and services, renewable resources and cleaner sources of energy. Since 2012, our Energy Stewardship Strategy has guided us in managing our energy use and minimizing GHG emissions. We have made progress: GHG emissions have trended downward, both on an absolute basis, and in intensity, since 2013. At Musselwhite, reducing base load electrical consumption and managing peak demand allowed the mine to eliminate the use of diesel in production, which saved approximately 13,000 tonnes of CO2e in 2015 alone. For more information, please see the Energy Management and Climate Change section. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 43 OUR PRIORITIES GOAL: Economy: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work Mining has the potential to generate sustainable economic growth through local procurement and employment. Mining companies can work collaboratively with partners to increase local content and supply capacity, which helps drive long-term, diversified economic opportunities. Our approach to the sustainable economic development of host communities incorporates local hiring and procurement initiatives, including training, capacity building, direct community donations and investments, and infrastructure investment. Our CSR strategy, which was developed in 2015, includes a component on sustainable economic benefits for the communities where we operate, which places a strategic organizational focus on local employment, procurement and contributions. In 2015, 76% of employees were drawn locally and regionally, 85% of our goods and services were purchased from regional and national sources, and we typically pay an entry-level wage that averages 2.4 times the local minimum wage. For more information, please see the Communities section. GOAL Consumption: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Mining can work to minimize waste from the mining process via the responsible use, recycling and repurposing of raw materials. Managing the sourcing, transport, use and disposal of waste – including responsible use and recycling – is a top priority. Our Tailings Stewardship Strategy ensures best practices in tailings storage facilities and helps us retain a leadership position in mine waste management. All our operating sites underwent tailings risk assessments in 2015. These programs serve to strengthen our social licence to operate by establishing standards and consistency and enhancing community acceptance. For more information, please see the Waste and Hazardous Materials Management section. GOAL: Ecosystems: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Mining generates impacts in ecosystems. However, efforts to mitigate these impacts include investments in conservation programs, protection of threatened or endangered species, and reclamation of land. Our goal is to develop, operate and close our mining properties in a sustainable manner. Biodiversity factors into our plans prior to mine construction, through operations and after closure. Every operation has an environmental closure plan in place, which includes reclamation strategies that will leave healthy, thriving ecosystems with productive, useful land for locals. In 2015, El Sauzal was the first mine to demonstrate its successful decommissioning in accordance with the International Cyanide Management Code. For more information, please see the Mine Closure section. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 44 OUR PRIORITIES GOAL: Sustainability: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Through stakeholder engagement, mining can be a catalyst for partnerships at the community, regional, national and international levels. We work to build sustained dialogue and develop meaningful partnerships. We maintain engagement with our industry peers and the international financial world through membership in respected associations, including the International Council on Mining and Metals, the Mining Association of Canada, the World Gold Council, the Boreal Leadership Council and the World Economic Forum. We maintain partnerships with charitable groups that support issues of importance to us, such as the Heart and Stroke Foundation and the Canadian Centre for Diversity and Inclusion. For more information, please see the Communities section. GOAL: Poverty: End poverty in all its forms, everywhere Mining can contribute to poverty reduction by generating employment, local economic activity, royalties and tax revenues. We have a significant indirect impact and influence on surrounding economies. Our economic impacts are delivered via taxes, procurement, hiring and community contributions. Our SEMS and CSR strategy provide direction to maximize the positive aspects of these impacts on local economies. Our sites invest in health, education, community development, arts and culture, and infrastructure, as well as local employment and procurement. For example, we contributed approximately $27 million to communities in 2015. For more information, please see the Sustainable Benefits for Communities section. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 45 Realizing Goldcorp’s vision – Together, Creating Sustainable Value – requires committed leadership, sound strategy, good governance and a long-term perspective. Our strengths in these areas help provide the foundation for future success. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 2015 HIGHLIGHTS • We updated and rolled out our Third-Party Due Diligence 27% Standards, which define the minimum requirements that In 2015, 27% of our directors were our employees must fulfill when entering into a commercial women and 26% of our officers were relationship with a third party, such as a supplier, on behalf women. In addition, our directors of Goldcorp. and officers represent ten different • We completed three SEMS audits at our Peñasquito, nationalities and self-identify with Red Lake and Marlin mines. 30 distinct cultures/ethnicities. • We achieved our commitment of increasing the percentage of women on our Board to 25% by 2017. Female representation on the Board increased to 27% in 2015, and we established a Diversity Committee to lead our diversity-related initiatives. 100% 100% of our business units were analyzed for risks related to corruption during the reporting year. 3,613 Out of 3,613 employees enrolled in our Code of Conduct annual refresher and certification course, 3,534 completed the course, representing a 98% completion rate. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 46 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH TRENDS AND ISSUES The entire mining industry is under pressure from weak commodity prices and increased costs. Shareholder activism is on the rise, and a range of external stakeholders demand companies demonstrate how they are managing risks and mitigating impacts. Around the globe, anticorruption legislation is becoming more stringent, and mining companies face heightened risks for non-compliance. Stakeholder expectations are rising for transparent disclosure of performance and compensation. Talent attraction and retention is a major challenge: in executive positions the talent gap is widening, making it imperative to retain top talent for effective and skilled management. MATERIAL TOPICS Through our materiality process, we have identified the following to be our Communities and material topics relating to Strategy and Governance: stakeholders expect more than policies – they MATERIAL TOPIC AT GOLDCORP, THIS MEANS want to see corporate GOVERNANCE AND Ensuring senior management is accountable for environmental, social and economic issues. Maintaining commitment to managing ACCOUNTABILITY the highest ethical standards to prevent human rights violations, corruption and bribery throughout activities risks and mitigating and supply chains. Complying with all applicable laws, regulations and company policies. impacts demonstrated through action. ENTERPRISE Managing issues and events that could cause reputational, RISK financial, political, operational and/or strategic impacts. MANAGEMENT Ensuring we have robust risk management processes at the site, regional and corporate levels to assess both internal and external risks that could impact Goldcorp. One of the many ways we manage our external risks is through the country risk assessment exercises, which are conducted quarterly in countries where Goldcorp is active. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to demonstrate we have the appropriate Stakeholders expect us organizational structures and accountabilities in place to reduce risks. They to hold to our strategy, want us to generate superior returns from high-quality assets, while being transparent through reporting on performance, trends and outcomes. generate superior returns from high-quality assets, and become more transparent in reporting on performance, trends and outcomes. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 47 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO GOLDCORP? Good governance is the foundation on which we build our responsible Good governance is our management and industry-leading results. We strive to provide our foundation for building shareholders and other stakeholders with clear and concise disclosure about our policies, programs and performance. responsible management, environmental stewardship and industry-leading STRATEGY results. Our strategy is to build governance and accountability mechanisms that position our company to optimize results and safeguard long-term success. Strategic management appointments provide leadership the opportunity to manage events which could cause reputational, financial, operational, and environmental or community impacts. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) as well as our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework help us better identify, manage and mitigate these impacts. We also perform ongoing risk assessments for the local, regional and national geographical areas where we work. These are multi-faceted assessments that take into consideration the environmental, social, political and economic risks of the countries where we operate. The Board of Directors (the “Board”) and Executive Management team at Goldcorp recognize the importance of strong corporate governance to effectively manage our company and to protect employees and shareholders. Our approach to issues of corporate governance is designed to ensure that the business and affairs of Goldcorp are conducted so as to enhance long-term shareholder value. POLICIES AND GUIDANCE In addition to our Code of Conduct, key policies governing ethical behaviour at Goldcorp include: • Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy • Human Rights Policy • Diversity Policy • Security Policy • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Guidelines and requirements for ethical practices are incorporated into various SEMS standards. For more information on our policies, please visit the report’s section about Goldcorp’s Corporate Policies. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 48 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY STRUCTURE As of December 31, 2015, the Board was comprised of 11 directors, who were selected for their skills and knowledge of the mining industry and various aspects of corporate governance and management. The Board fulfills its mandate directly and through its committees at regularly scheduled meetings or as required. Board committees currently consist of the Audit Committee, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Sustainability Committee. All committees are independent of management and report directly to the Board. More details on the Goldcorp Board and its functions can be found in Goldcorp’s Management Information Circular. INDEPENDENCE In 2015, nine out of the 11 members of the Board were independent as defined by Canadian and USA securities governance guidelines. Mr. Chuck Jeannes and Mr. Ian Telfer were not independent, as Mr. Jeannes was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Goldcorp, and Mr. Telfer has an employment agreement with Goldcorp for his continued service as Chairman. The independent directors meet as a group every time there is a scheduled Board meeting. Additional information on Board independence is available in our Management Information Circular. DIRECTOR/NOMINEE INDEPENDENT REASON IF NOT INDEPENDENT Bell ✓ Briscoe ✓ Dey ✓ Franssen ✓ Garofalo × President and CEO (appointed in 2016) Holtby ✓ Jeannes × Former President and CEO Pelletier ✓ Reifel ✓ Telfer × Party to employment agreement for continued service as Chairman Treviño ✓ Williamson ✓ 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 49 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE QUALIFICATIONS The Governance and Nominating Committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, is responsible for identifying and recruiting new candidates for nomination to the Board. The committee develops and recommends to the Board for approval a longterm plan for Board composition. It is updated on an annual basis. The committee is also responsible for providing new directors with an orientation and education program, and facilitating ongoing director education. Further information about the nomination and selection process of the Board and its Committees can be found in the Governance section of our website and in our Management Information Circular. EVALUATION ON PERFORMANCE The Board conducts annual effectiveness evaluations of the Board’s performance, the Chairman of the Board, the committees and the individual directors. The Governance and Nominating Committee annually reviews and makes recommendations to the Board regarding these evaluations. ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES At Goldcorp, we recognize the importance of strong and consistent engagement with our shareholders. We have policies and processes in place that ensure we understand and, when appropriate, address shareholder concerns. We have a comprehensive program designed to engage shareholders that aligns with the Canadian Coalition for Good Governance model policy of director and shareholder engagement on governance matters. EVENT WHO ENGAGES WHO WE ENGAGE WITH, WHEN AND WHAT WE TALK ABOUT Non-deal roadshows, Board of Directors and With institutional investors throughout the year to provide public information on meetings, calls and senior management our business, operations and sustainability initiatives and to get feedback on our discussion governance processes and executive compensation Quarterly conference Senior management With the investment community to review our most recently released financial and call and webcast operating results Guidance release Senior management Released to the media with the year-end financial results, to report on our financial and operating outlook for the coming year News releases Senior management Released to the media throughout the year to report on any material information with respect to Goldcorp Broker-sponsored Senior management Speaking at industry investor conferences about public information on our business conference and operations Investor Day Senior management Select Goldcorp investors and analysts are invited to attend each spring; live webcast and presentations are made available on our website Meetings, calls and Investor relations With brokers and retail shareholders to address any shareholder-related concerns and discussions to provide public information on Goldcorp Site tours Senior management, With investors and analysts to tour assets to understand the various operations investor relations Regular meetings Directors With shareholder advocacy groups to discuss governance issues Socially Responsible Board of Directors and Provide SRIs with updates on sustainability activities throughout our company, Investors (SRIs) call senior management including: Board mine site visits; materiality assessment for sustainability reporting; our Dow Jones Sustainability Index performance; human rights updates; environmental strategy updates including water, energy and tailings; and diversity initiatives. Shareholders, employees and other interested parties may communicate directly with Goldcorp’s Board of Directors by telephone, email and mail, or at our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. For more information on how to contact our Board, please visit our Corporate Directory on our website or see our Management Information Circular. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 50 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OVERSIGHT OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is overseen by the Board of Directors’ Sustainability Committee. The primary function of the Sustainability Committee is to review and monitor the sustainable development, environmental, health and safety policies and activities of Goldcorp on behalf of the Board. The Sustainability Committee, composed entirely of independent directors, is responsible for assisting the Board in its oversight of sustainability, environment and health and safety matters, including monitoring the implementation and management of our policies, procedures and practices relating to sustainability, environment, health and safety, security, and corporate social responsibility. The Sustainability Committee also oversees our adherence to international standards and codes, such as the UN Global Compact, the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard and the International Council on Mining and Metals’ Sustainable Development Principles. In 2015, the Sustainability Committee considered, reviewed or approved the following matters: AREA ACTIONS Policies and standards • Oversaw the release of and reviewed the 2014 Annual Sustainability Report • Oversaw the management of the Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) framework and standards • Reviewed and discussed ongoing CSR initiatives, such as developing a database, strategy and organizational structure to address CSR commitments at the Peñasquito mine with improved efficiency and efficacy • Discussed revisions to the human rights policy and related training program Incident reviews/Health • Tracked our health and safety performance in 2015 as compared to 2014 and Safety • Discussed the development and rollout of internally developed behavioural training • Received quarterly updates on health and safety • Received a presentation on the health and safety strategic plan, which includes risk elimination plan • Received an update on site, regional and corporate crisis management plans Committee operations • Approved the Sustainability Committee Terms of Reference and Checklist • Received regular updates on CSR, human rights, sustainability and environmental matters • Conducted annual self-evaluations • Reviewed SEMS audit results • Traveled to the Peñasquito mine in Mexico and the Pueblo Viejo mine in the Dominican Republic For more information on our oversight of sustainability, please see our Management Information Circular. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 51 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OVERSIGHT OF RISK The full Board is entrusted with the responsibility for overseeing the significant risks to which our business is exposed and ensuring there are processes in place to effectively identify, monitor and manage them. A significant risk is one that, if it were to occur, could materially impact our ability to meet or support our business objectives. The Board delegates responsibility for the execution of certain elements of risk oversight to the committees in order to ensure appropriate expertise, attention and diligence. The committees oversee the relevant risk areas and report to the Board regularly. Each committee operates according to a Board-approved written mandate outlining its duties and responsibilities. They also oversee the procedures and programs put in place by management to mitigate the risks and the allocation of adequate resources to address the risks. Management is responsible for ensuring that the Board and its committees are kept well informed of changing risks. AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPENSATION oversees financial COMMITTEE reporting, business, oversees financial, legal, compensation, talent ethics and management and compliance risks succession risks BOARD oversees overall risk GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE oversees governance oversees community, programs to support environment, risk management health, security and and director safety risks succession risk 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 52 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Over the past several years, the volatility in the mining industry has We designed our executive resulted in ongoing demand for executives with mining-related skills compensation program and experience. As a result, the attraction and retention of talented and experienced executives is one of the key objectives of our executive to attract and retain people compensation program. with outstanding talent and experience. Goal LY 1: Pay for performance ALIGNED TRANSPARENT These six principles guide Goldcorp’s Goal 2: overall compensation philosophy: Align interests STRATEGIC COMPETITIVE • Aligned – We use equity-based of management with shareholders incentives to align executives’ longterm financial interests with those of our shareholders Goal 3: • Transparent – Both executives RISKAttract, retain and SENSITIVE RESPONSIVE inspire key talent and shareholders understand the executive compensation program – how it works, the goals it seeks to promote and the compensation levels and opportunities provided The Board recognizes that executive compensation practices and policies • Strategic – Reinforces our business are evolving in Canada and globally, and undertakes an annual internal strategy by linking key performance review to ensure our practices and policies are effective in achieving our indicators to compensation in both objectives. annual and long-term components We balance the need to be competitive within the mining industry to • Competitive – Ensures we can attract high-calibre executives with the need to provide compensation recruit and retain experienced, programs that are fair and reasonable. high-calibre executives in the Since 2012, we have provided shareholders with an advisory “Say on Pay” highly competitive mining industry, vote regarding our executive compensation program. It helps us engage while being fair and reasonable to constructively, obtain meaningful feedback and ensure accountability for our shareholders executive compensation. For more information on executive compensation, • Risk-sensitive – Supports the please see our Management Information Circular. management of risk and ensures management’s plans are focused on generating shareholder value within a risk-controlled environment • Responsive – To the commoditybased cycle by emphasizing operational performance measures over performance measures that are more directly influenced by metals prices 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 53 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE At Goldcorp, we are committed to upholding Our Values, one of which is Acting Ethically. Over the years, we have worked hard to ensure that an ethical culture doesn’t reside in policies, but rather in the way we conduct our business every day. CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct (the Code) documents the guiding principles of conduct and ethics to be followed by all employees, officers, directors and third parties who work for, or on behalf of, Goldcorp. The principles in the Code summarize what Goldcorp expects from each of us and provides valuable advice on how to conduct our work with integrity. Aspects in the Code include but are not limited to: compliance with the law, prevention of conflicts of interest, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, third-party compliance and oversight, anticompetitive practices, and zero tolerance for fraud. Through a combination of in-person and online training, and supported by a structured awareness and communications campaign, we make every possible effort to ensure that everybody working for, or on behalf of, our company clearly understands the principles that must be followed while doing their job. Goldcorp reviews and updates the Code every three to five years in an effort to keep it current and relevant to the changing business and regulatory environments in which we operate. The Code was last updated and approved by the Board in 2014. Our efforts in promoting ethics and compliance awareness are reflected in the number of Code of Conduct concerns and inquiries reported. In 2015, the reports-to-employees ratio was two reports (including queries and requests for guidance) for every 100 employees, compared to an average of 1.3 across all industries, as stated by NAVEX Global’s 2015 Ethics and Compliance Hotline Benchmark Report. This represents a 6% increase compared to 2014 and a 23% increase compared to 2013.1 The activity of our ethics reporting process is a key input in order to determine the effectiveness of our awareness, training and detection efforts for all of the matters covered under our Code. We also developed the Acting Ethically Is Important to Me campaign, in which Mine General Managers (MGMs) spoke about why ethical behaviour was important. ETHICS COMMITTEE In order to address Code matters in a timely, unbiased and appropriate manner, we have an internal Ethics Committee that oversees the Ethics compliance program. Our Ethics Committee is a multidisciplinary group of corporate employees and officers chaired by our Executive Vice President and General Counsel. CONFLICT OF INTEREST Goldcorp understands that conflicts of interest may arise in the ordinary course of business. Therefore, it is important to ensure that there is transparency and that all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are fully disclosed. Our Code of Conduct sets out the steps to take in the event of a potential or actual conflict of interest. 1 Ratios are estimated and relate to full time employees; ratios do not include contractors. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 54 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE CORPORATE COMPLIANCE In 2015, there were no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the applicable laws and regulations that prohibit restraints of trade, unfair practices, anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and abuses of economic power. In addition, in 2015, we did not receive any reported fines that on an individual basis exceeded US$100,000 for health and safety, employment and corporate social responsibility matters. For further information on environmental fines and sanctions, please visit the Compliance section, under Environmental Stewardship. DISCLOSURE, CONFIDENTIALITY AND INSIDER TRADING Our obligations under the provisions of securities laws and stock exchange rules relating to the disclosure of material information are guided by our Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy, which ensures that Goldcorp and all persons to whom this policy applies meet their obligations regarding the timely disclosure of all material information. FRAUD AND CORRUPTION Goldcorp’s commitment to acting with integrity includes not engaging in or tolerating fraud or corruption. We invest time and resources to create awareness on our commitment to acting with integrity. This means clearly defining the expectations we have for employees and third parties who work with us with regards to ethical behaviour. MANAGING FRAUD AND CORRUPTION RISK Goldcorp manages risk through a system of internal controls over our financial reporting compliance program; our entity-level controls; and transactional controls, such as delegation of financial authority for expenditures, transaction authorization requirements, segregation of duties and information technology security. We have developed a fraud risk assessment model identifying the fraud schemes we were more vulnerable to and the minimum level of controls to be put in place to mitigate those risks. We have also implemented a risk-based transactional monitoring process to flag and follow up on unusual transactions as part of our anti-corruption compliance program. We created a stand-alone Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy in 2014, together with a compliance program to ensure awareness and adherence to this policy. During 2015, significant efforts were placed in managing third-party risk and in enhancing our risk-based detection capabilities. A robust, structured and globally applicable process to assess the risk that individual third parties pose to the organization, and conduct due diligence in accordance to the identified level of risk, is one key way we manage corruption risks. A global, web-based tool was also implemented to facilitate compliance with these new requirements and to allow corporate oversight of the process. In addition to complying with the defined due diligence requirements, third parties assessed as posing a higher risk to Goldcorp were included in our anti-corruption training program. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 55 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE HOW? WHY? We have designed and implemented a Goldcorp could be held liable for Third-Party Due Diligence tool to the actions of a third party working support compliance with these on its behalf. Therefore, we need to standards. The tool was designed to ensure we only do business with guide employees through the due reputable third parties. Compliance diligence requirements and serve as a with the Third-Party Due Diligence centralized database of third-party due Standards is required under diligence information. the Global Supply Chain Policy, the Sustainability Excellence Management System and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. GOLDCORP’S THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE STANDARDS Goldcorp’s commitment These standards define the minimum due diligence that Goldcorp employees must fulfill when entering into a commercial to acting with integrity relationship with a third party on behalf of Goldcorp. includes not engaging in or tolerating fraud or WHEN? WHO? Third-party due diligence is required Anyone engaging a third party on corruption. We invest whenever a new third party is going to behalf of Goldcorp must ensure it is a be added to our vendor file, regardless reputable third party by conducting the time and resources to of circumstance. It is also necessary appropriate due diligence. when an existing third party changes Due diligence will be driven/facilitated create awareness of our its name/legal entity. by Supply Chain at locations that have a dedicated Supply Chain team. commitment to acting with integrity at all times and everywhere we 100% of our business units were analyzed for risks related to corruption do business. during the reporting year. All reports of alleged corrupt activity received during 2015 have been resolved or are currently under active investigation. In the event that we confirm an allegation of corruption, the individual(s) and/or entities involved will face disciplinary measures that could include termination of employment or contract and criminal and/or civil liability as applicable. Our commitment against corruption goes beyond the boundaries of our company. Since 2014, we have supported Transparency International Canada (TI), a leading NGO working to encourage governments to establish and implement effective laws, policies and anti-corruption programs. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 56 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE ETHICS TRAINING AND CAPACITY-BUILDING In 2015, we delivered in-person anti-corruption training for all key staff in eight locations and conducted a training session with our senior management team at corporate, regional and site levels. During several of these sessions, third parties working for, or on behalf of, Goldcorp who posed a higher risk to the organization were also in attendance to reasonably ensure proper alignment. We have an annual mandatory online training and certification process. Employees are required to review key topics of the Code (refreshed every year) and then certify compliance. In 2015, 98% (3,534 employees) of the target population (e.g., employees with permanent access to a computer) completed the course and certification. The certification process included a requirement for all supervisors to have an in-person discussion with their teams about the importance of acting ethically. A similar online training and certification is in place for our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. This training runs every two years; during the off-years, such as 2015, in-person training takes place. 220 new employees (new hires) took the anti-corruption online course during 2015. In addition to our corporate-driven efforts, our operations also conduct additional site-based programs related to anti-corruption and ethics compliance. In 2015, 6,164 employees received either a workshop or a training related to the Code of Conduct or anti-corruption policies, compared to 4,586 employees in 2014 and 3,528 employees in 2013. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 57 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY We believe that we can make a contribution to the development of sound public policy by providing accurate information on our mining activities. We participate in government outreach related to the mining industry. For example, in April 2015, we initiated the Ontario Mining Roundtable, a unique gathering of approximately 90 leaders, including cabinet ministers, chief executive officers, banking executives, First Nations leaders, experts from the mining industry, mining capital markets, the Government of Ontario, and associated supply and service industries in order to discuss Ontario’s mining and related industries from an innovative perspective. CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES In keeping with our commitment to engage responsibly with the communities in which we operate, we have a stand-alone Political Contributions Policy that sets clear parameters and limitations for when and how political contributions are to be made for, or on behalf of, Goldcorp. Strict corporate-level approvals, including by the CEO and CFO, and validations from Legal and Ethics and Compliance are required in those instances where political contributions may be allowed as per the policy. In 2015, Goldcorp made contributions to political parties and related groups in Canada approximating $17,500. No such contributions were made in other countries of operation. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 58 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT The nature of our business and the competitive environment in which we operate requires some level of risk-taking in order to achieve our strategic objectives and create growth and shareholder value. The corporate Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) team has developed and implemented a company-specific framework to effectively deal with uncertainty and associated risks. We are committed to an inclusive, risk-aware culture, where key PROTECT EXISTING VALUE AND ASSETS stakeholders help us make well-informed and balanced DELIVER PROJECTS ON TIME AND ON BUDGET business decisions. ADAPT TO THE CHANGING ENVIRONMENT AND MINIMIZE FINANCIAL, REPUTATIONAL AND LEGAL IMPACTS A WELL-OPERATED ERM FRAMEWORK ENABLES US TO: MEET INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS INFORM STRATEGIC DECISION-MAKING, PRIORITIZE ACTIVITIES AND ALLOCATE RESOURCES EFFECTIVELY IMPROVE ORGANIZATIONAL EFFICIENCIES AND MAXIMIZE OPPORTUNITIES WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS The primary focus of the ERM process is the identification and assessment of significant risks and the implementation of suitable risk responses. The process includes bottom-up risk identification and assessment from operations, regional business units and corporate functions; application of standardized risk assessment criteria in terms of likelihood and consequence; as well as development of mitigation strategies. On a quarterly basis, significant risk information from these and other sources is consolidated and reviewed by Regional Risk Committees, which involves an assessment and discussion of operational and external risks. External risks emerging from environmental, social, political and economic issues where we operate are identified through a country-level risk assessment process. All risks are revisited and updated regularly to ensure that the previous risk assessment is still appropriate and the risk impact and likelihoods have not changed. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 59 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Significant risks are consolidated and reviewed with Senior Management and then reported to the Board on a quarterly basis to ensure that appropriate action is taken. OVERSEE RISK STRATEGY BOARD OF DIRECTORS Oversee management by Quarterly ERM Updates asking the right questions and defining risk appetite FLOW OF RISK INFORMATION CORPORATE ERM MEETINGS WITH SENIOR MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT EXECUTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT Review and discuss consolidated risks for validation and mitigation COUNTRY RISK ASSESSMENTS REGIONAL RISK COMMITTEE MEETINGS Political and Other External Risks RISK AGGREGATION Review, monitor and aggregate risk insight across the regions MAJOR CAPITAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTIONS PROJECTS FACILITATION AND INPUT Sources of risk information RISK RISK RISK OVERSIGHT AND WORKSHOPS UPDATES WORKSHOPS STANDARDS and inputs into the risk governance structure In 2015, we implemented and strengthened a number of risk management processes throughout the company. Key highlights include: • Facilitated, participated and/or provided guidance in multiple risk workshops to support decision-making of key capital investments and operational decisions • Completed tailings risk assessments at all operating sites • Initiated Social Risk Assessment process as part of the CSR Strategic Planning Process For more information about Goldcorp’s risk factors, please refer to our Annual Information Form for the financial year ended December 31, 2015, available on our website. THE PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE The precautionary principle states that when an activity raises threats of harm to the environment or human health, precautionary measures should be taken, even if some cause-and-effect relationships are not fully established scientifically. We adopt a risk-based approach to business development. New projects (and upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations) undergo an assessment of potential environmental and social impact prior to implementation. For new projects, this is usually in the form of an impact assessment, in which the existing (baseline) conditions are described, the proposed project is outlined, potential impacts (both positive and negative) are identified, and modifications and controls are identified to minimize potentially adverse impacts. Provision is made in the assessment process for public consultation and input. We are committed to engaging in consultations with potentially affected host communities prior to making significant development decisions, regardless of any legal requirement to do so. For upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations, the level of assessment is commensurate with the potential impacts of the proposed change. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 60 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE CASE STUDIES REFLECTIONS FROM OUR NEWEST BOARD MEMBER by Margot Franssen, O.C. Twenty years ago, if anyone had asked me whether I could envision myself on the board of a mining company, I would have emphatically said, “Not in a million years!” At that time, I owned a company whose philosophy was Profits with Principles, and I saw resource extraction industries as the complete antithesis of what I stood for. Over time, my opinion about the mining industry hadn’t changed much, so you can imagine my surprise when I was invited to join Goldcorp’s Board. “Why me?” I asked. Ian Telfer’s answer was a revelation. “You have run a successful company that was a forerunner in sustainable thinking,” he said. “You have shared resources with, and worked side-by-side with, NGOs. You deeply understand women’s issues, and have championed human rights throughout your entire career.” This did not sound like any mining company I knew. So I asked myself “Why Goldcorp?” and as I did some research, the answer became crystal clear. In Goldcorp, I found a company that is on a constant journey to better itself – a company with a profound understanding of the notion of Profits with Principles. It is a company that acknowledges its imperfections and embraces constant improvement as a way forward. For many, sustainability is about resources – of leaving the landscape in a manner that can sustain life in the future. For Goldcorp, sustainability is much more. Sustainability is about ensuring that culture, health, education, women and human rights are well respected. It is about understanding that what is good for one is not necessarily good for all. It is about opening your eyes and seeing – really seeing – through your head, your senses and your heart. Sustainability is deeply embedded within Goldcorp’s culture. At Goldcorp, we operate in the present, but constantly think of the future. We are aware of our responsibilities and we work to be a leader, not a follower. We welcome the input of our stakeholders in today’s operations and tomorrow’s strategy. We understand that diverse voices at the table expand our collective way of thinking and lead to sustainability, permanence and honour. As a member of the Board and the Sustainability Committee, I am proud to be part of this process. Our reputation depends upon our vigilance. We give you our word that we will do our very best. It is our privilege and our pleasure to keep and preserve your respect. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 61 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE GOLDCORP COMMERCIAL PRACTICES: ENSURING ETHICS AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AMONG OUR SUPPLIERS We have invested in developing and nurturing a culture that ensures ethics and anti-corruption in our business practices, and reinforces the spirit of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. “Those principles must also extend to the chain of vendors and suppliers that serve our offices and operations”, says Diego Venegas, Goldcorp’s Director of Ethics and Compliance. “As a corporation, we must be able to ensure due diligence and enforce our standards across our corporate supply chain. It is critical, both from a strategic perspective and for risk mitigation.” A year ago, his team introduced the Goldcorp Commercial Practices. “The Practices establish how we manage strategic relationships, such as local procurement, local employment, bids and tendering. They cover standards for contracting and contractors. They cover the diligence that we must apply to selecting our vendors and suppliers.” They even cover recipients of charitable donations – essentially, any business or organization that receives money from us. Late in 2015, Venegas’ team followed up with new software tools that assist staff in every Goldcorp operation in putting the Practices into use. “The software has taken us past the point of simply setting a policy. It provides the tools to implement that policy.” The software guides staff in assessing a vendor’s risk of engaging in poor business practices, corruption or human rights violations. Over 90% of our suppliers are at the low end of the risk scale and are quickly accepted. When higher risk is assessed, further research is required. Staff search for negative media reports and for the company’s past involvement in corruption and crime. They scan databases that rank companies’ ethics and financial practices, including a human-rights database from the United Nations. Goldcorp does, by necessity, deal with higher-risk companies. In these cases, Venegas says, “We require more assurances. We may look into the company’s ownership, their years in business and their long-term reputation. We may require them to sign off on compliance and make sure they have internal anti-corruption policies. In some cases, we put them through our own Anti-Corruption and Compliance training. They must be aware of what Goldcorp expects of them.” The new policies manage risk, he says. “It’s not about creating value in local communities by handing out contracts; it’s about doing it in an organized, responsible way. By ensuring the ethics and practices of our third parties, we enhance our own efforts to create sustainable value for our stakeholders.” 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 62 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE FROM THE BLOODSTREAM TO DEEP SPACE: GOLD’S UNIQUE PROPERTIES CONTINUE TO FIND NEW APPLICATIONS by John Mulligan, Head of Member and Market Relations, World Gold Council Jewelry, currency and investment – the traditional uses of gold are still the most popular. But the unique physical properties that have made gold universally valued – its bio-compatibility, reflectivity, extreme malleability, conductivity and resistance to corrosion – make it highly valuable for medical, electronic and other advanced applications that point to many new and potentially growing markets. SAVING LIVES Copper may be a superior conductor of electricity, but gold does not corrode. From medical electronics to the connections for safety-critical applications, such as airbags in cars, gold is the material of choice. Tiny amounts of gold are also used in Rapid Diagnosis Tests that can identify infectious diseases, such as malaria, in a patient within minutes. Hundreds of millions of them are used in malaria zones around the world every year. The World Gold Council has helped fund the further development and enhancement of these tests. Similarly, gold nanoparticles are being used in advanced diagnostic tests for cancer and to deliver cancer treatments in a more precise and effective way. CLEAN AND ADAPTIVE TECHNOLOGIES The optical and electronic characteristics of gold make it uniquely useful in a variety of clean-tech applications such as photovoltaics, water purification and pollution control. Recent advances in “stretchable electronics” use nanometres-thick gold wires applied to flexible polymers. They may see future use in implantable electronics that can move with the human body. EXPLORING THE NATURE OF THE UNIVERSE Gold has the ability to form films that are just a few molecules in depth, making it the ideal material for extremely thin coatings that are both reflective and conductive and enhance the efficiency of a range of devices. NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope, the most advanced ever built, uses an array of mirrors coated with a microscopically thin film of gold to reflect infrared light. Elsewhere, laser interferometers pass laser beams between molecules-thick gold mirrors to measure microscopic displacements and surface irregularities. Recently, laser interferometers (LIGO detectors) at advanced research centres have been used to help prove one of Einstein’s predictions, by detecting the existence of “gravitational waves” – ripples in the fabric of space-time. NEW APPLICATIONS MEAN POTENTIAL NEW MARKETS While gold’s principal uses – in jewelry, currency and investment – are not about to wane, gold is increasingly indispensable in cutting-edge technology. In these areas, and in new applications that have yet to be conceived, the market for gold may see further significant growth. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 63 Our vision is to create sustainable, enduring value for our communities: value that lasts beyond the operating life of our mines. We value our stakeholder relationships and adopt an approach that is based on mutual benefit, open dialogue, trust and the respect of human rights and the rights of Indigenous Peoples. COMMUNITIES 2015 HIGHLIGHTS • We developed a new Corporate Social Responsibility $27 MILLION We spent approximately $27 million in (CSR) Strategy focused on three core pillars: Sustainable community investments, donations, Stakeholder Engagement, Human Rights and Sustainable sponsorships and infrastructure Economic Benefits. investments. • Red Lake Gold Mines signed an agreement with the Wabauskang First Nation, formalizing a partnership that was more than four years in the making. • We updated our Human Rights Policy and, in early 2016, became a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 100% 100% of our operations have stakeholder identification maps to help identify with whom we should engage on specific issues. 76% 76% of employees were drawn locally and regionally, with only 2% recruited internationally. 100% 100% of our security personnel in Latin America were trained on Human Rights. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 64 COMMUNITIES MANAGEMENT APPROACH TRENDS AND ISSUES Mining is subject to increased scrutiny in today’s society. As stakeholders share issues through social media locally and globally, demands on mining companies for external disclosure and transparency have increased. Obtaining and maintaining a social licence to operate is more than following national and industry regulations, and therefore requires an understanding and response to a wide range of issues that matter to our stakeholders. It is about building respectful relationships with all parties involved to address concerns and create mutually beneficial opportunities. Governments are demanding more from companies and increasingly placing responsibility for responsible social performance and sustainable development initiatives on industry. Local, early, active and continuous engagement has become a standard best practice, with particular attention paid to water and land access, environmental protection, local economic development, jobs and the creation of sustainable local benefits. MATERIAL TOPICS Through our materiality process, we have identified the following material topics relating to Communities: MATERIAL TOPIC AT GOLDCORP, THIS MEANS SUSTAINABLE Strategically investing to build partnerships and local BENEFITS FOR capacity through community investment, procurement and COMMUNITIES employment activities. STAKEHOLDER Ensuring stakeholders participate in early, meaningful and ENGAGEMENT transparent ongoing engagement. HUMAN RIGHTS Ensuring human rights are upheld through all business activities. INDIGENOUS Engaging early and transparently with Indigenous Peoples RIGHTS AND to build strong and collaborative relationships. ENGAGEMENT ECONOMIC Creating positive economic impacts for communities in IMPACT which we operate. This includes both direct and indirect economic impacts through the tax revenues and royalty payments we direct around the world, capital expenditures made through local capacity-building, and purchase of goods and services in the communities where our mines are located. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 65 COMMUNITIES WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to minimize our negative social and environmental impacts on communities and maximize benefits through long-term partnerships with local communities and Indigenous groups. Often, before any impacts are realized, what people want most is information: communicating how we work is a critically important step and must continue throughout the life of a mine. This means we must engage with communities early and understand their concerns and priorities. We have consistently heard that local communities want us to invest in local, sustainable development, and to contribute to development objectives through local hiring and procurement and community investments. They also want us to integrate respect for human and Indigenous rights into our business management processes. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO GOLDCORP? Building strong and respectful community partnerships is foundational to our success. Our people live and play in the communities around our operations. We often source from and work with local businesses. We are constantly aware that we operate on land that is of great importance for local populations and they entrust us to steward it carefully. Without community support, we cannot operate safely and sustainably. In the short term, having strong, proactive engagement with communities ensures continuous operation. Over longer time horizons, our operations can also be a catalyst for long-term sustainable development in surrounding regions, providing mutual benefits for us and the communities. Understanding and addressing stakeholders’ concerns is essential to our ability to mitigate our impacts and identify positive opportunities to build sustainable value. Building strong, lasting relationships with those affected by our operations can improve our ability to identify and manage risks – and can even affect a project’s long-term viability. STRATEGY Our main focus is to generate value for our stakeholders, build strong partnerships through active engagement, and make positive and long-lasting contributions in the communities where we operate. Developed in 2015, our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy builds on our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) standards to focus on three core pillars: Sustainable Stakeholder Engagement, Human Rights and Sustainable Economic Benefits. The foundation of this strategy is an integrated approach to risk management for all three pillars. With a strategic action plan drafted in late 2015, we are targeting key areas for growth in these pillars in order to achieve our vision of creating sustainable value in the communities where we operate. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 66 COMMUNITIES The CSR Strategy is complementary to and supportive of the implementation of other Goldcorp corporate policies, commitments and industry best practices, including: • Goldcorp’s Code of Conduct • Goldcorp’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy • Goldcorp’s Environmental and Sustainability Policy • Goldcorp’s Human Rights Policy • Goldcorp’s Donations Policy • United Nations Global Compact • United Nations Declaration of Human Rights • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights • International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework • Mining Association of Canada (MAC) – Toward Sustainable Mining (TSM) TOGETHER CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE HUMAN STAKEHOLDER ECONOMIC RIGHTS RELATIONSHIPS BENEFIT INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT, BUSINESS PLANNING AND ACCOUNTABILITY INTERNAL LEARNING AND CAPACITY-BUILDING GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 67 COMMUNITIES POLICIES AND GUIDANCE The policies that define our community commitments are outlined in our By itself, policy can’t create Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy, Security Policy and Human meaningful change; it also Rights Policy, and are embedded within our SEMS. These documents incorporate international best practice standards and industry-specific takes people, resources considerations. Our community relations programs and policies are and commitment. oriented to working alongside local, regional and national partners to create mutually beneficial outcomes. We aim to maximize benefits to local communities and mitigate negative impacts whenever possible. Our SEMS Social Performance Standards guide the implementation of these policies, providing specific, measurable and auditable guidelines which include: • Context assessment • Social impact assessment and management • Resettlement • Community Response System (grievance mechanism) • Stakeholder identification and engagement • Community and stakeholder agreements • Local employment and procurement • Community contributions In addition to our Social Performance Standards, the core SEMS standards (applicable across all departments and disciplines) include Stakeholder Management, Event Management, Human Rights, and Risk Management, which are key standards for interactions with stakeholders. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Goldcorp’s management approach to sustainability, corporate social We believe that every responsibility and human rights is led by our Executive Vice President of Goldcorp employee and Corporate Affairs and Sustainability with specific accountability assigned to the Senior Vice President of Sustainability and the Vice President of contractor shares our Corporate Social Responsibility. Additionally, each of our regions has a responsibility to respect Director of CSR who liaises directly with site-based CSR teams. human rights and to conduct our business in an ethical manner. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 68 COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS FOR COMMUNITIES We contribute to the economic development of host communities and countries through a variety of methods. We recognize that we have the ability to impact and influence the local and regional economies around our sites. This is why we are working to create sustainable value – long-term social and economic benefits that do not leave a legacy of dependence. Our approach is multifaceted, embedded in our new CSR strategy, and incorporates: local hiring and procurement initiatives, including training, capacity building; direct community contributions through donations and investments; and infrastructure investment. We also contribute through the payment of taxes and royalties to various levels of government in the communities and regions where we operate. Job creation and smallWages and salaries business development Through local hiring paid to employees and contractors in surrounding and procurement, we communities and towns actively seek to extend the economic and social Financial support for Payments to suppliers benefits of our activities community development for goods and services to communities near our operations. Direct voluntary Upgrades to payments to local local infrastructure communities SUSTAINABLE VALUE LOCAL EMPLOYMENT In accordance with our SEMS, all Goldcorp sites seek to hire local employees to fill job openings when possible. Our human resources teams create and implement local hiring strategies with support and engagement from community relations. We routinely train skilled and unskilled local recruits in a range of mine-related work and we provide apprenticeships and technical training support for a range of other employment opportunities. Where particular skills and experience are not available locally or regionally, we will target national and international labour markets. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 69 COMMUNITIES In 2015, 76% of employees were drawn locally and regionally, with only 22% recruited nationally and 2% recruited internationally. EMPLOYEES (%) Employees (%) Local Regional National International 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Canada and US Latin America Total OPERATING REGION Due to different Goldcorp assets progressing through the mining lifecycle, annual local employment decreased in 2015 compared to 2014. Completion of construction of our Cerro Negro and Éléonore mines as well as the closure of El Sauzal contributed to this decrease. We employ a total of 97 senior managers (department head or above) at our operating sites. Of these, 91% are nationals of the country in which the mine is located. We routinely pay entry-level wages that are significantly higher than Typically, wherever we those in the local community. In 2015, we paid an average annual wage of operate, we pay an average approximately $62,656.1 Typically, wherever we operate, we pay an average entry-level wage 2.4 times more than the local minimum wage. entry-level wage 2.4 times more than the local INCOME PER CAPITA AND AVERAGE ANNUAL WAGE2 (US$) minimum wage. AVERAGE ANNUAL WAGES COUNTRY INCOME PER CAPITA ($)3 PER EMPLOYEE ($) Canada 51,690 101,498 Mexico 9,980 48,219 Guatemala 3,440 24,595 Argentina 14,560 77,170 1 Calculation based on Goldcorp employees, and excludes contractors. 2 Average based on the wage of all Goldcorp employees. 3 Source: World Bank Doing Business indicators report 2016. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 70 COMMUNITIES LOCAL PROCUREMENT In sourcing the goods and services necessary to run our operations, where We spent more than possible we give preference to local businesses, provided they meet $1 billion on goods and minimum safety, quality, ethical, and cost requirements. The SEMS directs our sites to create strategies for local procurement while our Commercial services purchased from Practices1 policies and procedures provide additional sustainability regional and national considerations and help us manage supply chain risk. sources. In 2015, 91% of goods and services were purchased from regional and national sources, accounting for more than $1 billion of spending. The table below shows the percentage of goods and services purchased at the regional, national and international levels by operating region. PURCHASE OF GOODS AND SERVICES BY OPERATING REGION (%) Purchase of Goods and Services (%) Regional National International 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Canada and US Latin America Total OPERATING REGION CONTRIBUTIONS TO AND FROM GOVERNMENT We make a very sizable contribution to public finances in the countries in which we operate. While corporate income tax and mining taxes vary with mineral prices and profitability, and can be volatile from year to year, many of the other taxes paid by Goldcorp are fixed in nature and do not fall as profits decrease. In 2015, we paid approximately $101 million in income taxes. Further information regarding taxes and payments to government is available in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2015. In support of our commitment to acting ethically and to fulfilling external reporting requirements, including Canada’s Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA), Québec’s Bill No. 55, An Act Respecting Transparency Measures in the Mining, Oil and Gas Industries and section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), we have created a new global Government Payments and Contributions Policy. This new policy dictates how we identify, approve and 1 Goldcorp’s Commercial Practices is an initiative launched in 2014. The goal of this initiative is to ensure that when purchasing goods or services, we maximize value, reasonably ensure that we work only with reputable businesses and always protect the best interests of the company. It comprises the global Supply Chain Policy, Contracting Standards and Third-Party Due Diligence Standards. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 71 COMMUNITIES report on payments and contributions made to government entities and/or government officials (“government payees”) globally. This policy covers both “routine” and “nonroutine” payments and contributions to government.1 TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVES We actively support the objectives of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and the World Gold Council (WGC), among other initiatives that support transparency in payments to government. In 2015, Goldcorp created an internal working group to provide feedback to Natural Resources Canada on the implementation of the ESTMA. We have begun to set up internal processes and systems to meet the 2017 ESTMA disclosure requirements. Goldcorp has mining operations in Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Argentina and the Dominican Republic. Of these countries, Guatemala has adopted the EITI. Montana Exploradora de Guatemala, S. A., a subsidiary of Goldcorp, operates the Marlin mine in Guatemala, which was designated an EITI-compliant country in 2015. We continue to record payments according to the EITI standards and reporting country requirements and are engaging directly with EITI in Guatemala and are one of the industry representatives on the EITI National Working Group in Guatemala. Learn more about our commitment to the EITI by clicking here. GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Government financial assistance includes grants, subsidies, or rebates received from governments. In 2015, we received $11.1 million in rebates2 from Ontario’s Northern Industrial Electricity Rate Program (NIER), which assists Northern Ontario’s largest industrial electricity consumers to reduce energy costs, sustain jobs and maintain global competitiveness. This program is part of the Ontario government’s plan to strengthen the economy and support a dynamic and innovative business climate that attracts investment and helps create jobs. We do not have any direct joint venture relationship in which any government holds a position of shared ownership. However, we do on occasion have stateowned institutional investors (for example, public pension funds). 1 Routine payments include taxes, royalties and published rates/fees. Our focus over the last year has been to implement systems required to meet our external commitments and align our disclosures on information related to payments to governments, including taxes. 2 The rebates were paid out between April 1, 2015 and March 31, 2016. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 72 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS Our economic impacts extend beyond taxes, procurement and hiring, and also include community contributions. Total community contributions amounted to approximately $27 million in 2015.1 DONATIONS AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS IN 20152 CATEGORY IMPORTANCE OUR CONTRIBUTIONS3 EXAMPLES Health The health and well-being of the $2.2 million We contributed $605,000 to support the communities around our operations Heart and Stroke Foundation’s awareness continues to be a key priority. We initiatives across Canada to reduce death and support local sports and recreation disability from stroke in remote and northern programs, medical research and communities. infrastructure, local hospital foundations, and health and sanitation awareness campaigns. Education Educational programs and initiatives $2.5 million We contributed $420,000 towards a new support childhood, youth and adult Industrial Mechanics program at Alto del Carmen development in the communities where Technical High School, launched in July 2015. The we operate. course is open to 15,000 young people across northern Chile, with 80 students projected to graduate by 2018. Community Community development donations $12.1 million We contributed over $160,000 to support the development and investments promote sustainable Aboriginal Mining and Skilled Trades Entry value beyond the mine life and create a Project (AMSTEP) near our Musselwhite mine vibrant local culture. in Canada. AMSTEP is a partnership between Oshki-Pimache-O-Win Education and Training Institute (OSHKI) and Goldcorp to provide career skills to Aboriginal youth. Arts and culture Arts and culture help strengthen the $0.8 million We donated $500,000 to the Arts Club Theatre cultures and diversity of communities Company and Bard of the Beach Shakespeare while preserving heritage and Festival in Vancouver, which was used towards promoting traditions. the construction of a new facility that will enable both organizations to better serve the community. Infrastructure We support local development through $3.9 million We supported the refurbishment of a hospital infrastructure projects, which provide a in Perito Moreno, Argentina, by providing shared benefit to the operation and the US$470,500 in infrastructure and equipment community. funding, plus a US$3,800 monthly top-up fund over one year. This enabled the hospital to upgrade its operating room, obtain equipment for performing emergency surgeries, and expand services to serve neighbouring communities up to 60 kilometres away. Other This includes support to disaster relief, $5.3 million Éléonore mine collaborated with FaunENord and environmental investments and other local school children to participate in a carbonmiscellaneous initiatives. offset project involving mature tree planting and the creation of green islands in Chibougamau, Québec. 1 Community contributions refer to pre-allocated/committed/contractually obligated contributions and discretionary contributions including: donations, community contributions, infrastructure investments, legacy/sustainable funds, business investments and sponsorships. 2 Contribution values in this table represent approximate donations and community investments from the total $27 million community contributions provided in 2015. 3 Contributions have been rounded to the nearest $100,000. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 73 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We are committed to building open and trusting relationships with We make connecting our stakeholders. Our engagement takes various forms, tailored to with our communities the stakeholder and situation. It ranges from providing information to consultation and shared decision-making. and building strong, collaborative partnerships a key priority everywhere we APPROACHES TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT do business. Stakeholders are defined as individuals, groups or organizations that are directly or indirectly affected by our operations, have a direct interest in our activities, and/or have the ability to influence outcomes and decision-making processes. Our goal is to create partnerships that will serve both us and the community. We actively seek out these partnerships with local communities, government, civil society and non-governmental organizations. Local site management, along with corporate and regional management, are responsible for identifying, mapping, prioritizing and engaging with a variety of local, national and international stakeholders on topics related to our operations. This is a continuous process, and regular monitoring for effectiveness is required by the SEMS. Key components of our stakeholder engagement process are: • Relevant, accessible, culturally appropriate and timely information • Safe channels for stakeholders to express their views • Mechanisms for incorporating relevant feedback into our decision-making processes In all engagements – whether it is an informal face-to-face meeting with a local community member, a formal committee meeting with agreement signatories, or following up on concerns via our community feedback mechanisms – we aim to act in a manner that is: • Inclusive • Participatory • Accessible • Timely and long-term • Adequately resourced (including training) • Credible, open and transparent • Culturally and contextually specific • Responsive to feedback At all of our eight operations, we use a variety of formal and informal mechanisms to engage with communities and contribute to their sustainable development. In 2015, 100% of our operations had stakeholder identification maps to help identify who we should engage with on specific topics. In addition to this, a number of sites had formal engagement plans based on these maps and other inputs, such as impact studies. For example, Peñasquito updated its social baseline and social impact studies in 2015, and at the close of the reporting period was developing a number of plans related to local hiring and procurement, community investment and stakeholder engagement. Marlin and Cerro Negro produced updated social and environmental impact studies in 2015. Whether through formal or informal channels, representatives from all our operations meet regularly with local stakeholders and have programs to contribute to community development through mechanisms, such as community investments and local hiring and procurement initiatives. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 74 COMMUNITIES ADDRESSING STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS We believe we bring many benefits to the communities where we operate, Engagement with such as employment, training and investments in community initiatives. community stakeholders However, we also recognize that mining activities have potential negative impacts. Effective engagement with local communities is our primary way provides the foundation to identify and mitigate concerns around impacts. Key issues discussed for responding to their through our engagement include issues related to environmental concerns, concerns. land use, access to local employment and economic development opportunities, and pressures on local services and infrastructure. Through these discussions, together with our stakeholders, we identify mitigation and monitoring steps to respond to these concerns. The table below summarizes our engagement approaches by stakeholder and common topics/issues of concern raised through engagement: COMMON TOPICS STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF WHO OF ENGAGEMENT/ ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT ENGAGES ISSUES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Civil society NGOs, political • Face-to-face Monthly to Senior • Human and Indigenous At Marlin, a and nonparties, unions, engagements quarterly management, rights community governmental religious • Public meetings corporate, • Employment environmental organizations organizations regional and opportunities monitoring • Teleconferences site-level association • Social media representatives, • Economic development conducts quarterly, depending • Education independent, on topic • Health and safety community-based environmental • Environmental monitoring protection around the mine. • Physical impacts of Membership operations (water includes usage, blasting and representatives of dust) the five communities • Impacts on personal around the mine property and a representative of the Catholic • Land usage Church, all from the • Mine closure planning municipality of San Miguel Ixtahuacán, and representatives from three adjoining communities in the municipality of Sipacapa. Government Federal, • Face-to-face Weekly to Senior • Resource access Our corporate and provincial, meetings annually management, • Environmental regional offices municipal • Industry corporate, protection engage with or local conferences regional and governments, governments site-level • Taxes and royalties industry and other • Regulatory representatives, • Economic development stakeholders engagement depending where appropriate processes • Water and energy on topic projects to facilitate the • Public meetings, mining sector’s teleconferences • Workforce contribution to development national sustainable • Newsletters • Hazardous materials development handling strategies. • Job creation 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 75 COMMUNITIES COMMON TOPICS STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF WHO OF ENGAGEMENT/ ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT ENGAGES ISSUES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Communities Residents, • Site tours Daily to Site-level CSR • Employment Porcupine actively neighbours, • Public annually teams opportunities engages local general public engagements • Economic development stakeholders in (open house Timmins through the • Education Porcupine Watchful events) • Health and safety Eye Committee • Face-to-face and the Hollinger meetings • Environmental protection Project Advisory • Community Committee, which Response • Physical impacts of are both community mechanisms operations representative • Newspapers, • Impacts on personal groups that work radio, property with the mine to newsletters • Land usage, access help us understand and compensation and recognize the • Above Ground requirements, blog and social • Mine closure planning expectations media • Community needs and concerns of • Goldcorp assessments all stakeholders website involved in • Engagement Porcupine’s activities. surveys Indigenous First Nations • Face-to-face Daily to Corporate, • Land rights At Musselwhite, Peoples tribal councils, engagements annually regional and • Education Red Lake, Éléonore traditional • Agreement site-level and Porcupine, joint leadership, representatives • Employment and committees, made implementation career development Indigenous committees from CSR and up of members governments Corporate • Cultural heritage from Goldcorp • Community Affairs and the signatory roundtables • Indigenous consultation community, are responsible for • Implementation overseeing the of collaboration implementation of agreements the agreements. • Responding to physical These committees impact concerns (dust, meet two to four noise, etc.) times a year and informally as necessary. Media International, • Investor calls Daily to Senior • Financial performance We produce regular national or local • News releases annually management, • Access to capital updates on the media outlets corporate, Above Ground blog. including •G  oldcorp regional and •E  nvironmental This blog is a place news, radio website site-level performance to find updates on and printed • Above Ground representatives • Health and safety our sustainabilitypublications blog and social from CSR and • Community programs related activities, media Corporate to ask questions Affairs • Business risk and to participate in respectful, constructive dialogue. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 76 COMMUNITIES COMMON TOPICS STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF WHO OF ENGAGEMENT/ ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT ENGAGES ISSUES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Academia Academic • Conferences Monthly to Senior • Technical studies We are a sponsor of institutions • Telephone calls annually leadership, • Scholarships the Global Energy and research CSR, Minerals and organizations • Training Environment • Training and internship Markets (GEMM) programs and Corporate programs Dialogue started • Research Affairs teams by Simon Fraser programs University. GEMM is a unique forum for community members, companies, academics and government to come together for three days each year to talk openly and honestly about sustainability challenges and potential solutions for the mining industry. Public/private Hospitals, fire • Community Monthly to Site-level • Infrastructure Several of our institutions departments, partnership annually representatives investments sites have formal libraries discussions in CSR • Community agreements to work • Community partnerships in collaboration with Response first responders in mechanisms the area, such as with the local fire department by our Porcupine mine or on spill response at Red Lake, Cerro Negro and Musselwhite. Business Suppliers, • I nteractions Monthly to Corporate, • Supplier requirements We are a member partners contractors, with our annually regional • Long-term business of several industry industry procurement and site relationships organizations, organizations teams procurement including the and other teams, senior •A greement terms ICMM, the Mining • I ndustry companies roundtables management • Quality products Association of • Delivery commitments Canada, and the •T  endering/RFP World Economic process • Regulatory compliance Forum, where we • Product stewardship actively look for •S  ustainability opportunities to programs maximize benefits and minimize impacts and risks throughout the extractives sector. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 77 COMMUNITIES COMMON TOPICS STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF WHO OF ENGAGEMENT/ ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT ENGAGES ISSUES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Investors Shareholders • Quarterly Quarterly to Investor • Financial performance Directors and senior and rating conference calls annually Relations, • Operational management hold agencies • Investor Days senior performance an annual Socially management Responsible • Socially • Corporate governance Investors (SRI) Responsible • Access to capital call to provide Investor (SRI) updates from our calls • Environmental performance Sustainability • Conferences Committee and a • Health and safety general overview of • Annual reports and financial • Human rights our CSR activities circulars • Business risk during the year. • Site tours • Non-deal road shows Employees Site workforce • Internal intranet Daily to Senior • Health and safety Senior management • Newsletters annually management, • Operational change and employees Human interact on Conveyor, • Town hall Resources, • Workforce our global intranet, meetings Corporate management by sharing stories, • YouTube, Twitter, Affairs and • Career planning resources and blog general • Training and career announcements. • Lunch-andemployees development learns • Crew talks • Email • Performance reviews • Conferences Land and Private •F  ace-to-face Weekly to Site-level • Resource access A condition of resource users landowners, interactions annually representatives • Land rights the Opinagow hunters, •E  mail in Environment, Collaboration outdoor CSR and •C  ompensation Agreement signed recreation • Phone calls Projects •E  nvironmental with the Cree Nation groups and • Public meetings protection of Wemindji, the traditional •N  ewsletters Grand Council of the subsistence Crees (Eeyou Istchee) users •L  etters and the Cree Nation Government requires our Éléonore mine to consult with local tallymen on activities that will impact their traditional traplines in the area. In practice, there are regular conversations with local trappers. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 78 COMMUNITIES HUMAN RIGHTS As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and We are committed to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to respecting integrating the respect human rights as set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and under for human rights into international humanitarian law. From employees and contractors to senior everything we do, management, all of our workforce is expected to comply with our Human everywhere we operate. Rights SEMS standard and Goldcorp’s Human Rights Policy. Our Human Rights Policy, updated in 2015, reflects the changing social context in which we operate. Our revised policy defines our practices and commitments on human rights. New additions to this policy include clauses on community consultation; grievance mechanisms; commitment to the Conflict-Free Gold Standard; commitment to respect the rights, interests, perspectives, and traditions of Indigenous Peoples; resettlement planning; and potential measures in the event of non-compliance. HUMAN RIGHTS AND SECURITY Security practices are under increasing scrutiny for human rights compliance in recent years. We are committed to effectively managing and administering our security programs in accordance to company policies, local and national legal requirements, and industry best practices. Our security teams conduct in-depth risk analysis to determine threats to our workforce within their area of operation and influence. Our sites are required to develop security plans in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations as well as with our Human Rights Policy and Security Policy. When local conditions require us to deploy armed staff, careful consideration is given to this deployment and additional safety measures and training are implemented as necessary. We have designed training programs for security providers at sites in Mexico and Guatemala based on international best practices. In 2015, 100% In order to meet our of our security personnel in our Latin America region underwent training on commitment to comply the use of force and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights; 25% of our security personnel in Canada have received this training. with the Conflict-Free In early 2016, we became a signatory of the Voluntary Principles on Gold Standard, we have Security and Human Rights. Established in 2000, the Voluntary Principles designed training programs are a set of principles designed to guide companies in maintaining the for security providers safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights. As a signatory, we will implement at sites in Mexico and the principles across all of our operations, and will improve our alignment Guatemala. This training of corporate policies and procedures with internationally recognized human utilizes international best rights principles in the provision of security for our operations. practices, such as the In accordance with the Voluntary Principles, in our highand medium-risk operations, all security personnel are required to undergo annual training on Voluntary Principles on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and have to sign a Security and Human declaration of compliance with our human rights requirements. The security Rights. contractors incorporate human rights training in their employee orientation. All security staff receive at least one pre-shift briefing per month on the 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 79 COMMUNITIES use of force. Company security supervisors provide ongoing training and refresher classes. Non-compliance with our human rights requirements is not tolerated. CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD The World Gold Council (WGC), the industry’s key marketing body, has recognized that in some circumstances, gold may represent a potential All gold and gold-bearing source of funding for armed groups involved in civil conflicts throughout material produced at the world. In October 2012, the WGC published the Conflict-Free Gold Standard, which establishes a common approach by which gold producers our mining operations can assess and provide assurance that their gold has been extracted in a meets the World Gold manner that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful armed conflict Council’s Conflict-Free Gold or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international humanitarian law. As a member company, we supported the WGC’s efforts Standard. in developing the Standard, and implemented it effective January 1, 2013. We produce an annual, independently assured Conflict-Free Gold Report summarizing our conformance to the Standard. The Standard requires companies with mines operating in areas considered to be “conflict-affected or high risk” (according to the Heidelberg Conflict Barometer) to evaluate processes and controls and implement additional measures to ensure conformance with the Standard. Although only our Mexican mines are located in areas deemed “conflict-affected or highrisk”, we voluntarily applied the same categorization to our Marlin mine in Guatemala based on our internal security assessment. Our 2015 findings confirmed that all gold and gold-bearing material produced at mining operations where we operate have the appropriate systems and controls in place to conform to the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Conformance with the Standard was subject to independent assurance. For a copy of our 2015 Conflict-Free Gold Report and more information on the background and structure of the Standard, please visit www.goldcorp.com. INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES In order to conduct business in an efficient and cost-effective manner, it is essential that we have a steady, stable flow of production inputs to our sites. We are driven to innovate and address situations that may hinder safe production. As well, we are increasingly automating our processes to facilitate responsiveness to potential opportunities and mitigation of supply shortages. However, numerous social and environmental risks have the potential to disrupt the flow of goods. In our industry there is increasing awareness of these risks as well as of the opportunities to leverage dollars and relationships to influence supplier sustainability both upstream and downstream. Out of the 324 contracts reported by our sites that were entered into with third parties, 89% were screened for human rights compliance. No contractors or suppliers were found in violation of human rights from these screenings, and as a result, there were no contractors or suppliers declined or removed. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 80 COMMUNITIES Our approach to risk management and impact assessment also includes reviews of significant investments against numerous criteria, including human rights risks. In this report, we define “significant investments” as those that either moved the organization into a position of ownership of another entity or initiated a capital investment project that was material to financial accounts. There were 94 such investments and contracts reported at our sites in 2015. Of those agreements, 59 had human rights clauses, and 98% were screened for human rights compliance. HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING We recognize that policy alone cannot create meaningful change. In order to ensure that our Human Rights Policy is reflected in our day-to-day activities, we conduct site-specific training on human rights. Other training and awareness programs are specific to certain sites or regions, where issues may be of greater importance. Sites in our Mexico and Guatemala regions, for example, carry our training related to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, as well as general human rights training related to the Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Out of 9,796 full-time employees, over 4,200 received training on human rights, equivalent to 43%. More than 1,500 hours of employee time were spent on human rights training in 2015. TOTAL NUMBER OF TOTAL NUMBER OF PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL HOURS EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES TRAINED ON EMPLOYEES TRAINED ON DEDICATED TO (EXCLUDING HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES TRAINING EMPLOYEES REGION CONTRACTORS) AND PROCEDURES AND PROCEDURES ON HUMAN RIGHTS Canada and US 3,331 1,375 41% 788 Latin America 6,465 2,879 45% 723 Total 9,796 4,254 43% 1,511 GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Commitments listed in our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and the SEMS include the establishment of grievance mechanisms based on international best practices. We acknowledge the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, which means that we and our subsidiaries must act with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others. In light of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, we have implemented grievance and incident reporting procedures. Grievances may come from both internal and external stakeholders, such as employees, contractors, local community members, civil society and government. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 81 COMMUNITIES At Goldcorp, we have two formal company-wide channels for receiving complaints and grievances, as well as other informal channels, which are implemented on a site-bysite basis.1 FORMAL CHANNELS FOR COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES ETHICS FROM THE GROUND UP CHANNELS COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISMS Purpose Receive complaints, questions and concerns related to the Provide an easily accessible site-level process for implementation of our Code of Conduct community stakeholders to provide feedback to us Key policies Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy SEMS, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, Goldcorp Grievance Framework Communication Toll-free telephone hotline, email and mailing address Varies by site: examples include a dedicated website, channels community drop boxes, offices, telephone lines, email addresses and text message systems Primary users Employees and contractors Local communities and other external stakeholders Complaints and Initial complaint is received (in confidence, if through our Complaints are received and documented at grievances process ethics and compliance hotline) by an external third party, each operation. Classification and investigations and the cases are investigated and resolved by the corporate vary based on severity. Operations engage with Ethics Committee with local site support as necessary stakeholders to resolve and close out grievances Type of complaints Issues related to theft, fraud, discrimination, harassment, Issues related to environmental performance, reported employee relations, labour, health and safety, and human physical disturbances, land access, compensation, rights job opportunities and contractor management In 2015, our Ethics from the Ground Up channels received 39 complaints and/or inquiries regarding alleged discrimination, harassment and other issues that could relate to human rights, compared to 24 complaints in the previous year. All reports were investigated and 34 were resolved or closed during 2015. The remaining five were received late in the year and the resolution process was ongoing at the end of the reporting period. Two complaints and/or inquiries received in 2014 were also resolved or closed in 2015. ETHICS FROM THE GROUND UP HOTLINE RESOLVED/ RECEIVED IN PREVIOUS YEAR, (HUMAN RIGHTS–RELATED COMPLAINTS ONLY) RECEIVED INVESTIGATED CLOSED RESOLVED/CLOSED IN CURRENT PERIOD Discrimination 9 9 8 2 Harassment and bullying 11 11 11 0 Impacts to livelihood 2 2 1 0 Impacts on personal safety and security 15 15 12 0 Sexual harassment and unwanted sexual 2 2 2 0 advances Total 39 39 34 2 Our Community Response mechanisms are intended to meet the needs of local communities and other external stakeholders. Each Community Response mechanism at our operating sites is tailored to the local context, but they are all designed to comply with the Goldcorp Grievance Mechanism Framework. In 2015, our sites received and responded to a total of 396 complaints, of which 278 were closed at the time of writing of this report. The remaining 118 are in various stages of each site’s investigation and resolution process. During the year, we started applying a categorization process of grievances against related SEMS standards. In some cases, more than one standard is applied to a given complaint, as they may have impacts or aspects related to more than one category. At Goldcorp, we endeavour to treat complaints in a respectful and holistic manner, aiming to understand and respond effectively to all the root causes. 1 Some overlap may exist between these channels. Due to the confidential nature of grievance management, as well as the ability of a stakeholder to escalate their grievance through multiple channels, verifying the precise number by category at the corporate level has proven difficult. Since both mechanisms are confidential in nature, we have not attempted to define or describe the specific issues raised. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 82 COMMUNITIES GRIEVANCES RECEIVED FROM COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISM BY CATEGORY NUMBER EXAMPLES OF GRIEVANCES RECEIVED Grievances related to the environment 244 • Dust concerns • Impact on water availability or quality • Noise complaints • Vibrations Grievances related to society 178 • Impacts to infrastructure • Lack of communication about activities • Community safety around site installations • Delays on meeting commitments such as community investments Grievances related to labour practices 47 • Labour practices • Safety concerns • Access to employment Grievances related to human rights 3 • Discrimination • Harassment Grievances related to Indigenous rights 3 • Consultation concerns • Land and infrastructure access • Social, cultural and spiritual well-being Other 24 • Requests for information We received 63 other work-related concerns from employees that were resolved at the site either by line management or by the human resources team and which did not require management via one of our two formal channels. In addition, in 2015, there were two significant1 disputes related to land use or customary rights of local or Indigenous Peoples: • Northern Well Field: Construction on the Northern Well Field project at Peñasquito was halted in the first quarter of 2015 due to land access concerns in the community of Matamoros. Through proactive and continuous engagement, Goldcorp and community leaders were able to reach an agreement to resolve the issue. Construction resumed in the fourth quarter. • Cerro Gordo: In Mexico, ejidos are communal agricultural lands managed by community members. Peñasquito negotiated an agreement with the Cerro Gordo ejido related to surface rights for approximately 600 hectares of land within the mine footprint prior to construction. In 2009, the Cerro Gordo ejido commenced an action against Peñasquito in Mexico’s agrarian courts challenging the land use agreement. Following a series of legal proceedings, the agrarian courts ruled on June 18, 2013 that the land use agreement was null and ordered the land to be returned to the Cerro Gordo ejido. In March 2015, Peñasquito and the ejido reached a settlement to fully resolve this dispute. Concurrently, Peñasquito and the Cerro Gordo ejido entered into a new 30-year surface land use agreement on commercial terms for the 600 hectares. 1 Significant disputes are determined as those which cannot be resolved through the course of normal Community Response mechanisms in place and/or which require financially material resources to resolve and/or can have a material impact on the operation. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 83 COMMUNITIES INDIGENOUS RIGHTS AND ENGAGEMENT At Goldcorp, our strategy is to seek and encourage partnerships with all local Goldcorp has collaboration communities. Five of our operations (Red Lake, Musselwhite, Porcupine, agreements in place with Marlin and Éléonore) are in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories. all of the First Nations that We are committed to meeting or exceeding mandatory consultation requirements and working in collaboration with all stakeholders who have assert Aboriginal and treaty an interest in our projects and operations. In particular, we collaborate rights in the vicinity of our with stakeholders and assist in the creation of employment and business operating mines in Canada. opportunities for local Indigenous communities, with sensitivity and support for their social and cultural practices. As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), we support the ICMM Position Statement on Mining and Indigenous Peoples, which was updated in 2013 and came into effect in 2015. The Position Statement outlines the ICMM’s view of Free, Prior, Informed Consent (FPIC) and commits member companies to putting this into practice. INDIGENOUS ENGAGEMENT Effective engagement with Indigenous groups can create employment and business opportunities for communities, encourage economic independence and entrepreneurship, and ensure operations are sensitive to local cultural and social practices. Many of our sites have established formal agreements with Indigenous groups near to our sites. These agreements often have different names (Collaboration Agreements, Cooperation Agreements, Resource Development Agreements, etc.) and vary by size and scope, but all of them establish foundational elements for collaborative partnerships. While each agreement is a unique reflection of the partners involved, “I am glad that we we strongly believe that together these agreements demonstrate a can now distribute the company-wide commitment to working transparently and in good faith to build long-term relationships with partners in the communities. Agreement freely in the In 2015, Goldcorp and the Cree Nation of Wemindji, the Grand Council Cree Nation and across of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Nation Government publicly the country so that people disclosed the Opinagow Collaboration Agreement (excluding financial can learn from the balance terms). The disclosure of the agreement was an important step of trust and transparency between us and our partners. The Opinagow Collaboration we are achieving between Agreement provides an example to the mining industry on the ways protecting tradition while Aboriginal communities and mining companies can successfully work supporting natural resource together to make sustainable commitments to one another for the mutually beneficial and successful development, operation and reclamation of development.” – Chief a project. Dennis Georgekish of the In Latin America, our Marlin mine worked extensively with local community Cree Nation of Wemindji development councils (known as COCODES in Spanish). These councils are formally appointed by each of the communities near our mine, and decide, prioritize and implement projects of significance in accordance to each community’s needs and priorities. This approach highlights the importance of including culturally and contextually appropriate decision-making processes that take into consideration the traditions and social practices of the areas where we operate. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 84 COMMUNITIES INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND FORMAL AGREEMENTS AT OUR OPERATIONS GOLDCORP OPERATIONS IN OR ADJACENT FORMAL AGREEMENTS IN PLACE TO INDIGENOUS PEOPLES’ TERRITORIES NAME OF INDIGENOUS GROUP WITH INDIGENOUS GROUPS DATE SIGNED Red Lake Gold Mines Lac Seul First Nation Yes August 2013 Wabauskang First Nation Yes January 2015 Porcupine Gold Mines (PGM) Mattagami First Nation Yes November 2014 Wahgoshig First Nation Matachewan First Nation Flying Post First Nation Éléonore The Grand Council of the Crees Yes February 2011 Eeyou Istchee Cree Nation Government Cree Nation of Wemindji Musselwhite Mishkeegogamang Ojibway First Nation Yes January 2014 North Caribou Lake First Nation Yes 1996, renewed Cat Lake First Nation 2001 Kingfisher Lake First Nation Wunnumin Lake First Nation Shibogama First Nations Council Windigo First Nations Council Marlin1 Maya Mam No Maya Sipakapense INDIGENOUS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT The presence of our mining activities both attracts and creates business opportunities in the regions in which we operate. We preferentially engage and support local services at each of our operations, and work closely with local partners to help grow firms and increase their capacity. Our long-standing ties and relationships with Indigenous groups have provided further opportunities for business development growth. The following are examples of some of our Canadian Indigenous business partners: • Wemindji Laundry Inc. – Part of Éléonore’s business partnership with the Cree, Wemindji Laundry Inc. provides laundry service to the mine and coin-operated machines and services for community members. Wemindji Laundry is 100% Cree-owned and has hired 100% of its personnel from the Wemindji community. • Makoose Wood Innovations – Makoose Wood Innovations is a resource-based company involved in logging, sawing and manufacturing. Based out of Wabauskang First Nation, just south of Red Lake, the company is 100% First Nations–owned and provides full-time positions to community members. Makoose has established a diamond drill core box fabrication business. • Windigo Catering – Windigo is a successful start-up venture originally funded by Musselwhite which, in 2006, spun off as a for-profit organization with new growth extending beyond the mine. Approximately 80% of the staff is of Indigenous descent, largely composed of First Nations community members. • Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund – Incorporated within the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement between Red Lake Gold Mines and Lac Seul First Nation, funding was put forward by Goldcorp to support local entrepreneurs from the Lac Seul community through the Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund. The first fund application by the First Nation community saw a successful Tim Hortons built in Sioux Lookout, a few hours south of Red Lake. 1 At Marlin, while there is no formal overarching agreement in place, any operational changes such as new exploration areas as well as all contributions to support sustainable community development initiatives undergo a formal engagement process and are documented to ensure transparency. These are typically captured in local acts (actas) that are signed and approved by leaders in the communities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 85 COMMUNITIES RESETTLEMENT To conduct our mining activities, we are occasionally required to acquire land and/or resettle individuals or communities. Land acquisition and resettlement is a complex and life-changing issue for the communities affected. It is never our first resort when other options are available. The timing and location of resettlement is negotiated with the affected households and every reasonable effort is made to ensure that the integrity of the communities is maintained. No resettlement occurred at our operations during 2015. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 86 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES CASE STUDIES ABORIGINAL YOUTH GRADUATE WITH SKILLS FOR SUCCESS AT MUSSELWHITE MINE July 30, 2015 was a proud day for First Nations youth, parents and families in northern Ontario near Musselwhite mine. At a ceremony hosted by Goldcorp, the first graduating class of the Aboriginal Mining and Skilled Trades Entry Project (AMSTEP) received certifications and congratulations. AMSTEP is a partnership between Oshki-Pimache-O-Win Education and Training Institute (OSHKI) and Goldcorp to provide career skills to Aboriginal youth in signatory communities of the Musselwhite Agreement, a collaboration with four First Nations and two First Nations Councils to foster economic sustainability, job creation, entrepreneurship and environmental stewardship. Thirteen participants from the First Nations of North Caribou Lake and Wunnumin Lake completed the intensive five-month, 800-hour training and work experience program, earning industry-recognized accreditation. It’s the first program of its kind to be taught in an active mine site, which made it uniquely immersive for students, from surface to underground operations. “Having them here on-site is far more beneficial than having them in a city or community,” says Bill Gascon, Musselwhite’s General Manager. “They get to experience what work is going to be like; they get to mingle and talk to employees who are here and are actually working.” INNOVATIVE AND VITAL PROGRAM CREATES NEW WORKFORCE The program also addresses critical issues such as career options and training in First Nations communities – where up to half of the population is under 45 years old – and skilled labour for sectors facing shortages. “This is an innovative program for expanding opportunities for Aboriginal youth and creating local workforces that meet industry needs,” says OSHKI Executive Director Rosie Mosquito. The benefits are already evident to Gascon. “From their very first day onsite, we expected a lot from the participants and their transformation has been incredible. I believe this program will be life changing for many.” Equally impressive is the students’ flawless safety record and 72% graduation rate. For Chantal Chikane, the skills she learned open up a career path in her mother’s footsteps. “My mom was a truck driver – she worked underground,” says Chikane, who encourages her peers to take advantage of the program. “Go for it. It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.” Ontario Regional Chief Isadore Day says, “The capacity of First Nations people in industry in the north is undeniably one of the most important solutions to poverty, to the labour shortage in all the trades...for building stronger and more vibrant communities.” 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 87 COMMUNITIES A NEW CLASS OF AMSTEP GRADS FROM CAT LAKE AND KINGFISHER LAKE In March 2016, AMSTEP graduated its second cohort of ten students from Cat Lake and Kingfisher Lake First Nations. The graduates received industry-recognized Mining Essentials certificates, jointly issued by OSHKI and the Mining Industry Human Resources Council, as well as training certificates from Cambrian College, YES Employment Services and Nishnawbe Development Fund. Kingfisher Lake Chief James Mamakwa congratulated OSHKI and Goldcorp for providing the program to the graduates, noting there are “virtually no employment” opportunities in his community. “Hopefully these young grads will find employment in the community or elsewhere.” Cat Lake Chief Russell Wesley says the program provides youth with transferrable skills that they can use anywhere. “That is what we have always strived for,” Wesley says. “I am glad to see the youth happy and I wish them well.” CERRO NEGRO CONTRIBUTION GIVES LOCAL HOSPITAL A NEW LEASE ON LIFE A welcome donation by Cerro Negro to the Hospital Distrital Oscar H. Natale in Perito Moreno, Argentina has sparked a baby boom of sorts in the community of 8,000 people, located approximately 70 kilometres northwest of the Cerro Negro mine site. As part of the collaboration agreement signed on June 4, 2015 between Cerro Negro, the municipality of Perito Moreno and the hospital, we committed to provide AR$35,000 a month in “top-up” funding over a one-year period to refurbish and run the healthcare facility’s operating and delivery room. “There hasn’t been a baby born in Perito Moreno in seven years because the local hospital was only equipped to do basic medical procedures, so women would traditionally leave the community when their due date was close to be near a functioning hospital,” says Goldcorp’s Dominique Ramirez, Director, Corporate Affairs. The monthly contribution by Goldcorp, along with other infrastructure and equipment investment amounting to AR$4.3 million, enabled the hospital to upgrade its operating room and inpatient rooms, purchase needed surgical equipment, expand its gynecological service and provide 24-hour emergency surgeries. As a result, a total of eight babies were delivered in the hospital in the month of June 2015 alone and 12 general surgeries were performed in the refurbished operating room. The added capacity also allows the hospital to serve neighbouring communities up to 60 kilometres away, including Los Antiguos. “Previously, people had to travel five hours to the nearest hospital in Caleta Olivia for routine surgery,” says Ramirez. “Now, patients can access surgical services closer to home, which reduces a lot of stress on the patient and their family members who would normally accompany them on out-of-town medical trips.” 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 88 COMMUNITIES “The operating room has significantly improved the quality of life in Perito Moreno. There are a lot of seniors in the community, so having these kinds of healthcare services available is a welcome and much needed addition that will help improve health outcomes.” With state-of-the-art medical facilities and equipment at their disposal, the hospital’s doctors are now considering expanding their healthcare delivery to include preventative care and elective procedures, such as dental surgeries. Since acquiring the property in 2010, Cerro Negro has continuously supported the local host community’s development by promoting health and welfare, providing educational tools, creating spaces for dialogue and improving infrastructure. Ramirez concludes: “Cerro Negro is honoured to help fund this important hospital project in partnership with the municipality of Perito Moreno. We’re confident that our initial funding will help this hospital become a self-sustaining healthcare facility that will benefit generations to come in the community.” 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 89 People are our core strength. More than any other factor, our success depends on their capabilities and commitment. We are focused on attracting and retaining experienced and skilled talent with a culture that puts safety at its core and supports people to reach their potential. OUR PEOPLE 2015 HIGHLIGHTS • We implemented a behaviour-based competency and 15,800 leadership development program, and piloted it at our Our workforce (including contractors) Musselwhite and Peñasquito mines. totalled just over 15,800 at year end; 9% • We successfully rolled out the second phase of our Creating of our workforce is comprised of women. Choices initiative, called the Growing Choices program, to sites and offices. • We created the Global Recruitment Standards to ensure 350+ our recruitment is fair, consistent, non-discriminatory and aligned with best practices. Over 350 women from across the company graduated from our Growing Choices program. Growing Choices is the second component of Creating Choices, our training, development and mentoring program for women. 55% Approximately 55% of employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 90 OUR PEOPLE MANAGEMENT APPROACH TRENDS AND ISSUES The industry-wide shortage of experienced and skilled talent is expected to continue. While the current market volatility and resultant project slowdowns have reduced pressure, we expect talent attraction and retention to be an ongoing challenge for several reasons, including local demographics in mining regions and the aging workforce in Canada and other countries. MATERIAL TOPICS Through our materiality process, we have identified the following to be our material topics relating to People at Goldcorp: MATERIAL TOPIC AT GOLDCORP, THIS MEANS DIVERSITY Encouraging diversity of gender, ages, cultures, AND EQUAL backgrounds and skills throughout the Board of Directors, OPPORTUNITIES management team, employees, contractors, business partners and suppliers. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders expect us to attract, develop and retain talented people Our work environment who generate sustainable value. Stakeholders also expect us to operate includes support for career responsibly in accordance with high ethical and legal standards. The strength of our people makes these aims possible. It is important that we development, diversity and create the right work environment, which includes providing opportunities equal opportunity. for career development, demonstrating support for diversity and promoting equal opportunities. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO GOLDCORP? At Goldcorp, people are our most important asset. We want to offer our At Goldcorp, people are our employees and contractors unmatched opportunities to build rewarding most important asset. careers in a dynamic company. It is important we support our people in their personal and career development. We aim to provide resources, time and knowledge, because when they succeed, we all succeed. STRATEGY Our strategy is to invest in the attraction, retention, development and safety of a diverse and talented workforce aligned with our values of open communication, innovation, empowering others, safety, respecting all our stakeholders and acting ethically. We encourage an active, innovative workforce that values safety and leadership in responsible business practices. Our multifaceted training environment builds careers, develops our people and provides opportunities for success. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 91 OUR PEOPLE POLICIES AND GUIDANCE Our Code of Conduct sets the expectations for ethical behaviour at Goldcorp. We endorse a diverse workforce through our Human Rights Policy and Diversity Policy. Our six Core Values guide our recruiting, new employee training, performance management and leadership development. For more on our Core Values, please visit our Vision and Values page on our website. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our human resources function is headed by the Vice President, People, who reports to the EVP, General Counsel. We also have directors for this function in each of the regions where we operate and at every mine site. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to human resources and compensation issues, and in establishing a succession plan for executive officers (see Executive Compensation for more information). 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 92 OUR PEOPLE OUR WORKFORCE Goldcorp’s innovative spirit plays a major role in our success, and attracts and retains an exceptional group of people. Our people drive our business; that’s why we consistently recruit, develop, and retain top talent who share the same spirit that drives us to search for possibilities and approach a centuries-old industry in new and innovative ways. WORKFORCE COMPOSITION As of December 31, 2015, our workforce (employees and contractors) totalled 15,836, compared to 18,217 in 2014 and 18,338 in 2013. The reduction in our workforce corresponds to terminations resulting from having to operate in a lower commodity price environment, construction demobilization at Cerro Negro, and the closure of our El Sauzal mine. GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY REGION, EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER FULL TIME FULL TIME SALARIED EXPATRIATES – SALARIED HOURLY (NON-UNION) FULL TIME (UNION) (NON-UNION) HOURLY (UNION) EMPLOYEES SALARIED EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES CONTRACTORS LOCATION MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL Canada and US 969 387 1,356 5 2 7 0 0 0 1,607 61 1,668 279 21 300 1,379 95 1,474 Latin America 1,605 377 1,982 100 0 100 984 34 1,018 998 20 1,018 2,127 220 2,347 4,316 250 4,566 Total regions 2,574 764 3,338 105 2 107 984 34 1,018 2,605 81 2,686 2,406 241 2,647 5,695 345 6,040 Total Goldcorp Total workforce 15,836 OUTSOURCING We partner extensively with contractors during the construction of new projects and when significant investments are made to our existing operations. Contractors provide a source of short-term labour, as well as specific construction expertise which is not readily available within our own workforce. We also make use of contractors to supplement our internal expertise in key areas of our operations. We have a number of long-term partnerships with contractors who undertake critical components of our operation. Contractors are required to comply with our policies and procedures, such as the Code of Conduct and safety procedures, when undertaking work on our sites. Our use of long-term contractors falls into three broad areas: • Mining and processing: These are our core functions and we tend to use contractors only to provide a key additional technical resource as needed. • Maintenance: Contractors are used at most of our sites due, at least in part, to the specialized nature of some maintenance functions. These activities are often cyclical and we do not always staff up internally for these roles. • Drilling, blasting, security, employee transport and catering: While these functions are important to the operation of our sites, they are frequently contracted out to firms who specialize in these activities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 93 OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT AND DEVELOPMENT Our recruitment function is committed to establishing a consistent process to ensure hiring is conducted in an effective, fair and consistent manner and results in a positive experience for prospective candidates and hiring managers alike. GLOBAL RECRUITMENT STANDARDS We created the Global Recruitment Standards in 2015. These establish a consistent approach to ensure that we recruit people with the right competencies, experience, qualifications and potential to meet the requirements of the positions and the needs of Goldcorp. They also provide boundaries to make sure we do it in a fair, non-discriminatory manner, aligned with best practices. In support of this goal, we have graduate development, internship and summer placement programs that allow us to Through dynamic training engage and attract talent early in their careers. and support at every stage of their careers, we LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT empower our people to To grow our people and empower them to succeed, we offer a selection of succeed. robust training programs. We support employees through every stage of their careers and help them as they consider new career options through to retirement. Our Global Onboarding Program provides facilitated learning sessions and access to policies, guidelines, reference guides, e-learning and videos to give new employees a common understanding of our company strategy, vision and values. It also educates employees on our policies. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 94 OUR PEOPLE In 2015, we continued to focus on training and development across all regions and operations, emphasizing safety, leadership and development. This will build an ongoing pipeline of talent that will ensure operational continuity and mitigate labour shortage risk. We encourage employees to participate in advanced education, training or other professional development activities, and offer financial assistance for education (requests for assistance are evaluated on a case-by-case basis). Our programs and initiatives include: Graduate Creating and Development Growing Program Choices GROWING Fighting PEOPLE Safety Fatalities Leadership Training Dare to Grow • Graduate Development Program: Implemented in 2013 in Canada and the US, our Graduate Development Program is a five-year program in which newly recruited graduates gain on-the-job skills through planned rotations of our operations, achieving development milestones and the technical indicators needed to obtain their specified professional designation. This program provides mentorship and technical and leadership development. • Creating and Growing Choices: These programs have received recognition for providing female employees in all regions with the opportunity to develop confidence and a greater understanding of the opportunities available for personal and professional growth. In 2015, over 350 women from across the company graduated. • Safety Leadership Training: This program introduces five key safety leadership practices and brings employees from different regions together to share best practices on how we can make Goldcorp “Safe Enough for Our Families”. • Dare to Grow: Dare to Grow gives front-line employees the knowledge, skills, abilities and awareness to do a good job, while becoming a strong team player. It fosters corporate values and culture while developing interpersonal skills. • Fighting Fatalities: Introduced in 2014, this course develops leadership abilities to influence safe behaviours and create material, sustainable changes in workplace safety – in support of the vision of “Safe Enough for Our Families”. Through leadership engagement, training and coaching, Fighting Fatalities helps employees understand risk tolerance and how it impacts daily decision-making. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 95 OUR PEOPLE TRAINING MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP To ensure that our programs add value, all employees who attend training and development programs are requested to provide feedback. Furthermore, discussions are held with the employee’s supervisor, to see whether on-the-job performance improvements have resulted. We also conduct periodic employee surveys to determine employee engagement and identify areas for improvement. We know that employee development is integral to attracting and retaining our workforce; therefore, we are working to develop more robust monitoring and evaluation tools to assess the effectiveness of our employee training programs. For example, in 2015, we introduced new software-based e-learning technologies that will be used to provide training to all employees on policies and programs that are key for Goldcorp, such as our Code of Conduct and our Sustainability Excellence Management System. These technologies will also provide the ability to better monitor and assess participant completion rates, grades and performance. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Performance Management processes are in place at every operation. Our global Performance Management System includes all non-unionized employees. Within this process, our annual strategy and objectives are cascaded down into individual annual objectives for each employee. Managers guide and provide feedback to their team members throughout the year and have an individual mid-year checkpoint to assess and discuss progress relative to personal objectives. At the end of the year, individual annual performance is assessed with the participation of each employee through a self-assessment and, ultimately, with each manager, who conducts a performance appraisal for each of their team members. Our Golden Performance System (GPS) for salaried employees was first introduced in Canada in 2008 and then in Mexico in 2010, and forms a key component of our Growing People strategy. It standardizes our review processes and helps us determine the personal component of employee bonuses. It allows full time employees to set targets and personal and professional growth objectives that are in line with corporate objectives. The GPS system is in place in our Canadian and Mexican operations. It is also used for Leadership roles in our Argentinian operations. COMPLETED REVIEWS BY EMPLOYEES WITH ACCESS TO GPS SYSTEM Men 96% Women 91% 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 96 OUR PEOPLE TOTAL REWARDS We regularly conduct market reviews to ensure that our total rewards (compensation, benefits and pensions) are regionally competitive and aligned with our total rewards philosophy. On average, 44% of our full time salaried non-union employees are eligible for long-term incentives, which allow employees to share in the company’s success in addition to their fixed cash compensation. The table below represents benefits provided to full time salaried employees, unless otherwise stated.1 HEALTH, VISION FAMILY LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DENTAL ASSISTANCE AND DISMEMBERMENT RETIREMENT INSURANCE PROGRAM INSURANCE SAVINGS SHARE-BASED PROGRAMS1 Canada ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan United States ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan Mexico ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Guatemala ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Chile ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Argentina ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan EMPLOYEE TURNOVER To retain employees in a competitive market, we maintain a positive, dynamic working environment, with competitive compensation and career options. In 2015, employee turnover2 across Goldcorp for site-based employees was 13%. For our corporate office (not including regional office employees), turnover was 13%, compared to 9% in 2014 and 8% in 2013. TURNOVER BY TURNOVER – TURNOVER – TOTAL GENDER AND REGION MALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES TURNOVER Canada and US 11% 17% 12% Latin America 13% 20% 14% Total 12% 18% 13% Turnover rates are calculated only at operating sites in Canada and Latin America and exclude projects and joint ventures that we do not operate. Generally, because of the short-term nature of many of the jobs on-site during the construction phase, turnover rates at projects will not be comparable with our overall performance. 1 Share-based programs may include benefits such as employee stock purchase plan and Restricted Share Units (RSU). Eligibility on these options is dependent on job levels. 2 Employee turnover refers to employees and not contractors who have left the company voluntarily or due to termination, retirement or death. It does not include employees who were transferred within Goldcorp to another site or office, or employees on maternity or disability leave. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 97 OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES We strive to foster an open and inclusive workplace environment and We believe in an inclusive strongly support the principle that all individuals should have an equal and diverse workplace, opportunity to participate in our company and achieve their full potential. In compliance with our Code of Conduct and the Diversity Policy, everyone at where everyone has Goldcorp must: an equal opportunity to 1. Always treat each other and all members of the outside community with participate and to achieve respect and courtesy. their full potential. 2. Always keep our workplace free from all forms of harassment, meaning unwelcome behaviour that a reasonable person would consider to be degrading, humiliating, discriminatory or intimidating. 3. Never permit factors like race, religion, colour, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnicity to determine decisions about hiring, employment promotions, pay rates, transfers, layoffs or terminations (or condone decisions by others determined by such factors). 4. Never permit physical disabilities to determine work-related decisions, unless the disability prevents a person from safely doing a job and the disability cannot be reasonably accommodated. DIVERSITY IN THE WORKFORCE Our Diversity Policy, which was published in 2014, promotes the benefits of, and need for, extending opportunities for career advancement to all internal and external candidates, without distinction as to gender, ethnicity or on any other basis. We track certain diversity indicators among employees and contractors. One of those diversity indicators is gender, which is outlined below. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER % OF FEMALE % OF MALE TOTAL EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEES AND REGION WORKFORCE CONTRACTORS CONTRACTORS Canada and US 4,805 12% 88% Latin America 11,031 8% 92% Total 15,836 9% 91% EMPLOYEE GENDER BREAKDOWN BY ROLE1 MALE FEMALE BREAKDOWN (%) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Board of Directors 73% 80% 27% 20% Officers 74% 77% 26% 23% Management2 85% 81% 15% 19% Total employees 91% 89% 9% 11% 1 Breakdown is based on employees and excludes contractors. 2 Managers represent positions with direct reports. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 98 OUR PEOPLE GENDER-BASED SALARY RATIOS We believe in equal pay for equal work and do not discriminate in our wages on the basis of gender. Our gender-based salary data comes from operating sites in two categories: unskilled and skilled workers. Gender bias is common in employee categories: outdoor manual labourers (the majority of whom are male) may be paid a higher hourly rate than kitchen workers (the majority of whom are female). This may result in a perceived gender bias in pay, which is actually a gender bias in the respective work categories. Therefore, as we compete for labour in many competitive markets, gender biases in some categories may arise. Our operations range from a ratio of 1.0 (equal pay for unskilled males and females) to a ratio of 1.3 (male to female rates). The overall average ratio is 1.1 male to female starting salary for unskilled workers. For skilled categories of employment, there is also often a gender bias in mining-related professions. We choose our skilled workers on the basis of merit. The market dictates the salary levels for skilled workers based on education and experience. REGION UNSKILLED LABOUR SKILLED LABOUR Canada and US 1.2 1.1 Latin America 1.0 1.1 Total 1.1 1.1 We are committed to increasing diversity within the mining sector and support programs with post-secondary institutions to encourage leadership development for women in technical fields (e.g., University of British Columbia’s Goldcorp Professorship for Women in Engineering and Carleton University’s Advancing Leadership for Women Program for women currently working in mining and other technical fields). EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP The age group breakdown remained similar to 2014 and 2013. Data is for our operating sites only and does not include projects, joint ventures, corporate or off-site office employees, as the disaggregated data was not available. Age group for our governance body can be found in our Management Information Circular. AGE GROUP 2015 2014 2013 Under 30 years 27% 27% 29% 30 to 50 years 57% 54% 52% Over 50 years 16% 19% 19% 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 99 OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY WITHIN GOVERNANCE BODIES We believe that diversity provides a depth of perspective and enhances In 2015, 27% of our overall operations. In 2015, 27% of our directors were women and 26% of directors were women our officers were women. In addition, our directors and officers represent 10 different nationalities and self-identify with 30 distinct cultures/ethnicities. and 26% of our officers In 2015, we made Diversity oversight a formal component of the role of were women. In addition, the VP of Diversity, Regulatory Affairs & Corporate Secretary. A Diversity our directors and officers Committee was subsequently established to lead our diversity-related represent 10 different initiatives. Diversity Committee membership is comprised of a diverse group of employees from a range of different departments and regions nationalities and selfwithin Goldcorp. identify with 30 distinct During 2015, we undertook a review of our recruitment job postings to cultures/ethnicities. ensure the language included is gender neutral. We have also mandated that any external hiring conducted through an executive recruiter present a diverse candidate pool. In selecting external vendors, we have a primary focus on ensuring that the service provider has a diverse team that supports our work. Finally, we are developing our talent management strategy to ensure that diversity is fully integrated into every aspect of our programs, including succession planning, leadership development, learning and development and identification of high potential talent. We expect to finalize our strategy during 2016. Gender and geography are of particular importance to ensuring diversity within the Board. Women have typically been underrepresented on boards, and we believe that ensuring gender diversity will enrich the Board. The global nature of our business makes geographic diversity essential to Board efficiency. In this light, we seek to recruit Board candidates who represent both gender diversity and global business understanding and experience. In addition, the Board is responsible for the approval of all senior executive officer appointments and works closely with management to identify the most qualified candidates. BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT MALE FEMALE Board of Directors 8 3 Audit Committee 2 2 Compensation Committee 4 1 Governance and Nominating Committee 4 1 Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee 3 2 Senior management (officers) 23 8 In 2014, we became a signatory to the Catalyst Accord, an initiative to increase the proportion of women directors on corporate boards. Catalyst, founded in 1962, is a leading non-profit organization dedicated to expanding opportunities for women in business. As a signatory to the Catalyst Accord, we committed to increase the overall percentage of women on the Board to 25% by 2017, which we proudly achieved in April 2015 with the appointment of Margot Franssen. We will continue to strive to increase diversity within the Board in years to come. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 100 OUR PEOPLE To ensure gender diversity throughout our organization, we have implemented a unique, enterprise-wide and highly innovative diversity program. The Creating Choices program is a training, development and mentorship initiative for women at Goldcorp. Creating Choices aims to strengthen the ability of our female employees to: understand opportunities for personal and professional growth; develop their self-confidence and courage; build strong partnerships with fellow employees and communities where we operate; gain access to mentoring; and receive recognition for their contributions to Goldcorp. In 2015, the second phase of the Creating Choices program, Growing Choices, was delivered by 40 Goldcorp-trained facilitators to employees in Canada, Mexico and Central and South America. Growing Choices is a program that gives women insight into unwritten rules that govern corporate culture, such as creating a personal brand, work–life balance, career planning and building effective relationships. This is the first time an enterprise-wide diversity program has been developed by a Canadian mining company. Supported by our executive management and the Board, Creating Choices represents the Board’s and our commitment to diversity and inclusion. To date, over 1,550 women have graduated from the program (1,200 graduates of Creating Choices and 350 graduates of Growing Choices). We are an industry leader in supporting and promoting the advancement of women and women’s issues in the global mining industry, as illustrated not only by the success of our Creating Choices program and the growing proportion of women in executive management (now at 26%, compared to 0% in 2005) and on the Board (now at 27% compared to 0% in 2005). We also support the Women’s Empowerment Principles, a partnership initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Compact which provides a set of considerations to help the private sector focus on key elements integral to promoting gender equality in the workplace, marketplace and community. We remain actively committed to pursuing and developing ongoing diversity initiatives at Goldcorp. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 101 OUR PEOPLE LABOUR AND MANAGEMENT RELATIONS At Goldcorp, we strive for positive employee-management relationships with both unionized and non-unionized employees. We support our employees’ rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. These include the right of individual employees to join a union or other work-related cooperative. We also support the right of our employees to not join a union or other work-related cooperative and to be free from coercion to join. EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION To keep employees informed, we regularly conduct town hall meetings, in We held three open-forum which the President and CEO and other senior executives communicate town hall meetings for directly with employees. These town hall meetings are live globally – all our offices and operations are linked via webcast and telephone during the employees in 2015. meeting. Town hall meetings are provided in English, Spanish and French. They begin with short presentations and then provide an open forum for employees to ask questions. The constructive feedback from these meetings is further discussed in management and leadership meetings and, where a direct response is appropriate, senior management ensures that it is followed through. In 2015 there were three town hall meetings. Subjects of discussion were key operating milestones, financial and operating results, and new initiatives implemented since the previous meeting. We maintain an employee intranet called Conveyor, which is available to employees at each of our sites and remotely. This is a vehicle for keeping employees up to date via written word and video. For employees who are unable to connect to the intranet, mine operations and offices maintain notice boards and host regular information sessions for key issues and events. In addition, each of our Canadian operations issues their own publications which provide a variety of local news. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 102 OUR PEOPLE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING In our Human Rights Policy, we commit to respect workers’ rights, including freedom of association, the right to peaceful protest and assembly, and engagement in collective bargaining in alignment with the International Labour Organization (ILO) Core Conventions. In 2015, there were no incidents of violations or risk to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In 2013, at Cerro Negro, in Argentina, freedom of association and collective bargaining were identified as being potentially at risk from trade union members exerting undue pressure on workers. To support worker rights, we support and permit employees to form a union as laid out in Argentinian law. Of Goldcorp’s direct employee base, 55% of our total employees were represented by a collective bargaining agreement in 2015. The percentage of our contractor workforce covered by similar agreements is unknown. 2015 TOTAL NUMBER OF TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES (EXCLUDING REPRESENTED BY COLLECTIVE REPRESENTED BY COLLECTIVE REGION CONTRACTORS) BARGAINING AGREEMENTS BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Canada and US 3,331 300 9% Latin America 6,465 5,041 78% Total 9,796 5,341 55% 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 103 OUR PEOPLE OUR PEOPLE CASE STUDIES GLOBAL EXCELLENCE AWARDS 2015: CELEBRATING OUR CHANGE LEADERS We may be biased, but we feel that Goldcorp people are pretty special. And yet, we don’t always do enough to recognize those among us who truly excel – and whose unsung efforts make a major difference to our future. For three years now, the Global Excellence Awards have celebrated individuals and teams for their incredible accomplishments. These internal awards celebrate the Change Leaders among us: those who are committed to seeking out and implementing best practices that will improve the way we do business, and then motivating others to accept the change. George Burns, EVP and Chief Operating Officer, embodies the spirit that led us to establish the awards. “The way I look at it, there are two aspects to positive change within our operations. The first is on the business side, which focuses on things like increasing production and efficiencies, developing better mine plans, working on processing alternatives and driving net asset value. The second is the people side, in accepting change. What makes this company special is the willingness to work on making positive changes from within through creativity and innovation, and the dedication of all the people we work with.” NOW RECOGNIZING LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY In its first year, the awards were geared to projects that delivered measurable efficiency and safety benefits related to the Operating for Excellence and Safety programs. Recently, the award criteria expanded to include Sustainability categories, including Environment and Corporate Social Responsibility – and for projects or initiatives that don’t fit precisely into any category, there are Special Recognition awards. Award nominations are widely promoted throughout our workplaces. Anyone, or any work team, from any office or operation, can apply. 2015 GLOBAL EXCELLENCE WINNERS The 2015 winners were from Mexico, Guatemala and Canada, including the head office. Projects represented the spectrum of employees, from engineering teams to mine workers, from Communications staff to a negotiating team. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 104 OUR PEOPLE OPERATING FOR EXCELLENCE • Sulfide Plant Throughput Increase – Peñasquito • Metals Recovery, Chemical Reagents and Consumables Optimization – Peñasquito • Haul Truck Dump Box Conversion to OEM Specifications – Musselwhite • Mechanized Cut and Fill Ore Recovery – Porcupine Special Recognition: $100 Million Supply Chain Savings Since 2013 – Global supply chain team (all sites) SAFETY • Tag Board Lockout – Éléonore • Mill Lockout Improvements – Porcupine • DPM Filter Project – Musselwhite Special Recognition: Day of Remembrance – Vancouver Corporate Office CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Live Monitoring Enhances Community Feedback and Transparency – Porcupine • First Nations Collaboration Agreements: Lac Seul and Wabauskang First Nations – Red Lake • Sustainable Solid Waste Management at Mezcala Community – Los Filos ENVIRONMENT • 100% Reclaim Project – Porcupine • Diesel Generated Power Reduction – Musselwhite • Implementation of the Environmental Laboratory – Marlin After only a few years, the awards have become a popular Goldcorp celebration, and with good reason. Winners receive a team trophy and recognition in our internal and external communications, and a member of each winning team is given an all-expenses-paid trip to the award ceremony. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 105 OUR PEOPLE ATTRACTING, AND RETAINING, THE NEXT GENERATION OF TALENT: OUR INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS Recruitment Specialist Shane Snyder explains the importance of student internships to Goldcorp’s future: “Our success rests on our Six Pillars: Growing People, Growing Safety, Growing Sustainability, Growing Margins, Growing Reserves and Growing Safe Production. Growing our people – by hiring top talent for internships – provides the next generation with an opportunity to learn about Goldcorp while they’re early in their careers. We are developing the next generation of skilled mining professionals.” We offer a variety of programs to attract motivated students. Each mine, and each office, offers its own co-op, intern or summer employment opportunities. According to Snyder, who works in the corporate head office in Vancouver, the head-office internships are well-paid, full-time placements that can last from four months to a year. “We fill positions in technical services, communications, legal, HR, treasury, tax, ethics, IT – just about every area at head office. We’re looking for capable, motivated undergraduates or masters-level students in relevant degree programs.” To recruit students, we partner with some of Canada’s leading universities, including the University of British Columbia, Simon Fraser University, the University of Victoria and the University of Ottawa. Three current employees whose careers began with internships are Farah Kassam, Kaeli Gattens and Brandon Bonifacio. Farah Kassam joined the Corporate team in December 2011 after years at the Musselwhite mine site, where she first began as a co-op student in 2006. She has advanced steadily, recently reaching the position of Manager, Safety and Health for the Canada and US region. Notably, Farah was awarded a Special Recognition Global Excellence Award in 2015 for her outstanding initiative on our annual Day of Remembrance. Kaeli Gattens is an example of an intern whose career has taken an entirely new trajectory, thanks in part to continual retraining. Her internship in Investor Relations led to a full-time position in Corporate Communications. Two years later, after training in SAP, she took a yearlong secondment to the Mexico City office, where she took a leadership role in the region’s SAP implementation. Now back in Vancouver, she is an Organizational Change Management Specialist and leader in the Organizational Change Management department in IT. Brandon Bonifacio is the head office’s most recent post-internship hire. He joined the company in early 2016, after completing his MBA in Finance, and a Masters of Mining Engineering at the Mackay School of Mines at the University of Nevada. His internship was in Strategy and Corporate Development, and he was hired as an Analyst in Corporate Development, where he will work with the team in identifying, analyzing and executing business development opportunities. Sourcing and nurturing top talent is strategic, says Snyder. “Like every industry, the resource sector’s workforce is aging. We invest in these students because we want them to stay after graduation and grow with us. These interns are our future.” 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 106 “Safe Enough for Our Families”. It’s the phrase that captures one of our core strengths and sets a standard that guides our efforts to ensure and support the safety and health of our people at work, at home and in their communities. SAFETY AND HEALTH 2015 HIGHLIGHTS • Regrettably, in 2015, we failed in our main objective of Zero 16% Fatalities with the loss of a miner at our Musselwhite mine All-Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR), which site in Ontario, Canada. Prior to November 25, 2015, we had includes employees and contractors, was completed 788 days without a fatality. 1.26 per 200,000 hours worked – a 16% • All Goldcorp sites and offices halted production to improvement compared to 2014.1 participate in our third annual Day of Remembrance. • Members of the Executive Leadership Team each “adopted” 19% a mine and strengthened the safety dialogue with the site throughout the year. • To further our efforts in preventing Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs), we began tracking repeat incidents Lost Time Incidents (LTIs) were significantly and sharing lessons learned across the organization. reduced, with 20 fewer serious injuries on the job, and an overall 19% reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR), compared to 2014. 2,400 Since its rollout in October 2013, approximately 2,400 employees have participated in a training and coaching program called Fighting Fatalities. 86% There were 107 PFOs recorded in 2015. Approximately 86% of these incidents had 1 Goldcorp follows the ICMM’s guideline for reporting safety performance. In 2015, we reassessed some no injury associated. previous incident rates to ensure that all sites classified incidents consistently under this guideline. As a result, some incidents were reclassified as reportable that were previously not included. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 107 SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT APPROACH TRENDS AND ISSUES Across the mining industry, the number of mining fatalities and non-fatal injuries is decreasing. Compared to other industries, however, injury rates remain high. As gold grades decline and new deposits are harder to find, we can expect mining conditions to become more challenging. This will require innovation in mine design for safety, and a focus on organizational factors that minimize risks. MATERIAL TOPICS Through our materiality process, we have identified the following to be our material topics relating to Safety and Health: MATERIAL TOPIC AT GOLDCORP, THIS MEANS WORKFORCE Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for SAFETY AND our workforce. HEALTH WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to ensure that our working environment is safe, and that we are committed to ensuring safe and healthy working conditions for all. They want us to cooperate with interested parties and with the industry on safety and health matters to improve the industry as a whole. They want to eliminate fatalities, and for us to re-examine our workplace practices and address issues identified as precursors to safety incidents. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO GOLDCORP? Safety is critical to us because our people are our strength, today and in Of all our company values, the future. Of all our company values, none is more important than safety: none is more important no ounce of gold is worth risking a life or injury. Our number-one objective, above anything else, is to have Zero Fatalities. We failed in that objective than safety. in 2015, and it is clear we have more work to do in this area. Safety begins with preparation, anticipating incidents before they happen, and improving ongoing training to identify risks and respond appropriately when the unexpected happens. STRATEGY Our strategy is to create and maintain a culture of safety and health in the workplace, as embodied in our safety vision, “Safe Enough for Our Families”. We recognize that individuals are ultimately responsible for their own safety, and we strive to equip our employees with the tools, training and attitudes needed for continual safety awareness. Continual monitoring and evaluation of our safety performance is integral for us to achieve our vision. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 108 SAFETY AND HEALTH Our Safety and Health strategy is embedded in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) Safety and Health standards and company-wide policies. Our strategy is based on four key areas: Strong safety Integrate safety systems into business processes SAFETY STRATEGY Personal safety Focused efforts accountability to eliminate high-risk activities We believe that we can only achieve our vision of “Safe Enough for Our Families” when each and every Goldcorp employee is actively engaged in our safety culture. We realize that our systems and processes are only as good as the leadership and commitment we demonstrate on the job. Our vision is reflected in three basic principles: Care, Think, Act. LY • Care: We provide an environment that demonstrates that safety is a core value, that we care about our people, and that we are prepared to listen, learn and act. • Think: All tasks contain an element of risk. We expect all employees to think about their actions – not only about the impact a decision might have on themselves, but also their co-workers. • Act: We provide procedures, programs, systems and training to ensure that tasks can be completed safely. We encourage all employees to share best practices and improve the ways in which we carry out our work functions. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 109 SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICIES AND GUIDANCE Safety at Goldcorp is governed by our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and our Golden Rules, which are the foundational components related to our Safety and Health Standards of our SEMS. Our Occupational Health and Safety Policy describes our objective of a safe and healthy workforce and an incident-free workplace. The Policy and its accompanying procedures apply to anyone who works on our sites, including contractors and visitors. The Golden Rules are in place for a simple but critically important reason: to protect our employees and contractors from serious injury and potentially a fatality. In 2014, we produced a subset of the Golden Rules, called Life Saving Rules, to better protect employees and contractors against injuries resulting from the highest-risk activities and tasks common in our industry. The Life Saving Rules have been identified as those actions that, if not followed, will most likely result in serious injury or death. The Golden Guide is the implementation manual for the Golden Rules. It contains critical controls and actions related to the highest-risk activities undertaken at Goldcorp. The Golden Guide is a toolbox of useful information that can be used at work or home and was developed from lessons learned from our incidents. It is written in a way that encourages discussion around assessing safety in the workplace and, as we implement these learnings in our day-to-day practices, we will significantly reduce risk in our work, resulting in far fewer people being hurt on the job. As of April 1, 2015, our Golden Guide is mandatory Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for all our contractors and employees. Each Golden Guide is personalized with a photo of who we are coming home to, and the guide includes a personal safety pledge. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 110 SAFETY AND HEALTH Fit for Work: Driving: Maintain a physical and mental Prepare by checking your vehicle or state that allows you to perform mobile equipment. Everyone wears your job without risk to yourself a seatbelt. No handheld devices or others. when driving. Obey all signs and follow the rules of the road. Drive appropriately for the conditions. Ground Stability: Lifting, Rigging and Hoisting: Scan continuously for signs of Restrict access to the drop zone. ground instability. Correct or leave Never position yourself under the area. Restrict access and the load. report the situation. Energy Isolation: Working at Heights: Identify and control all potential Protect yourself and others against forms of energy. Confirm energy falls. Make sure fall prevention isolation before working on equipment is in place and in good systems. condition. Wear fall protection when working at heights above 1.8 metres (6 feet). Hazardous Substances: Permit to Work: Protect yourself and others Obtain a work permit where against hazardous substances required and follow the you are handling or breathing. requirements. Protective Devices and Guarding: Personal Protective Equipment: Make sure protective devices Choose the appropriate Personal are in place and used. Never Protective Equipment for the task. modify, bypass or remove a Wear it and take care of it. protective device. GOLDCORP’S TEN GOLDEN RULES ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our corporate safety and health function is headed by the Vice President (VP) of Safety and Health, who reports directly to the EVP, Chief Operating Officer. The VP of Safety and Health is responsible for the oversight, strategic development and management of our safety and health policies, programs and activities. They work with all functions of the organization, including Operations, Exploration, Projects and Administration, to enable safety excellence across the company. Each region has a Safety and Health Director who reports to the regional SVP of Operations. All our operations have Safety and Health managers responsible for supporting the implementation of our strategies on a day-to-day basis. Goldcorp’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is ultimately accountable for our safety performance. At the Board level, the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee (“Sustainability Committee”) of the Board has oversight of all safety and health functions. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 111 SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY AT GOLDCORP In 2015, we invested heavily to improve the safety culture throughout the company. The main focus was to assist sites in the implementation of the Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). In addition, initiatives such as safety training and coaching, risk assessments, increased meaningful employee engagements, emergency preparedness programs, and audits to assess safety performances, all led to an overall improvement in safety and reduced tolerance of risk. DAY OF REMEMBRANCE 2015 October 30, 2013 marked a turning point in our safety culture. Each office, operation and project across our entire business – from Canada to Argentina – halted all activities, including production, for a day that would become known as our annual Day of Remembrance. On November 19, 2015, all Goldcorp sites and offices once again stopped production to participate in our annual Day of Remembrance. Members of the Executive team participated in person at the mine sites and helped deliver the training materials. During this day, we also pay respect and remember the individuals who have lost their lives at our operations. The 2015 Day of Remembrance was focused on three main themes: 1. “I Am Responsible and I Can Make a Difference” 2. “I Will Speak Up for Safety” 3. “I Will Take Actions to Support Safety at My Site” EMPLOYEE SAFETY ENGAGEMENTS In 2015, we began a company-wide initiative to engage employees to discuss safety and health. The purpose of these engagements is to involve our employees in the identification and discussion of safety and health practices and risks, intended to reduce injuries and achieve our objective of Zero Fatalities. Over a six-month period in 2015, we conducted over 162,000 engagements, and since this initiative was launched, we have seen our safety performance improve. Sites set monthly targets on the number of one-on-one planned engagements for managers, superintendents and foremen, and the actual number of engagements is tracked on a monthly basis. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 112 SAFETY AND HEALTH We have learned that engaged employees are more likely to work safely on the job and be involved in workplace improvements. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEE INTERACTIONS IN 2015 n Planned value n Actual value 28,375 29,074 28,249 30,000 27,997 23,940 23,649 24,470 22,800 22,683 22,190 20,505 20,481 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 July August September October November December 123% of 125% of 121% of 115% of 115% of 108% of planned planned planned planned planned planned POTENTIAL FATAL OCCURRENCES INVESTIGATIONS Reporting and investigating Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs) is a critical part of preventing fatalities as it allows for the sharing of information and enables us to learn from each other and implement changes based on the recommendations. Preventing repeats of such incidents is critical in achieving our number-one objective: Zero Fatalities. In 2015, we also began tracking repeat occurrences – incidents where either the original site or another Goldcorp site had a PFO with similar key factors. In 2015, there were 107 PFOs, compared to 89 in 2014. This increase is largely due to greater awareness and reporting of incidents that had near-fatal consequences. Approximately 86% of these PFOs had no injury associated. Additionally, out of the 107 PFOs, 38 of these were classified as repeat incidents. This demonstrates there is additional work needed to improve our investigations, corrective actions and sharing of incidents. The improvement in reporting and investigation of PFOs remains a focus across Goldcorp as our safety leaders continue to emphasize the importance of prevention, mitigation and communication of the types of incidents that could potentially cause a fatality. We have implemented a performance target of 30 days to complete a PFO investigation, including final review with senior management. This 30-day window is part of the Corporate Scorecard safety bonus. 93% of our PFOs were investigated and closed within 30 days. In addition, each member of the Goldcorp Executive Leadership Team “adopted” a mine site to strengthen safety dialogue with throughout the year. As part of this initiative, each executive participates in the final close-out review for each PFO from his/her site. A mine’s senior management is always engaged in the investigation of a PFO incident, as is our senior operations leadership, led by the Chief Operating Officer (COO).1 1 Each significant incident, high-potential incident and PFO is assigned an investigation team to investigate root causes and corrective actions. Communications are sent around to each site and reviewed by management to ensure lessons learned and measures taken at the site level are disseminated throughout the company. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 113 SAFETY AND HEALTH HIGH RISKS IDENTIFIED THROUGH THE ANALYSIS OF THE 107 PFOs OF 2015 INCLUDE: WORKING AT HEIGHTS 21 PFOs = 20% ENERGY ISOLATION 21 PFOs = 20% GROUND STABILITY 17 PFOs = 16% VEHICLE COLLISIONS 14 PFOs = 13% OTHER 34 PFOs = 31% SAFETY PROGRAMS AND TRAINING Training is the key to Safety training is the way to build a safety culture that develops our people building a culture that to take leadership in safety, at work and at home. We provide training on encourages our people to all technical, behavioural and cultural aspects of safety. To keep our people up-to-date with the latest in safety advancements, both inside and outside take leadership in safety – the industry, we encourage employees to participate in external training, at work and at home. conferences and workshops. Each operation develops its own approach for safety programs within the company’s overall vision and framework for coaching, training, workshops and program development. This ensures a successful, sustainable implementation with the necessary cultural and site-specific nuances. In 2015, we continued our many initiatives aimed at improving safety, including: • “Safe Enough for Our Families”: continued promotion and senior management support for our safety vision. Videos describing the vision’s three key themes – Care, Think, Act – continue to be distributed to employees and contractors. • The company-wide Day of Remembrance, which commemorated those who lost their lives and served as a launching event for numerous safety programs. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 114 SAFETY AND HEALTH • The Fighting Fatalities program, which was launched on the 2013 Day of Remembrance, consists of a series of interactive management workshops and high-impact leadership engagement sessions. These sessions provide additional coaching for supervisors and leaders on high-impact toolbox/lineup talks, hazard recognition and effective engagements with front-line personnel in the field. • The Mining Industry Roundtable on Safety and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Health and Safety Task Force: we participate in these groups for benchmarking and sharing industry best practices in safety and injury prevention. We have chaired the Health and Safety Task Force. • Technical safety training is primarily provided at the operational level. Our technical safety training programs include mine rescue training, the stope school (at Ontario mines), equipment operation, first aid, simulator training and occupational health awareness training. Peñasquito has created a three-tier sticker system for grading the safety of its trucks. This system will help ensure that trucks being used on-site from the outside community adhere to the safety standards we set. Inspected trucks will be given either a green, yellow or red sticker. A green sticker means the truck is in good repair and it is permitted to work on-site. A truck given a yellow sticker requires some attention; however, it is safe to operate and is permitted on-site. A red sticker is given when a vehicle is in bad repair and it must be fixed before it is permitted to be on-site. This initiative came about after a 13-person committee was formed at Peñasquito to brainstorm what would be the most effective method to inspect vehicles coming on-site. Peñasquito worked with Los Filos’s existing truck inspection program to customize its own program. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 115 SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEES Management–employee Joint Safety and Health Committees (JSHCs) 100% of our workforce is are valuable tools for including employees in the safety decision-making represented by Joint Safety process. Every Goldcorp operating site and project, along with our corporate and regional offices, has a JSHC, meaning that 100% of our workforce and Health Committees. is now represented. In most cases, decisions and policies made by the JSHCs apply to all on-site personnel. In addition, health and safety topics are covered in formal agreements in our operations that have a trade union on-site. We take a holistic approach to safety and make no distinction in our policy, procedures or expectations as they are applied to union employees, non-union employees and contractors. Employees and JSHC members from our Musselwhite mine voiced their concerns about experiencing discomfort while operating Maclean bolters. Industrial Hygiene and Maclean Engineering was tasked to find seats with better suspension. They found that one major barrier to developing a solution was the lack of quantitative information that defined the risk levels of exposure to vibration. A survey was conducted with the operators to identify the major issues related to the cab and/or seat of the bolters. Based on the questionnaire and inspection of the seats, 82% of survey participants reported experiencing whole-body vibration. All participants reported lack of seat height adjustability and lack of upper lumbar support. We are currently developing a vibration program which involves qualitative and quantitative risk assessments that would identify, assess and evaluate the risk of vibration exposures for the whole body and the hand/arm. We will also educate the workforce and raise awareness about the health effects of vibration and control methods to reduce exposure. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 116 SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY PERFORMANCE Our overall Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (including contractors) fell to 0.25 in 2015 (from 0.31). The All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) also decreased to 1.26 in 2015, in comparison to 1.50 in 2014.1 There was a fatality recorded in 2015. 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total fatalities 1 (0) 0 (0) 2 (0) 2 (2) 4 (2) 1 (0) 1 (0) 3 (1) Note: Contractor fatalities are in parentheses (e.g., in 2011, two of the four fatalities involved contractors). 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 AIFR (200,000 hours) 1.26 1.50 1.65 1.65 1.94 2.63 2.89 3.39 LTIFR (200,000 hours) 0.25 0.31 0.33 0.33 0.31 0.36 0.34 0.61 Minor injuries, such as first aids, are not included in AIFR or LTIFR. We have guidelines and standards in place for reporting all incidents. They provide guidance for when and to whom an incident needs to be reported, and for determining the severity of the injury. These guidelines and standards are available on our intranet system and are consistent with ICMM member companies. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT IN SAFETY PERFORMANCE LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) AND ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) THREE-YEAR TREND n LTIFR n AIFR 2.0 1.65 1.50 1.5 1.26 1.0 0.5 0.31 0.33 0.25 0.0 2015 2014 2013 1 fatality 0 fatalities 2 fatalities 1 Goldcorp follows the ICMM’s guideline for reporting safety performance. In 2015, we reassessed some previous incident rates to ensure that all sites classified incidents consistently under this guideline. As a result, some incidents were reclassified as reportable that were previously not included. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 117 SAFETY AND HEALTH ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) BY SITE OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS 5.0 4.27 4.52 4.5 4.41 4.0 3.49 3.5 3.14 3.0 2.39 2.41 2.5 2.31 2.63 2.07 2.0 1.77 1.67 1.26 1.53 1.56 0.89 1.50 1.5 1.23 1.21 1.65 0.96 0.71 1.0 0.96 1.48 0.87 0.95 0.33 0.5 0.24 0.19 0.43 0.0 Porcupine El Sauzal Red Lake Peñasquito Los Filos Musselwhite Éléonore Cerro Negro Marlin Goldcorp n 2015 n 2014 n 2013 Note: Days of Remembrance took place on November 6, 2014 and November 19, 2015. EVENTS RESULTING IN LOST TIME INJURIES 25 17 5 5 3 Line of Fire Slips, Trips Pinch Musculoskeletal Vehicle Collisions and Falls Points Disorders and Exposures (MSDs) to Hazardous Substances 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 118 SAFETY AND HEALTH OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH We recognize that there is more to ensuring worker health and well-being than simply working to prevent injuries. We strive to create and maintain a safe, healthy working environment through the prevention and treatment of occupational diseases. We want our workforce to avoid exposure to occupational illnesses that are both preventable and detectable. Through biological monitoring, environmental monitoring and various medical examinations, we seek to prevent occupational diseases from arising in the first place. Common occupational diseases in the mining industry include dust and noise exposure, fatigue, and trauma from vibration and strains. We follow a hierarchy of hazard controls to reduce and eliminate environmental exposure to occupational disease, where the last line of defence is Personal Protective Equipment and the strongest defence is eliminating the hazard altogether. A total of 15 occupational diseases were reported by sites in 2015, which amounts to an occupational disease rate (ODR) of 0.06. Our industrial hygiene program, rolled out in 2013, has helped sites implement best practices to identify and mitigate risks associated with exposures. TOP THREE OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES Hearing Loss Hand-Arm Carpal Tunnel Vibration Syndrome In general, each mine carries out its own specific occupational health program, depending on its individual demographics and risks of exposure. Programs include health sampling and surveys for hazards such as chemical, dust and noise exposures, as well as providing such services as ergonomic surveys, pulmonary function tests and physical exams. Although no specific corporate-wide programs exist, several Goldcorp mines have proactive programs in place to address the potential for serious diseases and health problems, including drug and alcohol abuse, smoking cessation and diabetes. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 119 SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMUNITY SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAMS For the benefit of our local communities, we coordinate health programs that provide basic medical services through local community and government organizations. Several mines also offer wellness programs for employees, family members and local communities. For example, Red Lake, Los Filos and Peñasquito hosted popular health and safety fairs, which welcomed local communities on-site for educational and fun activities to raise awareness about health and safety in the community and on-site. In December 2014, we committed C$605,000 over a two-year period to the Heart and Stroke Foundation (HSF). These funds are aimed at supporting stroke awareness, professional development, Telestroke preparedness and integration activities, focused mainly at our operations in Canada as well as their surrounding communities, which are typically remote and/or lack such services locally. Project work began in March 2015. This gift will support the HSF in implementing a three-point strategy to improve stroke awareness and outcomes in the key areas identified above, by focusing on: • Stroke awareness: Improving awareness of the signs of stroke and the importance of seeking immediate medical treatment • Professional development: Training key health professionals at the sites and surrounding communities on the latest best practices in stroke prevention and care • Telestroke preparedness and integration: Supporting Red Lake healthcare providers and communities near the Éléonore mine in assessing capacity and establishing key partnerships with the goal of further integration into regional stroke systems 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 120 SAFETY AND HEALTH EMERGENCY RESPONSE Each site develops and manages emergency response activities, with the focus on surface or underground rescue and response. All sites maintain highly trained, fully equipped mine rescue teams which are prepared to respond to emergencies quickly and effectively. Our rescue teams coordinate activities in their regions to encourage mutual aid, share best practices and generally improve performance. We encourage them to participate in competitions and to coordinate their training and services with community emergency service personnel wherever possible. Our mine rescue teams often provide aid outside the mine’s boundaries, serving as the first responders for local communities in the event of an emergency. 2015 was a positive year for the development of emergency response at Goldcorp. Sites continued with improvement plans. We hosted a successful Goldcorp Mine Rescue Summit and continued to show strong 2015 was a positive year results at external mine rescue competitions. for the development of Marlin and Porcupine continue to build upon their internal training emergency response at capabilities to broaden underground and surface emergency response programs. With a well-developed plan, and the dedication and commitment Goldcorp. Sites continued seen to date, we continue to record great results. The Latin America region with improvement plans. continued to provide introductory training for surface brigade members We hosted a successful from Los Filos and Peñasquito at the Red Cross National Training Centre in Toluca, Mexico. Participants from all projects and sites took part in Goldcorp Mine Rescue the event to develop their knowledge and skills to better respond to the Summit and continued needs of our ever-changing workplaces. Standardized equipment, training to show strong results techniques, evaluations and immediate feedback all contributed to the at external mine rescue effective information dissemination between facilitators and attendees. competitions. Cerro Negro expanded its Surface Response program to include spill response capabilities as a result of the process plant completion, and also hosted a regional underground mine rescue meeting and training session to share its skills and develop a broader support network within the southern Argentinian region. With the completion of the design and build of the Draeger MRV 9000 mine rescue vehicle, Musselwhite and Porcupine have closed the gap in reaching deeper work areas of their mines. This vehicle is the first of its kind in the world and demonstrates our commitment to finding innovative solutions to the challenges we face in mining. Red Lake has also developed solutions to reach outer-lying work areas. A single solution is not always appropriate, and with a diverse team and close examination of all work areas, a number of solutions were successfully developed and implemented. We saw great results from our Québec and Ontario mine rescue competition teams in 2015. Éléonore successfully hosted the Québec Provincial Mine Rescue Championship in its second appearance in the competition, and was ranked in second place. Red Lake won the Red Lake district competition and performed very well at the Ontario provincial competition. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 121 SAFETY AND HEALTH Finally, all best practices, standards and regulations in our diverse portfolio are being summarized into a Goldcorp Emergency Response Guideline. This document will be used to help guide each existing site, or new project, in meeting the requirements for SEMS. Across Goldcorp, our responders remain committed to preventing incidents through active leadership and providing high-quality response services. We believe that, by working together, we can make Goldcorp Safe Enough for Our Families. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 122 SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY AND HEALTH CASE STUDIES HEART AND STROKE FOUNDATION AND GOLDCORP BRING LIFE-SAVING PROGRAMS TO REMOTE COMMUNITIES We continue to support efforts by the Heart and Stroke Foundation (HSF) to promote stroke awareness, prevention and treatment in communities surrounding the Red Lake, Porcupine and Musselwhite mines in Ontario and Éléonore mine in Québec. In 2014, we pledged C$605,000 towards programs that support vital regional care and health-professional training. Each year, about 62,000 Canadians suffer strokes, the third highest cause of death in the nation and a leading cause of severe, long-term disability. However, many Canadians remain unaware of risk factors and critical steps in diagnosis, treatment and recovery. People residing in rural and remote areas are often at a disadvantage getting to and receiving critical care in a timely manner. To address these challenges, Goldcorp and HSF are implementing a threetiered strategy, including education, specialized training for health workers and community outreach. The education and awareness component of the program is focused on early warning signs of stroke through HSF’s FAST campaign: Face drooping; Arm weakness; Speech difficulty; and Time to call 911. Internally, our employees received instruction via videos, Lunch and Learn sessions and other materials. An online risk assessment tool encourages employees to identify personal risk factors for both stroke and heart disease. Data gathered anonymously will help us create more in-depth training and prevention programs. But far beyond the reach of our employees, FAST campaigns have appeared in regional newspapers, at community health fairs, as well as at the Red Lake airport and across many First Nations communities, which has had a profound effect. “The Heart and Stroke Foundation is proud to have established a partnership with Goldcorp to get FAST messages and stroke prevention best practices out to remote communities in Canada that often don’t have access to that information,” says Mary Lewis, Vice President, Research, Advocacy and Health Promotion. Our on-site healthcare professionals received specialized training in best practices and stroke management, supplemented by participation in the 2015 Canadian Stroke Congress and the 2015 Heart and Stroke Clinical Update. Enhanced community outreach in rural and remote areas will help support the integration of communities into regional Telestroke networks to improve stroke outcomes. Telestroke connects communities to stroke experts using teleconferencing, digital video cameras and Web interfaces via computers, tablets or smartphones. Together, Goldcorp and HSF are making a positive, lasting impact on lives, families and communities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 123 SAFETY AND HEALTH REMOTE-CONTROLLED SAFETY AND PRODUCTIVITY At Goldcorp, technological innovation is as much about maximizing safety as it is about increasing production and efficiency. A case in point is Red Lake Gold Mines (Red Lake) in Ontario. Peak performance in the High Grade Zone (HGZ) is essential for the mine to achieve production targets. With an average grade of over two gold ounces per tonne, the HGZ yielded 25% of Red Lake’s ore tonnage and 55% of Red Lake’s total ounces last year. The sharp eyes of Red Lake’s managers identified an opportunity to boost both this percentage and incident prevention simultaneously. Typically, when an employee shift change occurs during underground blasting work, there are about two hours of downtime while waiting for dust and other contaminants to clear. Seismicity can also be a periodic issue causing work stoppage. But with the aid of automation, there could be an upside to downtime. A Tele-Operated Remote Control System (Tele-Op) would enable operators at the surface to control underground vehicles with joysticks and handheld devices, thereby allowing mucking work to continue during breaks, while keeping personnel safely removed from risk zones. Subsequent analysis determined that using two Tele-Ops to load blasted ore onto scoop trams in the HGZ during the “opportunity hours” between shifts could increase tonnes per day (tpd) and overall cycle time by more than 30%. Red Lake developed a business case based on projected increases, production footage and associated tonnage to determine return on investment and scope of work. A cross-functional team was also established to ensure seamless integration into processes and create a training program to educate site operators and maintenance employees on new technological and operational procedures. The training component was critical because underground drivers work by sight, sound and tactile sensation of their equipment and environment. They know when they’re running over a pothole or rocks or roadway. But operating from the surface remotely, via on-vehicle cameras and sensors, takes some getting used to. The initial teaching sessions at Red Lake focused on small mucking tasks and production targets. Once these were mastered, employees gained confidence and capabilities quickly, learning to exceed goals and control manoeuvres in ways that ramped up production. The team also refined the procedural protocol, including end-of-shift practices and safeguards like equipment inspections, servicing and cleaning. Once the Tele-Op system was fully implemented, efficiency rates surpassed all projections. In 2014, HGZ baseline production was 288 tpd. 2015 targets using Tele-Op were set between 333 and 375 tpd. Actual production achieved was 404 tpd – an impressive 40% increase. With this technology deployable in a number of locations, we will explore opportunities to apply Tele-Op on a broader scale. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 124 At every stage of the mining life cycle, we work to avoid, reduce or mitigate our negative environmental impacts. We are committed to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 2015 HIGHLIGHTS • Our Tailings Stewardship Strategy was implemented in 22 2015 to improve sustainability and contribute to our vision A total of 22 reportable spills were of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. Every active recorded in 2015, compared to 31 in 2014. mine site wholly owned by Goldcorp had each of its tailings facilities and water retention structures inspected and reviewed by qualified third-party tailings stewards. 65% • Our El Sauzal mine in Mexico was the first mine in the world to be decommissioned successfully under the International Cyanide Management Code. • We completed a pre-feasibility study for a wind farm at Our water reuse and recycling rate, as a Cerro Negro. percentage of both total water withdrawal and total water use, improved to 65% from 62% in 2014. 8% Our GHG intensity has decreased by approximately 8% from the 2011 base year of our Energy Stewardship Strategy. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 125 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP MANAGEMENT APPROACH TRENDS AND ISSUES Global sources of fresh water are declining and the cost and availability of energy is on the rise. Climate change impacts to water levels, weather patterns and ecosystems are influencing society in new ways. In addition, mine waste management is the focus of heightened public scrutiny throughout the industry as a result of major tailings dam failures in recent years. As awareness of all these issues grows, there will be pressure on the extractives industry for increased regulatory requirements, greater transparency and innovation. MATERIAL TOPICS Through our materiality process, we have identified the following to be our material topics relating to Environmental Stewardship: MATERIAL TOPIC AT GOLDCORP, THIS MEANS ENERGY Reducing energy consumed and greenhouse gas (GHG) MANAGEMENT emissions. Investing in alternative energy sources for AND CLIMATE operational efficiencies and cost savings (e.g., solar, wind). CHANGE WATER Optimizing water consumption and discharge while MANAGEMENT maximizing water quality. WASTE AND Managing the sourcing, transport, use and disposal of HAZARDOUS waste, including recycling and tailings management. MATERIALS MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL Ensuring the highest standards of integrity and compliance COMPLIANCE with applicable laws, regulations and company policies. BIODIVERSITY Integrating long-term sustainable approaches to support MANAGEMENT biodiversity. Contributing to integrated approaches to land use, from development through operation and closure (e.g., alterations of landscape, vegetation removal and wildlife habitats). Actively reclaiming land and safely restoring legacy assets and dormant properties. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 126 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Stakeholders want to be sure that we are avoiding or managing and mitigating the environmental impacts of our operations. They recognize the importance of the earth and its resources to both our operations and their own livelihoods. For many of our stakeholders, water and energy efficiency are top priorities. Topics such as climate change, water availability, and environmental spills and tailings dam breaches are common concerns. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO GOLDCORP? We are committed to the efficient use of natural resources and we understand the importance of these natural resources to us and to our stakeholders. We also recognize that without proper care, we cannot operate. A successful company must be more than just economically profitable in the short term – the company must sustain success through closure, and this success is based on multiple factors beyond economic profit. Our environmental stewardship strategies are integral to the sustainability of our company. STRATEGY Our strategy is to identify and proactively mitigate and manage our environmental impacts. We have embedded our strategy in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS), which provides us with a standardized, systematized approach to environmental management in key areas, including specific strategies for Water Stewardship, Energy Management and Tailings Stewardship. POLICIES AND GUIDANCE We maintain an Environmental and Sustainability Policy that commits to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. We developed the SEMS, which includes the Environmental and Sustainability Policy and 11 standards specific to Environment. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY At the Board level, the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee oversees our environmental impacts and activities (see the section on Board Oversight of Sustainability for more information on the role of this committee). Our technical and strategic environmental programs are headed by the Vice President of Environment, who reports to the Senior Vice President of Sustainability. Each of our regions has subject matter–specific expert directors who report to a regional Vice President. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 127 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP MATERIALS Materials are separated into two categories: raw materials (the ore from which we extract product) and associated process materials (materials that are used in processing but are not part of the final product). RAW MATERIALS We extract ore from both open pit and underground operations. This ore is either processed through a mill or placed on a heap leach pad to extract the product.1 In 2015, we processed 70.7 million tonnes (Mt) of ore, compared with 74.6 Mt in 2014. RAW MATERIALS PROCESSED2 100 85.7 74.6 70.7 80 60 49.0 48.3 47.1 38.6 40 26.3 21.6 20 0 2015 2014 2013 n Milled (Mt) n Heap leached (Mt) n Total ore processed (Mt) ASSOCIATED PROCESS MATERIALS To process the ore and extract metals, we use materials such as lime and cyanide. The table below shows our main processing materials. ASSOCIATED PROCESS MATERIALS AND RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS3 2015 2014 2013 Cyanide (t) 30,800 23,100 26,500 Lime (t) 83,500 86,200 180,600 Sodium metabisulphite (t) 3,300 4,000 3,900 Grinding balls (t) 36,400 28,500 39,800 Other reagents (t) 57,400 56,800 61,800 Total (t) 211,400 198,600 309,100 1 Quantities are from direct measurement. 2 Raw materials processed are used as a normalization factor for other intensity metrics; therefore, these are recalculated each year to reflect any divestitures or acquisitions. 3 Quantities are from direct measurement, often via purchasing records. These figures include the Equity Silver project, even though it is not an operating mine, because its reagent consumption is relevant due to significant water treatment activities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 128 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS Recycled input materials used at our mines include mainly waste oil, used grinding balls, fly ash, biosolids and used liners. All of these recycled materials are sourced internally. Recycled input materials as a percentage of our total tracked input materials (excluding raw materials and fuel) was 4% in 2015. 2015 2014 2013 Recycled fly ash (t) 7,500 10,300 11,200 Used oil (t) 150 500 1,000 Used liner (t) 0 100 100 Biosolids (t) 200 7,200 95,100 Other recycled materials (t) 1,200 2,200 4,900 Subtotal, recycled (t) 9,050 20,300 112,300 Total, all materials used (t) 220,500 218,900 424,900 Percent from recycled 4% 9% 26% 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 129 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Energy is essential to our everyday operations. From running our mines to extracting, processing and transporting our products, we consume large amounts of energy. For our long-term success, we require access to secure, reliable energy sources. Consequently, we are concerned about our energy emissions as well as the potential climate change risks to our operations and our communities. We have established an Energy Strategy to reduce GHG emissions. Responsible energy Through our Energy Strategy, we are taking active steps to better manage management has become our energy use and minimize our greenhouse gas emissions. integral to our way of Our Energy Strategy was launched in 2012 with the following five-year targets:1 doing business. • Increase energy efficiency by 15%. • Reduce emissions by 20%. • Source 5% of energy from renewable sources. All our mines require different amounts and types of energy depending on size, type of mine and processing. As required by our Energy Strategy, all operating sites have developed an energy management plan and established site-specific energy savings or efficiency targets to be achieved by the end of 2016. REGULATORY INITIATIVES In addition to voluntary actions, governments are moving to introduce climate change legislation and treaties at the international, national, state/ provincial and local levels. Some of the costs associated with reducing emissions can be offset by increased energy efficiency and technological innovation. However, if the current regulatory trend continues, we expect that it will result in increased costs at some of our operations. We continue to monitor the recent and pending regulations that are important in most of our jurisdictions, including Argentina, Mexico, Ontario and Québec. 1 Sites are also able to set their own energy targets as part of the strategy. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 130 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS Climate change has the potential to physically impact our operations. Several potential risks are outlined in the table below: CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION HOW WE ARE MANAGING THE RISK Sea level rise Rise in global waterbodies as a result of changes in Our operations are not directly threatened by current climate. predictions of sea level rise. All of our operations are located well inland, at elevations of between 100 and 3,000 metres above sea level. Extreme weather events Extreme events (such as increased frequency Where appropriate, facilities have developed or intensity of hurricanes, increased snow pack, emergency plans for managing extreme weather prolonged drought, etc.) have the potential to conditions. However, extended disruptions to supply disrupt mining operations. lines could result in an interruption in production. Resource shortages Mining and processing depend on the regular supply We actively engage with our suppliers to understand of consumables (such as diesel, tires, reagents, etc.) forecasted resource shortages that could impact the to operate efficiently. In the event that the effects supply of products required for our mining activities. of climate change cause prolonged disruption to the delivery of essential commodities, then our production efficiency is likely to be reduced. Water availability Various climate change models show potential Our water balance modelling includes scenario increases or decreases in precipitation at the analyses outside the average, historical climate macro level. conditions. CLIMATE CHANGE OPPORTUNITIES We will continue to work on improving our energy efficiency and to monitor the development of more energy-efficient products and services, and we will avail ourselves of these products and services as opportunity allows. In addition, we continue to assess options for the development of renewable resources and cleaner energy sources. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION1 Energy use at our operations is primarily in the form of diesel fuel, propane gas, natural gas and electricity. Diesel is consumed in the transportation of ore and waste rock, for on-site backup electricity generation, for light plants and occasionally for heating. Electricity is purchased from provincial or federal utilities, or in some cases from private providers, for both mining and milling operations. The most significant uses of energy are the transportation of ore, ventilating and heating underground work environments, and comminution. 1 Operational Control Organizational Boundary, limited to operating mines in the Canadian, US and Latin American regions. Scope includes Red Lake, Musselwhite, Porcupine, Éléonore, Marlin, Los Filos, Cerro Negro and Peñasquito mines. Development projects, mines in closure, divested assets and non–Goldcorp operated joint ventures are excluded. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 131 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Total energy consumption at our operating mines is shown in the figure and table below in units of megawatt hours (MWh). Absolute energy consumption increased by approximately 3% from 2014 to 2015.1 As our mines mature, production zones tend to move deeper and further away from material handling and processing infrastructure. This typically leads to increased consumption of energy, energy intensity and production of greenhouse gas emissions. Our strategy has been to limit these increases by implementing the Energy Stewardship Strategy and to ultimately reduce emissions intensity through the use of cleaner fuels and renewable energy. DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION 6,000,000 5,064,280 4,910,242 5,000,000 4,674,037 4,157,068 4,000,000 2,355,888 3,662,463 2,103,898 2,014,068 3,000,000 1,945,773 1,677,811 2,000,000 2,708,392 2,806,344 2,659,970 2,211,295 1,000,000 1,984,651 0 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 n Fuels, etc. (MWhe) n Power (MWh) Total DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION FUEL TYPE 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2) Diesel (MWhe 2,326,986 2,242,789 2,121,186 1,931,045 1,708,048 1,463,842 Biodiesel (MWhe) 848 13,037 7,054 N/A N/A N/A Gasoline (MWhe) 32,097 34,058 38,757 35,176 29,401 26,672 Propane (MWhe) 121,772 114,919 119,581 119,397 134,188 111,029 Natural gas (MWhe) 129,340 168,596 145,702 62,593 55,830 49,489 Renewables (MWhe) 412 412 794 560 0 0 Explosives (MWhe) 96,936 232,533 209,170 62,524 57,184 66,115 ENERGY INTENSITY Mines are dynamic entities and the mine depth, haul distance, rate of production, mine development and waste rock stripping ratios change regularly. Energy intensity can be a more meaningful metric than absolute energy consumption to track how efficiently we are managing our energy consumption across the company as we experience growth or divestment. Energy intensity (on a tonne processed and moved basis) is shown in the graph below from the base year (2011) through 2015. Energy intensity from 2014 to 2015 decreased by approximately 2%, primarily due to the ramp-up to production at the Cerro Negro and Éléonore mines in 2015. 1 Energy consumption data is obtained from purchasing records, metered data or direct measurement. 2 Megawatt-hour equivalent. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 132 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENERGY INTENSITY 20 18.2 18.6 18.3 17.0 15.8 kWh/tonne material moved 15 10 5 0 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 ENERGY SAVINGS AND INITIATIVES Each operation has identified and planned or implemented energy-efficiency opportunities as part of the Goldcorp Energy Strategy. Mines track estimated energy savings and energy key performance indicators. Estimated and calculated energy savings from the base year of 2011 through 2015 have totalled 300,000 MWh, or 8%, of 2011 consumption.1 Noteworthy energy savings initiatives include: • Musselwhite: oo Optimization of mine dewatering systems oo Increased control of underground auxiliary ventilation oo Peak electrical demand control • Red Lake oo Ventilation system control improvements at Red Lake oo Compressed air systems leak reduction program • Peñasquito oo Installation of a high-pressure grinding roll mill oo Improved blasting techniques to optimize ore feed to the mill • Éléonore oo Commissioning of Ventilation-On-Demand system GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS2 We are investigating renewables and working towards greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity reductions as part of the Energy Strategy. The following is a list of some activities that have been completed and contributed to a reduction in GHG intensity, including: • Musselwhite – Reducing base load electrical consumption and managing peak demand allowed the mine to eliminate diesel generation for production purposes. The reduced diesel consumption saved approximately 13,000 tonnes of CO2e in 2015. 1 The following assumption was used to perform the calculations on energy savings and initiatives: the base year, 2011, is considered the “business as usual” case for energy consumption. 2 Operational Control Organizational Boundary, limited to operating mines in the Canadian, US and Latin American regions. Scope includes Red Lake, Musselwhite, Porcupine, Éléonore, Marlin, Los Filos, Cerro Negro and Peñasquito mines. Development projects, mines in closure, divested assets and non–Goldcorp operated joint ventures are excluded. • El Sauzal, Marigold and Wharf have been excluded since those sites are either entering closure or were divested during the time period. • Energy savings are estimated or calculated using best accessible information. • It is assumed that the estimated or calculated annual energy savings from a project accumulate over subsequent years if the project is maintained. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 133 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP • Marlin – Sourced more than three quarters of their power consumption from clean and renewable sources, including 25% from hydroelectric and 51% from biomass. • Peñasquito – Sourced 44% of power consumption from an efficient, combined-cycled natural gas power plant, reducing GHG emissions by over 44,000 tonnes of CO2e. • Los Filos – Sourced 17% of power consumption from the above-mentioned power plant, reducing GHG emissions by 1,585 tonnes of CO2e. • Red Lake – Continued the switching of major heating loads from propane to natural gas, which has a lower GHG emission factor. The energy savings described previously in the Energy section, as well as the alternative electricity sourcing at Peñasquito, Musselwhite, Los Filos and Marlin, have been calculated to result in a GHG offset or reduction of 119,000 tonnes of CO2e in 2015. This offset equates to 10% of 2011 levels.1 We made the decision at the end of 2015 to advance the study of a wind farm near the Cerro Negro project to the feasibility phase based on the favourable results from the prefeasibility study. The results will determine if the project will move to the execution phase. GHG reporting is done based on the GHG Protocol’s A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and is divided into three categories, depending on the source: • Scope 1 (direct) GHGs are derived from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting organization. Our principal source of Scope 1 emissions is fuel consumption for power generation and material movement. • Scope 2 (indirect) GHGs are generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization. Our principal source of Scope 2 emissions is purchased electricity. • Scope 3 (other indirect) GHGs include emissions from air transport of mine employees. Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs on an absolute basis at our operations have been going down since 2013 and decreased by approximately 2% from 2014 to 2015, despite the ramp-up of the Cerro Negro and Éléonore mines. GHGs are reported from producing mines where we have operational control. We are not currently involved in any carbon credit or trading system. Scope 3 GHGs in 2015 were 4,735 tonnes as compared to 5,238 tonnes in 2014 and are from aviation transportation of employees to mine sites from central locations. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1,600,000 1,357,769 1,404,215 1,335,445 1,400,000 1,272,932 1,208,544 1,200,000 620,580 618,704 701,444 684,357 678,873 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 714,865 739,065 702,772 588,575 529,671 200,000 0 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 n Scope 1 GHGs (tonnes) n Scope 2 GHGs (tonnes) Total GHGs (tonnes) 1 As a conservative estimate, direct greenhouse gas savings or offsets are calculated by applying the lowest applicable emissions factor to calculated or estimated energy savings. Indirect savings or offsets are calculated by comparing emissions factors of sourced electricity to the provincial or federal system. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 134 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP GHG INTENSITY GHG intensity is a metric that normalizes GHGs per a defined unit of production. This can be defined as the total amount of GHGs per tonne processed and moved, and is a metric that we track to determine how we are managing our GHGs across the company as we experience growth or divestment. Our GHG intensity has decreased by approximately 8% from the 2011 base year of our Energy Strategy, and is demonstrated in the figure below. GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY Scopes 1 and 2 GHG Intensity 5.50 5.20 5.21 6 5.14 4.81 kg CO2e/tonne material moved 5 4 3 2 1 0 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 NOX, SOX AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS The table below shows the emissions of significant air pollutants that were derived from multiple methodologies, including direct measurement, calculation based on site-specific data, and calculation based on published emissions factors and estimation. AIR EMISSIONS1 2015 2014 2013 Carbon monoxide (t) 1,870 2,180 1,700 Oxides of nitrogen (t) 1,830 1,880 1,050 Sulphur dioxide (t) 20 20 10 Particulate matter (t) 4,880 4,810 3,370 1 Emissions for 2013 and 2014 were recalculated to include all the currently operating sites for better comparison with 2015. Sites in Latin America have been recently developing the methodology and further refinements in following years should be expected. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 135 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WATER MANAGEMENT Water is essential to both our stakeholders and to our operations. Given Our Water Stewardship our geographical scope, we operate in areas with both water surplus Strategy sets water and water scarcity issues. Our Water Stewardship Strategy is designed to help us better understand and manage our water footprint and watermanagement milestones related risks. Our strategy requires each operation to achieve certain that have to be achieved by milestones, all of which are planned for achievement by the end of 2017. every operating mine. The milestones include: • Water audit and corrective action plan • Hydrogeological model • Site-wide water balance • Water footprint • Water management plan • Site-specific water targets • Stakeholder collaboration plan WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE The quantities of water withdrawn are typically measured by flow metres; however, there are points of withdrawal that may not be equipped with a flow metre and, in these cases, the quantity is estimated, calculated or modelled. Water withdrawal by source is shown in the table below. The significant drop in surface water withdrawal after 2013 is simply due to the disaggregation of precipitation from the surface water category beginning in 2014. At that time, all sites reported precipitation as a separate category of water withdrawal. WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE1 2015 2014 2013 Surface water (m3) 2,660,700 2,674,100 12,274,800 Groundwater (m ) 3 32,650,700 35,081,600 38,985,600 Precipitation (m ) 3 12,576,887 14,112,300 Not reported Third-party water (m ) 3 178,100 197,700 151,800 Total water withdrawal (m3) 48,066,400 52,065,700 54,412,200 WATER SOURCES AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL OF WATER The Peñasquito mine reports two groundwater sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. “Significant” is defined by G4 criteria as withdrawals that account for 5% or more of the annual average volume of a given waterbody. Peñasquito is in an arid environment and, to compensate for water losses and water entrained and accumulated in the tailings facility, Peñasquito is adding water from groundwater to the process via a series of water supply wells. Additionally, to maintain the open pit as a 1 Numbers have been recalculated to exclude divestitures such as Wharf and Marigold, and to include the new Cerro Negro and Éléonore mines. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 136 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP dry working environment, there are a series of dewatering wells, which are also withdrawing more than 5% of the annual average volume of the aquifer. Peñasquito is striving to increase water recycling and reuse and to reduce the intensity with which fresh water is added to the processing circuit. Their results have improved from 2014 to 2015. Regular monitoring is also underway to ensure detection and appropriate management of any potential environmental impacts. The water sources are not designated as a protected area, nor has any important biodiversity value been assigned to the water sources. Peñasquito conducts ongoing engagement with local communities regarding water source issues as they arise. WATER RECYCLING AND REUSE The rate of water reuse and recycling is a measure of efficiency – one that helps us track improvements that result from implementation of the Water Stewardship Strategy. Our water reuse and recycling rate, as a percentage of both total water withdrawal and total water use, increased from 2014 to 2015. GOLDCORP’S TOTAL USE AND RECYCLING OF WATER1 2015 2014 2013 3 2 Total reused or recycled (m ) 91,217,600 83,687,500 90,783,700 Total water withdrawal (m3) 48,066,400 52,065,700 51,412,200 Reused and recycled as 190% 161% 177% percentage of water withdrawal (m3) Reused and recycled as 65% 62% 64% percentage of total water use (m3) WATER DISCHARGE The water quantity and quality, the receiving environment, and the quantity of water discharge later reused are shown in the table below. Any treatment requirements for discharged water are established based on site-specific standards to ensure both regulatory compliance as well as prevention of significant negative environmental impacts. Treatment needs and methods are widely variable across the company and dependent upon the pretreated water quality and the receiving environment. The water quality metric that we monitor is whether or not the discharge was in compliance with the applicable standards. There has been some water discharged outside of the applicable water quality standards, mainly at Éléonore, where the issue is related to effluent impacts to trout and daphnia. Éléonore has been, and continues to, work proactively and transparently with the regulatory authority on the technical aspects to achieve compliance with the applicable standards. 1 The quantities of water reused and recycled are typically measured by flow metres; however, there are points of withdrawal that may not be equipped with a flow metre and, in these cases, the quantity is estimated, calculated or modelled. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 137 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WATER DISCHARGES1 2015 2014 2013 Discharge to surface water (m ) 3 15,793,700 14,103,800 14,716,300 Discharge to groundwater (m ) 3 364,900 23,900 298,500 Discharge to a third party (m3) 535,200 556,400 528,000 Discharge (loss) to evaporation (m3) 6,759,000 9,607,900 11,328,100 Total (m )3 23,452,800 24,292,000 26,870,900 Discharge with water quality 1,419,500 334,200 665,400 outside standards (m3) Percent of total discharge with 6.1% 1.4% 2.5% water quality outside standards WATERBODIES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY DISCHARGES The Red Lake mine discharges a quantity larger than 5% of the receiving waterbody, Balmer Lake. Balmer Lake is a small headwater lake that drains south into the Chukuni River and eventually into Keg Lake. There are no known negative impacts related to effluent quality from the current mine discharges. Environmental monitoring completed in Balmer Lake has indicated significant improvements in its water quality and overall biological health in recent years. Cerro Blanco treated and discharged mine water in compliance with the appropriate regulatory conditions. This discharge takes place in a waterbody that is a tributary to the Ostua River and eventually to the Laguna de Guija, which is a lake shared by both Guatemala and El Salvador. This lake has not been identified as a Ramsar site in Guatemala. However, the Guija general area in El Salvador, which includes the lake and surrounding wetlands (all located in El Salvador), covering more than 10,000 hectares, was declared a Ramsar site in 2010. Consistent with our best practices for environmental management, careful attention is paid to the discharge water quality by both the Cerro Blanco project staff and the regulatory authorities to ensure that the discharge water quality does not cause any negative impacts to the Laguna de Guija. Cerro Blanco operates a water treatment facility to ensure that any water taken from the underground exploration workings is treated properly prior to discharge. In addition, the water quality monitoring program at the site includes regular monitoring of water quality for surface and underground water as well as monitoring of other important parameters such as aquatic fauna (including fish, macro and micro invertebrate surveys). The monitoring data is submitted regularly to the authorities, and periodic site inspections are conducted. 1 Numbers have been recalculated to exclude divestitures such as Wharf and Marigold, and to include the new Cerro Negro and Éléonore mines. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 138 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WASTE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT Mining and processing gold produces waste by-products in the form of tailings, waste rock, sludge as well as some hazardous and non-hazardous materials. Tailings are the by-product of minerals processing. They are finely crushed and ground rock particles from which the valuable mineral portion has been extracted. We use retention dams and raised embankments to store and manage tailings. Specific design and operational requirements regarding the location, water management, maintenance, controls and monitoring of these dams and embankments are strictly enforced. We close and maintain these facilities at the end of the mine life. Tailings can also be used in certain cases as part of underground and open pit backfill projects. Marlin is backfilling a portion of one of the two open pits with tailings that have been managed to meet the appropriate criteria, including filtering to reduce the moisture content. We also use tailings to backfill certain areas of underground workings, where appropriate. We do not dispose of any tailings in riverine systems or marine environments. Waste rock is a key environmental aspect at our operations, as are tailings at those sites with milling facilities. Our sites analyze the characteristics of these materials, and based on the results, waste rock and tailings management procedures are developed at all of our sites as required by the SEMS. Most of the waste rock produced in our underground mines is returned underground to fill mining voids. In open pit mines, the waste rock is transferred to waste rock dumps. In some limited cases, we are able to sequence mining in different pits or pit sections to allow for some use of waste rock as pit backfill. At the end of mine life, the waste rock dumps are re-contoured and revegetated to provide stable, long-term containment of the material. Sludge produced at our operations is typically from water treatment plants. This material is usually disposed of in our tailings dams, although final disposal depends on the environmental characteristics of the sludge. Our SEMS recognizes the important environmental aspects of waste rock and tailings management, and includes specific SEMS standards to manage them. Additionally, we developed a Tailings Stewardship Strategy in 2014 and implementation began in 2015. This is a management strategy developed to ensure best practices are implemented for proper construction, operation, maintenance, monitoring and, ultimately, closure of our tailings storage facilities. We designed our strategy to provide assurances that tailings facilities are managed using best practices – providing secure storage, reduced costs and impacts, improved operational excellence and consistent monitoring – and to address stakeholder concerns. We are committed to managing tailings in a manner that effectively In 2015, we began mitigates environmental, public health and safety, and community impacts implementing our new while maximizing the long-term security of the tailings facilities and sustainable land use options. Tailings Stewardship The primary objectives of our Tailings Stewardship Strategy are to minimize Strategy. risk and manage liabilities; improve sustainability; improve comprehensive technical and operating standards; ensure best practices for cost reduction and operational efficiency; perform inspections and reviews by qualified 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 139 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP third parties; and ensure design, operation, training, risk management and closure planning are performed. We recognize tailings management as a significant issue shared by us and The Tailings Stewardship stakeholders. Tailings stewardship ensures planning, design, construction, Strategy ensures best operation and closure of our tailings storage and water retention facilities will be carried out in a manner such that: practices are implemented • Structures are physically stable under all anticipated conditions; for tailings storage facilities • Solids and water are managed within designated areas; and qualifying water • Facilities meet or exceed regulatory or standard engineering guidelines; retention structures to • Facilities are chemically stable so that the quality of any seepage or minimize risks and reduce surface runoff does not endanger human health or the environment; and costs, and for Goldcorp • Facilities can be closed in a manner that is compatible with the to continue to be a global surrounding land use and that will have a manageable impact on the leader in mine waste environment. management. WASTE ROCK, TAILINGS AND SLUDGE The quantities of waste rock, tailings and sludge generated are shown in the table below. WASTE ROCK, TAILINGS AND SLUDGE 2015 2014 2013 Waste rock (Mt) 207.1 189.5 169.4 Tailings (Mt) 48.5 47.1 46.6 Sludge (kt) 17.2 11.2 2.9 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD Responsible storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste are central components of sound environmental management. Waste management practices must be based on the principles of minimizing the generation of all wastes and residues, the recycling and reuse of wastes or by-products, and the disposal in an acceptable manner of any materials that cannot be recycled. Our most significant non-hazardous waste streams include scrap metal, used tires, used oil, used antifreeze, inert industrial garbage and organic waste. All of our scrap metal and some tires are recycled. Many of our operations have implemented recycling programs for materials such as paper, pallets, glass and aluminum, and some of our sites have implemented composting programs for organic wastes. At some operations, and where it is permitted by regulation, we dispose of large tires in a controlled manner within our waste rock dumps. Our waste classified as hazardous waste includes batteries and assay lab waste. Waste hydrocarbons, when not reused on-site, and glycol/antifreeze are removed from our sites by licensed waste disposal or recycling operators for reuse, recycling or incineration. Where permitted, we reuse waste 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 140 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP hydrocarbons on-site as a substitute for fuel oil in the ammonium nitrate and fuel oil (ANFO) blasting program. The table below includes the waste generation figures for these waste streams. WASTE MANAGEMENT MATERIAL (IN TONNES) 2015 2014 2013 Scrap steel 30,400 25,700 19,200 Tires 5,300 3,300 3,650 Waste hydrocarbons 2,790 2,150 3,270 Waste glycol/antifreeze 110 100 150 Inert industrial garbage 7,250 3,950 3,990 Organic waste 4,600 2,870 3,110 Batteries 120 110 110 Laboratory waste 780 340 550 Mercury occurs naturally in some ore deposits and, in those cases, it is typically recovered along with the targeted metals. Mercury then requires specific management to avoid health and environmental impacts. Our operations generated 24.47 kilograms of mercury in 2015, which all occurred at the Peñasquito mine. All of the mercury collected during 2015 was stored on-site at Peñasquito. SPILLS All spills reported are tracked, investigated and analyzed to identify root causes. We then implement actions to prevent recurrences and to mitigate the consequences of future incidents. We classify all incidents into five categories in ascending order of severity from Category I to Category V. Incidents are assessed based on their actual and potential impact. Incidents in Category III and above are reported to the corporate level and thus are classified at Goldcorp as “reportable incidents”. We reported a total of 22 reportable spills in 2015, compared to 31 in 2014. The estimated volume spilled is also shown in the table below – in most cases, the majority of the volume spilled is recovered. REPORTABLE SPILLS ESTIMATED VOLUME SPILL CATEGORY NUMBER % OF TOTAL SPILLED Hydrocarbon spill 2 9 <1m3 Cyanide-related spill 4 18 7m3 Other material spill 16 73 2,600m3 Total 22 100 2,608m3 All our sites were certified under the Cyanide Management Code, which provides direction for the appropriate management of cyanide-related spills. All spills were responded to immediately and did not result in any significant environmental impacts or financial liabilities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 141 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Protecting the world’s ecosystems is important for our stakeholders. As resources become scarcer, different ecosystems are altered, which brings potential impacts on biodiversity, including wildlife, plants, soil, water and air. These changes present both a risk and an opportunity for us. Engagement with communities, NGOs and governments is important to ensuring we have an opportunity to leave a positive impact on the region’s biodiversity. As part of the SEMS, all sites are required to assess potential risks and impacts related to sensitive areas, habitats and wetlands. This includes developing appropriate management plans and looking for mitigation options, if applicable. Biodiversity considerations are also integrated into our analytical tools – specifically, the environmental impact assessments that are required at all of our operations prior to their construction. The methodology used for determining risk exposure for biodiversity is determined during the preparation of the environmental impact assessment and is typically driven by regulations or discussions with the applicable regulatory authority. We manage over 700,000 hectares of land at and around our projects and mines. Our operations span a range of ecosystems, from the boreal forest of Canada to the Patagonia area of Argentina. We recognize the value of services in these ecosystems. In all cases, we seek to design, construct, operate and close our operations in ways that minimize the risks to biodiversity. We have three operating sites that are required to have a biodiversity management plan in place: Marlin, Los Filos and Peñasquito, all of which are currently in place (100%). After mining disturbances, we reclaim the disturbed areas as quickly as possible. However, the nature of hard rock mining means that large areas of disturbance, such as the pit, active waste rock dump faces and tailings dams, remain throughout the life of the mine and are not available for reclamation until mine closure. Land areas, disturbance and rehabilitation activities are indicated below and include both concurrent/temporary and final reclamation. DISTURBANCE AND REHABILITATION1 2015 2014 2013 2 Previous year disturbed and not 9,480 9,7303 10,520 yet rehabilitated (ha) Newly disturbed land (ha) 2,120 400 450 Newly rehabilitated land (ha) 40 30 40 Current year disturbed and not yet 11,560 10,100 10,940 rehabilitated land (ha) 1 Includes all projects, mines and major closed sites. 2 A road from Éléonore was removed due to it being turned over to another entity. 3 Does not equal previous year’s closing balance due to divestment of Marigold and addition of Camino Rojo exploration area. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 142 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP PROTECTED OR HIGH BIODIVERSITY AREAS In Argentina, Cerro Negro is near the Pinturas River Valley, which is the location of Cueva de las Manos (Cave of the Hands), a UNESCO World Heritage site. The Cerro Negro operation is not within this sensitive area; however, Cerro Negro owns a nearby ranch (20,000 hectares), and a section of the Pinturas River Valley (1,771 hectares) passes through a corner of this ranch. Currently, the Pinturas River Valley does not have an official classification, but it is locally recognized as a sensitive and valuable area. The total land area owned, managed or leased pertaining to Cerro Negro is 146,550 hectares, and of this total, 1,771 hectares fall within the category of “land in or containing protected areas, or areas of high biodiversity”. Additionally, in Mexico, a Land Use Change Authorization is required to change an existing land use to a mining land use prior to construction activities. The authorization identifies the areas in which operational activities and infrastructure will be located. Under Mexican legislation, the permitted area must include a buffer zone around the area of impact, and the operation is required to maintain this area as one of conservation. No mining activity may be undertaken in the conservation area unless a Land Use Change Authorization is sought from, and granted by, the relevant environmental authority. Both our Los Filos and Peñasquito mines have established conservation buffer zones around their permitted areas of operation and these areas will remain in force throughout the lives of the projects. No specific conservation requirements or management activities are required within the conservation area. However, both operations have implemented management plans to minimize impacts in these areas. There have been no significant impacts to biodiversity from our activities in these areas. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 143 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED All rehabilitated land is considered potential habitat; therefore, across our operations, there were 40 hectares of habitat restored during the reporting year. This rehabilitation was overseen by us and our contractors. INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR CONSERVATION OF NATURE (IUCN) AND NATIONAL RED LIST SPECIES The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species is the world’s most comprehensive inventory of the global conservation status of plant and animal species. Each site has assessed the risk of impacting habitat for any IUCN Red List species as well as species listed on national conservation lists. In Ontario, there are a total of 271 flora and fauna species listed on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species as possibly being present in Ontario. This does not necessarily reflect what species are present in and around our three Ontario operations; therefore, we conducted a species analysis in 2015 to better identify which species are actually present, or likely to be present, at or around the Ontario mine sites. According to the study results, there are 39 flora and fauna species listed on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species that could be present at or around our Ontario mine sites. Other operations outside of Ontario include possible habitat for 198 special status flora and fauna species in the areas affected by our operations, for a total of 237 species. All of our sites pay particular attention to areas of the operation that could potentially harm wildlife. Some of the precautions we take include: • Minimizing disturbances to vegetation and waterbodies • Implementing programs to control pests and weeds • Maintaining cyanide levels in all open waters (including tailings dams) below levels that pose a threat to wildlife (consistent with the International Cyanide Management Code) • Promoting employee and community awareness programs regarding wildlife • Reclaiming disturbed areas as quickly as possible and promoting habitat diversity within these reclaimed areas 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 144 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE We are committed to comply with the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we operate. Local performance standards are imposed through site-specific licences and permits. In some cases, our SEMS and its related standards establish higher internal performance standards mandated by our company than what is required locally. In 2015, there were 11 Notices of Violation (NOVs) received at Éléonore. All of them were related to toxicity to daphnia in the discharge from the water treatment plant. No fines resulted from these NOVs, and Éléonore continues to work proactively and transparently with the regulatory authorities on the technical aspects of improving the issues in the water discharge. Our sites are subject to strict internal and external scrutiny to verify full adherence to local, international and our own internal standards. Our properties are routinely inspected by staff representing the applicable regulatory authorities to ensure that they are in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our properties are also periodically audited through our internal compliance assurance program to ensure that they are in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations as well as the Environmental and Sustainability Policy and standards. The Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee of the Board is responsible for overseeing the Environmental and Sustainability Policy. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 145 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP TRANSPORTATION Transportation is a critical component of our business. We own and lease a significant fleet of heavy equipment and infrastructure used to mine and transport ore, waste rock and tailings. We use light vehicles to move people around our sites, and we transport large quantities of material along public roads to our operations. In addition, our employees and contractors use cars, buses and planes to get to and from work. The potential impacts from transport related to our activities are felt in three principle areas: GHG emissions, potential transport incidents, and traffic issues such as noise, dust and road maintenance. We recognize these potential impacts and have strategies and/or management plans in place to reduce and mitigate these impacts. Fuel usage specifically for transportation of our workforce to operations via small planes is used to calculate part of our Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are reported in the Greenhouse Gas Emissions section. Additionally, any spills or other environmental incidents that may occur during transportation are fully reported in the section on environmental spills. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 146 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CASE STUDIES LOS FILOS: SOLAR-POWERED WATER SUPPLY Residents of the remote community of Carrizalillo, Mexico, who routinely fetched and hauled water to their homes from an underground spring, now have a clean, reliable water supply, thanks to the ingenuity of our employees. When the Los Filos mine began drawing water from the neighbouring town of Mezcala and piping it 15 kilometres to a newly constructed leach pad near Carrizalillo, citizens expressed concern that their neighbouring springfed water supply would be jeopardized. In addition to our many safeguards to minimize this risk, we promised to explore an alternative water source for the community. Through community collaboration, it was determined that the best solution would yield threefold benefits: 1) deliver water directly to each residence, 2) avoid added electricity costs and loads on the local power grid, and 3) prove environmentally and sustainably sound. A joint committee of municipal authorities, provincial government officials and Los Filos employees was formed to identify a new water supply and efficient distribution methods – ideally, a high-elevation source harnessing the natural force of gravity for piped downflow. Two springs with sufficient flow rates and potable quality were located, but a mountain situated between the catchment and the community ruled out the gravitational option. The only alternative was to pump the water in, which required power and associated costs, not to mention the problematic issue of not having any nearby power lines. Tunnelling through the mountain or piping deep underground were also logistically and economically unfeasible. These hurdles sparked the innovative idea of using solar panels to generate electricity for the pumps. Research unearthed similar projects implemented in Brazil and South Africa, but those systems were much too small to support the volume or distance required here. One other project showed more appropriate scale and scope, and conveniently, the contractor, Orled Solar, was a local company installing a solar-powered pumping system nearby. Collaboration began, followed by construction in late 2014, employing community residents to prepare the site and install solar panels and piping. Completed in August 2015, the project incorporates 315 photovoltaic panels, covering 500 cubic metres and generating up to 78 kilowatts per hour (29.2 megawatts per year) to run three 25-horsepower pumps with capacity to move 180,000 litres of water per day. In addition to providing the community with an alternative clean, reliable, affordable water supply, the solar catchment system decreases consumer load on the state’s utility infrastructure. While ongoing maintenance is required, the cost is minimal compared to the project’s many sustainable benefits, including 12,209 kilowatts in energy savings over four months – roughly half the energy used in traditional methods of pumping water from deep wells. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 147 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP MARLIN’S PROGRESSIVE RECLAMATION PROJECT MOVES UPHILL At the Marlin mine, the first large-scale mine remediation in the history of Guatemala is well underway and moving into a new phase. What was once an enormous open pit is almost entirely filled and sealed with the mine’s waste rock and tailings. In an innovative process that has won the mine recognition and environmental awards, Marlin’s remediation team places waste rock in the pit, then surrounds and encapsulates it with filtered, compacted tailings to prevent any leaching of acid. More than three million cubic metres of tailings and waste rock have been covered and sealed. Now the progressive reclamation process is moving uphill, to cover the exposed rock that rises above the former pit. The reclamation process began years ago, according to Mike Jacobs, Goldcorp’s Director of Water and Tailings. “We have been preparing for closure and its impacts since the operation first began. It has been a continual process.” As early as 2012, the 230-metre pit began receiving backfill. Trees and native plants are now thriving in an area that used to be a barren pit. Jacobs says, “We’re now doing the finishing work. We are filling in the last remaining dips and moving the landscaping uphill, to cover the rock face that slopes above the pit.” Some exposed mine rock can be prone to oxidation and can leach acid. To protect against potential environmental damage, the exposed rock faces will be sealed under a gentle, stable, landscaped slope. “Most open pits, when closed, leave behind a large open space. Here, we are creating a natural landscape.” Nearly everything in the reclaimed site comes from Marlin itself, from the mine’s tailings to the replanted trees, which are grown at Marlin’s own nursery. Jose Carlos Quezada, the mine’s General Manager of Environment, says, “We have reforested 700 hectares in and around the mine. We have exceeded environmental promises with the National Institute of Forests. Our objective is to continue reforesting the areas and hopefully reach 1,000 hectares.” “We initiated this progressive reclamation program years ago,” says Jacobs, “and we’re well on our way to achieving what we set out to do, which is a carefully planned closure and a positive legacy.” 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 148 Our goal is to make mine closure a smooth transition, with careful management of the environmental and socio-economic challenges as the operation moves into passive care and eventual custodial transfer. We plan for, and strive to mitigate, the socio-economic challenges that result from a mine’s MINE closure, and we practise comprehensive land reclamation to ensure that the local ecosystem is healthy, thriving and CLOSURE supportive of a meaningful post–land use for nearby communities. 2015 HIGHLIGHTS • We created a dedicated Reclamation Business Unit, which 36 is tasked with managing our reclamation and closure36 closed sites in Canada, USA, planning objectives. Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras. • Equity Silver is the first Goldcorp closure site with active remote tailings monitoring. • El Sauzal is the first mine in the world to be 100% decommissioned in accordance with the International Cyanide Management Code. 100% of our properties have updated life-of-mine closure costs. $57MILLION US$57 million invested in progressive or closure reclamation activities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 149 MINE CLOSURE MANAGEMENT APPROACH TRENDS AND ISSUES Historically, mine decommissioning and closure has focused on the environmental aspects of land reclamation and rehabilitation. In recent years, the emphasis has expanded to include the social, cultural and economic impacts. Mine closure now requires an integrated, multidisciplinary approach with a real awareness towards planning for the social and environmental changes that will occur. Companies understand that they should begin planning for closure at the earliest phases of mine development and include active participation from all stakeholders. Implementing plans for a successful mine closure can be challenging, particularly as these plans take place over many years as they are cumulative and wide-ranging. However, mine closure can bring new opportunities to a community. Maximizing the potential for a sustainable, long-term, positive impact requires community involvement, good planning and strong leadership. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? The closure of a mine can cause significant change to the social norms established in a community while a mine was in operation. These changes can be communicated, understood and mitigated with community involvement in the closure-planning process from the outset. A mutual understanding and multi-stakeholder involvement in closure planning can lead to new opportunities post-closure that are meaningful for a community. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO GOLDCORP? We believe mine closure is critical for the sustainability of our operations and of the communities where we mine. For this reason, we have created a new business unit that focuses solely on our approach to closure. For us, improving our mine rehabilitation and closure practices is important for: • Enhancing our social licence – Through inviting public and regulatory scrutiny of our closure planning and practices, we have the opportunity to earn and increase the support of stakeholders throughout the mine life cycle. • Prioritizing and reducing risk – Early planning prepares us for the future. Proactive designs and active restoration result in stable landforms and successful long-term restoration of the land and water. • Improving the closure process – A closed mine is a long-term responsibility. Improving our planning and rehabilitation activities in unison with the operating phase of a mine will help us better manage environmental rehabilitation and mitigate the impact on the communities we work with. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 150 MINE CLOSURE STRATEGY We are committed to developing, operating and closing our mining properties in a sustainable manner. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) requires all sites to document closure plans with specific requirements for both environmental and social activities. Closure planning begins at the earliest phases of a project and involves bringing together various internal and external stakeholders for their views, concerns, aspirations and knowledge. In the early stages of project development and operations, we meet with stakeholders and collect their closure and post-closure goals and views. We conduct risk assessments to maximize the benefits of closure and apply multidisciplinary expertise to develop an effective mine closure plan. Closed sites should be rendered as environmentally productive as possible. While it is not possible to restore a site to its original state prior to mining, it is possible to establish a healthy, thriving ecosystem with productive land use after reclamation is completed. POLICIES AND GUIDANCE Our mine closure strategy is guided by our SEMS, our Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental and Sustainability policies, and the International Council on Mining and Metals’ Planning for Integrated Mine Closure Guidelines. Our standards specify the requirements for responsible closure planning, cost estimating and financial assurance. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The Reclamation Operations Business Unit (ROBU) was created in 2015. A group of professionals manage all closed sites, working under the ROBU general manager, in addition to supporting operating mines in their closure planning. In 2015, the ROBU supported the development of a number of reclamation and closure-planning objectives, which were incorporated into the SEMS for use at all projects, mines and closed sites. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 151 MINE CLOSURE OBJECTIVES AND INITIATIVES All our operations have closure plans in place, which are reviewed annually. We begin reclamation and closure planning at the initial stages of a site’s planning and development process, and continue throughout the mine’s life cycle. We encourage stakeholder consultation as early as possible, especially where infrastructure will be retained for community use, where the post-mining land use involves community input, and where the post-mining land use differs from the pre-existing land use. One of our main objectives is to prepare and maintain a formal life-of-mine Reclamation and Closure Plan at each site, including advanced exploration and construction projects. The plan must: • Explicitly document the terms of reference for reclamation and closure activities, including regulatory standards, post-mining land use plans, community engagement plans, community development initiatives and local partnership agreements. • Specifically address chemical and physical stability of the site. • Include plans for progressive remediation. • Provide reasonable, accurate financial assurance of closure planning, with annual updates. Financial assurance is an important aspect of our social licence to operate. Effective closure planning and closure execution – with stakeholder consultation – are key to successful mine closure. We are committed to continually improving our closure processes and to returning mined land to its next phase of productive use. RECLAMATION SUCCESS AT BALMER LAKE When we acquired Red Lake Gold Mines in the 1990s, we inherited a history of environmental damage from historical mining. Neighbouring Balmer Lake lies adjacent to the mine’s tailings management area, and for many decades, mining effluents had ended up in its water, eliminating all aquatic life. Dave Gelderland, Red Lake’s Process and Tailings Manager, has been with Goldcorp since the 1990s. He was, and is, a member of the team that worked to restore the lake. He says, “The initial environmental studies of Balmer Lake prior to reclamation efforts revealed a barren body of water devoid of life.” Our team moved quickly with water treatment, monitoring and rehabilitation work. By 1996, small fish species were naturally re-colonizing. By 2000, the larger white sucker had returned, and walleye was introduced. Gelderland says, “We now have self-sustaining populations of walleye and northern pike in Balmer Lake, something many would have not thought possible back in the 1980s. It truly is a success story, worth the many years of work that have gone into the project and something that everyone at Red Lake Gold Mines and Goldcorp should be proud of.” Water quality in Balmer Lake is now high enough that it is allowed to flow naturally into the surrounding watershed. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 152 MINE CLOSURE AWARD-WINNING RECLAMATION IN PORCUPINE The Porcupine mine’s property includes the site of the historic Coniaurum gold mine, which operated from 1913 until 1961, when the tailings dams breached in a storm, resulting in a discharge. Reclamation of the Coniaurum lands has been a long-term project. Our teams have succeeded in stabilizing the site and preventing suspended solids from the old tailings area from entering Porcupine River. We have used biosolids as a cover and planted wild grasses to promote a self-sustaining environment. As other natural grasses, shrubs and trees returned, so has wildlife, including several black bears. The honeybees that we introduced for pollination have spawned new bee colonies and a local honey industry. Since 2008, we have been running educational tours on the reclaimed site and working with the local Aboriginal community on the application of traditional knowledge and practices to modern rehabilitation techniques. Our success was recognized through receiving the Tom Peters Memorial Mine Reclamation Award in 2011. This award is sponsored by the Ontario Mining Association, the Canadian Land Reclamation Association and the Ministry of Northern Development and Mines, with the financial support of Vale SA. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 153 MINE CLOSURE MINE CLOSURE CASE STUDIES LEADING THE INDUSTRY IN CYANIDE RESPONSIBILITY: EL SAUZAL IS THE WORLD’S FIRST DECOMMISSIONED MINE TO BE CERTIFIED AS A “NON-CYANIDE” FACILITY With the successful decommissioning of the El Sauzal mine, we have come full circle: the first mine in Mexico to be certified for responsible cyanide use under the International Cyanide Management Code for the Manufacture, Transport and Use of Cyanide in the Production of Gold (Cyanide Code) is now the first in the world to be decommissioned and certified as a “non-cyanide” facility. “This is the latest example of our leadership in responsible cyanide use,” says John Barber, Goldcorp’s Director of Environment. “When the Cyanide Code was first developed in 2005, we at Goldcorp were early adopters.” The voluntary Cyanide Code was developed as a response to industry-wide concerns over the safe handling of cyanide. Barber adds, “It was a Goldcorp mine, Marigold, which was the first in the world to be certified under the Cyanide Code. Musselwhite in Canada, Marlin in Guatemala and El Sauzal in Mexico: all were the first in their countries to be certified. We consider the Cyanide Code a minimum standard. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System incorporates the Code, and additional cyanide management requirements that go beyond the Cyanide Code in many aspects.” Norm Greenwald, the Executive Vice-President of the International Cyanide Management Institute (ICMI), says, “Decommissioning has been a part of the Code since its inception, but prior to El Sauzal, no company had gone through it. It’s something that Goldcorp didn’t have to do – they didn’t have to spend the money to bring the auditor in and do the evaluation. But they did, and we hope that this will encourage other mining companies to go the extra step when they close down their own operations.” Decommissioning a mine is a rigorous process, as Barber explains: “Water quality coming out of the tailings facility is tested. Mill equipment is cleaned and tested for contamination before any of it is sold and transported off-site. Storage tanks are cleaned and tested, and then either destroyed or disposed of safely.” Greenwald adds, “I certainly give Goldcorp credit. They are doing a very good job. They have shown they are prepared to go the extra step, to demonstrate that things are being done correctly and to meet public expectations for safe management of cyanide in mining.” No cyanide-related incidents occurred at the El Sauzal mine, which was certified in 2008. Our Peñasquito gold mine in Mexico was originally certified under the Cyanide Code in December 2012 and was recently re-certified in February 2016. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 154 MINE CLOSURE AUTOMATED TAILINGS SAFEGUARDS Tailings dam breakdowns have made world headlines over the past few years, underscoring the critical importance of improving inspection and monitoring methods in the mining industry. In proactive response, we investigated alternatives to traditional non-continuous manual monitoring in order to enhance safeguards while setting new standards that exceed industry and government regulations. In Canada, current practices adhere to Canadian Dam Association guidelines, which rely heavily on manual inspections recorded with paper and pen, are labour-intensive and are hindered by the isolated locations of many tailings facilities. While our dams and ponds are built with added preventative measures, such as liners, drains and seepage sensors, we determined that automating the monitoring process would be more effective and expedient. In mid-2015, Chris Cormier, General Manager, Reclamation Operations, and his staff collaborated with the IT department to devise ways of applying technological innovation. After evaluating several possibilities, the team selected the Trimble T4D System, a robust solution comprising solar power, sensors and real-time digital imagery to monitor and measure performance and structural integrity. Pilot testing ensued at our Equity Silver mine near Houston, BC, which was acquired from Barrick Gold back in 1996. The closed site has a 120-hectare tailings storage facility with dams constructed on three sides to contain more than five million cubic metres of water and 33 million tonnes of potentially acid-generating tailings. Installation of the system was arduous, given the tight weather window and complex set-up of integrated solar panels; radio, robotic and weather stations; digital cameras; and strategically placed sensors to capture and log real-time data. By January 2016, the system was fully deployed to track and report information on key parameters for operational and environmental safety and reliability, including measurements of water levels every minute and pore water pressure every five minutes. On-site personnel can monitor live video feeds and sensors can be programmed to trigger alarms and convey incident alerts by email and/or text messages for immediate, appropriate action. The new technology not only provides an added level of assurance for the environment, local communities and stakeholders – it underpins our enterprise-wide Sustainability Excellence Management System, as well as the Tailings Stewardship Strategy, customized for each active, closed and reclamation operation. We are currently evaluating opportunities to utilize the Trimble T4D as a template for application on a broader scale. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 155 MINE CLOSURE RECOVERY OF THE HOLLINGER TAILINGS MANAGEMENT AREA The Porcupine Camp hosts a number of historic and legendary mining operations. In the early days of operations, tailings from multiple mines were deposited in Gillies Lake. The property was abandoned in the late 1980s, eventually causing a large, separate tailings pond to form (Gillies Pond). Over time, the high sulphide content from tailings upstream drove water quality in Gillies Pond to acidic conditions and other contaminants to concentrations above allowable regulatory levels. In 2009, three years after we acquired the property, a major rehabilitation project in the Hollinger Tailings Management Area was initiated to improve water quality on-site and downstream by managing the acidic tailings, recovering tailings that had migrated off-site, and preventing further degradation of tailings on-site. Three years post-rehabilitation, the water quality in Gillies Pond is outperforming our predictions and is meeting some of the most stringent of criteria within the Province of Ontario. The area was recently opened to the public and several trails have been established on-site, which connect with an existing community trail network. Similar to the Coniaurum mine, the Hollinger Tailings Management Area was the recipient of the Canadian Land Reclamation Agency’s Tom Peters Memorial Mine Reclamation Award in 2013. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 156 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES Sustainability is foundational to the way we do business – and it’s While we are proud of incorporated in our company’s vision statement: Together, Creating our success to date, we Sustainable Value. Simply put, we are committed to creating positive social and economic benefits for our stakeholders everywhere we do strive for continuous business. We believe in having a lasting positive impact on people’s lives, improvement, and we and in leaving the areas where we operate in as good, or better, condition know that we can always than when we arrived. While we are proud of our success to date, we strive for continuous improvement, and we know that we can always do better. do better. Over the past year, we were faced with a number of challenges. In response, we will continue to refine our policies and practices for environmental stewardship; improve our community relationships; and work to ensure the health and safety of our employees, contractors, partners and neighbouring communities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 157 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE FOR UNCERTAIN MARKETS In 2015, for the fifth consecutive year, commodities prices were volatile. We responded with a renewed focus on driving down costs and improving efficiencies wherever possible – even as we brought two major new gold mines into production. Despite these efforts, our share price performance was relatively weak. Over the year, the new Éléonore mine experienced start-up issues, while at Cochenour and Los Filos, exploration and revised modelling assumptions resulted in a drop in gold reserves and resources. The recent uptick in gold prices is very encouraging. However, we expect further market volatility in the short term, and we will continue with our unrelenting focus on financial discipline, without compromising our commitment to responsible operations and the highest sustainability standards. WORKING WITH COMMUNITIES In 2015, we worked with local communities near the Peñasquito mine to resolve two significant disputes related to land use and customary rights. These cases highlight the challenges we face and demonstrate the importance of proactive and continuous community engagement. Throughout the mining industry, external stakeholders are increasingly demanding greater involvement and transparency, and we will continue to work to maintain open dialogue with those impacted by our operations. Looking forward, we will continue working to enhance our partnerships with stakeholders. With our First Nations partners, we will ensure that we comply with the commitments established in our collaboration agreements. We will move forward with the implementation of our CSR strategy to improve the consistency and effectiveness of our sustainability efforts. In particular, we are working to improve our practices for receiving, documenting and investigating stakeholder feedback and grievances, and to systematize our tracking of engagement and community contributions. A RELENTLESS FOCUS ON SAFETY Safety continues to be our number one priority. However, following two years of steady improvement in our efforts toward fighting fatalities, we were deeply saddened by a fatal accident at our Musselwhite mine in 2015 and another fatal accident at our Marlin mine in early 2016. These incidents occurred despite years of effort dedicated to strengthening our safety culture and measurable reductions in our All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR). Since 2015, we began consistently tracking safety interactions and have seen the practice adopted across the company. We believe engagement improves personal accountability and our ability to assess risk. For the year, our AIFR was 1.26, a decrease of 9% compared to 2014, but slightly above our target of 1.24. While we made good progress reporting Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs), more work remains to be done to reduce or eliminate repeat PFOs. For the year, our achievements in safety were greatly overshadowed by the fatality, and we recognize that moving forward, we cannot let up in our efforts to make Goldcorp Safe Enough for Our Families. ATTRACTING AND RETAINING THE BEST PEOPLE Our company and our industry are challenged by a shortage of skilled workers and by a lack of diversity in the workplace. This year, we were also challenged by reductions in our workforce 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 158 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES from having to operate in a lower commodity price environment. Attracting and retaining top talent is essential to our future, and maintaining our position as an employer of choice requires continuous improvement and innovation. In 2015, we launched STEPUp, a behaviour-based competency program that is intended to improve our risk management capabilities, with strengthened ethics and compliance oversight and improved diligence in our commercial practices. We were able to pilot the program at two mine sites, but rollout was delayed at our other operations. In 2016, we will begin implementing a global Human Resources Information System, which will enable company-wide, accurate, timely and consistent information about our people, and help us coordinate initiatives across sites. The new system will be valuable, especially as we acquire new mines and face the challenge of integrating staff and communities into the Goldcorp culture. As we move forward, we will strengthen our training programs to help in tracking and retaining top talent. We will introduce new analytic tools to provide up-to-date analyses and performance indicators to support global recruitment. We will focus on hiring locally to create sustainable value in the communities where we operate, and continue to emphasize diversity through the creation and implementation of our Diversity Policy and programs. PROMOTING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Our new SEMS standards have added clarity and consistency to our environmental governance. With these standards – and auditing – in place, we can improve the visibility of our results and ensure follow-up. One area for improvement that will be developed in 2016 is the need for a consolidated sustainability compliance-assurance program, based on a common platform across all our sites. This will provide company-wide visibility on compliance issues and allow for focused follow-up and support. In 2015, our Tailings Stewardship Strategy continued to roll out across the company. In 2016, the program will address inactive sites with tailings storage facilities and water retention structures. Renewable energy is of increasing interest across our industry, for cost savings and the reduction of GHG emissions. At the Cerro Negro mine, where wind patterns seemed promising, we conducted a pre-feasibility study for a potential wind farm. The results were favourable, and a full feasibility study will be completed in 2016. Moving forward, we will look to leverage innovative energy solutions and collaborate with partners to tap into unconventional energy sources. Recent cost reductions in solar energy technologies may also open new options. In 2016 and beyond, the emerging issue that faces us and our industry is water management. The increasing scarcity of water affects all of our activities, in every region and country. Over 2016, our Water Stewardship and Energy strategies will continue, and we will monitor progress towards our water milestones. We will manage our environmental impacts and work with stakeholders on innovative solutions for environmental management and mine reclamation – always considering the present and future of water, energy and biodiversity. WHAT LIES AHEAD In 2016, as always, we will focus on keeping our sites Safe Enough for Our Families. Zero Fatalities remains our highest priority. We expect the coming year to challenge the mining industry, but we are confident that our discipline in cost control and value optimization – combined with our values of transparency and partnership with stakeholders – will help us maintain our competitive edge and deliver on our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 159 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES: “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS INDICATORS G4-1 Statement from the most senior Page 4 2, 10 decision-maker G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and Pages 8, 9, 31–45, 59 4 opportunities ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE INDICATORS G4-3 Name of the organization Page 11 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or Pages 10, 11, 12 services G4-5 Location of organization’s Page 11 headquarters G4-6 Number of countries where the Page 10 organization operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Goldcorp is a public company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. Our top institutional shareholders are identified on our website: www.goldcorp.com. G4-8 Markets served Pages 10, 11 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Pages 10, 11, 12 G4-10 Total workforce Page 93 Goal 8 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by Page 103 3 Goal 8 collective agreements G4-12 Description of the organization’s Page 14 supply chain G4-13 Significant changes during the Page 13 reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership including the location of or changes in operations G4-14 Description of how the Page 60 2 7 precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed charters, Page 22 2 principles or initiatives endorsed G4-16 Memberships in associations Page 22 2 G4-17 Operational structure of the Pages 10, 12 organization 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 160 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-18 Process for defining report content Pages 32, 33 The scope and content of the report, and the depth of reporting, is governed by our commitment to the ICMM, our materiality process, our industry and our audience. Key topics that arose through our materiality assessment are discussed in the Materiality Analysis section of the report and in the disclosure on Management Approach in each of our report sections. G4-19 Material aspects identified in the Page 36 process for defining report content G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the Page 25 organization G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the Page 25 organization G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any Page 26 restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous There were no significant reporting periods in the scope and changes in the scope aspect boundaries and aspect boundaries during 2015. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT INDICATORS G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged Page 74 10 by the company G4-25 Basis for identification and Page 74 10 selection of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder Page 74 10 engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that Pages 34, 35, 75–78 10 have been raised through stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information Page 24 provided G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Page 24 Our 2014 Sustainability Report was published in June of 2015. G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 24 G4-31 Contact point for questions Page 174 G4-32 Location of the standard disclosures Pages 23, 27 in the report and “in accordance” option the organization has chosen ASSURANCE G4-33 External assurance Page 28 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 161 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL GOVERNANCE INDICATORS G4-34 Governance structure Page 49 1, 2, 4 G4-36 Appointments of executivePage 68 1, 2, 4 level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics G4-37 Processes for consultation between Page 50 Goal 16 stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest Page 49 Goal 5, governance body and its committees Goal 16 and how the company defines “independent” and “non-executive” members of the Board G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the Page 49 1 Goal 16 highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-40 Qualifications and expertise of the Page 50 1, 2 Goal 5, highest governance body Goal 16 G4-41 Processes in place for the highest Page 54 1 10 Goal 16 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided G4-44 Evaluation on performance of the Page 50 highest governance body G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance Page 51 1, 4, 10 1, 2, 7, 8, Goal 16 body for overseeing the organization’s 9, 10 identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks G4-46 The Board’s role in reviewing Page 51 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 7, 8, sustainability impacts, risks and 9, 10 opportunities G4-47 Frequency of the Board’s review of Page 51 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 7, 8, economic, environmental and social During 2015, the Board’s 9, 10 impacts, risks and opportunities Sustainability Committee met four times. More information about the frequency of the Board’s review of sustainability matters can be found in our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. G4-48 Highest committee that formally The Sustainability Report is 1, 10 reviews and approves the reviewed and approved by organization’s sustainability report our Disclosure Committee and Board of Directors. G4-49 Process for communicating Page 50 1, 2, 4, 1, 10 critical concerns to the highest 10 governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Pages 53, 54 1, 2 10 highest governance body For information about and senior executives remuneration policies for the highest governance body, please see our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 162 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Page 53 1 10 For information about the process to determine remuneration, please see our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought Page 54 10 Goal 16 and taken into account regarding Since 2012, we have provided remuneration shareholders with an advisory “Say on Pay” vote regarding our executive compensation program. It helps us engage constructively, obtain meaningful feedback and ensure accountability for executive compensation. For more information, please see our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, Pages 15, 16, 17, 18 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 6, Goal 16 standards and norms of behaviour 10 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics ECONOMIC INDICATORS DMA Economic Performance Pages 65–67, 69–72, 126 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Pages 11, 71, 72, 73 9 10 Goal 2, and distributed Goal 5, Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 9 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other Page 130 4, 7 7 Goal 13 risks and opportunities due to climate change G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance Pages 71, 72 received from government DMA Market Presence Pages 65–67, 69–72 G4-EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level Page 70 6 Goal 1, wage by gender compared to local Goal 5, minimum wage Goal 8 G4-EC6 Local hiring – proportion of senior Page 70 2, 9 6 Goal 8 management and total workforce hired from local communities at operations 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 163 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL DMA Indirect Economic Impacts Pages 65–67, 69–72 G4-EC7 Development and impact of Page 73 9 Goal 2, infrastructure investments We routinely contribute to the Goal 5, construction and maintenance Goal 7, of local infrastructure and Goal 8, services. The main areas of Goal 9, investment are education, Goal 11 health, local services (e.g., water supply, power, etc.) and roads. However, we have not attempted to estimate the indirect economic benefits that flow to local and regional communities from our operations and development activities. The impact on regional economic activity will vary depending on local circumstances, but the potential economic stimulus is large. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts Page 69 2, 9 Goal 1, We have not attempted to Goal 2, estimate the indirect economic Goal 3, benefits that flow to local Goal 8, and regional communities Goal 10, from our operations and Goal 17 development activities. The impact on regional economic activity will vary depending on local circumstances, but the potential economic stimulus is large. DMA Procurement Practices Page 71 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on locally Page 71 2, 9 10 Goal 12 based suppliers ENVIRONMENT INDICATORS DMA Materials Pages 126–128 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 128 6 7, 8, 9 Goal 8, Goal 12 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Page 129 6, 8 8 Goal 8, recycled input materials Goal 12 DMA Energy Pages 126, 127, 130 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within Pages 131, 132 6 8 Goal 7, the organization Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of Pages 131, 132 6 8 Goal 7, the organization Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Pages 132, 133 6 8 Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Page 133 6, 8 8, 9 Goal 7, Goal 8, Goal 12, Goal 13 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 164 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL DMA Water Pages 126, 127, 136 G4-EN8 A Total water withdrawal by source Page 136 6 8 Goal 6 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Pages 136, 137 8 Goal 6 withdrawal of water G4-EN10 A Percentage and total volume of water Page 137 6, 8 8, 9 Goal 6, recycled and reused Goal 8, Goal 12 DMA Biodiversity Pages 126, 127, 142 G4-EN11 Location and size of land adjacent Page 143 6, 7 8 Goal 6, to protected areas and areas of high Goal 14, biodiversity value Goal 15 G4-EN12 Significant impacts on protected areas Page 143 6, 7 8 Goal 6, and areas of high biodiversity value Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Page 144 6, 7 8 Goal 6, Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and Page 144 6, 7 8 Goal 6, national conservation list species with Goal 14, habitats affected by our operations Goal 15 DMA Emissions Pages 126, 127, 130 G4-EN15 A Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Pages 133, 134 6 8, 9 Goal 3, emissions Goal 12, Goal 13, Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN16 A Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Pages 133, 134 6 8, 9 Goal 3, emissions Goal 12, Goal 13, Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Page 134 6 8, 9 Goal 3, emissions (Scope 3) Goal 12, Goal 13, Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Page 135 6 8, 9 Goal 13, intensity Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Page 134 6, 8 7, 8, 9 Goal 13, emissions Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air Page 135 6 8 Goal 3, emissions by type and weight Goal 12, Goal 14, Goal 15 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 165 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL DMA Effluents and Waste Pages 126, 127, 136–138, 139, 140, 141 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality Pages 137, 138 6 8 Goal 3, and destination Goal 6, Goal 12, Goal 14 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Pages 140, 141 6, 8 8 Goal 3, disposal method Goal 6, Goal 12 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of Page 141 4, 6 8 Goal 3, significant spills Goal 6, Goal 12, Goal 14, Goal 15 G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status and Page 138 6, 8 7, 8, 9 Goal 6, biodiversity value of waterbodies and Goal 14, related habitats significantly affected Goal 15 by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff DMA Compliance Pages 126, 127, 145 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines, Page 145 1, 6 8 Goal 16 and non-monetary sanctions DMA Transportation Pages 126, 127, 146 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Page 146 6 8, 9 Goal 11, transporting products and other goods Goal 12, and materials Goal 13 DMA Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Pages 68, 79, 81–83 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about Pages 81–83 Goal 16 environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK INDICATORS DMA Employment Pages 91, 94, 97 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Page 97 3 6 Goal 5, employee hires and employee Goal 8 turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time Page 97 6 Goal 8 employees that are not provided to temporary or part time employees, by significant locations of operation DMA Labour/Management Relations Pages 91, 94 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Page 102 3 1, 3 Goal 8 operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 166 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL DMA Occupational Health and Safety Pages 108–110, 116, 119 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce Page 116 3 1, 3 Goal 8 represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, occupational Pages 117, 118 5 1 Goal 3, diseases, lost days and absenteeism, Goal 8 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or Pages 119, 120 5 6 Goal 3, high risk of diseases related to Goal 8 their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Page 116 5 3, 6 Goal 8 formal agreements with trade unions DMA Training and Education Pages 91, 94–96 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Page 94 9 Goal 8 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Page 96 9 Goal 5, regular performance and career Goal 8 development reviews DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunity Pages 19, 91, 98 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies Pages 98, 99 1, 3, 4 1, 6 Goal 5, and breakdown of employees Goal 8 by category DMA Equal Opportunity for Men and Women Pages 91, 99 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and Page 99 Goal 5, remuneration of women to men by Goal 8, employee category, by significant Goal 10 locations of operation DMA Labour Practices Grievance Pages 68, 79, 81–83 Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour Pages 81–83 Goal 16 practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS DMA Investment Pages 19, 65–67, 79–81 G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements Pages 80, 81 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on Page 81 policies and procedures concerning human rights DMA Non-discrimination Pages 19, 65–67, 79, 81–83 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents Pages 81–83 1, 3 1, 2, 6 Goal 5, of discrimination and corrective Goal 8, actions taken Goal 16 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 167 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL DMA Freedom of Association and Pages 19, 65–67, 79, 102–103 Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers Page 103 Goal 8 identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk DMA Child Labour Pages 19, 65–67, 79 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as No incidents of child labour Goal 8, having significant risk for incidents of were reported in 2015, Goal 16 child labour, and measures taken to nor were any operations contribute to the effective abolition of considered to have child labour significant risk for incidents of child labour. DMA Forced and Compulsory Labour Pages 19, 65–67, 79 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as We support the principle Goal 8 having significant risk for incidents of that individuals must forced or compulsory labour be accorded an equal opportunity to participate in the free enterprise system and to develop their ability to achieve their full potential within that system. We do not engage in, or condone, forced or compulsory labour. No incidents of forced or compulsory labour were reported in 2015, nor were any operations considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. DMA Security Practices Pages 65–67, 79, 80 G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel Page 79 Goal 16 trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations DMA Indigenous Rights Pages 65–67, 79, 81–84 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations Page 83 2, 3 1, 2 Goal 2 involving rights of Indigenous Peoples and actions taken DMA Assessment Pages 65–67, 79 G4-HR9 Number and percentage of operations In 2015, we conducted 1, 3, 4, 9 1, 2 that have been subject to human rights a Human Rights Impact reviews or impact assessments Assessment at our Peñasquito mine in Mexico. DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment Pages 14, 79 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers Page 80 that were screened using human rights criteria DMA Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Pages 68, 79, 81–83 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human Pages 81–83 Goal 16 rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 168 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL SOCIETY INDICATORS DMA Local Communities Pages 65–67, 75 G4-SO1 A Percentage of operations with Page 74 2, 9, 10 implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual Page 75 2, 4, 9 2, 8 Goal 1, and potential negative impacts on Goal 2 local communities DMA Anti-corruption Pages 19, 48, 54–57 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Pages 56, 59 1, 2, 4 10 Goal 16 operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiPage 57 1, 2, 4 10 Goal 16 corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption Page 56 Goal 16 and actions taken DMA Public Policy Pages 47–48, 58 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Page 58 1 10 Goal 16 country and recipient/beneficiary DMA Anti-competitive Behaviour Pages 54, 55 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for Page 55 Goal 16 anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practice DMA Compliance Pages 47–48, 54, 55 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Page 55 1 Goal 16 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance DMA Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts Pages 68, 79, 81–83 on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts Pages 81–83 10 1, 2 Goal 16 on society 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 169 GRI INDEX A Externally Assured SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL MINING AND METALS SECTOR SUPPLEMENT INDICATORS MM1 Amount of land disturbed or Page 142 6, 7 Goal 3, rehabilitated Goal 6, Goal 12, Goal 14, Goal 15 MM2 Sites identified as requiring Page 142 6, 7 8 Goal 6, biodiversity management plans, and Goal 14, sites with plans in place Goal 15 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, Page 140 6 8 Goal 3, tailings and sludge presenting Goal 6, potential hazards Goal 12 MM4 Number of strikes and lockouts Strikes and lockouts are 3 3 Goal 8 indicative of a serious breakdown in labour/ management relations and a suspension of consultative processes. In 2015, there were no strikes or lockouts that lasted more than one week in duration. MM5 Operations in or adjacent to Pages 83, 84 2, 3, 9 1, 2 Goal 1, Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and Goal 2 formal agreements in place with Indigenous Peoples MM6 Significant disputes relating Page 83 2, 3, 4, 1, 2 Goal 1, to land use and the customary 9, 10 Goal 2 rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples MM7 Grievance mechanisms used Pages 74, 84 10 1, 2 Goal 1, to resolve disputes related to Goal 2 land use and the customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples MM8 Artisanal and small-scale mining No artisanal or small-scale Goal 1, mining was reported on any of Goal 2, our sites. However, the access Goal 3, road to our NuevaUnion site Goal 6, is adjacent to the property Goal 8, of a small-scale mining Goal 12 association. The site maintains a close relationship with that local association. MM9 Resettlement Page 86 Goal 2 MM10 Closure plans Page 152 2, 6, 9 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 170 GLOSSARY ALL-IN SUSTAINING COSTS (AISC) A non-GAAP performance measure that defines the total costs associated with producing gold. All-in Sustaining Costs include by-product cash costs, sustaining capital expenditures, corporate administrative expense, exploration and evaluation costs and reclamation cost accretion. As the measure seeks to reflect the full cost of gold production from current operations, new project capital is not included in the calculation. ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) A standard safety indicator in the extractive industries, the All Injury Frequency Rate is calculated based on the total number of reportable incidents per 200,000 hours worked. For our purposes, we have considered the following incidents as reportable: medical aid, restricted work duty, lost time and fatalities. ASSURANCE A service often provided by an independent third party that reviews documentation and information to confirm its validity. CLOSURE PLANS A plan that establishes the objectives and actions for the closure phase of the mine life cycle, particularly on post-mining land use. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT An investment of employee time, resources and a monetary contribution, the target beneficiaries of which are external to the company. We are involved in some capacity in the design, implementation or administration of the resources (e.g., a community relations person sits on the project steering committee). These contributions consist of money or in-kind benefits provided directly to community organizations or community representatives for specified purposes. CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD A voluntary standard developed by the World Gold Council to provide assurance that gold has been extracted in a way that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful conflict, or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international law. CONTRACTORS “Contractors” refers to external labour, hired to do a specific task. In some jurisdictions, a contractor is defined as a “supervised worker” – an individual who performs regular work on-site for, or on behalf of, the reporting organization but is not recognized as an employee under national law or practice. COUNTRY RISK ASSESSMENTS An assessment to identify operational risks related to the social and economic context of a particular country. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS A pension plan for which the contributions from the employee and the employer are predetermined during the course of the employee’s career. The benefit is determined based on the return on investment of the amount contributed. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS A pension plan for which contributions are specified but the amount received by the employee upon retirement is not fixed. Instead, the amount received varies based on how the funds in the plan have been invested and the return on that investment. The employee normally has the responsibility of deciding how the contributions are invested. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 171 GLOSSARY DONATION A cash or physical gift made to the larger community where the target beneficiaries are external to the company and we are not involved in the administration or delivery of that gift. An example is donating money to a school to purchase books or supplies. DORÉ BARS Unrefined gold and silver bullion bars. EJIDO An area of communal land used for agriculture, owned and operated by members of the community. EMPLOYEE Full time, direct Goldcorp personnel. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE A sustainability reporting framework consisting of principles, guidelines and indicators to measure and report on an organization’s economic, environmental and social performance. GOLDEN RULES Ten rules that identify the most high-risk situations for our workforce, as identified by our analysis of past Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs) at Goldcorp and in the industry. They are intended to help workers understand the potential hazards and risks they face and to begin a task only when they have thoroughly understood all the rules and how they apply to the work at hand. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Any of the atmospheric gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation produced by the solar warming of Earth’s surface. They include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (NO2) and water vapour. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INTENSITY GHG intensity is a metric that normalizes GHGs per a defined unit of production. This can be defined as the total amount of GHGs per tonne moved and is a metric that we track to determine how we are managing our GHGs across the company as we experience growth or divestment. GRIEVANCE A grievance is a formal complaint, concern, problem or claim (perceived or actual) that an individual or community group wants us to address. These must be communicated to appropriate Goldcorp personnel in writing or verbally. GRIEVANCE MECHANISM A process that allows us to receive and respond to feedback and concerns from stakeholders on matters of interest to them related to our activities. Feedback may include questions, concerns, claims or complaints from internal (i.e., employees and contractors) or external (i.e., Indigenous groups or special interest groups, such as non-profit organizations) stakeholders. At Goldcorp, we have two formal channels for receiving complaints and grievances (Ethics from the Ground Up and Community Response mechanisms), as well as other informal channels, which are implemented on a site-by-site basis. HEAP LEACH An extractive process whereby ore is stacked on a pad (forming a “heap”) and leaching solutions are introduced at the top of the heap. The leaching solutions dissolve valuable metals (typically gold and silver) as they percolate through the ore and are collected from a sloping, impermeable liner below the pad. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 172 GLOSSARY HUMAN RIGHTS Universal rights, or status, regardless of legal jurisdiction or other localizing factors such as ethnicity, nationality and sex. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the most widely recognized document outlining these rights. HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT A process used to measure the impact of a range of activities on human rights. The activities commonly subject to impact measurement include international trade agreements, development cooperation programs and business operations. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES As per the GRI G4 Guidelines, Indigenous Peoples are “those whose social, cultural, political and economic conditions distinguish them from other sections of the dominant national community, or who are regarded as Indigenous on account of their descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or geographical region to which a country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain all or some of their own social, economic, cultural and political institutions.” INTERNATIONAL CYANIDE MANAGEMENT CODE A voluntary industry program for gold mining companies that focuses exclusively on the safe management of cyanide and cyanidation mill tailings and leach solutions. The objective of the Cyanide Code is to improve the management of cyanide used in gold mining, to assist in the protection of human health and to reduce environmental impacts. INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS) International standards for disclosing an organization’s financial information. These standards provide comparable financial information across different regulatory jurisdictions. We have reported under these standards since 2011. LOST TIME INCIDENT (LTI) An injury resulting in absence from work beyond the day of the incident. Lost Time Injuries may be “minor” (one to several days away from work) or “major” (more extensive lost time). LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) A measure of the number of occurrences of Lost Time Incidents per 200,000 hours worked. MATERIAL TOPICS Key topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large. OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE An occupational disease is a disease or disorder that is caused by the work or working conditions. Some examples of occupational diseases in mining include dust and noise exposure, fatigue, and trauma from vibration and strains. OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE (ODR) The frequency of occupational diseases per 200,000 hours worked. OPERATING FOR EXCELLENCE (O4E) A program to systematically identify and prioritize opportunities for improvement, develop creative and effective solutions for these opportunities, and execute the solution to achieve maximum value. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 173 GLOSSARY ORE Rock generally containing metallic and non-metallic minerals that can be mined and processed at a profit. POTENTIAL FATAL OCCURRENCE (PFO) Any incident that has the potential to lead to a fatality. These incidents have a high probability of affecting a critical body part (such as a head injury). At Goldcorp, a PFO is also a violation of a Golden Rule or other critical control, either a near miss or an observation, where there was sufficient energy or toxicity to be fatal. REAGENT Chemicals used in mineral recovery processes. RECLAMATION The process by which lands disturbed by mining activity are reclaimed back to a beneficial land use. Reclamation activity includes the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, and the closure of tailings impoundments, leach pads and other mine features. It also includes contouring, covering and revegetation of waste rock piles and other disturbed areas. RECYCLED WATER Worked water that is used again after being treated. RESETTLEMENT As defined by the International Finance Corporation, physical displacement (relocation or loss of shelter) and/or economic displacement (loss of assets or access to assets that leads to the loss of income sources or means of livelihood). We are committed to ensuring that any people we resettle are moved to a location of equal or better value than the one they leave. REUSED WATER Worked water that is used again without being treated. SAY ON PAY An advisory vote on Say on Pay is provided to shareholders of the company to allow them to show their approval or disapproval of the company’s executive compensation policies. An advisory vote is non-binding on the company and it remains the duty of the Board to develop and implement sufficient executive compensation policies for the company. If the advisory vote is not approved by at least a majority of the votes cast at the meeting, the Board undertakes to discuss with the shareholders of the company why they do not approve of the company’s executive compensation policies and to consider modifications to such policies. SCOPE 1 (DIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Emissions that are derived from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting organization. SCOPE 2 (INDIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Emissions that are generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization. SCOPE 3 (OTHER INDIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Indirect emissions not covered in Scope 1 or 2, such as emissions from business materials, travel and commuting to work. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 174 GLOSSARY SLUDGE Sludge is a semi-solid slurry and can be produced as sewage sludge from wastewater treatment processes or as a settled suspension obtained from conventional drinking water and numerous other industrial processes. Sludge is also sometimes used as a generic term for solids separated from suspension in a liquid; this “soupy“ material usually contains significant quantities of “interstitial“ water (between the solid particles). Industrial wastewater solids are also referred to as sludge, whether generated from biological or physical-chemical processes. Surface water plants also generate sludge made up of solids removed from the raw water. SOCIAL BASELINE STUDY A study to understand the current socio-economic or human environment around a proposed project, mine or associated infrastructure. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder engagement is a dynamic two-way dialogue based on mutual respect and benefit, with the goals of building lasting relationships, managing risk and impacts, and providing a forum to address and resolve potential issues. SURFACE WATER Water derived from rainfall captured on our sites or from site-surface water sources. TAILINGS Material rejected from a mill after most of the recoverable valuable minerals have been extracted. TAILINGS STEWARDSHIP STRATEGY A management strategy developed to ensure best practices are implemented for proper construction, operation, maintenance, monitoring and ultimately closure of our tailings storage facilities, including water retention structures. The strategy is designed to provide assurances that tailings and dams are managed using best practices, providing secure storage, reduced costs and impacts, improved operational excellence and consistent monitoring, and addressing stakeholder concerns. These benefits can be realized both within and outside operational boundaries. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, businesses can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS A multi-stakeholder initiative involving governments, companies and non-governmental organizations that promotes the implementation of a set of principles that guide oil, gas and mining companies in providing security for their operations in a manner that respects human rights. The Voluntary Principles guide companies in conducting a comprehensive human rights risk assessment in their engagement with public and private security providers to ensure human rights are respected in the protection of company facilities and premises. WASTE ROCK Rock that is removed from the mining process to provide access to the ore, and is not further processed during the reporting year. WORKFORCE Refers to full time Goldcorp employees and outside labour, such as contractors, who perform work on Goldcorp’s behalf. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 175 CONTACT US Goldcorp is committed to transparency and open communication. We welcome feedback about our programs as well as specific comments for improvements in our sustainability reporting. Your inquiries may be directed to: Email: SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com Mail: Suite 3400, 666 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6C 2X8 Telephone: (604) 696-3000 Facsimile: (604) 696-3001 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 176
