HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 CONTENT CEO’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT/3 GRI INDICATORS/4 HUMAN RIGHTS/5 Policies and Procedures/7 Actions and Performance/8 LABOUR STANDARDS/10 Policies and Procedures/12 Actions and Performance/13 ENVIRONMENT/14 Policies and Procedures/16 Actions and Performance/18 ANTI – CORRUPTION/21 Policies and Procedures/22 Actions and Performance/23 1 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 This is Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It covers January 1st until December 31st 2015 and includes a reiteration of commitment from Hikma’s CEO to the principles and incorporates sections of Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility Report, Hikma’s policies, Code of Conduct, and GRI indicators. The report will demonstrate how Hikma is addressing each of the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles and continues to actively engage in and improve these practices over the years. We welcome feedback on its contents. 2 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 CEO’s Statement of Support for the UN Global Compact It is with pride that I present you with Hikma Pharmaceuticals’ 2015 Communication on Progress report (COP). In 2015, Hikma celebrated a decade of listing on the London Stock Exchange. Today, we are recognized as a leading global pharmaceutical company with a successful and sustainable business model. Our COP report reveals our continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact vital initiative and demonstrates our alignment with its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Hikma Pharmaceuticals has been an enthusiastic member of the UNGC since 2007. We continue to support the ten principles and align our operations with the UNGC in all our locations. Ethical conduct is inherent in the Hikma culture. This is evident in our company’s mission to improve the lives of patients across the globe by providing high quality affordable medications. This report demonstrates Hikma’s commitment to bring about positive change in our local and global communities. We continue to grow and I am proud to say that we now employ over 8,000 people with operations in the Middle East and North Africa, US and Europe with sales in more than 50 countries worldwide. In 2015, we further expanded our operations by acquiring assets of Roxanne Laboratories from Boehringer Ingelheim, significantly strengthening our global Generics business. To keep up with a fast-changing industry, in 2015, we established a corporate venture capital arm called “Hikma Ventures” which invests in start-ups within the digital health sector. Hikma Ventures seeks to invest in new health related technologies to further improve the lives of our stakeholders. We believe it is our duty as a multinational business to indorse the COP’s principles and encourage our stakeholders to do so as well. We remain committed to conducting our business in an ethical manner and to being active partners in shaping a sustainable future. Said Darwazah CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals 3 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 GRI Indicators Principles GRI Indicators 1 LA7, LA10, HR2 2 LA7, LA10, HR2 3 EC1, LA7, LA10 4 SO3, HR2 5 SO3, HR2 6 EC1, LA7, LA10 7 EN3, EN8 8 EN3, EN8, EN22 9 EN3, EN8, EN22 10 SO3 LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost days, absenteeism LA10: average hours of training per employee per category HR2: percentage of suppliers / contractors undergone human rights screening EC1: direct economic value, including employee wages and benefits SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti – corruption policies EN3: direct energy consumption EN8: total water withdrawal EN22: total weight of waste 4 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Principle One Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle Two Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses “Hikma respects the dignity and human rights of its employees and others. Privacy and confidentiality are essential to business and Hikma will respect the privacy of its customers, counterparties and employees, and is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of their information. Hikma is not discriminatory and offers equal opportunities to all.” Dignity and Respect Principle, Code of Conduct 5 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 “Hikma is committed to providing for its employees a safe and secure working environment.” Health and Safety Principle, Code of Conduct “Hikma seeks to engage with customers and suppliers whose employment practices respect human rights and whose ethical standards meet the standards set by Hikma.” Trading, Customers and Suppliers Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the highest standards of Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy Management to ensure the well-being of its employees and business partners. We ensure that Hikma complies with and exceeds, where possible, the relevant Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy legislations. We also aim to prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health at Hikma. [We] work with our suppliers and contractors, to bring our Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy Management standards into alignment.” Health, Safety, Environment and Energy Policy 6 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Human Rights Ever since the company’s way it operates its business. protects confidential employee establishment 37 years ago, The company has always information within a legal and Hikma has strived to provide the communicated its zero tolerance regulatory framework. highest quality of service, not of bribery and corruption, even As the company grows, so only through our products, but at the cost of forgoing business does our list of partners. Before through the way we conduct opportunities, losing revenue or selecting an entity to work our affairs, both externally profit. with, the company undergoes towards our consumers and On a strategic level, our Code numerous screenings to ensure in-house. Improving lives is our of Conduct1 echoes our moral that its standards meet our mission, and we take that to practices in relation to labour stringent requirements. Hikma heart. Our company philosophy and human rights, which is does not work with any entity engulfs the notion of the respect implemented across the group, that does not conform with and preservation of human from our CEO to the board internationally accepted labour rights in all our locations. Our of directors and down to our standards. Hikma annually audits company’s mission goes hand employees. Our corporate values, the companies it works with in in hand with our Corporate which include Integrity, Drive for regards to company employment Responsibility strategy wellbeing Excellence-Quality, Respect and practices through the supplier and education. We enact this Transparency are rolled out in all audit procedure. All our new through our platforms our our locations worldwide. suppliers and contractors undergo people, community, environment human rights screening. The and global welfare and ethics, a Hikma prides itself on its company also utilises Suppliers strategy that is aligned among the strong employee programmes Audit Questionnaires that relate pillars of the Global Compact. that are beneficial to its staff. to the UNGC principles to aid As our business grows, we Hikma Pharmaceuticals is in determining the suppliers’ recognize that we must adapt continuously expanding its practices while also increasing to keep up with employee perimeters. We currently have awareness for accountable needs. Programmes related to operations in the Middle East and procedures and ethical special child care assistance North Africa, US and Europe, performances. and nursery arrangements for employing over 8000 people, working mothers are available. Health and Safety selling in more than 50 countries In addition, there are different worldwide, with 29 state-ofAs with any manufacturing benefits available across the the-art manufacturing facilities; company, the operators’ right group catered to the specific several of which have US FDA/ to health and safety is an cultures in different locations, MHRA approvals. This year we integral part of the company’s such as employee therapy, and have joined the FTSE 100 index responsibility towards them. social committees that offer extra and are renewed members of Hikma has a well-developed financial assistance and support the FTSE4Good Ethics, which health and safety mandate, to employees in need. reinforces our high ethical that begins with the top-level standards across our business. Universally proclaimed human management’s commitment. rights are maintained across our The most valuable company asset locations and circulated to all is its human resource; therefore, Policies and Procedures our employees. Our Employee the health and safety of our Human Resources Bylaws covers Hikma has always been devoted employees are a vital part of our our entire labour force. Hikma to the highest standards of systems. The company has a maintains its employees’ right integrity and ethics in the strong health and safety mandate to privacy across the group, and that is applied top down through 1 The Code is available on the corporate website: 7 http://www.hikma.com/en/sustainability/Code-of-conduct.html Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 all levels of the company. Our Responsibility (CR) Department, third party directly goes to the Health, Safety, Environment and which manages the compliance team, the VP of Energy (HSEE) policy ensures that company’s work on charitable Corporate HR and the General all departments of the company and humanitarian issues, Counsel. As for our locations in implement the mandate. environmental initiatives, the MENA region, a web based community involvement and compliance reporting system is In our manufacturing facilities, all societal development. The CREC available, called “Speak Up”, employees are rigorously trained sets the overall group strategy on where employees can state their to conduct their operations in bribery and corruption risks and concerns in a confidential and a safe and secure manner. The is responsible for approving the anonymous manner, which also company implements every content of all Hikma’s policies in reaches the compliance team, available safety measure to areas where ethical judgements the VP of Corporate HR and the eliminate all hazardous risks. are important. The CREC oversees General Counsel. This is done by ensuring that all the group’s Anti-Bribery and health and safety regulations In 2015 the CREC focused on Corruption (ABC) programme, are properly understood by the on-going development policies on ethics and business employees and that sufficient and and implementation of the conduct and the development of appropriate training is conducted. compliance programme and the Code of Conduct (COC). conducted training sessions for all Education The company has a specific managers, who in turn provided The education and wellbeing of framework that showcases the training for their departments. employees are integral to our leadership structure, authority Local manuals for each country culture. As a part of company matrix and ownership for the were also made in accordance regulations, rotation plans are ABC compliance programme. with the programme. Policies set up for our employees to grow Operational responsibility and were individualized to cater to and expand their talents. oversight for ABC is assigned the specific needs, laws and Across the group we have an by the Board to the Executive regulations for each country. education programme called the Vice Chairman, who delegates Hikma is a founding member Continuing Education Scheme, responsibility to his management of the World Economic Forum’s where eligible employees can team. The Chief Compliance Partnering Against Corruption apply to pursue a higher degree. Officer (CCO) reports directly to Initiative (PACI), the leading Every year employees in all the CREC on ABC matters. The business driven global antidepartments are encouraged CCO’s leadership of ABC issues is corruption initiative. The company to undergo training sessions, overseen by the CREC Chairman continued to promote business whether externally or internally, and the Executive Vice Chairman. integrity internationally through to expand their talents, gain fresh The head of each business the Partnering Against Corruption perspectives and enhance their division has taken responsibility Initiative. skills and experiences. Since to be the compliance champion 2010 Hikma has funded a total of for their division. The CCO Code of Conduct forty-seven employees for higher is supported by group and In 2015 the company completed education with a total cost of regional compliance officers at the implementation of ABC USD 927,000. the operational level. The legal, policies procedures in all financial and company secretarial countries in the MENA region, departments also advise and and undertook an independent provide implementation support Actions and Performance re-assessment of ABC risk to the compliance department. and verified procedural In 2015 Hikma’s Compliance A confidential and anonymous implementation. In the United department increased its international reporting platform States the ABC, Code of headcount to accommodate is available for all our employees Conduct and legal and regulatory the company’s expansion. to use if needed, that is overseen environment training was also The Compliance department and managed by an external completed. established the Compliance, third party. Anonymous, toll free During the year, the Compliance Responsibility and Ethics reporting hotlines are available in Department continued to Committee (CREC). The the US and Europe, which after implement the medium-term CREC oversees the Corporate examination by an outsourced 8 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 global strategy and expand its managers to rotate amongst and significant to their mission regional resources for the delivery the major departments. In 2015 and vision; operations and of the commitment to business the personalized induction plan processes; customers, employees, integrity and ABC which was was expanded to all our new communities, and other approved in 2014. employees. stakeholders; and environmental impact. Hikma’s Code is circulated to Health and Safety all new employees. Every year Our employees are annually All of Hikma’s locations have employees are required to state trained on health and safety accredited safety standards, that they have read the Code of procedures through the ‘You such as OHSAS 18001 for Conduct, understood it and will are Hikma’ campaign. In 2015, Occupational Health and Safety, abide by its terms. Employees more than 350 participants ISO 14001 for environmental also confirm in writing that they attended in Jordan, the campaign management systems, ISO 9001 understand their obligations in this year included a range of for quality management system or reporting events of suspected activities such as medical testing their counterparts. Our corporate non-compliance with the Code. for the employees, blood drive, Health and Safety department In 2016, the company achieved awareness lectures on worksupervises our environmental 100% signatures from senior related injuries, proper use of management requirements from managers across Hikma worldantibiotics, safe use of drugs, safe ISO 14001 and manages the wide. handling of materials and forklift minimising of health and safety training. In addition, an in-house In 2014, the company updated its risks by continuing to fulfil the doctor is available for all our Code of Conduct and translated it requirements for preserving the employees to conduct physical into the seven main languages of OHSAS 18001 certification and exams, such as blood pressure Hikma’s locations: English, Arabic, annually renewing it. tests, eyesight to check on basic Portuguese, French, German, In 2015 Hikma Jordan received health of our employees. Italian and Russian. In 2015, the the ISO 50001 for energy updated code was issued online Employee Benefits management, the first site in in all the languages. Jordan to receive this certificate Hikma’s employees are offered Employee Training and the first pharmaceutical numerous benefits, including company in the Middle East. class A medical insurance for Job rotation, education and Hikma Jordan had previously themselves and their immediate career advancement are an attained and renewed the ISO families for free, travel insurance, integral part of Hikma’s culture. 9001 for quality management, and specialised benefits catered In Hikma all our employees are ISO 14001 for Environmental to the company’s location. Other annually trained. In 2015 our Management with zero benefits include paid maternity training expenses amounted to nonconformity, as well as the leave, financial maternity 3,117,651$, a significant increase OHSAS 18001 for Occupational compensation for the sites that from 2014. Health and Safety with zero don’t have nurseries, retirement In our corporate locations, nonconformity, and for meeting provisions through social our HR department created an the requirements of the security and a provident fund. employee handbook, where design and manufacturing of Different benefits are provided to policies, benefits and procedures pharmaceutical products. Hikma’s employees of different countries that are catered to employees are Jazeera Pharmaceutical Industries per local regulations and job available, so our employees can (JPI) in Saudi Arabia and Hikma requirements. fully understand and utilise their Egypt obtained renewal for benefits and rights. OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. Our human resources department Hikma’s CR department obtained annually updates its regulations, the ISO 26000 in 2014, the which are a part of the induction Social Responsibility Guidance training process, where a Standard, the international copy is handed out to all new standard developed to help employees. In 2014 in Jordan, organisations effectively assess a new personalized induction and address those social process was created for new responsibilities that are relevant 9 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Principle Three Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle Four Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle Five Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle Six Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation “Employees’ right to free association and collective bargaining are recognised and respected There is a clear, transparent process for receiving employee suggestions, requests and complaints. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct 10 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 “All public affairs activities undertaken by or on behalf of Hikma must be conducted ethically, must align with relevant local law requirements and applicable industry codes of practice and be approved in accordance with internal policies. Hikma employees will: have the right to be involved in political and lobbying processes in their own time as private citizens, but must be clear at all times that these activities are not undertaken on behalf of Hikma.” Public Affairs and Governmental Interaction Standard, Code of Conduct “Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion.” Employee Personal Information Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma is opposed to all forms of forced or child labour.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma operates a discriminationfree working environment and is committed to promoting a culture of respect, dignity and equal opportunity in which employees’ individual rights are protected. Hikma believes that the diversity of its workforce is highly valuable. Hikma is committed to providing an environment in which individuals can flourish based on talent, experience, and performance and where potential is recognised and encouraged.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Discrimination is not tolerated and equal employment opportunities are provided to all. No forms of violence, bullying or harassment are tolerated. Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. The need for training and development is recognised as central to the on-going development of our people, and their skills and knowledge” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct 11 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Labour Standards As previously stated, employees of the countries where we are past history of mental or physical are our company’s most valuable located. The company upholds the disability and any other factors assets, therefore it is vital that freedom of association needed not related to a person’s ability to our employees conduct their for a fair representation of its perform a job.” operations in a comfortable and employees across the group. In all When hiring personnel, recruiters healthy work space. Hikma prides our locations, our employees have are taught to eliminate any form itself on operating on the highest a voice, we either have unions or of discrimination and abide by the ethical standards; across the group community groups in charge of equal treatment of employee’s we have a work environment that voicing employee concerns. In policy. The company believes in shows no favouritism or inequality all our locations where unions providing equal opportunities and no form of forced or child are present, our employees are for all employees and potential labour. shielded by collective negotiation candidates, including handicapped The company aims to promote agreements signed by the General persons. The company must a work environment with no Manager of that site and the head confirm that employees are employee discrimination in any of the union. well-informed of the laws and form; this is emphasized in the Across the group managers regulations that protect them. company principles. As mentioned are accountable for educating Hikma also ensures that the in the Code of Conduct, the their staff about their rights companies that it partners with, company commits itself to certain and compensations, as well as conducts business or associates moral standards that are consistent discussing matters with unions. with، administer and support antiwith globally accepted labour The subjects covered by collective discrimination laws. requirements. Hikma applies bargaining with trade unions Health and Safety ethical labour standards along its and employee representatives supply chain. The company does include the health and safety of The company’s Health and Safety not deal with any supplier, partner employees, extra training sessions Policy is implemented in all our or third party source that does if needed, financial reimbursement locations. The policy is rendered into not honour international labour plans which comprise of salary health and safety processes for each standards. augmentations and bonuses and unit and function. Management a solid medical insurance plan oversees applying these policies Hikma does not conduct business in their respective units. These with any entity that employs child that is annually updated based on employee requests. policies are frequently updated labour or affiliates with companies and rigorously enforced in order to that employ child labour. The The company administers an protect employees from injury. The labour laws in all the countries “Equal Treatment of Employees health and safety processes cover that the company operates in and Harassment” policy. Our the following areas: clearly forbid the employment of managers broadcast the policy to minors under the age of eighteen. employees and regularly update Employee health their policy manuals: Accident prevention [At Hikma we believe in] “equal Policies and Procedures treatment of employees and Health and safety training As an international company do not condone favouritism or Monitoring, reporting and with many locations, it is vital inequality in any shape or form. communicating that our policies are unified Hikma does not discriminate across the group. Hikma ensures based on a person’s race, colour, Training and development that its policies adhere to, and religious creed, age, sex, marital Labour Standards when possible, surpass the laws status, national origin, present or 12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Grievance Procedure discriminating against a person As a continuation of last year, Across the group strict liability with a handicap. For 2015, Hikma Hikma Farmaceutica paid its procedures are enforced that call continued its renewal with the employees double in overtime for immediate action in reporting Collective Bargaining Agreement during the months of July till any labour neglect. Employees with Teamsters Local 201, which December 2015. Our company notify HR of any shortcomings that came into effect in November surpasses the Portuguese labour they experience and HR is legally 1, 2014 and will continue until laws, which calls for a lessening mandated to swiftly respond. If October 31, 2019. In addition to in the percentage of overtime employees wish to report any the ADA, Hikma complies with payment. In addition, company grievances anonymously they can and works under the following profits were distributed to the do so with the Speak Up system employees as well. Federal and State legalities: overseen by the compliance As for the rest of the locations, department and a special board. The Civil Rights Act of 1991, no changes were made in relation In addition, Hikma has a universal Title VII of the Civil Rights Act to the unions, and no incidents open door policy where employees of 1964, as amended, 42 were reported. All company can voice their concerns, from U.S.C. § 2000e et seq, the Civil unions abide by labour laws upper management up to the Rights Act of 1870, 42 U.S.C. which are accessible in a clear company CEO. § 1981 and comprehensible manner with The Americans with Disabilities union instructions that are fully Act, 29 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq enforced by specialised company Actions and Performance The Rehabilitation Act of 1972, staff. In Hikma we are proud in being as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 701, an equal opportunity employer. et seq A quarter of the employees Recognition The Age Discrimination in are female, a percentage that Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. In 2015 the company was the has been stable since 2012. § 621 et seq recipient of the ‘Acquisition Females also make up 77% of of the Year Award’ at the Portugal’s workforce, and they The New Jersey Law Against Global Generics and Biosimilars occupy strategic top managerial Discrimination, N.J.S.A. 10:5-1 Awards. The award recognises positions across the group. There et seq., and/or under any other excellent performance across a was a slight increase in 2015 for applicable federal, state or local range of business activities and females above the level of M4 antidiscrimination law was won in strong competition (management) (24%). The Employee Retirement against several leading EMEA Hikma strives to enhance and Income Security Act, 29 U.S.C. pharmaceutical companies. advance the communities where § 1132(e) and 1140 et seq The award was secured due the company is present, as well as The Conscientious Employee to Hikma’s acquisition of invest in the population’s youth. Protection Act, N.J.S.A. 34:19Boehringer Ingelheim’s Roxane In 2015, 73% of our employees 1 et seq Laboratories, thus rendering were below the age of 40. The Family Medical Leave Act, Hikma the sixth largest generics Unions 29 U.S.C. § 2611 et seq (and player in the US. Hikma has union labour any other applicable federal or Hikma has won the Best representations in most of its state leave statute) Pharmaceutical Company in the locations in Europe and the MENA In our Portugal location, Hikma Emerging Market for the Scrip region. In the remaining sites Farmaceutica, the company awards in 2015. The award employees are represented by continued the same approach it recognises the new innovators members of the HR department. initiated in 2013, its “social plan”, and leaders on the frontiers of In the United States in Hikma which included a salary increase to the pharmaceutical industry compensate for increased national and celebrates excellence in West-Ward, the labour laws that taxes that were imposed as part growing sales and profits, are in place at Hikma’s company of the international economic launching new products and are parallel with the Americans support during the Portuguese signing transformative new with Disabilities Act (ADA) of financial crisis. 1990 which safeguards against deals. 13 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Principle Seven Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle Eight Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle Nine Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 “Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the highest standards of HSEE Management. As a pharmaceutical company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on the local and global environment and we actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards that we set. The purpose of this policy is… to minimize adverse impact on the environment where possible, through the reduction of greenhouse gases (GHG) inventory by reducing the consumption of energy. Hikma is committed to consider energy saving equipment and tools in any project in the future.” Environmental Principle, Code of Conduct “Hikma expects all its units to … maintain an operation that minimizes all adverse environmental and climate change impacts associated with our activities. As a Pharmaceutical Company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on the local and global environment and we actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards we set.” Hikma’s Health, Safety and Environment Policy “[Hikma is] committed to benefitting the communities in which it works through charitable donations, volunteering and the operation of its social and environmental policies.” Community Impact and Support Principle, Code of Conduct “We are committed to doing business in an environmentally responsible manner. We continuously monitor and review our performance to meet current environmental legislation.” Corporate Responsibility Strategy 15 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Environment At Hikma we recognise the vital its activities. The Health, Safety, Moreover, this is an active process role we play in the communities Environment and Energy (HSEE) whereby Hikma ensures the in which we operate, and we policy commits the company to continuous improvement of its stand by our mission of improving environmental standards from Environmental Management people’s quality of life, including the top strategic level to the System, including all the related the environment in which they operational level at every unit. Standard Operating Procedures live. Human health is linked to As a pharmaceutical company, (SOPs), and environmental the wider environment, and we we recognize that our operations programme. are aware that climate change is have an effect on the local As a manufacturing company, a global environmental challenge, and global environment and Hikma is keen to do its utmost for and requires mitigation actions we actively encourage the the prevention and management in the form of reducing GHG engagement of our staff at all of environmental accidents. There emissions. Therefore, Hikma levels to ensure implementing and are Standard Operating Procedures recognises that environmentally maintaining the standards we set. (SOPs) for prevention and responsible practices must be built The HSEE is a group-wide management of environmental into its operations. corporate policy that is accidents within the Health, Safety Hikma adopts a preventive endorsed by the Vice President and Environment Management approach within its operations of Corporate Communication. function. In addition, the towards the environment and Training sessions and awareness environmental accidents due to is committed to its employees, material on the policy are production that may be harmful their families and the community communicated to the entire staff. to operators are minimised and at large, by undertaking The policy dictates the need mitigated by the HSE department, initiatives that protect the natural to comply with environmental and alternative processes are environment and by seeking legislation and regulation in every implemented where possible. sustainable development as key to country in which Hikma operates. Hikma continuously seeks to its role as a responsible business. Hikma monitors and sets goals reduce energy costs and increase It is our responsibility as a and targets, pertaining to its sustainability throughout all its pharmaceutical manufacturer; impact on climate change, water facilities by implementing Energy an energy-intensive business, pollution, land contamination Conservation Measures (ECMs). to understand our related and energy use, and strives to ECMs consist of two groups of environmental impacts and ensure achieve the set goals and targets technologies that enable the the adaptation of environmentally annually: below objectives to be achieved: friendly processes focusing on Resources and programme Energy Efficiency technologies: minimising waste, analysing are provided to reduce enable the energy (both carbon emissions, monitoring carbon emissions due to our electrical and thermal energy) and reducing energy usage, and operations that is procured to be utilised minimising demands for water more effectively within the consumption. Our environmental standards facility. By improving energy are reflected across our supply efficiency, the user does not chain and we will interact with need to consume as much Policies and Procedures our key stakeholders to resolve energy to deliver the same Health, Safety, Environment issues and help improve our tasks or processes and Energy Management performance Decentralised Energy Hikma’s operational units Contractors and visitors on any technologies: enable energy worldwide are expected of Hikma’s sites are required to be produced at or near the to minimise all adverse to follow our environmental point of use, generally from environmental and climate standards renewable energy sources. This change impacts associated with 16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 contrasts with the traditional, The Engineering Managers LPG combustion, fugitive wasteful and increasingly set plans and processes for refrigerants from aircostly method of buying meeting targets conditioning equipment and energy that is generated in a vehicle fuel combustion The CR Manager centralised power station that is responsible for Scope 2: Purchased electricity may be many hundreds of communications on consumption for our own use kilometres from the point at sustainable matters such which the energy is needed Hikma reports according to the as climate change, energy Defra Environmental Reporting HSEE Architecture efficient manufacturing Guidelines 2013. Results are The highest level of climate change processes, and a Hikma policy reported in tCO2e emissions, as and energy reduction responsibility statement on energy and UK Government emission factors rests with the President and CEO climate change for overseas electricity currently of MENA and Emerging Markets. The Health and Safety account for carbon dioxide The HSE function is governed Manager advises the GM emissions only. by the senior management in and senior management on each unit and each business unit Water Usage HSEE strategies, maintaining is responsible for implementing HSEE certifications (ISO Hikma recognizes that the company’s HSE policy at its 14001, OHSAS 18001) and pharmaceutical manufacturing location. Management ripples technical implementation is a water-intensive industry, down to the operational level of environmental plans thus it aims to promote greater and has controls and checks at (ISO14001, Energy responsibility in its water every level as per the following conservation plan, waste usage globally by continuously management procedure: management plan) in measuring and reporting the The Executive-level CR accordance with regulations company’s impact on water committee reports directly to and codes; and developing risk resources and annually improving the CEO and is accountable management policy the company’s performance. for governing ethical and All employees participate Hikma’s water strategy focuses on environmentally sustainable in global CR campaigns developing effective techniques activities that entail volunteering in of water preservation and The Senior Management communities to clean up or recycling. Our ability to reduce is committed to reducing in environmental campaigns. water consumption will also harmful emissions, optimizing They can attend awareness enable us to deliver significant energy usage and minimising sessions on environmental cost savings. Hikma has installed risk by setting a dedicated issues that the company several systems in its production budget programme to achieve hosts. All employees are processes that have increased the required targets also encouraged to submit efficiency of water usage in its new ideas to safeguard the manufacturing facilities in Jordan The MENA Operation VP’s environment and Portugal. have a savings objective that includes savings on energy. Greenhouse Gases Over the past few years, Hikma They are accountable to the has developed various action Hikma is a company listed in the board plans to assess and monitor the London Stock Exchange, and as impact of its water withdrawal on The Business Unit Managers such it has a regulatory obligation the environment. The company (GM) in each business unit are to report GHG emissions pursuant avoids instances where the responsible for reviewing all to Section 7 of The Companies impact of a specific withdrawal HSEE activities including the Act 2006 (Strategic Report and can significantly affect the setting of emissions reduction Directors’ Report) Regulations environment and have wider target and the method of 2013. impacts on the quality of life in implementation. They are The GHG sources that constitute the area. responsible for setting up and our operational boundary for ensuring the execution of new Energy Saving Procurement the 2015 reporting period are as energy saving projects follows: Behaving in a sustainable manner The Plant Managers is embedded in all aspects of our Scope 1: Facility diesel operations. Hikma is committed oversee the processes to meet combustion, facility natural to the environment as an integral reduction targets at every gas combustion, facility manufacturing site part of its corporate strategy 17 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 and core business. Before increased emission controls, or factories worldwide have been administrating a new project, increased by-product recycling smoke-free since 1994. Hikma is the company considers energy a proud member of the Global Marketing of products or saving equipment and tools, Smoke-free Partnership (GSP), a services that are specifically whether it was an expansion global partnership dedicated to environmentally friendly project, a greenfield project or an promoting effective smoke-free acquisition. Worked to improve local air policies worldwide. supplier relationships or Ethical Suppliers Our annual employee welfare provided technical assistance to suppliers week, “You Are Hikma”, is held Hikma’s supply chain integrates across our global locations. It environmental and social Programmes to benefit the provides positive and valuable elements guided by the local community educational activities to raise framework of the HSEE policy. Employee programmes awareness on health, safety The management of Hikma’s training, health, safety and environmental issues in and supply chain ensures that outside the workplace. manufacturing processes Certified Management comply with and exceed where Systems Engaging the Community possible, the relevant local and We work towards lessening any Hikma undertakes a variety of international environmental negative environmental impact public initiatives related to the legislations. Hikma works with through green investment environment. These come in suppliers and contractors to bring and focus on reducing energy many forms, including: their health, safety, environmental and energy management usage across the group. This Advancing community standards into alignment. It on-going process resulted in the wellness through cooperates with them to ensure achievement of certifications for environmental education and that they are providing optimum the environmental management awareness campaigns efficiency equipment as well system (ISO 14001), occupational Disaster relief support as environmentally-friendly health and safety management apparatus and machines to systems (OHSAS 18001) and Contributing to policy reduce energy consumption. energy management system (ISO developments 50001). We make sure that our strategic Partnering with government suppliers are aware of and The ISO 14001 management agencies, non-governmental conform to the environmental systems are steered by Hikma’s organisations, academia, and provision of our policies. Health and Safety or Engineering other stakeholders Hikma utilises suppliers audit departments of each Hikma Philanthropic programmes questionnaire that relate to the subsidiary, which fulfil the with environmentally related environment to help assess the environmental requirements outcomes suppliers’ practices and increase from ISO 14001 in addition to their awareness of responsible managing health and safety risks Transparent Reporting operations and business ethics. in accordance with the OHSAS Hikma deploys transparent 18001. The standards related to reporting systems that aim to With regards to environmental environmental management help matters, the questionnaire asks show progress in energy, waste, Hikma (a) minimise any negative greenhouse gas emissions and whether suppliers have: environmental impact related to water consumption. The company Obtained certification for operations (i.e. adverse changes measures its direct energy environmental, social and or to air, water, or land); (b) comply consumption and total water health and safety management with applicable laws, regulations, withdrawal, and aims to publicly system(s) and other required environmental disclose these figures. Some of standards, and (c) continually these are mandatory while others Published an environment/ improve its practices to achieve are self-reporting standards that sustainability or a corporate annual re-certification. Hikma has chosen to report upon social responsibility report Healthy Workplaces in order to ensure that processes Established formal and are in line with Hikma’s quality regular consultation with We promote anti-smoking and standards. These include: local community and other healthy workplaces. Hikma is stakeholders completely smoke-free in all of Global Reporting Initiative its premises and its offices and CDP (formerly the Carbon Decreased use of resources, 2 http://www.hikma.com/en/sustainability/performance.html 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Disclosure Project) Global resulted in reducing the cars’ first pharmaceutical company Climate Change Report emissions by 50% and the fuel in the Middle East and the first Corporate Responsibility report bill by 60%. Jordanian manufacturing plant to achieve this certification. as part of the company’s Smoking Cessation Programme annual report2 This resulted from four years’ In 2015, Hikma in Jordan work in energy improvement Reports to 3rd party financial collaborated with the King and energy management. In entities as part of our loan Hussein Cancer Center on 2015 Hikma included all its agreements funding a Smoking Cessation three manufacturing facilities Programme for employees, in Jordan in its (CDP) reporting resulting in a 75% success rate. and will gradually incorporate Actions and Performance A pilot sample of employees the reporting processes to its Climate Change Strategy who were interested in locations worldwide. quitting smoking were chosen. Hikma’s five-year Climate Change Hikma aims to reduce emissions Counselling sessions were strategy was developed in and this is a factor in the held, and medications were 2015. The strategy focuses on performance indicator, with an prescribed in accordance with developing effective techniques absolute reduction objective of the patients’ needs. Depending through the adaption of GHG. 15% scope 1 and 6% scope 2 in on the responsiveness of the The strategy guidelines include CO2 emissions. patient, the duration of therapy monitoring and setting goals spanned three to eight months. Hikma received a high score on and targets that adhere to The company fully funded the its CDP Global Climate Change environmental issues that involve programme, in terms of cost and Report 2016, which covers climate change, water pollution, time for sessions to be held within the year 2015. Hikma scored land contamination and energy working hours. ‘B’ in the rating of healthcare use. We aim to provide resources sector responding companies. and programmes to implement HSEE Management The ‘B’ rating corresponds to this policy and set the required Hikma strives to record related management points awarded for targets. environmental impacts through evidence of actions associated Water Policy effective measurement, with good environmental monitoring and reporting over management, as determined In 2015, Hikma incorporated time. Disclosing the greenhouse by CDP and its partner a water policy into its Global gas (“GHG”) emissions of our organisations. The management Climate Change Report (CDP) organisation helps us to reduce score rewards action taken in and filled out the (CDP) water our negative impact on climate risk mitigation, risk assessments, programmes questionnaire to change. We continuously and the implementation of ensure the protection of the develop energy conservation an environmental policy that environment and to minimise and efficiency in our operations; integrates environmental issues adverse impacts, by monitoring improve employee engagement into business strategy. reporting on and reducing and product/process innovations waste emissions in water. Hikma Energy Efficiency throughout our business. scored ‘B-‘ on the CDP’s water Throughout the year, operators Hikma is keen to adopt green and programme questionnaire, a very were trained periodically sustainable solutions. As part of good score for its first reporting on Standard Operating its energy management strategy year. Procedures (SOP) to ensure Hikma has a dedicated budget Investing in environmentally that environmental procedures for increasing energy efficiency friendly technology and hazards are mitigated in and for the energy management manufacturing processes. system certificate renewal. In In 2015 the company underwent 2015 the process of installing an evaluation exercise regarding In 2014, Hikma added energy LED lighting and energy saving its cars and replaced some of to its policy and issued a new tools such as replacing existing the biggest toxic gas emission Health, Safety, Environment and hot water boilers with Flat-plate engines with ten Hybrid cars. The Energy (HSEE) policy. In 2015, Solar Heaters has been conducted Hybrid System is a much more Hikma continued to achieve the across Hikma’s facilities. efficient system with minimum targets of the ISO 50001 for energy expenditure operating Energy Management System In Jordan, the second photovoltaic to maximise fuel efficiency and (EnMS) for its main manufacturing system was introduced in 2014, minimise CO2 emissions. This site in Jordan. Hikma was the converting sunlight directly into 19 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 electricity. This project was one screenings in the MENA region. In Bedford, a project was initiated of a series of renewable energy Hikma will incorporate the Modern where large donations of projects implemented across the Slavery Act related questions to computer equipment including Group. the Supplier Audit Questionnaire desktops, laptops, printers in 2016. and monitors were given to GHG the Bedford City Schools. This Certifications During the year ended 31 amounted to over 20 pallets December 2015, Hikma In 2015 Hikma in Jordan received (10,000 lbs) of electronics Pharmaceuticals PLC emitted the ISO 50001 for energy reused and recycled back to the 26,479 tCO2e from the management, the first site in community. This puts our Bedford combustion of fuel (Scope 1 Jordan to receive this certificate site recycling rate at over 35%, direct) and 83,520 tCO2 from and the first pharmaceutical which indicates the percentage of electricity purchased for our company in the Middle East. waste that this site recycles. own use (Scope 2 indirect). This Hikma is upholding ISO 14001 Reporting is equal to 4.30 tCO2e Scope 1 for sustaining an Environment emissions per full time equivalent Management System as we As part of our adherence to (“FTE”) employee and 13.55 passed the surveillance visit sustainability, we report climate tCO2 Scope 2 emissions per FTE with zero nonconformity in change data to the CDP to employee respectively. addition to the OHSAS 18001 for increase transparency to our Occupational Health and Safety stakeholders and manage both Between 2014 and 2015 we Management Systems. Hikma’s risks and opportunities arising have seen a 29% increase in main operations in Jordan, from climate change. In light Scope 1 emissions and a 48% the Jazeera Pharmaceuticals of Hikma’s efforts towards increase in Scope 2 emissions. Industries (JPI) facility in Saudi minimising its environmental There are a number of reasons for Arabia and Hikma Egypt facility impact and global carbon this increase; most significantly, are ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 footprint, the company has been we have expanded the scope certified. actively committed to reporting of our reporting and for the to the CDP, which expertly first time we have reported on Corporate Initiatives scrutinises a company’s carbon emissions from AMC, Morocco, In 2015, Hikma continued to emissions and provides analysis Sudan (PharmaLand) and Sudan engage with its employees for better operational functions. (Savanna), which has resulted on issues related to health, Hikma started using the Credit in a 6% increase in Scope 1 workplace safety and supporting 360 for global sustainability emissions and 17% in Scope the environment, through its software in 2015, for its locations 2 emissions. If these sites are annual ‘You Are Hikma’ global in Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Portugal excluded from the year on year campaign. and the US. The software comparison of Scope 1 and 2 For Earth Day this year, Westfacilitated collecting reliable and emissions, Scope 1 emissions, Ward, our business in the US, complex data across the entire on a like-for-like basis, have undertook a number of activities group in a consistent manner. increased by 21% and Scope 2 that focused on environmental Hikma will also incorporate emissions have increased by 23% care. The company distributed the Modern Slavery Act into since 2014. Another important Colorado blue spruce trees to its reporting annually starting factor was that emissions from all its employees. By planting in 2016 on the steps taken to our site in Bedford, USA, went these trees, 57,600 lbs. of ensure that human rights are up significantly in 2015 since carbon dioxide could be reduced maintained in their own business this was the first full year of annually. The company also and in their supply chains. operation, which has resulted in a 7% increase in overall emissions partnered with Terracycle and Recognition in 2015. Recork, two prominent recycling In 2015 Hikma was shortlisted agencies, to set up specialised Supplier Practices for a CDP award of FTSE 350 bins to collect recyclable objects. companies in the Biggest relative In 2015, the company expanded Hikma in Jordan has partnered reduction in emissions (from its auditing procedure by with a recycling company called emissions reduction activities) identifying its major suppliers and Al Ajyal, a certified company category conducting a widespread audit that works with the Ministry of on environmental issues in Europe Environment, for recycling our and the US, while 93 significant paper and plastic waste in most suppliers have undergone of our Jordan locations. 20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Principle Ten Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery “Hikma has a zero tolerance of bribery and corruption. All directors, officers, employees, and other individuals working for Hikma and joint ventures in which it has an equity control are prohibited from offering or giving, either directly or indirectly, money or anything else of value, as a bribe or inducement: to make, (or as a reward for making or not making), a decision that is favourable to Hikma’s interests; or to seek to gain an unfair business advantage or otherwise influence business activities; or which compromises their judgment or their ability to act objectively. This standard applies to interactions with to all individuals and corporate bodies with whom Hikma does business – healthcare professionals, customers, “Hikma does not condone or participate suppliers, professional bodies, regulatory in any form of corruption and refrains authorities, and NGOs – regardless of from doing business with those who do where they are located geographically. not meet its standards.” At Hikma we will: Integrity Principle, Code of Conduct Act honestly, ethically and with integrity in all company interactions “Hikma wishes to encourage an Not engage in or condone bribery or any environment in which full, free, and frank other form(s) of corruption discussions can be held on issues that Not give or receive gifts or hospitality concern our employees. Therefore, Hikma where this could give rise to a perception has always had an open door policy of a corrupt purpose.” regarding communication. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Standard, Furthermore, we must hear from those Code of Conduct who have any concerns about the ethics and integrity of our business. As part of your commitment to this Code, you have a duty to report to the Company as soon as possible any suspected violations of the Code, its supporting policies or any applicable law or regulations of which you become aware.” Speaking Up Standard, Code of Conduct 21 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 Anti – Corruption Quality and excellence have been the heart of Hikma since Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Architecture its foundation, and Hikma has always been committed to the Board highest standards of integrity and ethics in the way we operate CREC our business. The company has a strong ethical culture that is Chief Compliance deeply embedded within its Officer operations. We believe that a solid reputation for ethical values, Branded Injectables US & Generics Group values such as integrity honesty Division Division Division Compliance Champion Champion Champion Manager and transparency, in how we conduct our business are vital to Divisional Divisional Divisional Group our company’s reputation and Officers Officers Officers Officers success. Corruption and bribery are not tolerated at Hikma and we have Policies and Procedures Compliance, Responsibility and applied strict processes to ensure Ethics Committee (CREC) that all our employees do not Hikma follows the guidelines take part in any form of corrupt The Compliance, Responsibility regarding share dealing that and Ethics Committee (CREC) practices. Our commitment is prohibit the use of internal both ethical and practical in drives the company’s commitment information for personal gain to business integrity and human nature. Hikma is publicly listed or insider trading, as per the dignity. At Hikma, we pride in the London Stock Exchange and thus abides by the UK AntiUK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and ourselves on our ethical approach Bribery Act 2010 and the Share the Share Dealing Code and in business. Dealing Code and Disclosure Disclosure policies. The CREC is a board-level policies. Our Code of Conduct Hikma has communicated its committee that is chaired sets the tone for our activities. by the President and CEO of zero tolerance of bribery and MENA and Emerging Markets. Our commitment is highlighted corruption to its employees and It sets the overall strategy for through our engagement in global made sure they are aware that the group’s response to bribery initiatives that combat corruption. Hikma will not penalise any and corruption risks and is In addition to being a signatory of individual for complying with the responsible for approving the the UN Global Compact, Hikma is contents of all of the business’ principles enshrined in the Code a founding member of Partnering policies in areas where ethical or in our ABC policies, even at against Corruption Initiative judgments are important. It is the the cost of foregoing a business (PACI), an off-shoot of the World CREC’s responsibility to own the Economic Forum. As participants opportunity, losing revenue or framework for ABC compliance of this global initiative, we commit profit or disobeying a superior’s programme within the group to zero tolerance of bribery and instructions. Hikma will discipline and to ensure that it operates to the successful implementation staff for ethical breaches in order adequately and effectively. The of an anti-corruption and bribery to maintain our high standards of CCO reports to the CREC. He is programme. integrity. supported by local compliance 22 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 departments in each major discussion sessions at department 2000 medical reps for its branded operational jurisdiction and local level for employees and lower segment in the region. representatives at the smaller management. Transparency Measures sites. Training and communication Maintaining Hikma’s image The CREC has a longon ABC policies and the Code as a responsible and trusted established relationship with continues to enhance employees’ organisation is of great the CR Committee, which understanding of bribery and importance. External stakeholder oversees the company’s work corruption risks, and increases engagement is encouraged and on charitable and humanitarian the penetration of compliance we are transparent in our business issues, environmental initiatives, issues into the decision making activities. community involvement and process for business departments societal development. as they consider existing and new Our communication channels business structures. include social media platforms, The CREC is responsible for the company has online presence overseeing the development of Speak Up on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, the group’s Code of Conduct on Hikma’s open-door policy LinkedIn and YouTube. An behalf of the Board. regarding communication with internal social media policy The Committee also oversees its employees guarantees that was distributed to all Hikma Hikma’s speak-up reporting any questions or concerns employees globally and has systems for employees to about the ethics and integrity of become part of the employment raise ethical concerns, and, the business are heard. When contract to ensure responsible where relevant, oversees their employees are seeking a more and ethical participation in both investigation. As an organisation, discreet or anonymous method of Hikma endorsed and non-Hikma Hikma is committed to clear reporting, they can use the Speak social media platforms. and open communication. The Up system. Hikma has anonymous Ethical Suppliers company remains open to direct web and telephone reporting discussion with shareholders. lines in place across all operations, Hikma’s supply chain which report directly to the management selects significant Code of Conduct compliance department and the suppliers that uphold ethical Hikma’s Code of Conduct is CREC. As part of the commitment practices and internationally reviewed by the CREC and to the Code, employees have proclaimed integrity measures, supported by the Board. It is a duty to report any suspected in addition to environmentally benchmarked against good violations. The company remains responsible practices. It verifies industry practice and a peer satisfied that the policy and that its strategic suppliers are group of international companies. procedures enable proportionate aware of and conform to the It is available in the various and independent investigation of provisions of the company’s Anti languages of Hikma’s locations matters raised including nonBribery and Corruption policies. and can be found on the compliance and that appropriate Hikma’s suppliers follow Good company’s corporate website. follow-up action is taken. Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and our significant suppliers are Each year all Hikma employees Responsible Sales ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 are required to confirm that Through the Code of conduct and certified or their equivalent. they have read the Code, have the induction training for new understood it and will abide employees, Hikma ensures that by its terms. They confirm in writing that they understand their responsible sales are maintained. Actions and Performance obligations to report events of Medical Reps undergo extensive Code of Conduct suspected non-compliance with induction training when they Code. All new employees are also join Hikma. The induction Hikma updated its Code of trained on the Code of Conduct programme focuses on the MENA Conduct and translated it into as part of their induction training. where pharmaceutical sales seven main languages in which mainly depend on direct contact it operates: English, Arabic, The training plan for the Code between the business and doctors Portuguese, French, German, includes face-to-face training for through medical reps. Hikma Italian and Russian. It was top managers, and training and boasts a strong team of over circulated to all Hikma employees 23 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2015 and is available online on Hikma’s In 2015, the B20 was hosted also worth mentioning that corporate website. by Turkey and will move on to this is the third time Hikma China in 2016, where we plan to Farmaceutica receives this In 2015 employees continued continue our involvement. award signing the Code of Conduct, confirming that they have Employee Training Hikma was Shortlisted for understood it and will abide by Best Board Disclosure of Hikma managers in different its terms. Employees also confirm FTSE 100 companies by ICSA locations undergo training in writing that they understand (The Institute of Chartered sessions on compliance and their obligations to report events Secretaries and Aministrators) conduct. After completing the of suspected noncompliance with training courses, the managers the Code. In 2015, we achieved in turn train their teams 100% signatures from all senior and support staff. In 2015, managers across Hikma worldmandatory occupational training wide. continued for all manufacturing CREC operators. Corporate training was also conducted for all Hikma In 2015, the CREC was focused employees to ensure their career on the on-going development advancement and individual and implementation of Hikma’s growth. compliance programme through training and education of The training sessions covered the employees to strengthen their following: understanding of compliance Code of Conduct issues across the group. In Compliance Overview addition, policies and procedures Sales and Marketing Policy were localized to fit the specific Speak Up needs of each location and to Conflict of Interest comply with laws and regulations Suppliers of the different markets in which Hikma operates. Local manuals In 2015 Hikma resumed its were produced for each country wide scale audit on its major and training sessions were suppliers and their procedures, conducted to guide employees in ensuring that they do not using the manuals. participate in or condone bribery or corrupt practices. In total, 93 Responsible Business of the significant suppliers have Initiatives undergone ethical screenings in As we continue working to the MENA region. The Modern promote responsible business Slavery Act will gradually be through collective action, incorporated into Hikma’s global Hikma joined the B20 (Business supplier audits in 2016 to ensure 20) Anti-corruption Working that slavery and human trafficking Group (ACWG), which operates are not taking place in the under the umbrella of the business or in the supply chains. G20 international forum of Recognition governments. The ACWG focused on different work streams related Hikma Farmaceutica in to projects tailored to assist Portugal was awarded the companies improve their ethical 2015 Best Company in the conduct. Hikma was actively Pharmaceutical Sector by involved in the procurement Exame Business Magazine. work stream that aimed to This award comes in light promote ethical practices across of Hikma’s strictly followed governmental and private sectors. policies, product quality and sustainable growth. It is 24 For further information please contact: Hikma Pharmaceuticals P. O. Box 182400 11118 Amman Jordan Telephone: +962 6 5802900 Facsimile: +962 6 5827102 www.hikma.com
