United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 STRIX NIG. LTD. RC: 1007358 No. 12 Yahaya Madaki Way, P. O. Box 1423, Katsina 820001, Katsina, Nigeria Tel:+234 802 6737724, 809 6737724 Email: strixnigerialtd@yahoo.com February 4, 2016. I am delighted to announce our support and commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative and its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are acutely aware of the impact our decisions and actions have in the world. We have teams and initiatives to address each area and to continually improve the Global Compact and incorporate its principles into our business mission, culture and operations. We share these principles with our stakeholders using our primary communication channels. In 2015 we developed and adopted the following policies: Environmental Policy, Quality Management System Policy, and CSR Requirements for Suppliers. We are also committed to pursuing ISO9001 certification. Sincerely yours, Aminuddeen Abubakar Chairman/CEO Strix Nig. Ltd COP January 20, 2016. Page 2 Anti-Corruption: Strix upholds Principle 10 by working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions We maintain a strict code of ethics and Servicom in all our business transactions. We reject all questionable advances, promptly report incidents of impropriety, and file protests against corrupt actions. We do not engage in corrupt activity or sanction corrupt activity by any business associates or outside partners. In the past 3 years we have received training each year from UK Consulting firm implementing anti-corruption initiatives. We access a direct line to report any instances of improper sales, extortion or bribery. We continually encourage our manufacturers/vendors to ensure that there is a level playing field for all resellers to protect the interest of our customers and ensure open, fair and transparent competition. Outcomes We maintain a zero tolerance policy toward corruption. Our business operations are free of all corrupt practices. Strix Nig. Ltd COP January 20, 2016. Page 3 Human Rights Actions We are committed to informed, proactive and unflagging support of human rights and freedoms, and equal treatment of all, regardless of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, physical or mental disability, familial status, sexual orientation, age, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. We hold regular employee training to ensure understanding and implementation of all laws governing protection of human rights, prevention of sexual harassment, and guarantees of nondiscrimination. We observe all laws and regulations protecting the privacy of our employees, vendors, customers and partners. We support human rights organizations through financial, material and time contributions. We do not do business with individuals, companies, governments or organizations identified as violators of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Outcomes All Strix staff, customers, business partners and suppliers are informed that we at Strix supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. We make financial and time contributions to nonprofit organizations promoting human rights, the health and wellbeing of girls and women, early education, physical fitness, sports, the arts, and publicly financed online adult education. Strix Nig. Ltd COP January 20, 2016. Page 4 Labour Actions Strix Nig. Ltd provides fair and beneficial practices toward the communities in which we operate and gives back by contributing to their strength and growth. We comply with all laws, including labor laws, which prohibit:  Harassment by managers, co-workers, or others in the workplace, because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, disability or genetic information.  Denial of a reasonable workplace accommodation that the employee needs because of religious beliefs or disability.  Retaliation because the employee complained about job discrimination, or assisted with a job discrimination investigation or lawsuit.  Unfair treatment because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, disability or genetic information. Our policy of equal employment opportunity encompasses all aspects of the employment relationship including hiring, promotion and transfer, selection for training opportunities, wage and salary administration and the application of benefit plans and Company policies. Strix surveys employees for feedback, holds human resource training and development sessions, and submits official reports bi-annually on the office working environment, including training, ergonomics, mental health, conflicts, indoor climate, and sexual harassment. Strix Nig. Ltd COP January 20, 2016. Page 5 We believe in the power of information technology for capacity building to achieve development objectives. We partner locally with companies, who provide high level technical support, hardware and software installation, end user training, education, and warranty repairs. We are committed to delivering services through this global network of local partners who respect all the ten principles of the Global Compact. Our local partners gain access to large opportunities thanks to our cooperation, financial strength and experience, and as they prosper local economies are also strengthened. We maintain a safe, positive, respectful work environment. Outcomes Strix consistently upholds the 4 Principles regarding Labour both internally and externally. Environment Actions Strix Nig. Ltd is committed to the reduction of its environmental footprint and encouraging our clients, channel partners and service providers to do the same. As the recognized leader in our industry, we are dedicated to leading by example and demonstrating that environmental stewardship is not only a differentiator, but also a requirement for businesses to thrive in the modern world. Strix Nig. Ltd COP January 20, 2016. Page 6
