COP 2015 CONTENT Declaration of Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Description of Actions Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Labour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Envirronment .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Equality and Diversity .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Selected Green Cases 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Cover: Himmerland housing association, departments 19 & 22 Transformation of a 1970s prefab public housing estate into a sustainable garden city, featuring new types of homes and shared facilities. DECLARATION OF SUPPORT In a time, where Europe has seen great social challenges and changes, we think the need for understanding the power of long term social sustainable architecture and planning is ever more pressing, as well as companies taking action to help in every local way they can. C.F. Møller Architects’ core business is to create Sincerely Yours, long-term surroundings which are sustainThe partnership of C.F. Møller able for both people and the environment, and which, in their social, environmental and economic aspects, create maximum benefit Klaus Toustrup Tom Danielsen and shared value for our most important stakeholders. Mads Mandrup Julian Weyer By advising clients on sustainable building technologies, social empowerment of the Klavs Hyttel Lone Wiggers user through planning and the order of space, careful attention to building functionalities for the user, architectural quality and detail for the Michael Kruse Mårten Leringe passer-by of our buildings, as well as energy efficiency, and the optimal use of wind, sun, daylight and nature, we are proud to be influChristian Dahle ential to the progress of sustainable growth and development in society. With this 2015 COP, the management of C.F. Møller Architects, again proudly wishes to express their continued support for the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At C.F. Møller Architects, the key to a sustainable and great working space, great facilities and strong relations is to run the company on the principles of human rights. We comply with European laws protecting human rights. At C.F. Møller, we make sure to protect our we are members of the board in the new employees from workplace harassment, association that develops and promotes social physical, verbal, sexual or psychological responsibility in the Danish property and harassment, abuse or threats through clear and construction sector, The Danish Association strong internal policies. for Responsible Construction (Foreningen for Byggeriets Samfundsansvar). We provide safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. This goes for our own departments in When we work in countries outside the EU, Denmark, Norway, Sweden and England, but is we strive to describe and refer to binding also of great importance at construction sites. legislation and human rights laws that must We also make sure to only use sub-consultants be taken into account. We emphasize the and collaborators who work by the same importance on safety of the work to be principles and policies as we do. performed and on ensuring that work is performed in accordance with the human In 2015, we decided to take action and make a rights proclaimed by the United Nations. small contribution to help some of the refugees coming to Denmark from Syria. We started Policies: up the process in the fall of 2015, and this has C.F. Møller Architects supports the UN resulted in Syrian interns in 2016. Declaration of Human Rights. We support all We try to spread our knowledge and current legislation ensuring equal treatment experiences on human rights to the entire in relation to human rights. We have a In 2015, we have moved 4 offices out of 6 to new locations, saving more than industry. That is one of the reasons why formulated CSR policy which can be seen at 1000 m2 area and reducing energy bills with 30% on the same staff number of www.cfmoller.com. 344 people. 5 LABOUR At our six branch offices, we comply with national laws and regulations governing health and safety, organisation, working conditions, working hours, salaries, child labour and forced labours. We constantly monitor any problems in the The results are analysed and shared with the health and safety of our employees, and entire organisation at practice meetings, and develop new solutions to improve working plans of action are implemented to solve any conditions at our offices. problems. At least every three years, we conduct a We focus on ensuring a working environment workplace assessment (WPA) at our offices in that protects and keeps all employees safe. Our Denmark. This means amongst other things statistics on work injuries show that our efforts that we evaluate the working environment and do work, and in 2015 we only registered two any stresses, the employees may be exposed cases of physical work injuries for less than two to – physical as well as psychological. days. We had no cases of work injuries lasting for longer than two days. 7 When Sweden’s largest housing association HSB set out to formulate a new vision for social ENVIRONMENT and sustainable housing in the 21st century, C.F. Møller, in cooperation with DinellJohansson, won the competition with a fresh new formula which combines the lessons of the C.F. Møller Architects continues to work with and promote past with new technological environmental responsibility in our design of projects. All of our opportunities within timber construction. projects today come with sustainability goals and demands, included in their programming, and we push progressively for more sustainability in our competition projects as well. In 2015 we have been given a particularly lot Our 2014 competition project of HSB-housingof attention to “CLT”cross laminated timberA 34-storey wooden tall building has buildings and wood as a building material in therefore had a large impact on the building general. Today, we participate in a Swedish industry in both Sweden and Denmark in 2015. national research programme on CLT-buildings, Tall Timber Building, and we have held C.F. Møller Architects are involved as numerous lectures on the subject, received research partners in the development of new numerous newspaper and magazine articles , sustainable high insulating bricks such as “the been on TV and radio on the subject, and even CleanTech-block” with Egernsund Tegl and received an award for the spreading of wooden the “Turtlebrick Project” with Technological contructions in Denmark, the Danish Carpentry Institute. Award 2015. In 2015, we have moved 4 offices out of 6 to new locations, saving more than 1000 m2 area and reducing energy bills with 30% on the same staff number of 344 people. 90% of all print paper in C.F. Møller is recycled paper 9 PROJECT PREPARATION QUALITY bjectives are set for the construction work in accordance with current documents from DANSKE ARK and FRI INTEGRATED DESIGN PROCESS A strong team of experts in sustainable construction is established, while also ensuring that users and the general public are involved in the project's development. PLANNING STRATEGY Concepts for the building's functions are set up, to ensure that all opportunities and alternatives are taken into account. SUSTAINABILITY DURING THE TENDERING PHASE Sustainability is a requirement included in the invitation to tender, and the contractor is selected for its compliance with this requirement. ESTABLISHMENT OF CONDITIONS FOR OPTIMUM ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION Detailed instructions are drawn up for operation, maintenance, inspection and maintenance. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE CONSTRUCTION SITE AND CONSTRUCTION PROCESS A responsible construction site is ensured in line with, or exceeding, the requirements. DGNB-certification Innovative company QUALITY ASSURANCE ON SELECTING COMPANIES TO EXECUTE THE PROJECT No requirements are made for the executing companies to be authorised, in order to avoid excluding On obtaining new, green knowledge and In 2015 C.F. Møller were appointed amongst small companies. QUALITY MANAGEMENT know-how, the office has educated 6 new the “Top 10 Most Innovative Companies Blowerdoor tests, thermographic surveys and moisture calculations are performed. All data sheets are available in the construction manual. DISMANTLING AND REUSE DGNB-consultants and 1 DGNB auditor, so we in Architecture” by Fast Company for the Structures are used that with a reasonable effort can be dismantled and sorted, with the greatest possible PROCE SS QUALITY 77,4 % COMMISIONING Commissioning takes place within 14 months after inauguration. Function tests are compared are able to work with DGNB-certified buildings development of solving the problems of social reuse of the materials. with the requirements made. LIFE-CYCLE-ANALYSIS P1.5 P1.6 P1.4 P1.2 P1.3 P1.7 P2.1 P2.2 Focus on environmentally sound materials, an P1.1 for State, Regional, and Local public clients as isolation in highrise housing buildings, in the CLEANING AND MAINTENANCE optimised energy framework and a high element of o ensure a high standard of cleaning, patterned M1 flooring, large floor mats and fixed skirting boards T1.5 .1 .2 EN passive solutions will ensure that criteria 1-5 score 8-9 points. well as more and more private clients in the Striga 2, Neiuw Zuid80 m tall Residential are used. However, suspended cradles will be M1 M1 V needed, to clean window façades. .3 RISKS FOR THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT 5% % M1 71, 67 .4 ,9 T1 M It is not assessed to be possible to achieve points in Danish market. Tower in Antwerp, Belgium,as well as for ITY 1. 5 criterion 6 within an acceptable financial and timing TEC .4 QUALITY OF THE BUILDING SHELL HN AL QU framework. he building shell will be insulated to maximum ICA .1 M2 AL the development of the 34 storeys high rise points, so as to achieve high impermeability and LQ UA NT SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES The requirement must be made that minimum 80% of ME reduce the energy loss via the building shell. T1 .3 .2 all wood used in the construction project is marked as Effective solar protection is also used. LIT M2 ON Communicating for more green buildings building in cross laminated timber for HSB in Y IR FSC or equivalent. 1 PRIMARY ENERGY REQUIREMENT AND SUSTAINABLE M3. In our Danish offices, we communicated Stockholm NOISE AND SOUND INSULATON The sound pressure levels and airborne noise ENERGY he optimised energy framework will contribute to high insulation requirements laid down in the construction T1.2 energy efficiency and a reasonable proportion of renewable programme will be complied with. M3.2 energy, so that 9-10 points can be achieved for criteria 10-11. in extern lectures 56 times in 2016 and 34 DRINKING WATER AND WASTEWATER of these lectures were about sustainable FIRE PREVENTION BR10's fire prevention requirements are complied with. 73,6 % M3.3 Water-efficient taps, toilets and equipment are used, as well as green roofs to capture rain water. architecture and planning, with 2 lectures held BUILDING-INTEGRATED ART T1.1 M3.4 REQUIRED AREA The site has previously been developed, but is not Costs account for 1.5% of the construction price. Minimum 3 assessed to be particularly polluted. on DGNB certification of new buildings with recommendations are followed when art is selected. S3.2 € DESIGN AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT the purpose of sharing C.F. Møller experiences An architectural competition has been held, and the winning firm is responsible for design and construction S3.1 S2.5 about DGNB screenings and certifications CONDITIONS FOR CYCLISTS Guidelines for cyclists are followed. S2.4 Ø1 .3 .1 PUBLIC ACCESS S2 Medium point, as the criterion will probably be .2 S2 In our London department the interest for omitted from the manual. S2 .1 FLEXIBILITY FOR OTHER USE S1 green buildings is growing,especially within Installations are designed so that conversion to other use is possible. SO CI S1 .8 .7 S1 .6 LIFETIME COSTS A high level of robust, well-known building AL Q materials and techniques will ensure optimum social and urban sustainability, and C.F. Møller Added value SITE USE A site use ratio of 0.60 is ensured UA L IT Y S1 .5 S1.4 IT Y 77 % overall finances. The overall financial framework carries high weight for DGNB and must therefore 76 S1.3 Ø2.1 L take high priority from the early phases. ,3 UA London has held lectures on the spreading of C.F. Møller Architects contributed in 2015 to ACCESSIBILITY BR10's requirements and recommendations are % S1.2 S1.1 CIA LQ complied with. AN FI N holistic sustainable buildings, such as: the antology of the Danish Architects Trade SAFETY AND SECURITY Well-lit corridors, safety equipment, guards and instructions for use of ventilation in the event of fire. Union on “added value in architecture”, with 4 QUALITY OF THE ADJACENT OUTDOOR AREAS • Affordable housing in the livable City Outdoor areas around the building of high quality are case-stories: ensured. FLEXIBILITY FOR OTHER USE Flexibility is the code word for the overall layout. • Green Danish architecture USER MANAGEMENT It must be ensured that all installations can be adapted to new requirements and functions and An indoor climate is established that as a minimum can • Mental Health Hospital for Older Persons • The A.P. Møller School be individually controlled at zone level. that the area is put to the best possible use without compromising on functionality. VISUAL COMFORT • Design by Evidence • Hospice Djursland A minimum daylight factor of 2% at workplaces and 50% of the usable area are ensured. DS700 is complied with at all locations, • Masterplanning for Mental Health • Residential Tower Antwerp and screening for temperature control and glare are performed. ACOUSTIC COMFORT • Värtaterminalen New ferry terminal, The reverberation time and absorption area requirements laid down in the construction programme will be complied with. Stockholm INDOOR AIR QUALITY The aim is that within 4 weeks of commissioning a formaldehyde level below 50 g/m2 can be measured. This requires care in selecting materials with low degasification. The building must furthermore be ventilated with an air rate in accordance with category II, according to 15251. THERMAL COMFORT The antology is under development for Requirements are made of a thermal indoor climate at a high level so that category I is complied with during both the summer and winter periods, with a tolerance range of 3% in accordance with DS 15251. In the same way, Danish clients to promote holistic sustainable recommendations for draught avoidance and radiation asymmetry are complied with, in accordance with 7730. architecture in Denmark. The environmental screening of the new Vendsyssel Hospital reveals the potential to achieve a DGNB Silver rating, as well as compliance with the Danish Low-Energy class 2020 standard and is an example 10 of how DGNB as an assesment tool has been implemented in C.F. Møller in 2015. CLIMATE CITY DEVELOPMENT OVERALL ECONOMY ANTI-CORRUPTION We are committed to fight corruption and it is at the heart of our NATURE INFRASTRUCTURE core values to never accept corruption of any kind. We have signed off on the principles of the We therefore have a strong focus on Corporate UN Global Compact values and our company Social Responsibility in all of our business, and policies reflect this charter. we have committed all our employees to the following guidelines: • We ensure, that all our employees are working within the confinements of the law • We ensure that all our workers have a working agreement which safeguard their rights • We analyze our projects to assess whether they can entail specific risk of breaching the Global Compact principles and we take action to avert the breaking of these principles • We offer our clients to take randomized test of building materials on the site of production to ensure there are no breeches of the Global Compact Principles “City to the Water” is a far-reaching urban development project. At the heart of the project is to find and disseminate the different potentials and synergy effects in the tension field between urban life, nature, climate adjustment, traffic and overall finances. The overarching aim is to make Randers an even more enjoyable city for residents and visitors. 12 13 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY THE TEAM 344 in total Diversity is the cornerstone of an inclusive and creative high 119 Architects | 61 Trainees | 59 Constructing Architects | 25 Administration etc. | 20 Branch Heads/Leaders | 14 Engineers | 12 Technical Illustrators/Assistants performing workplace. Women currently make up 42,24% of 9 Partners | 9 Landscape Architects | 6 IT | 5 Healthcare Consultants | 5 Designers our workforce and 45% of our office managers in Denmark. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN OUR OFFICES 6 Offices C.F. Møller is continually looking for ways to safeguard equality and diversity in order to continue being an Equal opportunity 149 in Aarhus | 91 in Copenhagen | 40 in Stockholm | 23 in Aalborg | 22 in Oslo | 19 in London employer. NATIONALITIES 23 Countries in total For example, we seek to have at least one 55% men and 45% women at the middle woman among final three candidates for any management level, and therefore the company management position. C.F. Møller adopts a is not required by law to have an equal 247 Danes | 35 Swedes | 19 Norwegians | 5 Britons | 5 Poles | 5 Spaniards | 4 Italians | 3 Lithuanians | 2 Romanians | 2 Portuguese | 2 Icelanders | 2 Germans 2 Irishmen | 1 Slovak | 1 American | 1 Bulgarian | 1 Brazilian | 1 Turk | 1 Czech | 1 Peruvian | 1 Slovene | 1 Austrian | 1 Arab zero-tolerance stance against discrimination opportunity policy for the managerial levels of of all kinds. We encourage employees to the organization. GENDER 41% Women • 59 % Men report any incidences that they come across. C.F. Møller did not register any alleged C.F. Møller currently employ 344 people with discrimination cases in 2015. 19 different nationalities. In 2015, we have 141 women | 203 men increased our number of interns from 22 to Our Board of directors consists of 6 members 38 to ensure a diversity in our staff, but also March 2016 where 4 are recruited from our group of to ensure inspiration and a diverse approach AGE DISTRIBUTION 29 % • 29 % • 17 % • 25 % Senior Equity Partners and 2 are employee to the ways we work. We want to give a wide representatives. In 2013 we set out a goal to range of people a chance to influence our <30 | 30-39 | 40-49 | 50+ recruit one woman member by 2015 and we studio. March 2016 have reached this goal. Our board now consists of 3 male and 1 female Senior Equity Partner, as We encourage our managers to employ with well as 2 male employee representative. diversity in mind as we experience that this Is beneficial to our workplace environment and C.F. Møller already comply with the 60-40 gives benefit to our projects division between men (40%) and women (60%) at the senior managerial level and 15 The new terminal for Stockholm’s permanent ferry connections to Finland and the Baltics will be a landmark for the new urban development Norra Djursgårdsstaden both SELECTED GREEN CASES 2015: architecturally and Springfield Park Renovation of Brooke House environmentally. Design for a new 13 ha. public park created Feasibility studies for the renovation of a runout of an existing 9 hole golf course. The park down 1960’s high-rise residential building in combines social, recreation and community Basildon UK. The project seeks to upgrade the spaces as a new open space resource for the existing 56 apartments to comply with modern surrounding community. The park topography energy and amenity standards. The project integrates over 15,000m3 storm water storage also seeks to create a more socially sustainable, and rain water attenuation to negate the risk of lively and mixed-use town centre by providing flooding to adjacent properties caused by the modern residential flats and a ground floor use development of the Springfield hospital and such as a restaurant or bar. new residential development. The parkland provides a means of balancing cut and fill Värtaterminalen from the development including excavation The new terminal for Stockholm’s permanent of basements and car parks. Lastly the park ferry connections to Finland and the Baltics will increases significantly the biodiversity of the be a landmark for the new urban development site and creates new habitats for wildlife in this Norra Djursgårdsstaden both architecturally urban part of south London and environmentally. Laindon Town Centre The aim is that the ferry terminal will be Design of a new town centre in the commuter predominantly self-sufficient in energy and town of Laindon in Essex, east of London. The thus stand as an environmental model for project seeks to create a new town centre that public construction. Therefore the architecture integrates retail shops, offices and new housing of the terminal will integrate i.e. solar, wind and with a variety of public spaces. The project water power. Värtaterminalen will receive the seeks to re-introduce the main High Street of environmental certification level Gold. the town that was destroyed during 1960’s-70’s town planning. The project also seeks to reuse New Ogna School the existing underground car park structure as Competition design for public school in a bases for new development. Norwegian city Ogna, close to nature and combining modern learning environment with the creation of a town meeting house. 17 Svinget Homes in NYE urban spaces, open and inviting buildings The homes in the new urban development NYE and pathways on the one hand with teaching, BEFORE AFTER will be built according to sustainable principles research and study environments on the other. at Elev north of Aarhus. The masterplan for NYE architecturally combines the best of the Focus is on green sustainability with social dense city center with the best of the green sustainability being equally important to this suburbs. NYE will be both green and lively, and project: Clearly defined meeting places, green a particular focus of the masterplan is quality elements and the merging of traffic lines unite spaces between the buildings. the city and the CBS campus to attract a wide variety of user groups. CBS Campus in society Copenhagen Business School (CBS), is the 2nd Copenhagen International School Nordhavn largest business school in Europe, located close CIS Nordhavn is a new school building for HIMMERLAND HOUSING ASSOCIATION DEP. 19 & 22 HIMMERLAND HOUSING ASSOCIATION DEP. 19 & 22 to the very heart of Copenhagen. CBS and the Copenhagen International School, which will be city has launched a vision to transform the located on a prominent site in Copenhagen’s Himmerland housing association, departments class 2020, will be a natural gathering point existing campus to become one of the world’s new Nordhavn district. 19 & 22 for all of Himmerland Housing Association’s best city campuses. The school is designed to link the school The conversion and renovation of 370 homes residents in the area. At the core of the project is the intertwining of premises with the public sphere in the urban transforms the monotonous, 1977 prefabricated city and campus life, and the masterplan puts environment, and give the school an open “crane track” estate of the Himmerland Sjøsiden Moss forth a holistic model for how to interweave ambience. Housing Association into a welcoming and The main purpose of the project “Sjøsiden” sustainable garden city complex. Some homes (the Sea Side Project) in the Norwegian town are combined into larger flats, while others Moss has been to open up the town towards are being expanded upwards as modern, Værlebugten (Værle Fjord) and Oslofjorden two-storey roof-top flats with open spaces (Oslo Fjord). By allowing port space and and full-height glazing. The 1970s estate railway areas to be used for other purposes it is is thus transformed into a contemporary, possible to develop a new, densely built-up and family-friendly cluster of townhouses. Ground vibrant part of town here which binds the town floor apartments are fully accessible life-time center and the port area together. homes, featuring small private gardens and a carport. As part of the overall sustainability This new part of the town will contain strategy, the new cladding and roof-top flats residential areas, places of work and green are designed as pre-fabricated units which are outdoor spaces. It will be a versatile area based simply hoisted in place. on social sustainability with a variety of public outdoor spaces for the inhabitants and visitors. A shared activity building, which meets the SVINGET HOMES IN NYE, DENMARK [2014] CBS CAMPUS IN SOCIETY, DENMARK [2014] strict requirements of the Danish low-energy 18 19 Stockholm Royal Seaport is part of the City’s vision of a world-class Stockholm by 2030. Stockholm Royal Seaport has been selected The school building’s unique facade will yard collects rainwater, convert CO2, and as one of 18 urban development be covered in 12,000 solar panels, each provide a fertile ground for biodiversity. The projects that form part of the individually angled to create a sequin-like sustainable approach is continuous throughout Clinton Climate Initiative’s effect, which will supply more than half of the building life cycle from construction global Climate Positive the school’s annual electricity consumption. phase to operational phase and a possible Development Program. The solar cells will cover a total area of 6,048 later decomposition phase, i.e. Cradle to Cradle square meters making it one of the largest Design. building-integrated solar power plants in Denmark. The Technical Faculty SDU The Technical Faculty (Faculty of Engineering) Zenhouses, high-profile environmental is part of the University of Southern Denmark development in Odense, and constitutes a shared research The town houses are a part of a large urban and education environment for four different development project to transform a former institutes. industrial area on the harbour of Stockholm into the city’s new high-profile environmental The building is designed as one big envelope area called Norra Djurgaardsstaden. consisting of 5 houses connected by bridges at multiple levels crossing the heart of the The aim of the housing district is to adapt to house, a “piece of furniture” containing global climate changes, so that in 2030 the common functions and meeting-rooms, and district will no longer make use of fossil fuels. giving access to a roof garden/café/lounge In addition to minimizing energy consumption, area. The many connections allow for more the Zenhusen (the Zenhouses) development fluid boundaries, and more community and features quality materials that add a Nordic knowledge sharing. feel and age with beauty in terms of facade, interior and landscape. The energy The Technical Faculty meets the requirements consumption will be minimized by means of for low energy class 1 according to BR95 the massing of the buildings, for example, (Danish building codes). This means minimal the town houses are staggered in order to energy consumption, good indoor climate maximize views and daylight. Also contributing and use of materials with a low environmental are solutions such as intelligent lighting, solar impact in a life cycle perspective. panels for heating, and heat recovery. The town houses will feature green roofs, which along with a landscaped pond in the common 20 21 CONTACT AARHUS C.F. Møller A/S LONDON C.F. Møller Architects Ltd. Europaplads 2, 11. Metropolitan Wharf, 70 Wapping Wall 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark London E1W 3SS, United Kingdom T: +45 8730 5300 T: +44 (0)20 7427 1530 cfmoller@cfmoller.com london@cfmoller.com OSLO COPENHAGEN C.F. Møller A/S OSLO C.F. Møller Norge AS STOCKHOLM Danneskiold-Samsøes Allé 28 Prinsens gate 2, 1.et. 1434 Copenhagen K, Denmark 0152 Oslo, Norway T: +45 3288 7844 T: +47 2413 3400, kbh@cfmoller.com oslo@cfmoller.com AALBORG AALBORG C.F. Møller A/S STOCKHOLM C.F. Møller Sverige AB Strandvejen 17 Postal address: Box 15055, 104 65 AARHUS 9100 Aalborg, Denmark Stockholm, Sweden COPENHAGEN T: +45 9632 9797 Address: Krukmakargatan 21, aalborg@cfmoller.com 118 51 Stockholm, Sweden T: +46 8 555 760 00, stockholm@cfmoller.com LONDON WWW.CFMOLLER.COM 22 ”  .F. Møller Architects’ core business is to create longC term surroundings which are sustainable for both people and the environment, and which, in their social, environmental and economic aspects, create maximum benefit and shared value for our most important stakeholders.
