THIS IS PERSONAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 Delivering our strategy towards Net Positive INTRODUCTION All of us at Kingfisher are focusing our energies to help customers do just that. Investing in innovation, rethinking existing practices and developing new solutions. So that it’s easier, EVERYONE SHOULD cheaper and more enjoyable for all of us to make sustainable choices. BE ABLE TO HAVE And we’re not stopping there. We also want Kingfisher to be a home we can feel good about. A HOME THEY FEEL It’s personal for us too. Which is why we’re making our own changes – to our infrastructure, operations GOOD ABOUT and practices – to make sure we’re doing our utmost to work sustainably across our businesses. It’s through this two-sided approach – making changes to our home as well as to the products and services we sell for customers’ homes – that At Kingfisher, we believe that there are two we will become a truly sustainable company. sides to feeling good about your home. We’ve made great progress – but there’s lots One is the positive impact your home has more still to do. This matters to us. It’s personal. on your life, and the things that matter to you. It’s why people make home improvements – to create a place that 02 meets their needs and reflects who they 03 really are. That’s personal. The other is the positive impact your home has on the world around you. The energy you save, the waste you recycle, the materials you use – these are all choices to be made. They’re also personal. Here at Kingfisher, we believe these two things go hand in hand. Everyone should be able to live sustainably – and feel good about doing so – without compromising the personal things that matter. Like making your home comfortable, safe, stylish and affordable to run. INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION AT A GLANCE KINGFISHER PLC IS A HOME IMPROVEMENT COMPANY WITH OVER 1,100 STORES AND GROWING OMNICHANNEL OPERATIONS ACROSS 10 COUNTRIES IN EUROPE. OUR STORE NUMBERS AND OUR MARKETS CONTRIBUTION TO TOTAL SALES CONTRIBUTION TO RETAIL PROFIT France £3,786m France £311m UK £4,853m UK £326m RUSSIA Other £1,692m Other £109m UK AND IRELAND 21 Total £10.3bn Total £746m 787* 16% 14% POLAND 73 37% 04 42% 05 47% 44% GERMANY 9 SPAIN 29 FRANCE 220† ROMANIA 15 Total sales PORTUGAL 2 £10.3bn ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our goal is to be a truly sustainable company, and we have set ourselves 53 targets to help us get there. This TURKEY‡ Adjusted pre-tax profit§ report summarises our performance £686m against our targets during 2015/16. Information on the financial, economic, social and environmental  value generated by our business is * B&Q UK & Ireland 330, Screwfix 457  † Castorama 102, Brico Dépôt 118 also included in our Annual Report Employees† ‡Turkey not consolidated annualreport.kingfisher.com/2015-16 CONTENTS 74,000 and on our website kingfisher.com/ sustainability From our CEO 6 Governance & management 54 Total stores‡ Sustainable homes 8 Performance summary 58 Product innovation Energy & carbon Timber 12 18 26 Comment – Sally Uren About our reporting Progress against targets Operating company performance summary 60 62 64 71 1,156 Communities 32 Assurance statement 72 People 36 United Nations Global Compact Index 74 § See our Annual Report and Accounts: annualreport.kingfisher.com/2015-16 Suppliers & partners 42 † Total, not full-time equivalent, excluding Turkey Environment 48 ‡ Turkey not consolidated FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER INTRODUCTION FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER At Kingfisher we are transforming our our rate of change. As we implement business to make home improvement our ONE Kingfisher strategy and accessible so that everyone can have a business transformation we have home they feel good about. We believe a significant opportunity. a good home is one that is sustainable, healthy, resource smart, energy As we bring to market more of our efficient and affordable to run. own unique and leading products, we can work with our suppliers to Whilst customers are working within integrate sustainability into the way tight budgets, we know they care our products are designed, sourced, deeply about securing healthy, safe, manufactured and transported. durable and comfortable surroundings and want to be part of a vibrant As we develop our ONE Kingfisher 06 community – because they’ve told culture we can truly embed 07 us. Our challenge is to provide easy, sustainability into our values and affordable and sustainable solutions decision-making. As we redesign to help them realise these things. our formats and infrastructure we can build in sustainability principles I want Kingfisher to be a truly that will enable us to operate more sustainable company – both in its efficiently with a smaller environmental operation and its offering. As many footprint and at a lower cost in the of you know, we have been on a long term. We are already tapping into sustainability journey for many years. opportunities such as those presented We have made great progress with by the circular and sharing economies, some remarkable achievements – most using new approaches that make it notably leading our industry with 96% easier for our customers to improve of all the paper and wood products we their homes. sell coming from sustainable sources so as not to contribute to deforestation. We are at the start of an exciting new chapter on our restorative That said, and as this Report shows, we sustainability journey and I look still have much further to go to achieve forward to sharing more of it with all our targets and we need to increase you as it unfolds. WE BELIEVE A GOOD HOME IS ONE THAT IS SUSTAINABLE, HEALTHY, RESOURCE SMART, Véronique Laury Chief Executive Officer ENERGY EFFICIENT AND AFFORDABLE TO RUN. SUSTAINABLE HOMES SUSTAINABLE HOMES WHAT IS A SUSTAINABLE HOME? We all want to live in a good home – that’s something everyone has in common. Our ambition is to create good homes by making home improvement accessible for everyone. Sustainability is core to our ambition because we know that a good home is a sustainable home. We’re integrating sustainability into our business and transformation, so we can help more customers create good, sustainable homes. OUR POINT OF VIEW We have our own point of view on what makes a Everyone should be able to create a home like good home based on our research with over 20,000 this, but we know that sustainability improvements customers. This shows us that sustainability is one can be complex and people may lack the time, of the fundamental elements that make a good home. skills or resources to create it. We are developing the products, services and support that make When we talk about sustainable homes we mean sustainability easier for our customers and help homes that use fewer resources, are more efficient them to create the good homes that they want. to heat or cool, are healthy to live in without harmful chemicals, that have green and natural gardens, and are built to last. A GOOD HOME IS A HOME THAT IS... ✔ FUNCTIONAL ✔ EVOLVING WITH FAMILY NEEDS ✔ GREEN OUTSIDE & IN 08 ✔ SUSTAINABLE 09 ✔ RESOURCE & ENERGY SMART ✔ CLEAN, HEALTHY & COMFORTABLE ✔ DURABLE IN QUALITY & STYLE ✔ COORDINATED TO LOOK GOOD ✔ PROVIDING THE BEST ECONOMICS SUSTAINABILITY AND OUR BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION We launched a five-year plan in January 2016 to transform Kingfisher WHAT WE into a more unified company. We believe this transformation will enable us to become the leading home improvement company. WILL DO Our strategy is based on: • Our customers’ reality and needs, which are the start of everything 1 THINK OF CUSTOMER NEEDS FIRST • A unified and unique offer that provides quality and choice at good value DESIGN A SEAMLESS • A unique and seamless customer journey, allowing people 2 CUSTOMER PROCESS to improve their homes physically through our stores as well CREATE A UNIQUE AND as digitally • Having 74,000 committed and diverse colleagues, passionate 3 LEADING OFFER WITH AN INTEGRATED SUPPLY CHAIN about home improvement, open to the world, willing to help CREATE A LEADING CUSTOMER millions of customers, and working as ONE Kingfisher. 4 EXPERIENCE IN OUR STORES We know that our long-term success depends on our operating sustainably – protecting natural resources, designing out waste, 5 BE A TRULY SUSTAINABLE COMPANY working with suppliers who respect human rights and protect the environment, and supporting the communities in which we work. 6 WORK AS ONE That’s why being a truly sustainable company is part of our BE LOW COST ALWAYS framework for action and why we are integrating sustainability into our transformation, including into the creation of our unique 7 and unified offer. OUR PRIORITIES OUR PRIORITIES SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH EVERYTHING OUR COMMERCIAL MODEL FOR SUSTAINABILITY Our commercial model for sustainability shows how Our group and operating company sustainability To help customers create sustainable homes we need to make sustainability part of everything we do and becoming Net Positive generates value for our business. teams work with their colleagues around the personal to everyone in the company. We aspire to have a Net Positive impact – helping our customers to We use it as a tool to engage our senior managers business to integrate sustainability. Their role is to create sustainable homes, transforming our business to be restorative to the environment, and improving on sustainability and to develop implementation plans demonstrate the importance of sustainability issues life in the communities where we operate and in our supply chain. which help our markets contribute towards meeting our at both a personal and business level and provide overall Net Positive targets. It focuses on the benefits the practical tools and support to help our people of integrating sustainability in four core areas: make sustainability part of what we do. • Revenue opportunities OUR NET POSITIVE PRIORITIES A CHANGING WORLD • Customer preference Net Positive is our long-term ambition for how we will Economic, technological, demographic and • Supply chain resilience truly integrate sustainability into our business and environmental trends are changing the way • Efficiency and productivity. play our part in creating a society that is better for all. our customers live, with implications for our By becoming Net Positive we want to create positive company and the home improvement sector. change and grow our company in a sustainable way By 2050 two thirds of the world’s population so that our shareholders, customers, employees, will live in urban areas. Ageing populations suppliers and communities all prosper. With Net are a feature of many of our markets and YOUR HOME Positive, we aim to: 30-45% of homes in Western Europe are Inspiring and enabling great customer solutions single households. • H  ave a positive impact on people and communities • Be restorative to the environment We are seeing increased demand for resources; Revenue opportunities Customer preference • Become carbon positive climate change and ecosystem decline which We can open up new revenue streams by improving We build long-term customer preference by making • Waste nothing could bring scarcity of resources; high prices; the sustainability performance of our offer and home improvement accessible for our customers. • Create wealth. and supply chain instability with implications for providing products and services that help customers Integrating sustainability into our offer is one of the our business and our customers. For example, live more sustainably. ways we differentiate Kingfisher and meet changing We focus on four priority issues that are most material the cost of energy is a frequent concern, with an customer needs. to our business, customers and stakeholders, and estimated 11% of Europe’s population struggling For example, Castorama’s NODS decking range, made three other areas that are essential to achieving our to pay their energy bills. with waste from our stores, is a popular new product with For example, sustainability is one of the principles guiding sustainability goals. Our approach to materiality is 60,000 units sold in its first year. the development of our unified and unique own brand explained on page 55. We have set ourselves 53 targets Trends such as the sharing economy are ranges. 60% of our new range of light bulbs will be energy to help us progress towards our long-term goals. developing fast, with sharing and exchanging efficient LED and we’ve reduced the price for customers. 10 11 becoming more common alternatives to buying PRODUCT INNOVATION products and services that require us to rethink Aspiration: Every Kingfisher product will enable a our business models. Frameworks such as the es Cus more sustainable and ultimately Net Positive lifestyle. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals niti tom 2020 target: 1,000 Kingfisher products with closedset the agenda for creating more sustainable ortu er loop credentials. societies and economies. pp Rev ce en ren ENERGY & CARBON Aspiration: Every Kingfisher store and customer’s Our Net Positive ambition will enable us to seize the new opportunities and minimise the risks ue o 60k 60% NODs decking pr Of our new light bulb efe home is zero carbon or generates more energy created by these external trends. units sold range will be LED than it consumes. in first year 2020 target: 38 TWh of energy saved for customers. 45% reduction in energy intensity of our property. WORLD DATA cy 4.1MW 103k ien Solar PV generation Pallets reused re Effic TIMBER in the first sili Aspiration: Kingfisher creates more forest than it uses. BY 2050 TWO THIRDS capacity installed nine months enc e OF THE WORLD’S & 2020 target: 100% responsibly sourced timber and p ro n ai du ch cti ly paper in all our operations. POPULATION WILL vit y S upp COMMUNITIES LIVE IN URBAN AREAS Aspiration: Every Kingfisher store and location supports projects which build local communities Efficiency and productivity Supply chain resilience 30-45% or equip people with skills. By using resources efficiently, designing out waste and By partnering with suppliers on sustainability we can 2020 target: 4,000 community projects completed. investing in technology we can reduce business costs protect vital natural resources and help to secure longand increase productivity. term access to affordable raw materials. PEOPLE We want Kingfisher to be a rewarding place to work For example, Antibes, our biggest store, will generate For example, B&Q has reduced waste by working with where all our colleagues feel engaged and supported. Of homes in Western Europe are single households more energy than it consumes. Altogether 4.1MW solar suppliers to introduce reusable pallets from sustainably photovoltaic generation capacity was installed across the sourced timber. 103,000 pallets were reused in the first SUPPLIERS & PARTNERS 11% business in 2015/16. nine months, generating £166,000 for the business. We work with our suppliers to integrate sustainability into our products, services and operations. ENVIRONMENT OUR HOME We are reducing our impacts as the first step towards Of Europe’s population struggle to pay their energy bills Improving business practices and processes being restorative to the environment. PRODUCT INNOVATION To reach our target, we’re thinking creatively. Take Castorama’s NODS garden decking, one of 748 products in our ranges with closed-loop CREATIVE THINKING credentials. We make NODS from a unique composite of recycled waste MAKES US SMARTER – things like plastics, boxes and pallets. It gives waste materials a second life. The NODS material is long lasting and is at least 25% cheaper than alternative We don’t just sell our sustainable products because deck boards, which means it’s a better they’re sustainable. We sell them because they price for customers, too. are all-round better products. Our customers must agree – they’re buying more of them than ever. Sales of sustainable products now make up 28% of our revenue. We’re taking steps to increase this further, with a target of 50% by 2020. So our customers can feel even happier about making changes to their home. 12 13 PRODUCT INNOVATION PRODUCT INNOVATION WE ARE TRANSFORMING OUR RANGES TO BRING CUSTOMERS THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THEY NEED TO CREATE HEALTHY, SUSTAINABLE HOME PRODUCTS SUSTAINABLE HOMES THAT ARE STYLISH, % of retail sales 50 AFFORDABLE TO RUN, COMFORTABLE Compliant products Best in class products 10 TO LIVE IN AND PRODUCE LESS WASTE. 28 25 We want to make it easier for our customers to create 22 6 20 19 20 5 a more sustainable home but we don’t expect our 3 40 4 4 4 customers to buy our products just because they’re more sustainable. Our sustainable products are great 22 19 20 quality, affordable products which are better for 16 15 16 customers as well as being more sustainable. We are looking to design out waste; improve energy 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 2016 2020 and water efficiency; develop new services that Milestone Target help customers at each stage of their projects; use *Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope our marketing and communications to encourage more sustainable lifestyles and work with partners to adopt closed-loop approaches. 2050 ASPIRATION 2020 TARGET Every Kingfisher product 1,000 Kingfisher will enable a more products with closedMore information on reducing the environmental sustainable and ultimately loop credentials. impacts of our products is included in the Timber Net Positive lifestyle. (page 26), Energy & Carbon (page 18) and Closing the loop 14 15 Environment (page 48) sections. A circular economy is one in which resources are The Principles focus on six impact areas: continually reused and recycled in closed loops. This reduces waste and can stimulate innovation, • S afe materials for humans and nature reduce business costs and create more stable • Sustainable materials that are easily and widely supplies of natural resources. We are working recycled, reused or renewed MORE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Water-using products to integrate circular economy principles into our • Utility and function including efficient use Our teams use our Sustainable Home Product We are making the water-using products in our products and business partnering with suppliers and of materials and design for longevity and reuse Guidelines to integrate sustainability in our product kitchen and bathroom ranges more efficient, helping organisations such as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. • Energy and carbon, focusing on reducing fossil ranges, focusing on areas such as saving energy customers use less water and save money. We now fuel energy use and water, greener gardening, sustainable materials have data for six operating companies, showing that We have reached 748 products in our ranges • Water stewardship and closing the loop. in these businesses 39% of water-using products met with closed-loop credentials, and made progress • Ethical responsibility, including fair and safe our best practice standards in 2015/16. Screwfix was towards several closed-loop supply chains. working conditions in the supply chain. Sales of sustainable home products, those with our strongest performing company, reaching 62%. Examples of products and supply chains with improved sustainability credentials, reached closed-loop credentials include: Many aspects of closing the loop are challenging, 28% (2014/15: 22%), generating £2.9 billion Helping customers make sustainable choices • B&Q’s easyGrow bedding plant system which as they require collaboration across the value chain for the business. This reflects an increase in We aim to make sustainability part of our marketing replaces polystyrene with recyclable PET and and new ways of working. Legislation can also create sales of products such as LED light bulbs and to increase sales of more sustainable products and peat with coir, a renewable by-product of coconut challenges. For example, to comply with the EU an improvement in our data quality with more give customers the information and encouragement production, which would otherwise have been REACH Regulation we need to be able to disclose sustainable home products identified within our they need to adopt more sustainable lifestyles. waste. See page 51. all chemicals contained in the materials we use. ranges. Sales of best in class products, our most For example, Screwfix has introduced three new • B&Q’s Green Pallet scheme which replaces poor This can be difficult for recycled plastics, which may innovative sustainable home products, were worth product icons – Save Energy, Save Water, Solvent quality single use pallets (for delivering products) be created from many different sources. We held a £573 million in 2015/16, 6% of sales. Free – that will make it easier for customers to with those made from certified timber, which are workshop session for our teams during 2015/16 to select more sustainable products in the Screwfix of a guaranteed standard and will be reused discuss these types of challenges and share lessons As we create our unified offer, we are taking the catalogue and on its website. numerous times. See page 45. learnt from both successful and unsuccessful sustainability standards achieved in our most • Castorama’s NODS decking and Infinite worktop, closed-loop projects. advanced operating company for each range and which use our unique composite material made applying these to our new Group range. This will from 100% recycled materials including store We are a founding member of the Ellen MacArthur 60% improve the sustainability performance of our waste. See page 16. Foundation and are working with it to train our ranges, particularly at lower scoring operating employees on circular economy principles. For companies. For example, highly energy-efficient We worked with sustainability organisation Bioregional example, 12 employees have completed the LED bulbs will make up 60% of our unified range to develop our Principles for Circular Product executive education course run by the Foundation of light bulbs. Other examples include a more Design during 2015/16. These will help our product and Bradford University School of Management and water-efficient toilet range and more durable sinks, Of our light bulb range will be made developers and suppliers further integrate circular five employees are enrolled on or have completed see page 42. up of highly energy-efficient LED bulbs design principles into our products and supply chains. their circular economy MBA course. PRODUCT INNOVATION PRODUCT INNOVATION CASE STUDIES NODS – A NEW TYPE OF DECKING CLOSING THE LOOP FOR PAINT NODS decking is a new and popular product at 450 million litres of leftover paint are thought to Castorama France. It is more durable and more be sitting in UK houses, garages and sheds. B&Q is water resistant than conventional decking so easier exploring how to close the loop on paint, by reusing for customers to look after and is 25% cheaper than leftover paint and recycling paint containers. comparable products. It is working with Community RePaint, which donates What customers may not know is that NODS uses surplus and leftover paint to people on low incomes, our own innovative material known as Infinite, which community groups and charities, and has published is made from waste plastics and wood from our a guide to encourage B&Q customers to donate business. So NODS isn’t just good for customers, leftover paint to their nearest RePaint scheme. B&Q, it’s better for the environment too. RePaint, Akzo Nobel and other partners are also running a pilot to remanufacture leftover paint into Customer benefit: a cheaper product, with a long new paint and to recycle plastic paint tubs. guarantee, that is more water resistant and easier to look after B&Q has also improved the packaging used on paint Sustainability benefit: reduces waste wood and for home delivery, replacing foam with moulded pulp timber from our business cardboard which is 100% recyclable. Business benefit: a popular product that is selling well Customer benefit: less packaging that is more easily recycled Sustainability benefit: less waste, and support for communities and people on low incomes Business benefit: potential to develop more circular supply chains 16 17 ALTERNATIVE SERVICES ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY We are developing new services that enable us We engage with governments and others to to better support customers at every stage of their encourage sustainable innovation and bring about home improvement projects, from Castorama Poland’s the transition to a more circular economy. Recent successful tool repair service to energy efficiency examples include: advice and installation services (see page 21). Services can also replace physical products, helping • E U review into resource scarcity and the circular to reduce use of natural resources and prevent waste. economy – we participated in this consultation, sharing our views on the circular economy We are testing out approaches that draw on the including our experiences of the challenges benefits of the sharing economy, creating opportunities involved in using recycled materials under the for customers to get help with their projects and to EU REACH Regulation. support each other. For example, Castorama France is • Circular Economy 100 – we helped establish this developing Wikiforhome.org, an online resource where network run by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation for anyone can access or share information on home companies, innovators and regional governments. improvement, use step-by-step tutorials on a range • Disruptive Innovation Festival – we supported of projects and contribute their own information and this event led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation expertise. At its newly opened Antibes store, Castorama which brought together thought-leaders, is piloting Casto Lab, a space where customers can entrepreneurs, businesses, and suppliers to share information, attend home improvement classes discuss the circular economy, sharing economy and use specialist machinery and tools to get their jobs and systems innovation. done (such as a digital laser wood-cutting machine for • Accelerating the Circular Economy – we hosted personalising and customising products). a roundtable at this conference supported by the Dutch EU Presidency and shared our experiences, Brico Dépôt France’s new store in Nice includes good and bad, with attendees. a made-to-measure wood-cutting service for • Green Alliance Circular Economy Taskforce doors, windows and joinery, a machinery rental – we joined this initiative to collaborate and offer and a window installation service. It is also learn from like-minded companies passionate trialling needhelp.com, which enables customers to about how the circular economy will change their connect with people who can help with their home business models. improvement projects. ENERGY & CARBON WE’VE BROUGHT We’re leading by example and making our own properties more efficient, too. LED lighting has been installed in 27% of LIFE TO OUR LATEST stores, up from 15% last year. The Screwfix warehouse at Trentham generates more BRIGHT IDEAS than a third of its own power through solar. And the newly reopened Castorama in Antibes – our first energy positive store – will be adding the excess solar power it produces to the local grid. Customers consistently tell us how important energy efficiency is to them. So we work hard to offer them the best range of energy-saving products. Highly energy-efficient LED bulbs will soon make up 60% of our unified range, and we’ve lowered their prices too. Just one of many smart changes that add up to make a big 18 difference: we estimate we’re already 19 saving our customers up to £750m in energy bills every year. Since 2011/12 that’s enough to power each of the 1.3m homes in Paris for well over a year. ENERGY & CARBON ENERGY & CARBON CASE STUDY: HELPING CUSTOMERS WITH THEIR ENERGY EFFICIENCY OUR CUSTOMERS WANT COMFORTABLE Castorama France is bringing HOMES, WHICH ARE WARM IN WINTER AND customers products, support and inspiration to make energy efficiency COOL IN SUMMER, WITHOUT EXPENSIVE improvements easier and more affordable. It stocks a wide range ENERGY BILLS. SO IT’S NO SURPRISE THAT of energy efficiency products and has planned its ranges so that the 74% OF OUR CUSTOMERS IDENTIFY ENERGY majority of products are eligible for government subsidies – reducing EFFICIENCY AS AN IMPORTANT REASON FOR costs. 1,500 customers benefited from government subsidies in 2015 through DOING HOME IMPROVEMENT. its Prime Energie Casto initiative. Castorama is also piloting an advice and installation service in five stores run by specially trained employees. This We make it easier for customers to create energy helps customers plan projects, find out efficient homes by bringing them high-quality, about subsidies and hire an installer affordable energy saving products and services. if needed. It published a brochure This is good for our customers and the planet, as in 2015, with ideas, information and home energy is a major contributor to climate change. inspiration on home energy efficiency, heating and automation that was In our company we are taking action too – creating distributed to 5 million customers. energy efficient, low carbon buildings and working with suppliers to tackle emissions from transport. Customer benefit: easier to create an energy efficient home Our aspiration is to become carbon positive so that Sustainability benefit: more energy every Kingfisher store will be either zero carbon efficient homes or generate more energy than it consumes. And so customers can purchase all the products and 2050 ASPIRATION 2020 TARGET Business benefit: higher than Every Kingfisher store and 38 TWh of energy average spend from customers 20 services they need from us to create a zero carbon 21 customer’s home is zero saved for customers. using energy efficiency services or carbon positive home. carbon or generates more 45% reduction in energy energy than it consumes. intensity of our property. More information on how we apply sustainable design principles to our buildings is on page 51. Our work to tackle deforestation also contributes ENERGY EFFICIENCY SERVICES ENERGY USING PRODUCTS ENERGY-USING PRODUCTS to global efforts to address climate change, page 28. Energy efficiency projects can be Our energy-using products range 42% complex to plan and implement. Our from kitchen appliances to boilers and companies are exploring how advice and lamps. We can help customers reduce installation services can better address running costs by improving the energy SAVING ENERGY FOR CUSTOMERS will make up 60% of our new light bulb range. customer needs and help more people efficiency of these ranges. We offer a range of products to help We have reduced the cost for customers plan and implement their projects. customers create well-insulated, efficient thanks to technological advances and by We worked with Bioregional, the homes, from LED light bulbs to insulation and buying increased volumes from a smaller Of energy-using products met our best B&Q, for example, has sold loft sustainability experts, to establish low-energy appliances, as well as advice and group of suppliers. practice standards in 2015/16 insulation products and services for a definition of best practice for installation services. many years. It found that the work energy efficiency, explained in our involved in clearing out the attic before Sustainable Home Product Guidelines. Our customers are saving 10.8 TWh of energy every year due to the products and services HOUSEHOLD ENERGY SAVINGS insulating prevented many customers This covers all products included in Estimated annual saving (TWh) from products from installing insulation. To overcome the EU Energy Efficiency eco design they have purchased from us since 2011/12. purchased from us since 2011/12 this, B&Q is re-launching its Homefit and labelling directives such as fridges We estimate this could save our customers loft clear and insulate service. As well and freezers, dishwashers, tumble almost £750 million every year.1 Since 2011/12, as getting their loft professionally dryers, ovens, vacuum cleaners and we have saved customers enough energy insulated, customers can have their heating and cooling systems. to power all of the homes in Paris, around attic emptied in advance and B&Q 1.3 million households, for over a year. can arrange for their unwanted items We have data for five operating 2.4 5.0 6.9 8.5 10.8 11.0 38.0 to be donated to charity or recycled, companies, showing that in these We still have a long way to go to reach our and the remaining items put back businesses 42% of energy-using stretching target but our work to unify our once the installation is finished. products met our best practice offer will help us make further progress. 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16* 2016 2020 standards in 2015/16. For example, LED energy efficient light bulbs Milestone Target 1 Based upon the average UK household energy bill. * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope ENERGY & CARBON ENERGY & CARBON SAVING ENERGY IN OUR 2015/16* CARBON FOOTPRINT DETAIL ABSOLUTE CARBON FOOTPRINT (SCOPE 1 & 2) PROPERTY PORTFOLIO ENERGY INTENSITY OWN BUILDINGS Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent kWh / m2 reported floor space We are improving energy efficiency through building design, energy monitoring and 174.0 405.4 management and upgrades to lighting and 166.5 165.2 2% 405.4 374.8 397.1 394.9 405.2 402.8 equipment. All our companies have an Energy 152.6 147.9 145.2 147.3 304.0 Resilience Plan to show how they will achieve 14% our 2020 target for energy intensity. These are 95.7 integrated into our five-year planning process, to increase awareness among our leadership 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 2016 2020 and to ensure that budget is allocated for energy 22% 62% Milestone Target efficiency projects. * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope We have reduced energy intensity by 15% since 2010/11, achieving our milestone. However, energy intensity has increased year on year and considerable 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 2016 2020 PROPERTY PORTFOLIO CARBON INTENSITY Milestone Target kg CO2 equivalent/ m2 reported floor space work is needed to reach our 2020 target. *Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope 51.6 49.7 47.0 Property: Purchased electricity and heat 246.8 45.5 44.7 43.2 Lighting system that enables energy managers servers to run more efficiently). This 41.3 Property: Gas and other fuels 89.1 Lighting typically accounts for over in every store to track energy is avoiding an estimated £900,000 25.8 Haulage: Dedicated store and home deliveries 58.1 half of store electricity use, so installing use (electricity and gas), monitor a year in energy costs. We also Business travel by road 8.9 efficient LED lighting can bring compliance with regulations including reduced energy costs by £77,000 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 2016 2020 significant savings. We now have LED the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, a year by replacing cooling and Milestone Target in 27% of stores (up from 15% last year), and compare performance over time, power infrastructure at our * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope reducing energy consumption by against other stores and in comparison Fareham data centre. 16.1 million kWh per year and saving to best practice. Castorama’s energy — Managed print: we are reducing over £700,000 per year. Our target management system has been the number of printers and installing is to roll out LED to all stores by 2020. accredited to the ISO 50001 standard. measures such as swipe cards to reduce wastage. This has reduced Energy monitoring IT UK energy use for printing by 23% 22 Energy management systems are also We are reducing energy used for IT compared with 2009 and means we 23 having an impact. For example, B&Q is by focusing on: use 26 million fewer sheets of paper trialling ‘Measure My Energy’ in three each year. CASE STUDY: ANTIBES – AN ENERGY stores, saving over £37,000 in the first — Data centre efficiency: we have — Upgrading software and hardware: POSITIVE STORE year by enabling store managers to consolidated our data centres, we are investing in energy efficient Castorama’s Antibes store, re-opened in 2015, is both monitor electricity use conveniently reducing the number of sites overall machines and creating a set of our largest store and our first to be energy positive. and in real time. and moving to more energy-efficient collaboration tools that enable video locations. We continue to reduce the calling and online file sharing as well The main building meets passive design standards – Our businesses in France continued number of physical servers through as improving our systems that enable requiring less than 8kWh/m2 energy to run. Combined to roll out the NOE energy tracking virtualisation (a solution that enables employees to work remotely. with a large rooftop solar PV panel this means the main building will be ‘Energy Positive’ (as recognised by the French Thermal Regulations 2012) based on 27% £700k 23% its annual average energy consumption. This means the energy generated from the photovoltaics will be greater than the primary energy consumed by the store for heating, general lighting, cooling, ventilation and water heating. A screen in store shows customers Of our stores now have LED lighting Saved per year from LED lighting Reduction in UK energy use for printing how much renewable energy is being generated due to our managed print each day. Other features include double insulation, a lighting OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT system which combines natural light with 100% LED We aim to reduce the carbon footprint of our property carbon intensity since 2010/11. Developing our lighting, a highly efficient (adiabatic) heating and buildings and transport by using energy more renewable energy strategy will enable further progress. cooling system and rainwater recycling. efficiently, investing in renewable energy and by selecting lower carbon transport options. If the impact of purchased renewable electricity Sustainability features for customers include a living is taken into our account, our 'market-based' carbon wall in the garden centre, an eco home installation There was a small reduction in our absolute carbon footprint of purchased electricity and heat was and the Casto Lab where customers can use footprint this year, reflecting a drop in electricity 203,728 tonnes in 2015/16, rather than 246,775 specialist tools and share information (see page 17). carbon conversion factors.2 Emissions from transport tonnes in our 'location-based' footprint. Further rose during the year due to an increase in store details are included in our Data Appendix Customer benefit: a better place to shop, with and home deliveries. kingfisher.com/sustainabilityresources more support for home improvement projects Sustainability benefit: reduced energy use Achieving an absolute reduction in our carbon 2 and carbon footprint Our carbon footprint and targets are calculated using the ‘locationfootprint will remain challenging as our business based’ approach for purchased electricity and heat as defined Business benefit: lower operating costs grows. However, we have achieved a 16% cut in our under the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. and greater energy security ENERGY & CARBON ENERGY & CARBON RENEWABLE ENERGY FACTS Renewable energy Indirect transport emissions 4.1mw We are investing in renewable technology and Reducing overall emissions is challenging due to Seven of our companies use third-party fleets for expect to generate 5% of our electricity from onsite business growth, particularly an increase in home store deliveries – Brico Dépôt France, Brico Dépôt renewables by the end of 2018. This will reduce deliveries. Our direct haulage emissions increased Romania, Brico Dépôt Iberia, Castorama France, our annual carbon footprint by 11,400 tCO2 and by 7.5% overall against our 2010/11 baseline, largely Castorama Poland4 and Castorama Russia. We work reduce energy costs by £10.2m per year at today’s due to an increase in home deliveries. Emissions with haulage suppliers to encourage emissions On site renewable generation installed during 2015/16. prices. It will also help demonstrate our sustainability increased by 4% year on year due to increased fuel reductions. Indirect haulage emissions have 30% commitment to customers. consumption in our UK store delivery fleets. increased by 8% since 2010/11, due to a growth in deliveries and improvements in our data collection. We installed solar photovoltaic panels on two stores We are working with transport suppliers to improve There was a 3% drop in emissions year on year due and three distribution centres with a generation vehicle efficiency, to transport more products on each to a reduction in emissions from sea and air freight. capacity of 4.1MW during 2015/16. This included the journey, improve route planning and driver behaviour, Screwfix distribution centre at Trentham which has a and select lower carbon options. 4  astorama Poland is not yet included in our emissions data for C Of electricity from PV solar at Screwfix’s Trentham 1.8MW PV solar array (the size of three small football indirect transport emissions. distribution centre pitches) that will generate around 30% of the site’s We have made some progress on reducing emissions electricity needs. We are also exploring renewable from store delivery fleets – with a 5% reduction technologies such as heat pumps, biomass and since 2010/11, despite a 9% increase in the volume of CARBON EMISSIONS DIRECT AND INDIRECT HAULAGE Indirect Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent Direct solar thermal. products delivered. The fuel efficiency of dedicated store delivery fleets (litres of fuel/m3 of product 172.1 171.2 We are integrating renewable energy into our delivered to stores) has improved by 6% since 2010/11. 158.5 157.8 148.7 151.9 Big Box redesign project, see page 51. We have introduced low carbon vehicle fuels Green tariff electricity such as biomethane in the UK, and LNG (liquefied Our property and purchasing teams are working natural gas) in France for some vehicles. The drop together to unify our electricity purchasing in line with in oil prices means biomethane is not currently European market structures which are organised on a cost-effective in comparison to diesel but we are country-by-country basis. We aim to negotiate larger continuing to expand our French LNG fleet and contracts covering more of our business and to work to explore other low carbon fuels. with suppliers to encourage them to offer us electricity from renewable sources at the most competitive rates. Driver behaviour can have a big impact on fuel use. 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* During 2015/16, for example, 100% of Brico Dépôt B&Q’s logistics network monitors driver behaviour and 24 25 Romania’s electricity was from renewable sources – holds regular meetings to review results and engage  * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope as was 92% of Brico Dépôt Iberia’s. staff. Sustainability is one of the five objectives for the B&Q logistics team. CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION & ADAPTATION available for projects carried out by registered Transport tradesmen, those with an RGE qualification. We We are taking steps to mitigate the physical impacts Emissions from haulage (delivering products to our Our companies are also switching to rail transport, of climate change on our business, particularly those engaged with ADEME, the French energy and stores, distribution centres and customer homes) a lower carbon alternative to transport by road. associated with increased risk of flooding. This environmental management agency, to argue that account for around 14% of our carbon footprint. We For example, Screwfix now uses rail transport from includes identifying stores in areas with a higher risk energy efficiency subsidies should be extended aim to reduce emissions from transport, focusing on port for 50% of containers. of flooding and putting in place measures to minimise to cover projects carried out by anyone. Brico direct emissions from dedicated delivery fleets owned potential impacts, for example, by improving guttering Dépôt France launched a training partnership by our operating companies or operated on their and drainage systems. to increase the number of RGE qualified behalf by suppliers. These include: tradespeople to make it easier for customers to • Store deliveries B&Q, Castorama France, Screwfix Our businesses stock a range of products to help get help with their projects and access subsidies. and Screwfix Germany. customers protect their homes against flood damage. 40 tradespeople gained the qualification during • Home deliveries B&Q, Castorama France, 3 Brico Dépôt France is not yet included in our emissions During 2015/16 we donated products and supported the pilot in 2015. Castorama Poland and Brico Dépôt France.3 data for direct transport emissions. community clear-up efforts after flooding near some • UK energy policy – we continued to engage with of our stores in the UK and France. the UK government and other stakeholders to support the treatment of home energy efficiency CARBON EMISSIONS DIRECT HAULAGE Home deliveries ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY as an infrastructure priority. This included Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent from dedicated store and home delivery fleets Store deliveries We worked with governments, businesses and supporting a paper by E3G, the not-for-profit NGOs on energy and climate issues during 2015/16, energy consultancy, making the economic case advocating for clear government policies and funding and arguing for energy efficiency to be included 55.7 55.9 58.1 to support the transition to a low carbon economy. in the UK’s infrastructure budget and planning. 54.0 52.0 51.6 48.7 Examples include: We also continued to advocate for more effective, 43.3 • COP21 UN Climate Conference – our companies targeted support for renewables, especially in France participated in COP21, through customer commercial rooftop photovoltaics as part of the campaigns and by hosting a stand with the ongoing review of enhanced capital allowances. organisation Club Génération Responsable • Alternative fuels – we advocated in support of that was attended by 42,000 visitors including the introduction of LNG fuelling points in France, government officials, suppliers and employees. to support our efforts to introduce lower carbon We signed the French Business Climate Pledge vehicle fuels. to show our commitment to tackling climate • NGO collaborations – we worked with a wide change and to limiting global warming to 2°C. range of NGOs to support calls for more forward • Energy efficiency subsidies France – under thinking on energy, including the Prince of Wales's 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 2016 2020 France’s Energy Transition law, tax breaks for Corporate Leaders Group, The Aldersgate Group, Milestone Target  home energy efficiency improvements are only WWF and Green Alliance. * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope TIMBER As well as improving good practices today, we’re also sowing the seeds for all-round greener futures. We’re forging progressive partnerships that move the whole timber industry towards responsible sourcing and sustainable forest NEVER Timber is hidden in many more of our products than you might management. We’ve teamed up with the RSPB think. In fact, it’s an essential and BirdLife Partners in Sumatra, Indonesia RESTING element within around a third of them, from wallpaper to masking on a programme to restore 100,000 hectares of over-logged tropical forest. This joins our previous forestry projects in Poland, Spain ON OUR tape. For over twenty years we’ve been working to make our timber sourcing as sustainable and the UK, which have already benefited areas equivalent to 19,000 football pitches. LAURELS as possible, so it’s even easier for customers to make a positive choice. Right now that’s around 96% of the timber we sell, and it’s already reached 100% at B&Q. 26 27 TIMBER TIMBER The majority of our companies communicate wear ranges and palm oil may be present in candle TIMBER IS A HUGELY POPULAR MATERIAL our responsible timber sourcing commitment to products). We aim to source leather and palm oil customers via information in store, in catalogues responsibly, ensuring they are not sourced from FOR OUR CUSTOMERS. IT’S USED and online. We are also taking a broader approach areas linked to tropical deforestation. For example, EXTENSIVELY IN THEIR HOME IMPROVEMENT to raise awareness in markets where there has been less customer demand for responsibly sourced Screwfix carries out an annual review of all leather products to identify any coming from areas with PROJECTS, AS WELL AS FOR FINISHED timber. For example, in Romania we are working closely with suppliers and sawmills to encourage a higher risk of deforestation. B&Q has changed supplier for its candle products to ensure that all the FLOORS, WORKTOPS AND FURNITURE. them to source from FSC certified forests, introducing customer communications on responsible timber and candles it stocks are now palm-oil free. partnering with FSC International in Romania to raise Packaging awareness among the timber industry on the benefits We are working with suppliers to redesign packaging of FSC certification. for our unified product ranges and other key product lines, in line with our packaging policy. This includes Across the business we are working with suppliers using responsibly sourced wood fibres. More on product categories such as masking tape and information is included on page 50. We have been working on responsible timber sandpaper where timber is used in very small sourcing for over 20 years and we aspire to a quantities and there are currently few suppliers Construction restorative approach – not only helping to prevent offering responsibly sourced products. Timber is used in small volumes during construction, deforestation and ensuring responsible sourcing but including for store fit-out (doors, shelving and also working towards having a positive impact on Tropical hardwood products, leather and palm oil racking systems) and occasionally for building forest ecosystems and people. We are looking both Our policy is that all new tropical hardwood products frames. We are working with contractors to improve at our own sourcing and working with partners to should be FSC certified or endorsed by schemes data collection in this area. We have data for seven help create positive change beyond our business. working towards FSC certification. We achieved this operating companies (B&Q, Brico Dépôt France, target for 100% of new tropical hardwood products Brico Dépôt Romania, Brico Dépôt Iberia, Castorama As global demand for timber grows, our work will in B&Q UK, Castorama France, Brico Dépôt Iberia France, Castorama Poland and Screwfix) which enable us to secure affordable long-term supplies 2050 ASPIRATION 2020 TARGET and Screwfix. shows that 60% of timber used in the construction of this important raw material, establish sustainable Kingfisher creates more 100% responsibly sourced projects reported on by these companies was local timber supply chains and mitigate the impact forest than it uses. timber and paper We use low volumes of leather and palm oil (for responsibly sourced. of deforestation on climate change. in all our operations. example leather is used in clothing in our work 28 29 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Our products The first step on our journey towards Net Positive is We achieved 96% responsibly sourced timber in to make sure that all the timber used in our business our products, with B&Q at 100% and a further four is responsibly sourced including products, packaging, companies at or over 95%.1 Responsible timber goods not for resale (GNFR) and construction. Our sourcing is being integrated in our work to unify our global timber policy and timber sourcing practices products and sourcing, which will help to improve help our companies to implement a consistent performance in our lower scoring operating companies. approach. All our responsibly sourced timber is 1 Data covers operating companies, which account for 97% of Group independently audited by recognised certification turnover (95% or higher in previous years). It does not cover data schemes such as FSC and PEFC or it is recycled. for Castorama Russia. RESPONSIBLY SOURCED TIMBER PRODUCTS % of timber sold (by volume) responsibly sourced 100 90 100 96 96 80 93 94 88 90 70 83 60 50 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 2016 2020 Milestone Target  * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope TIMBER TIMBER 100k Paper used in goods not for resale PROTECTING AND RESTORING FORESTS We have reached 80% responsibly sourced paper VIA aims to develop a methodology for quantifying We are supporting projects that tackle deforestation in our catalogues and customer marketing materials the impacts of FSC certification for forests, their and restore forested areas, with a view to protecting and office paper. This includes all markets except biodiversity and communities. Its work will make it long-term sustainable timber supplies and, over time, for Screwfix Germany for catalogues and customer easier to communicate the benefits of responsible help us establish sustainable timber supply chains. marketing, and all markets except for Brico Dépôt sourcing and encourage more businesses and Hectares of over-logged tropical forest in Sumatra Iberia, Castorama Poland and Screwfix Germany people to choose responsibly sourced timber. It will We started a collaboration with RSPB and their will be restored in relation to office paper. also enable us to quantify the impact of our work BirdLife partners in early 2016, through which 13,000 with FSC and measure progress towards our Net we will support Indonesia’s first ever Ecosystem We are unifying our sourcing for paper and card Positive timber aspiration. Restoration Concession. This will restore an area of used in promotional leaflets, catalogues and over-logged tropical forest known as Hutan Harapan marketing publications across our companies and During 2015/16 we worked closely with VIA on on the island of Sumatra covering 100,000 hectares are integrating our responsible timber standards a number of initiatives. This included: (approximately the size of Greater London) and into our contracts with these suppliers. will ensure future sustainable forest management. • T he creation of a Technical Advisory Group The project will focus on reforestation, preventing Hectares of forest have benefited in Poland, Spain Communicating the benefits of responsible sourcing with representation from NGOs, standards forest fires and helping the livelihoods of indigenous and the UK A lot of progress has been made on responsible organisations and academia. communities through the processing and sale of 255 timber sourcing but more is needed to shift practices • Encouraging more businesses to join VIA including sustainable forest products. It will enable us to test right across the industry. Part of the challenge is to Precious Woods, the tropical timber company, a number of approaches in our work to have a Net communicate the benefits of responsible sourcing and SCA, the personal care products business. Positive impact on forests while potentially creating to both consumers and businesses within the timber • Interviewing over 80 businesses to understand sustainable future timber supplies for our business. supply chain. the communications challenges they face in relation to sustainable timber. The project at Harapan builds on the work of our forest Landowners working with Kingfisher In 2014 we were one of the founding partners of • Agreeing seven focus areas for VIA’s work based projects which include those in Poland, Spain and Value and Impact Analysis (VIA), along with IKEA, on the research findings: biodiversity, legality, the UK that have benefited forested areas covering 80% Tetra Pak, IDH and ISEAL Alliance – the global local communities, health and safety, ecosystem over 13,000 hectares (equivalent to 19,000 full-sized membership association for sustainability standards. services, deforestation, and forest degradation. football pitches) working with 255 landowners. Cork products from one of the forests we’ve supported have been on sale in our stores in Spain. Brico Dépôt Iberia launched its sixth forest project in Responsibly sourced paper in our catalogues 80% and customer marketing material 30 2015/16 in Spain which saw employees volunteer to 31 improve a forest at Monte Cabeza de Hierro, Madrid. ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY • T imber Retail Coalition (TRC): We ran the We work with governments, NGOs and other secretariat and worked with other retailers businesses to encourage action on sustainable through the TRC to ensure that the review of timber. In 2015/16 this included: the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) resulted in a strengthened regulatory framework for Europe, • CDP Forests Program: We are a founding including consistent enforcement across EU participant in the CDP’s Forests Program, member states and increased recognition for an investor initiative which aims to improve certification schemes such as FSC. understanding around how companies are • The Value and Impact Analysis (VIA) Initiative: addressing their exposure to deforestation risks. We helped establish and are active members We were (Joint) Retail Sector Leader for 'Timber' of this partnership that will enable users of FSC – CDP 2015. certified products to quantify and communicate • European Sustainable Tropical Timber Coalition: the value of certification to protect forests. We were an advisory board member to this • WWF UK Forest Campaign: We worked with WWF coalition during 2015/16. on its campaign aimed at improving the EU Timber • FSC: We are a founding partner of FSC via B&Q Regulation to prevent illegally or unsustainably UK and a member in various countries. Kingfisher’s sourced wood from entering European markets. Timber Adviser was an elected member on the This included sharing a platform with WWF FSC’s International Board during 2015/16. Brussels, Commissioner Vella and the Directors • PEFC: We work with PEFC, the forest certification of DG Environment and DG Trade to discuss the organisation, and B&Q is a member of its UK board benefits of legally sourced timber and a similar of directors. platform with WWF at the Houses of Parliament. COMMUNITIES As well as making our stores a positive part of their community, we encourage our colleagues to get involved by volunteering or raising money for charity. B&Q is WHEREVER WE working with Community Repaint, donating surplus and leftover paint to community groups and charities. Across ARE, WE MAKE Europe, our colleagues are also holding kids classes in store, to share practical skills with young people and teach them about sustainable living. And The Screwfix IT HOME Foundation, which matches colleagues’ charity donations, has helped raise over £1m since 2013. We help people create homes to feel good about. But we also know that people’s sense of home stretches beyond their four walls. So we’re making sure our stores benefit the communities around them, giving customers the opportunity to connect with each other, share skills and together create better places to live. In fact, since 2012 we’ve supported over 1,142 community projects. 32 33 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY INVESTMENT: DETAILS COMMUNITY PROJECTS OF COMPANY GIVING 2015/16* We have supported 1,142 community projects since 2012/13. Examples £ thousand of community projects from 2015/16 include: • The Screwfix Foundation has raised over £1 million since 2013 from WE ARE PART OF MANY LOCAL COMMUNITIES: employee fundraising and corporate donations to support projects THROUGH OUR STORES WE BRING COLLEAGUES that improve and repair charitable and community facilities for those in need. 300 local charities have been supported so far. Events during AND CUSTOMERS TOGETHER. OUR SUPPLY 14% 2015 included the Tour de Screwfix, where over 800 staff collectively completed a 6,100 mile cycle relay between every Screwfix UK store. CHAIN HAS A POSITIVE IMPACT ON MANY MORE. Colleagues raised £80,000 for the Screwfix Foundation which was then matched by Screwfix, bringing the total raised to £160,000. • Kids classes in our stores help young people develop their practical skills, learn about sustainability and have fun. Castorama Poland’s 26% 60% popular Majsterkowo DIY classes have now reached 74,000 children in 69 stores. Kids classes also took place at Castorama France and Castorama Russia. Brico Dépôt Iberia held sessions of its ‘Sustainable We believe we have a responsibility towards the Homes, Sustainable Schools’ classes at twenty stores during the school communities we source from and serve and we aim to year 2015-2016 to teach more than 800 young people about saving share our own expertise and resources whilst partnering energy and water. with others to create opportunities for communities to • B&Q supported Hop Skip Jump, a charity providing respite care for reconnect, share skills and create good places to live. children with disabilities and special educational needs. Employees Cash £1,001 spent a day volunteering at the charity’s Swindon centre, using tools We give time, money and products to support our local and donated by B&Q to improve the centre’s outdoor play area. international communities. We encourage our people to get Gifts in kind £441 • Brico Dépôt France helped raise €20,000 for Fondation Abbé Pierre, involved as fundraisers and volunteers, which contributes Time £225 a non-profit organisation tackling poor housing. It also helped renovate to the development of our ONE Kingfisher culture. a social housing complex in Longpont-sur-Orge through its HOME * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope programme, donating time, materials and money. It plans to roll out We are currently reviewing and updating our communities 2050 ASPIRATION 2020 TARGET HOME to 30 stores in 2016/17. strategy, and will publish a new plan for how our community Every Kingfisher store 4,000 community involvement can help us deliver our core purpose. The plan and location supports projects completed. will identify common themes to guide our future investment projects which build local COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Company giving £ thousand Employee and customer giving at both a local and international level that align with our communities or equip 2,798 34 strategy, resonate with our customers and colleagues, people with skills. 35 and address the most relevant social challenges. This will 2,330 enable us to have a bigger impact on issues which are 2,184 most relevant to our communities and to our business while also giving flexibility to our companies on the 1,682 1,667 types of projects and partners they support. 1,403 1,068 PERFORMANCE IN 2015/16 1,021 774 623 617 669 £1.7m Our total company giving decreased to £1.7 million in 2015/16 (2014/15: £2.3 million), equivalent to 0.24% of pre-tax profits (2014/15: 0.34%). This includes cash donations, employee time 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* and gifts in kind, with product donations valued at cost price. The drop in investment was due to a number of community activities * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope Total company giving in 2015/16 being put on hold as both our business and community strategies were being reviewed. SKILLS SHARING ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY We want to make it easier for people to can help with their home improvement We engage with others to encourage 24k We aim to reach 1% of pre-tax profits through incremental increases share home improvement skills and help projects. It has also launched a new thinking that can benefit by 2020 (cash, time and product giving) and will be focusing each other. This can enable customers community forum where customers communities. For example: on increasing the value of our community investment in 2016/17 to complete their projects and also can find videos and articles and learn • Architecture competition – we as we develop our new communities strategy. contribute to stronger local communities. from experts on home improvements, created the Better Homes Better as well as sharing experiences with Lives architecture competition in Our employees spent over 24,000 working hours volunteering in Our businesses have launched a other home improvers. France to encourage new ideas Working hours spent by our employees volunteering their local communities. The total value of employee time (including number of online platforms where for the design of sustainable in their local communities volunteering hours and management costs) was £225,000. customers and communities can In the UK, the Screwfix Community homes that support individual and connect, learn from experts and benefit Forum provides a supportive place community wellbeing. Entrants were In addition, we help customers and employees to raise money for from each other’s skills and know how. where customers can share their asked to consider the impact of £225k charity through in-store collections, payroll giving, fundraising events expertise, ask others for theirs, and environmental, technological and and using our contact centres to take pledges from the public during In France Castorama is developing chat with people who share a common demographic changes on homes charity fundraising appeals. In 2015/16 we helped employees and Wikiforhome.org, an online resource interest. It has over 100,000 members and families. Twenty-four young customers raise £774,000 for charity (2014/15: £669,000). where anyone can access or share with around 1,300 posts a week. Screwfix architects and students took part, information on home improvement, added an Eco Talk Forum to the site in submitting ideas for how the site We aim to measure the impact of the projects we support see page 17. Brico Dépôt France is 2015/16 to enable members to share of an old Castorama store could be Total value of employee time and further information is included in our Data Appendix: trialling needhelp.com, which enables ideas on creating more sustainable used to create sustainable housing kingfisher.com/sustainabilityresources customers to connect with people who homes. See community.screwfix.com/ and a vibrant community. PEOPLE HELPING OURSELVES TO HELP OUR CUSTOMERS It goes without saying that we want to do right by our people, and we also believe a more engaged team will go the extra mile for customers. So we’re always investing in our people’s development, to help them become better advisors. Across Europe, Castorama colleagues are being invited into customers’ houses to see first-hand their home improvement challenges. In Poland, 10,000 of these visits happened in 2015. 36 37 Our people can only be truly engaged if they’re given every chance to thrive, with opportunities open to everyone. Which is why in 2015 we invested £13m in learning and development across all our operating companies. And it’s already making a difference: 61% of our people are now classified as engaged, putting us in the top 50% in the Gallup database of retail companies. PEOPLE PEOPLE Gender balance WE WANT KINGFISHER TO BE A REWARDING Representation of women in management and senior Our companies are taking a range of approaches management saw a small improvement year on year to ensure the recruitment, retention and promotion PLACE TO WORK WHERE ALL OUR COLLEAGUES and women made up 44% of the Kingfisher Board. of women. Castorama France, for example, has FEEL ENGAGED AND SUPPORTED, AND HAVE However, women remain under-represented in our workforce, particularly at the senior levels. reviewed and updated its recruitment processes, raised awareness of flexible working options ACCESS TO EXCITING OPPORTUNITIES To increase representation of women in senior and updated its appraisal framework to include a discussion of career goals and work-life balance TO LEARN AND TO HELP OUR CUSTOMERS. roles, we are increasing participation of women in development programmes and raising the visibility options. It conducts an annual equal pay audit and will introduce unconscious bias training. Diversity of our female leaders. We work with external KPIs are included in its monthly reporting for stores. recruitment partners to make sure that women are well represented on recruitment lists and Fewer women pursue qualifications and careers in the development programmes. IT industry. Kingfisher IT Services, our IT function, has launched the Women in IT initiative that aims to work We offer flexible working options which can be with schools, universities and specialist agencies to particularly beneficial for working parents and encourage more young women to consider careers in We employ 74,000 people internationally. We are Addressing concerns at B&Q carers and can help our companies to retain IT and to promote Kingfisher as a preferred employer investing in working better together, to make the B&Q reviewed and updated its pay and reward female employees. for female IT candidates. It is creating networking most of our scale and to better serve our customers. structures in early 2016, increasing basic pay, opportunities for female employees and increasing removing inconsistencies and making some the visibility of female role models. ENGAGEMENT AND CULTURE adjustments to benefits and allowances. All staff GENDER DIVERSITY As we transform our business, our culture is allare paid more than the National Living Wage, important. We need the right mindset, outlook and including those under 25. Many staff are better off or % FEMALE EMPLOYEES behaviours to create an environment where all our unaffected by the changes; however, concerns were people have the confidence and feel equipped to raised that some staff would be worse off following 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* get involved and inspired to achieve our goals. changes to some benefits such as removing the Board 27 27 40 44 Sunday premium to bring B&Q in line with the Our aim is to connect our businesses with one market. Following consultation with employee Senior management** 21 21 19 20 common culture and shared basic belief about representatives, B&Q extended compensation so All management 29 29 29 31 what Kingfisher stands for. that no one is worse off for the next two years. B&Q 38 also said it would work with its colleagues to explore Total workforce (FTE) 40 39 39 39 39 Engagement survey other ways to ensure it remains one of the best and Our annual Engagement Survey, run in conjunction most attractive employers in retail. B&Q aims to be a * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope with Gallup, gives our teams an opportunity to talk great place to work and to offer an attractive overall ** Senior management includes Board members, directors and heads of department about how they feel at work and helps us to identify reward package to all colleagues. opportunities for improvement. There was an 87% response rate in 2015. The results show that our Employee turnover strengths include a strong sense of family – people Our employee turnover rate was 24% (2014/15: 24%). feel they work with great people who care about Our companies in France have the lowest employee them. However, we aren’t giving our teams enough turnover rate (8% in Castorama France and 11% in clarity about what we expect of them and employees Brico Dépôt France). would like more help to really be able to focus on our customers. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We aim to build a workforce that reflects the We achieved an overall engagement score of 4.20 diversity of our customers at all levels of our out of 5.00, an improvement from 4.06 in 2014. 61% business. A diverse workforce stimulates creativity of our people are now classified as engaged, putting and innovation. It helps us better understand our us in the top 50% of the Gallup database of retail customers, and create the products and services that companies. Individual team results are reviewed by meet their needs. It gives us access to the widest line managers, who are encouraged to have regular possible selection of talented candidates. engagement conversations with their teams and agree one to two improvement actions for the year. It is our policy to ensure there is no discrimination in employment on the grounds of race, gender, Redundancies age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation Home improvement and shopping needs are or religious belief. We aim to create inclusive changing and B&Q has announced a two-year workplaces where all colleagues can be themselves programme to simplify and reshape its store network, and do their best work. including the closure of around 60 stores by February 2017. To minimise the impact on its employees, B&Q is endeavouring to find alternative positions 74,000 for as many employees as possible by offering opportunities at nearby B&Q stores and at Screwfix, which is set to open 60 new stores in 2016/17. In addition, B&Q has also had success securing employment opportunities with the retailers which have taken new residence at the former B&Q sites. People are employed internationally by Kingfisher PEOPLE PEOPLE Ethnic diversity Disability HEALTH AND SAFETY – EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE ACCIDENT RATE Ethnic minorities accounted for 14% of employees in We aim to create accessible workplaces and provide the right Our total employee accident rate (number of all work-related Number of all work-related accidents per 100,000 the UK – an increase on 11% the previous year. Our support to employees affected by disability. In 2015/16, the accidents per 100,000 full-time equivalent employees) was 12,160, a full-time equivalent employees definition of ethnic minorities includes all employees proportion of employees with a declared disability was 2.6% decrease of 9% year on year and 2.3% reduction since 2012/13. There who do not define themselves as White British. We (2014/15: 2.6%). 7.5% of direct employees at Brico Dépôt France were no work-related fatalities and none for the previous eight years. don’t report a Group figure for ethnic diversity since have a disability (6.6% of full-time equivalent employees) and 7.1% 12,812 13,405 12,450 12,160 definitions of what constitutes an ethnic minority vary of direct employees at Castorama France (5.2% of full-time equivalent 2.3% by country and in markets such as France it is illegal employees), compared with the French national target of 6% of direct to ask employees to declare their ethnicity. employees. Brico Dépôt France was recognised for its work on disability with an award from LSA, the French retail magazine. ETHNIC DIVERSITY UK LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT % of employees from an ethnic minority Reduction in accidents since 2012/13 We invest in training and development to help employees better 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* serve our customers, develop their skills and achieve rewarding 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* careers within the Group. We invested £13 million in 2015, including  * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope health and safety training, store and product training and in the HEALTH & SAFETY: ALL ACCIDENTS Total workforce 7 9 11 14 development of management skills. Employees completed 878,000 Number of accidents – employees, customers and contractors (FTE) training hours (an average of 12 hours per employee) in 2015/16.  * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope Most of our operating companies conduct annual performance 8,136 Employees 7,430 7,531 7,580 Customers appraisals for employees. Contractors Age diversity Our companies have developed training to support colleagues Each generation brings valuable perspective to at every stage of their career. For example, Castorama Russia the workplace which benefits customers and our * Within KPMG’s limited has launched START that supports newcomers with on-the-job 4,722 assurance scope business. We encourage employees of all ages 4,214 learning and help from more experienced colleagues through 4,060 to develop their careers with us. 3,966 more than 50 training hours. Its MOVE programme, covering retail, product and management topics develops experienced staff to be For example, to help address the issue of youth more efficient and result-oriented, while FLY is for high-potential unemployment, Screwfix published a guide to colleagues identified through annual performance reviews. apprenticeships and runs the Screwfix Trade Apprenticeships awards, see page 41. 32% of its workforce are under 24 compared with a Group Early careers 343 318 423 383 40 We provide opportunities for young people to work with us and 41 average of 14% and its management training gain experience to kick-start their careers. For example, Castorama programmes are available to employees of all ages. 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* Poland is working in partnership with PwC Poland and a national In 2015/16, 21% of participants on its Fast Track Store daily newspaper to offer internships at its head office to highManager and Assistant Store Manager programmes potential and talented graduates and undergraduates. 32 people Our Board-level Group Safety Committee, chaired and we are introducing measures such as additional were under 24 and 22% were over 40. have participated so far. by our Group General Counsel, meets monthly to matting at store entrances to help reduce these monitor our approach to H&S. Our H&S Dashboard, accidents. We also issued guidance on how to work EMPLOYEES BY AGE 2015/16* Our work placement programmes in France enable young people summarising performance at each company, with customers to ensure the safety of children carried to gain business experience while completing their studies. For is reviewed at every meeting of our Group Board in shopping trolleys. 24 and under example, 846 young people took part at Castorama France during and Group Executive Committee. 25-49 2015/16. Customer accidents are included in our monthly H&S 50 and over Our Group Safety Manager oversees our approach Dashboard. We share information on accidents and Our graduate programmes help us recruit and develop future and works with safety managers in our businesses. serious near-misses with our safety professionals leaders through international placements and development Operating company boards review safety performance around the business. 17% 14% opportunities. 31 graduates have taken part over the last three each month, and all operating companies have years including through the Kingfisher IT Graduate Programme a senior management safety committee. ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY and Kingfisher International Business Graduate Programme. We engaged with regulators and others during Our mandatory minimum H&S standards form the 2015/16 on issues relating to employment. Closer to the customer basis for store H&S audits. Each company has an For example: Castorama colleagues from multiple countries are talking to action plan to address any gaps in their policies or • Apprenticeships and skills – Screwfix worked customers in their homes about the improvements they are carrying procedures in relation to our Group standards. We in partnership with the Department for Business, out. These visits help colleagues see first-hand our customers’ updated our standards in 2015/16 to provide more Innovation and Skills and the Skills Funding reality and the barriers they may face in completing their home guidance to our companies on addressing the root Agency to publish a pocket guide to encourage improvements. In Poland, for example, 10,000 colleagues visited causes of accidents. more trades people to hire an apprentice. It also customer homes in 2015. The sessions provide valuable insights launched its Trade Apprentice awards, with finalists 69% that will inform future solutions and help build camaraderie among Our safety network enables our H&S professionals and their employers given the opportunity to our teams. to share information and collaborate via face-to-face attend the 2015 Conservative Party Conference  * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope meetings and an online project room. and share their experiences with Ministers of State. Management and Leadership • Fair and equal pay – we participated in a We develop our high-potential employees to prepare them to take There were no new safety prosecutions during the year. consultation with the British Retail Consortium on more senior roles within the business. Our newly established and CBI on new requirements for companies LEAD programme, sponsored by our most senior leaders, prepares Customer and contractor H&S to disclose gender pay information, supporting participants for senior and complex roles. From the first two intakes, There were 4,060 accidents reported by customers increased transparency on this issue. We also 13% of participants have been promoted since completing the in our stores during the year (2014/15: 4,722) and supported the introduction of the UK’s national programme and 13% have changed roles to broaden their experience. 383 contractor accidents (2014/15: 423). The majority living wage, while also recognising the challenges of customer accidents relate to slips, trips and falls associated with this policy development. SUPPLIERS & PARTNERS INNOVATING We also worked closely with our suppliers to rethink how the sinks are made and transported. By improving the manufacturing process we THROUGHOUT THE eliminated some of the chemicals previously used. Shipping the sinks and their wastewater PROJECT JOURNEY piping separately means the sinks can be stacked more efficiently. Now 106 can be fitted onto each pallet – a huge increase from the previous 24. This means we can transport more sinks per load, with positive environmental We’re forming more meaningful relationships results: reducing the amount of fuel we with our suppliers to identify opportunities for use and bringing down CO2 emissions. sustainable innovation. We’ve recently been working with suppliers to launch a new range of kitchen sinks, increasing their longevity by improving the quality of materials and finishes. This makes them more durable, so we can now offer at least 10 years’ guarantee. This means less waste and a lower impact on the environment – all with no increase in price for customers. 42 43 SUPPLIERS & PARTNERS SUPPLIERS & PARTNERS Raw material suppliers SUPPLIERS OUR CUSTOMERS WANT TO BE CONFIDENT We focus on tier-one suppliers with whom we have £1.2bn a direct contractual relationship. However, for some THAT THE PRODUCTS THEY BUY HAVE BEEN important raw materials we also take a broader MADE IN A SUPPLY CHAIN THAT LOOKS approach to identify and address risks further down the supply chain. Our work on responsible timber AFTER ITS WORKERS, RESPECTS HUMAN sourcing is one example (page 28) and stone another. Spent a year on goods not for resale RIGHTS AND PROTECTS THE ENVIRONMENT. Stone is used in paving products and kitchen worktops. B&Q is working with the TFT Responsible Stone Programme, to improve ethical and environmental standards in quarries and stone processing factories in developing countries. We choose our suppliers carefully, aiming to select Implementation and auditing partners who can deliver great products, without During 2015, we integrated ethical sourcing harming people or the planet. We want to use requirements into supplier negotiations for our GNFR suppliers We spend around £1.2 billion each year on goods not our £7 billion buying scale to positively influence unified offer and carried out a number of quality and for resale (GNFR), from cleaning services to fork lift standards in our supply chain, reflecting customer sustainability audits on these suppliers. Our group trucks. We aim to unify these contracts, negotiating expectations and reducing risks to our business. sourcing office has integrated our new policy into its goods and services on behalf of our operating ongoing supplier engagement and auditing process companies. This will improve efficiency, reduce costs Our work to unify our product offer and goods-notfor suppliers of own and exclusive brand products. and provide an opportunity to embed sustainability for-resale (GNFR) sourcing means we are taking a criteria into our GNFR purchasing. more centralised approach to sourcing, negotiating We are working with our operating companies to larger contracts with a smaller number of suppliers, map their supply chains including direct suppliers During 2015/16, we integrated sustainability criteria and often working directly with manufacturers. This and finished goods factories, and to integrate Sedex into the request for proposal process for a number will bring opportunities to partner with suppliers into procurement systems so they can use and of GNFR contracts including print and paper for on sustainability and we have created a new share supplier assessment and audit results. We are customer marketing. We expect to continue this sustainability director role in our Offer and Supply training operating company commercial and quality process with further categories of GNFR suppliers Chain function to drive this work. teams on our new policy. during 2016/17. We are also partnering with suppliers to improve the Performance in 2015/16 We are also working closely with GNFR suppliers sustainability performance of our products in areas Our group sourcing offices and operating companies 44 in areas such as clothing, and cleaning and security 45 such as responsible timber sourcing (page 26), closing sourced from 2,167 critical suppliers including 1,028 services to ensure they comply with the requirements the loop (page 16), sustainable home products (page factories and 1,139 suppliers of own and exclusive brand of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act. We will report on our 12) and phasing out peat and chemicals (pages 50-51). products. The majority of products sourced directly approach during 2016/17. from factories are own and exclusive brand products. SUPPLIER ETHICAL ASSESSMENT • 52% of these suppliers and factories have had We reviewed and updated our Ethical Sourcing an on-site audit in the past three years and 5% Policy and standards during 2015/16 to reflect new a desk-top assessment. CASE STUDY: A GREENER PALLET AT B&Q legislation including the UK’s Modern Slavery Act • 8 potential factories were not accepted in Wooden pallets used to ship products are a major and similar legislation proposed in France. 2015/16 because they failed to meet our ethical source of waste in the supply chain. Often pallets sourcing standards. are of low quality, meaning they can’t be reused Our new policy applies across all group and operating • 308 factories were required to implement a and products may get damaged in transit, wasting company suppliers including those providing goods Corrective Action Plan in relation to ethical money and resources. Many products also don’t and services not for resale. It will help us take a more sourcing requirements following an audit in fit the standard pallet sizes used by returnable consistent approach and to embed ethical sourcing 2015/16 (77% of factories audited). No sourcing pallet schemes. principles in the development of our unified offer. can take place until all major issues have been resolved through the action plan process. We To tackle these problems, B&Q, working with We also updated the Kingfisher Workplace Standards, do not currently collect data on Corrective Action supplier Scotts Pallets, has developed its own range covering areas such as human rights, health and Plans for other suppliers. of higher quality pallets in bespoke sizes for B&Q safety, employment rights, the environment and products and made from sustainably sourced timber. ethical business practices and introduced a consistent These can be purchased by suppliers globally and standard for supplier ethical and environmental audits. used to ship products to B&Q. After use the pallets £7bn Our policy and standards commit us to monitoring are picked up, repaired if necessary, then shipped supplier performance and to taking action in the back to the supplier for reuse. event of any significant breaches of our requirements. Four suppliers joined initially and 103,000 pallets We will prioritise engagement with suppliers were reused in the first nine months, equating to presenting a higher risk due to the products or 2,500 tonnes of timber. This generated £166,000 for Buying scale services they supply, their geographical location the business and avoided 275 lorry trips from forest or our contractual relationship. We are particularly to pallet manufacturer. 52% focused on suppliers of own and exclusive brand products. We have started using Sedex, the online Sustainability benefit: pallets made from sustainably supplier data exchange, across the business to help sourced timber, less waste with pallets reused up us identify risks in our supply chain and to assess to 15 times each. and monitor supplier performance including using Business benefit: lower costs from better pre-screening and self-assessments and to track Of our factories have had an on-site audit waste management and more efficient logistics. and share audit results. in the past three years SUPPLIERS & PARTNERS SUPPLIERS & PARTNERS SUPPLIER FOOTPRINT – WASTE, WATER AND CARBON We can have an influence on the waste, carbon and Employees can report any concerns via our whistlewater footprint of our value chain by working with blowing hotline or get advice via a dedicated email our largest suppliers on these issues. We set a new address. All reports are investigated and if an target during 2015 to work with our top 40 suppliers employee is found to have breached our Code to put in place waste, carbon and water reduction of Conduct, appropriate disciplinary action is taken. plans. From 2016/17 we will be engaging with our The number of open and resolved cases and the largest group vendors, including suppliers for our outcomes are reported to the Audit Committee unified ranges. of the Board of Directors. 260 cases were opened during 2015/16. Operating companies are required This work builds on successful projects within to raise employee awareness of the hotline and our operating companies and business units. email address. For example, our group sourcing office helped develop and has been participating in WWF’s Low We also run an online reporting system for vendors Carbon Manufacturing Programme (LCMP) in China which is communicated in variety of ways including since 2012. 24 of our suppliers have taken part via the Code of Conduct, regular reminder letters, in LCMP, collectively avoiding over 13,813 tonnes during annual contract negotiations and on of carbon, an estimated 11.3% reduction in carbon procurement portals used by vendors. emissions compared with business as usual. We have also established a new partnership with the Download our Code of Conduct: Environmental Defense Fund’s Green Supply Chain kingfisher.com/sustainabilityresources Program (GSC). Eight suppliers joined GSC in 2015 and are working to achieve carbon reductions. ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY We engaged with our partners and external ETHICAL CONDUCT stakeholders on issues relating to ethical sourcing Our Code of Conduct and Group Governance and supply chains during 2015/16. This included: Manual – ‘The Way We Do Business’ – explains • Ethical sourcing – we are working with the our ethical principles, key policies and minimum European DIY Retail association to develop an 46 standards, and help us comply with regulation industry-wide approach to ethical sourcing. 47 such as the UK’s Bribery Act. We aim to create • Modern Slavery Act/Devoir de Vigilance – we a compliance culture in which all employees feel participated in a government consultation on able to raise concerns and companies have the the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, supporting its confidence to identify, acknowledge and address introduction. We also participated in a consultation gaps in policies or performance. on similar proposed legislation in France. • UK supplier payment terms – we engaged with The Code forms part of the contractual terms and the Federation of Small Businesses, Chartered conditions for all new employees and is included in Institute of Credit Management, Federation of our contracts with product suppliers and key GNFR Private Businesses and the CBI as part of a review suppliers, who are expected to communicate its of our payment terms for small businesses in the requirements to their own employees. UK. We have now introduced 30 day payment terms for SME suppliers in the UK. Our operating companies’ reporting and compliance procedures include: the appointment of a senior compliance officer in each operating company; training for relevant employees; raising awareness of our whistle-blowing procedures; and integration of the Code of Conduct into employee and supplier contracts. We have a compliance network for our operating company compliance officers to share information and best practices. Our internal audit function monitors compliance with our Code and policies, working with our operating companies to help them strengthen policies or procedures where needed. We work closely with our suppliers, aiming to ensure All employees whose location or role poses a potential corruption risk must complete our antiour supply chains have bribery and corruption training module, which a positive impact, so our has been integrated into the induction process for relevant employees. customers know they’re not improving their homes at the expense of somewhere else. ENVIRONMENT For us, caring for the environment also begins at home. Across all our businesses we’re making larger-scale changes for a more positive TO CREATE SPACES environmental impact. In 2015, we developed our company-wide chemicals policy, and are constantly looking for ways to improve our packaging, so it’s TO BE PROUD OF, more environmentally friendly while still providing the same level of protection for products. We’re also INSIDE AND OUT testing out more sustainable ways of designing, constructing and running buildings at 22 ‘learning stores’ across our businesses, to develop new best We believe a beautiful garden completes the practices for the future. home. And, judging by the love and attention our customers give to theirs, we’d have to say they agree. We’re making it easier for them to care for their green spaces in a natural way. Tea Bag technology used to package B&Q’s easyGrow plants is not only better for the environment but it’s better for gardeners too. This biodegradable packaging innovation produces less mess and prevents damage to delicate plant roots. B&Q has also extended its range of Perfect For Pollinators plants that encourage bees and other wildlife. 48 49 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT OUR CUSTOMERS WANT HEALTHY HOMES PEAT ELIMINATION PEAT FACTS AND GARDENS, FREE FROM HARMFUL The extraction of peat for use in horticulture 62% contributes to climate change and the loss of CHEMICALS AND WITH LESS WASTE. important natural habitats. B&Q is working with suppliers to phase out peat from bagged growing media (such as compost and soil) and horticultural products (such as potted plants) in the UK ahead That’s why we’re working systematically to design CHEMICALS of government voluntary targets. We can have a Of UK bagged growing media was peat-free in 2015/16 out negative environmental impacts from our products We stock many chemical-based products such significant impact in this area, with B&Q accounting and our business. as paints, treatments and cleaning products and for around a quarter of the UK growing media market. chemicals are also used in the manufacturing Peat alternatives now account for 46% Ultimately we aspire to be restorative to environments, process for many finished goods. There is increasing In 2015/16, 62% of UK bagged growing media (by not just reducing negative impacts but creating customer interest in the use of chemicals and a volume sold) was peat-free – a decrease from 64% positive change locally and globally. growing number of chemicals are being identified for the previous year. This decrease was mainly due phase out or potential phase out under legislation to a number of promotional campaigns running on Other important environmental issues for our business such as the EU REACH Regulation. products containing peat. 46% of growing media include timber (page 26), energy (page 18) and closing used by B&Q’s plant suppliers was peat free. Of growing media used by B&Q the loop (page 15). We developed our company-wide chemicals policy 22 in 2015 to help us phase out, substitute or eliminate B&Q received the Greenest Garden Centre Award, PACKAGING chemicals covered by EU REACH. at the Garden Retail & Garden Industry Awards 2016 We are redesigning our packaging, to still provide for its work on peat and issues such as timber. the best protection for our products, but using fewer We already have good information on the chemicals and more sustainable materials; to improve the visual used in chemical-based products such as paints. LEARNING STORES AND impact of our products on display; to enable more However, implementing our policy for chemicals found SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION Learning stores that champion low carbon efficient transport; and to improve recyclability. in finished goods will be more challenging because we We aim to improve the environmental performance of and sustainability innovation have so many products in our ranges. We will use a riskour stores and buildings, and make them better places Our company-wide packaging policy sets minimum based approach to identifying and phasing out chemical to shop and work. Our sustainable property road map standards for our companies and helps them to work substances in our products, focusing on products more covers issues such as energy and carbon, construction with suppliers to improve packaging design. We likely to contain chemicals of higher concern. Under waste, timber, climate change and biodiversity. We have appointed a partner to help us collect data on our new policy, suppliers will be required to provide work closely with landlords in these areas, with leased 50 packaging materials used and monitor compliance a list of all substances found in their products, and to 51 properties accounting for around 60% of our floor space. with our packaging policy. We hope to be able substitute chemicals where required by EU REACH. As part of our business transformation we are to report progress against our target next year. Suppliers will be required to use the ‘best’ alternative We test out sustainable approaches to building redesigning our store formats to be more efficient when substituting a chemical, and not select alternatives design, construction and operation at ‘learning and effective, starting with Big Box stores (our In 2015/16, we focused on integrating our packaging based purely on factors such as price. stores’ in each of our businesses. We now have 22 largest locations). Our sustainability teams are policy into our work to develop our unique and learning stores including three flagship stores that working with colleagues in property and design to unified offer and improved the sustainability We will be particularly focused on any potential risks champion low carbon and sustainability innovation, embed social and environmental criteria into new performance of our packaging in a number of areas. to children from chemicals used in our products. This such as our Antibes store (page 23). Our first flagship store concepts including LED lighting, a unified For example, by changing the way our unified includes products designed for children as well as store in Poland will open at Radom during 2016/17 waste management process and sustainability range of sinks are packaged we can transport and general household products. with a number of sustainable design features. communications for customers and employees. store them more efficiently, see page 42. We redesigned our toilet seat cartons to provide a more We take a precautionary approach to using chemicals secure solution for customers while reducing the which could impact biodiversity. For example, environmental footprint. This included removing we stopped selling products containing three plastic handles and replacing the majority of neonicotinoids which could be harmful to bees, ahead polystyrene fitments (which secure the product of regulation and in both our EU and non-EU markets. to the packaging) with corrugated board. CASE STUDY: EASIER GARDENING Chemicals legislation creates new challenges for WITH EASYGROW B&Q’s easyGrow bedding plants are easier and less We also rolled out our recycled cardboard pulp using recycled materials in our products. For example, messy for gardeners and better for the environment packaging for home delivered paint at B&Q, which recycled plastics may be created with materials from thanks to their innovative design and use of materials. replaces non-recyclable moulded foam packaging. many different sources, meaning it can be harder We now use the recycled packaging for our 5 litre to identify all chemicals used. Plants come in individual ‘tea bags’ planted in and 2.5 litre round tins and plan to extend this to sustainable coir that is virtually peat-free. They can our 10 litre containers. Online paint orders are an be lifted straight into the ground from the pack still area of significant growth for B&Q. in their bags, making planting easier and less likely to damage delicate roots. The packs, made from We are working with suppliers to make sure that PET, are easily recycled with other household waste. timber and paper used in packaging are sourced responsibly, see page 29. Customer benefit: easy to use with less waste Sustainability benefit: 95% peat-free, easily recycled packaging with no polystyrene. Business benefit: popular product with strong sales, more efficient to transport. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT WATER This includes planting more local species of vegetation Our water use has risen by 15% since 2010/11 due to and expanding the green spaces in store car parks. business growth, water leaks and an improvement We aim to minimise negative impacts on biodiversity WASTE WASTE RECYCLING AND DISPOSAL 2015/16* in the quality of our data. Although we are not major from our products through our work in areas such We are redesigning our infrastructure and processes Thousand tonnes water users, our companies are taking steps to as chemicals (page 50), responsible timber sourcing to improve efficiency and reduce waste. minimise water use. For example, B&Q trains staff (page 26) and peat-elimination (page 51). We also to use water efficiently when watering plants in its offer a range of products that help our customers We generated 237,780 tonnes of waste in 2015/16, garden centres. create wildlife-friendly gardens. For example, B&Q an increase of 1.5% year-on-year (2014/15: 234,344), 10% has extended its range of plants that carry the Perfect compared to an increase in sales of 3.8%. Our recycling GREEN TRAVEL for Pollinators label to help gardeners attract more rate remained at 70%, not on track for our milestone of CO2e emissions from business air travel increased bees and pollinators and introduced bug boxes as 75% by 2016/17. The percentage of waste disposed to by 10.2% since 2010/11, and 0.6% year on year. CO2e a new product line. Its website verveandblooma.co.uk landfill increased by 2% year-on-year, in part due to an 20% emissions from business road travel have increased includes advice on how to make gardens wildlife havens. increase in rubble sent to landfill in Poland rather than by 1.6% since 2010/11, but decreased by 2.2% on the being recycled. previous year. ENVIRONMENTAL PROSECUTION 70% Our Castorama Russia Pulkovo store in St. Petersburg Several of our companies have reached our milestone Our companies are developing green travel plans was found to have violated wastewater standards, including B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt France, Screwfix UK to reduce CO2 emissions from employee and including levels of fats and iron above regulatory and Germany. Screwfix has achieved our 2020 target customer travel. These include measures to reduce standards. The store has paid a fine and is working ahead of schedule, with zero waste to landfill from unnecessary business travel, and to encourage the to address its wastewater standards. its stores, distribution centres and head office by use of public transport, car sharing and lower carbon improving how it sorts, stores and transports waste. transport options. For example, Castorama France ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY stores have a car-sharing website for employees We engage with regulators, businesses and NGOs Screwfix and B&Q are working with suppliers to reduce and customers as well as priority parking bays for to encourage progress on environmental issues. waste from customer returns. Returned products are employees sharing their car journey. For example: Waste recycled 166 now being processed at a central point, where they • Healthy buildings – we participated in a report by the can be repackaged or have missing parts replaced Waste disposed to landfill 48 Our Group telepresence video conferencing system UK’s Green Building Council looking at how retail and returned for sale. Damaged or faulty products are and online collaboration tools can help reduce building design affects health and wellbeing, and Waste disposed to incineration 24 resold at a discount rate or disposed of responsibly. unnecessary air travel between our key locations. how improvements to indoor environments can help with energy recovery to reduce staff turnover and increase engagement. Construction waste BIODIVERSITY • Biodiversity Bill – we participated in the * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope We are working with construction and waste Biodiversity audits were carried out for 7% of new-build development of the French Biodiversity Bill management suppliers as well as landlords to projects and major refurbishments during 2015/16. For to ensure the proposed changes allow flexibility 52 53 increase recycling of construction waste from new example, Castorama France conducted biodiversity in how we improve our stores. build and major refurbishment projects and to audits for its three major refurbishments and two • Peat elimination – B&Q is working with improve data quality. We are looking at how we can new build projects during the year. These assessed manufacturers, retailers, growers and NGOs measure waste generated and recycled throughout which habitats and species could be affected by the through the Growing Media Initiative, to reduce the the course of construction projects, enabling us projects and included measures to reduce any impacts use of peat in gardening products. This includes to identify opportunities to increase recycling rates. on biodiversity. Castorama France has developed a collaborating on a project to establish an audit new specification for landscaping around its stores process for members to help track progress designed to improve visual impact and biodiversity. on phasing out peat. WASTE RECYCLING % of waste recycled 75 70 70 70 68 64 66 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 2016 Milestone  * Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT happening in the business, the Advisory Council methodology, but remains above the average did not meet during 2015/16, though we continued score for the FTSE 350 of 84C. to engage with its members. We are reviewing • CDP Forest Programme – we were joint retail our approach to understand how to best meet the sector leader for timber in 2015. WE ARE INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO changing needs of our business going forward. MATERIALITY HOW WE RUN OUR BUSINESS INCLUDING We partner with many external organisations working on sustainability issues and benefit from their insight and A wide range of social, environmental and economic issues are relevant to our business and to stakeholders. OUR CORE POLICIES AND PROCESSES feedback. You can read a perspective from Sally Uren, Chief Executive of Forum for the Future, on page 60. We prioritise our most material issues through extensive consultation. We look at which issues are of most concern to our customers and other stakeholders Customers and assess their potential impact on our business Our customers are our most important stakeholders, including commercial, operational and reputational risks and we engage with them to understand their needs, and opportunities. get feedback and help us develop the right products ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES This is a continual process that includes: and services, for example through our customer Overall responsibility for sustainability now sits with monthly webinars. It is a forum for reviewing home visits, page 40. We also undertake larger 1. Internal review: identifying priority stakeholders for our Chief Customer Officer, who is a member of our progress and sharing ideas and best practices. research projects such as our European Homes engagement, and collating and reviewing feedback leadership team and reports directly to our Chief Report that surveys householders’ attitudes to home and information. Executive Officer. This is a new position, whose role We invest in helping our people to build their improvement including sustainability-related issues. 2. External review: engaging directly with stakeholders is to create the best experience for our customers sustainability knowledge and to share information See kingfisher.com/europeanhomereport through channels such as customer visits, face-to-face online and in-store, and to integrate sustainability and ideas. For example, the members of our Group meetings, and membership of organisations including across the customer journey. In line with our aim Sustainability Committee and 50 employees in the to fully integrate sustainability, we no longer have business have completed courses by the University Investors and SRI indices Forum for the Future, BSR and the Ellen MacArthur We communicate our approach to sustainability Foundation. From this we identify a shortlist of issues a separate Group Sustainability Director role. of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership. to our investors and participate in many responsible considered most material to our stakeholders. Sustainability issues are regularly discussed at The Kingfisher Exchange enables colleagues in investment benchmarks and indices and we include 3. Prioritisation: working with key internal and external meetings of the Kingfisher Board of Directors. our sustainability, property, health and safety and information on sustainability in all investor presentations. stakeholders to identify priority issues. customer insight teams to share information and Our Group Sustainability Committee provides best practices. 222 webinars were delivered via the We maintained an above average ranking in the This process was used to develop our Net Positive direction on the development and integration of site which has almost 400 members. leading benchmarks during 2015/16. These include: aspirations and targets and to identify which issues sustainability. The Committee, which met four times should be included in our reporting. during the year, is chaired by the Chief Customer We are updating our policies to integrate sustainability • Dow  Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) – we Officer and its members include senior leaders from criteria and have published company-wide policies 54 our Group functions and companies. It is responsible on timber, packaging, ethical sourcing and chemicals. have been included in the DJSI World and Our material issues 55 Europe Indices since 2010. We are listed in the Our sustainability strategy and reporting is structured for agreeing the direction of our sustainability RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2016, which around seven themes: product innovation; energy; approach and for monitoring progress against our We are integrating sustainability into the development includes the top 15% of companies from the DJSI. timber; communities; employees; suppliers; and Net Positive targets. It also facilitates sharing of of our new Group data management systems. This • FTSE4Good Index – we are listed in this index environment. Each theme relates to a number of best practices across the Group and supports the will help us take a more efficient, consistent and with a rating of 3.8 out of 5. material issues, as demonstrated in the table below. development of capacity and capability at all levels automated approach to data collection across the • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2015 – we Our Net Positive targets are designed to help us take throughout the business to deliver on our goals. business and enable us to use data more effectively received a score of 98B (2014: 95A-). This reflects action on our most material issues. in monitoring and managing performance. performance on climate change (B rating) and We created a new sustainability director role within disclosure around our climate impacts (98%). We keep our materiality assessment our Offer and Supply Chain function to help lead our We carried out an interim review of our Net Positive Our performance score dropped in 2015, under review and welcome feedback to: work on integrating sustainability into our unified offer. targets during 2015 to begin aligning them to our largely reflecting changes to the CDP’s scoring netpositiveconversation@kingfisher.com ONE Kingfisher strategy and to make sure that we Each of our companies is developing an have clear ownership and accountability for delivery implementation plan for how they will deliver on among our functions and business areas. We made Net Positive theme Material issues for stakeholders Business drivers our Net Positive targets in a locally relevant way. minor changes to a number of targets and added These plans are based on our commercial model three new ones, bringing our total to 53 targets. Product innovation Sustainable lifestyles, natural resource Customer preference and for delivering Net Positive, see page 11. Operating We will do further work in this area during 2016/17. use, waste revenue growth companies report progress against our targets Energy Climate change, fuel poverty Cost reduction, customer preference to the Group once a year via our Foundations STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT and revenue growth questionnaire. The results are reviewed by our We learn from our stakeholders, and their views, operating company CEOs and senior directors at expertise and insights are invaluable in helping Timber Deforestation, climate change, Access to resources Group level. We publish an annual internal progress us achieve our goals. We aim to be are open about biodiversity report which enables our senior leadership to track how we work and to communicate regularly with Communities Community cohesion, access to good Stable, prosperous communities and compare performance across our companies. stakeholders on our approach and progress. Our housing, skills This is reviewed by the Group Sustainability stakeholders include our customers, employees, Committee and communicated to all operating investors, suppliers and government as well as People Human rights, equality and diversity, Access to talent and skill companies to encourage best practice sharing. NGOs, the media and other third-sector organisations. health and safety, youth employment, skills Our central sustainability team works closely Information on our approach to engaging our Suppliers & partners Human rights, labour standards, ethical Operational efficiency, security of with our businesses, including monthly meetings employees is included on page 38 and our conduct, anti-bribery and corruption supply with representatives from our largest operating suppliers on page 44. companies. The Kingfisher Sustainability Network, Environment Natural resource use, chemicals, waste, Operational efficiency, access made up of the Group Sustainability team and Our Net Positive Advisory Council of senior external biodiversity, water to resources representatives from each operating company, experts provided advice and insight on sustainability Governance Tax, lobbying Risk management and regulatory meets at least annually in person and through to our senior leaders. Due to the significant changes & management compliance, opportunity identification GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT AUDIT AND RISK We have robust governance processes in place to Read more about our approach to human rights VAT rules between member states, changes to Ethical funds issues in our supply chain on page 44 and in relation make e-commerce easier, and new measures in As well as integrating responsible investment ensure the completeness, accuracy and reliability to our employees on page 38. relation to home deliveries of home improvement principles across its investments, the KPS also of our sustainability performance data. These products such as paints and power tools with lithium offers participants in its Money Purchase scheme include the use of in-house and third-party experts to review data and qualitative statements included PUBLIC POLICY batteries which can be classified as hazardous the opportunity to select an Ethical Fund for their Government policy can help stimulate progress under current rules. pension. This fund aims to provide long-term growth in our Annual Report and sustainability reporting. on sustainability issues and on business issues • Poland – we advocated against changes to the by investing in the shares of companies that meet a set For example, sustainability experts Bioregional more generally. We work with non-governmental tax system for retailers which could negatively of ethical criteria. A similar fund is offered to participants coordinate our head office data review process for organisations and regulators at the national impact our business, working through the Polish in the final salary scheme, in respect of members’ Net Positive and review our data and monitor our and regional level to encourage legislation that Confederation of Private Employers and the Polish additional voluntary contribution investments. progress on sustainable home product innovation. incentivises sustainable business practices and Organisation of Commerce & Distribution. Our timber data is reviewed by Efeca, who are also creates a level playing field to support investment The KPS Trustees are also exploring opportunities the lead consultants to the UK government’s timber procurement policy. in sustainable business and innovation. Examples Membership of trade associations to invest in specific funds that support progress on of our engagement and advocacy on sustainability Some of our public policy work is conducted via sustainability issues, such as renewable energy and issues are included on pages 17,25,31,35,41,46,53. trade associations and industry groups which can social housing projects. Existing investments include The CEO of each operating company is responsible help to increase the impact of our policy messages. a £20 million stake in the Global Farmland Fund which for ensuring that appropriate processes and We also engage in the political process in our These relationships are overseen by our Group invests in farmland operated according to sustainable controls are in place to monitor and report progress markets and at EU level to inform the development Head of Government Affairs for trade associations farming methods. against our Net Positive targets. They are required of policy that has a material impact on our business in the UK, France and Brussels and, in other markets, to complete an annual self-certification process and the retail sector. by the relevant local CEO. Our memberships include: KPS aims to make its pension provision inclusive so to confirm that Net Positive performance data • EU – the European DIY-Retail Association (EDRA) that it meets the needs of all employees. For example, submitted to the Group is materially accurate and has been subject to an appropriate level of review Approach and standards • UK – the British Retail Consortium (BRC), the Money Purchase scheme offers a Shariah fund Our Group Head of Government Affairs manages Confederation of British Industry (CBI), and the GC100 which invests in shares of companies around the world prior to submission. our public policy activities and reports to our Chief – the Association of General Counsel and Company whose practices are consistent with Shariah principles. Customer Officer. The Board of Directors reviews Secretaries working in FTSE 100 Companies Group Internal Audit performed testing over a selection of performance data at each of our our public policy activity quarterly. All our public • France – the French Association of Private Communication on responsible investment policy work must meet the ethical standards set Businesses (AFEP), and the French Federation To improve understanding and awareness among operating companies. We appointed KPMG LLP out in our Code of Conduct and reflect our public of DIY Retailers (FMB) Trustee Directors, information on ESG risks and to provide a limited assurance opinion on selected sustainability commitments. We are registered on • Ireland – Retail Excellence Ireland opportunities is included in the quarterly training aspects of this report. Further details on the work the EU Transparency Register of lobbying activities. • Russia – Franco-Russian Council days held for Trustees. Regular communication they performed and their conclusion are set out • Poland – The Polish Confederation of Private between the KPS Trustee Directors and senior in their full assurance statement on page 72. 56 We work with a number of external lobbying Employers and the Polish Organisation of Kingfisher executives and the Kingfisher Net Positive 57 companies, which are all members of recognised Commerce & Distribution (POHID). team helps to improve integration of ESG factors. Identification and management of risks relating self-regulatory organisations such as the Association • Portugal – Portuguese Association of Retail to sustainability, at an operating company and of Professional Political Consultants in the UK and the Companies (APED) The KPS keeps investment managers updated on Group level are incorporated in our strategic risk European Public Affairs Consultancies’ Association • Turkey – Chain Stores Association (KMD), Turkish its investment approach and raises awareness of assessment processes. This means key risks to (EPACA) in the EU and governed by their codes of Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD). Kingfisher’s commitment to responsible business. achieving our targets are considered at least twice conduct. The lobbying companies we use in the a year. In addition we conduct topic-specific internal audits or risk reviews where required. For example, EU are also listed on the EU Transparency Register. PENSIONS Employee engagement The Kingfisher Pension Scheme (KPS) manages the The KPS uses a number of innovative approaches to in 2015/16 Group Internal Audit conducted a Chain In line with EU and UK corporate governance best pensions of past and present employees. Reflecting engage Kingfisher employees and encourage them of Custody (FSC® and PEFC) audit in B&Q and also practice and as stated in our Code of Conduct, it is our commitment to sustainability, the KPS integrates to plan and save for their retirement. This includes performed an on-site review of Bioregional’s controls our policy not to make donations directly to political responsible investment principles into its work and educational DVDs for store managers to use during and procedures that are being used for validating parties or politicians. communicates with stakeholders on its approach to team meetings and a mobile app game designed the Group’s sustainability data. Read more on our environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. to engage younger employees, with 78% of players approach to risk management in our Annual Report We follow government guidelines in relation to stating that it encouraged them to think about saving and Accounts: annualreport.kingfisher.com/2015-16 employing former public officials (the “revolvingPrinciples for their future. This approach helped reduce opt-out door”). On occasion, we collaborate with government Investment decisions at KPS are governed by the rates from 6.2% to 2.42% by 31 March 2016. HUMAN RIGHTS departments to provide secondments for public scheme’s Statement of Investment Principles (SIP). We respect human rights and take steps to protect officials, including through the UK civil service’s This sets out KPS’s commitment to act as a responsible External recognition the rights of our employees, workers in our supply high potential secondment programme. investor and states the Trustee Board’s belief that all • DC Pensions Awards 2015, Best Communication chain and others affected by our business activities. companies should be run in a socially responsible way. Strategy, Trust Based Scheme of the Year We are guided by international standards such as the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Public policy priorities • Institutional Investors UK & Ireland Awards 2015, We engaged with governments on a range of policy Investment managers acting on behalf of the KPS Most Innovative Pension Scheme Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, issues during 2015/16 including: supplier payment are required to take account of social, environmental • Engaged Trustee Awards 2015, Best Approach and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration terms; supply chain responsibility; changes to and ethical considerations where these may have a to DC, Best Communication Strategy and Best on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. property taxes; employment policies including the financial impact on investment performance. They Investment Strategy introduction of the UK’s new National Living Wage are encouraged to engage with investee companies • Pension Scheme of Year Awards 2015, DC Scheme We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and Apprenticeship Levy; the European Digital Single on these issues, including exercising voting rights of the Year and Best Financial Education Initiative (UNGC), and are committed to its 10 principles Market; the EU Timber Regulation; equal gender where appropriate. • European Pension Awards 2015, including those relating to human rights. See pay; Sunday Trading laws in the UK and France; Communication Award page 74 for our UNGC Index. and energy policy. Examples of public policy activity Investment managers must disclose their investment • Financial News 2015 Pension Awards – Best DC from 2015/16: approach to KPS and state whether this integrates Plan Design and Best Member Communications We support the introduction of the UK’s Modern Slavery • EU – we participated in consultations relating to ESG factors. All investment managers acting for KPS • Financial News 2015 Pension Awards – Best DC Act. We are reviewing our processes and procedures the European Commission’s Digital Single Market are asked to disclose whether they are signatories Plan Design and Best Member Communications to ensure we comply with its requirements and package, working with the European DIY-Retail to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment and will publish our transparency statement in 2017. Association. We advocated in support of simplifying the UK Stewardship Code. PERFORMANCE SUMMARY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY We have set 53 targets to help us make progress towards our Net Positive aspirations and stimulate innovation. We are making progress on our priority issues, however we need to increase the rate of change in many areas to achieve our 2020 targets. A more detailed summary of progress during 2015/16 is on pages 63–70. We have followed a process Δ, as described 0-25% 26-50% 51-75% 76-99% in our Data Collection Methodology, to determine our progress towards our sustainability targets. Innovation Energy Sustainable home Customer energy use: Timber in packaging: Skills sharing: Promote Sustainable product Packaging: Packaging products – innovation: 38 TWh of energy saved 100% of packaging which sharing of skills and training: Every employee on all own-brand and To be at the forefront for customers. contains wood fibres to ‘know-how’ in local has the right skills to exclusive brand products of sustainable product be responsibly sourced. communities by help customers lead to conform to Kingfisher Energy-using products: innovation, by achieving building online sustainable lifestyles. packaging standards. All energy-using Timber in construction: 10% of Group sales from community platforms. products meet best 100% of timber procured Suppliers & partners Chemicals: None of our the most innovative sustainable home practice standards for construction and fit-out People Ethical sourcing: All Goods Not for Resale on energy efficiency. to be responsibly sourced. (GNFR), own-brand, products. Engagement surveys: suppliers will meet or unbranded or exclusive Energy use in our GNFR paper: 100% of the Improve our employee exceed our ethical and Sustainable home brand products and operations: 45% paper used in our Goods engagement by extending environmental standards. products – compliance: packaging will contain the reduction in the energy Not For Resale (GNFR) to engagement surveys to To bring sustainable GNFR contracts: Key chemicals of concern we intensity (kWh/m2) of our be responsibly sourced. cover all employees. products into the GNFR contracts will have committed to remove. property portfolio from mainstream by achieving Tropical deforestation: Diversity and inclusion: meet or exceed our a 2010/11 baseline. Peat elimination: All 50% of Group sales from None of our products To be recognised as a sustainability standards. growing media for sale products that help create Carbon footprint: to be sourced from ‘best practice’ company for Supplier footprint: and use in our operations a sustainable home. 25% reduction in our materials that are linked equality and diversity within Require our top 40 in the UK to be from absolute carbon footprint to tropical deforestation. our local retail markets. Sustainability of own suppliers to develop a sustainable sources ahead (tonnes CO2e) from brand: Demonstrate Sustainable forestry: Health and safety – N/A waste, carbon and water of the government 2020 a 2010/11 baseline. leadership on sustainable Work with partners employees: Achieve reduction plan by 2020, and 2030 deadlines. innovation across our Carbon intensity property: to measure the impact a 20% reduction in the towards delivering a 50% Waste: Achieve zero Group own brands. 50% reduction in the of FSC certification employee lost-time impact reduction. waste to landfill from carbon intensity (CO2e/m2) on forests, biodiversity accident rate (number Sustainable lifestyles: Ethical conduct: Maintain our own operations. of our property portfolio and forest communities of lost-time accidents To use our global the highest standards from a 2010/11 baseline. and assess the effect per 100,000 full-time Construction waste: 58 brands and marketing of ethical business 59 of our responsible equivalent employees) 90% of construction waste to help shift our millions Renewable energy: We conduct through ongoing timber sourcing. from a 2010/11 baseline. recycled in new build and of customers towards will develop a renewable implementation of, and major refurbishments. sustainable lifestyles. energy plan for our own Strategic sourcing: Health and safety compliance with, the operations by 2016/17. Demonstrate – customers and Group Governance Manual Water: To understand the Sustainable marketing: resilient supply chain contractors: Develop and Code of Conduct. water footprint of our own Embed sustainability into Direct haulage emissions relationships that can a Group-wide accident operations by 2016/17. the marketing strategy – dedicated delivery SRI Indices: Kingfisher guarantee the future reporting framework for each of our brands/ fleets: 20% reduction to maintain its position Green travel: Demonstrate provision of responsibly for customers and onsite divisions/ operating in CO2 emissions from in key SRI indices and proactive green travel sourced timber across contractors, and set a companies. direct transport impacts corporate responsibility programme to minimise the Group’s major reduction target by 2016/17. from a 2010/11 baseline. ratings by 2016/17. the environmental impact Water-using products: timber categories. Senior management of travel by employees All water-using products Indirect haulage emissions Sustainability accounting: Reforestation: Implement sustainability training: and customers. to meet ‘best practice’ – supplier delivery Calculate and account for a unified group forest or 2016/17 target: Top 250 standards on water fleets: Demonstrate the impact and value of our Learning stores: Every woodland enhancement managers from around the efficiency. a comprehensive sustainability strategy to the operating company to initiative that makes a Group to have completed programme of action to business and communicate develop at least three Closed-loop products: substantial quantifiable a development programme reduce the overall carbon this to investors and ‘learning stores’ and to 1,000 Kingfisher step towards our on Net Positive by 2016/17. footprint of our indirect employees by 2016/17. confirm the site for a products with closedaspiration of creating transport impacts. Performance management store that champions low loop credentials. more forest than we use. Environment for sustainability: carbon and sustainability Timber Closed-loop supply Communities Integrate Net Positive Standardised policies: innovation by 2016/17. chains: Work with Responsible sourcing: into the performance To standardise company Community plan: We will Biodiversity: Enhance partners across the 100% responsibly sourced management systems for policies across all create a unified plan for biodiversity on new product lifecycle to timber and paper in all all relevant employees. relevant product community involvement, build projects, major achieve ten ‘closed-loop’ our operations. sustainability issues. focusing on our core Net Positive engagement: refurbishments and supply chains. Timber in our products: purpose by 2016/17. Net Positive engagement existing stores. Alternative services: 100% of the timber and and development Community projects: Explore and trial paper we sell to be programmes to motivate 4,000 community projects alternative business responsibly sourced. all our employees to completed by our people. models which encourage become more sustainable a perpetual reuse at work and at home. of products, by 2016/17. Δ  Our statement that we have followed the process described in the Data Collection Methodology to determine progress towards our sustainability targets  is within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. *We have changed the data we use to monitor our accident rate. We will be updating our target to reflect our new reporting approach. See page 67. COMMENT We believe our Net Positive ambition requires a two-sided approach. As this report shows, we’ve made much progress to this end – both in our home and in helping to improve our customers’ homes. But our progression is also two sided: for every step forward we make there is still plenty more to be done. Which is why we’ll keep up the good work, to ensure the “The trick is to keep the customer at the Kingfisher family continues on its heart of the strategy, with the strategy itself way to becoming a truly sustainable Sally Uren having very porous boundaries, allowing company. Because this matters to us. Chief Executive Forum for the Future the outside in, and adapting as a result. IT’S PERSONAL. Change is afoot at Kingfisher. The key Alongside this bold ambition is The second aspect I’m excited about? A message from the still relatively new continued delivery against key mainstream retailer getting serious about CEO is one of business transformation in performance indicators. Real strides experimentation with the sharing economy. the shape of the ONE Kingfisher strategy, have been made on product innovation Non-financial transactions are beginning which is essentially a story of business with 28% of sales from products that to power the exchange of knowledge integration as a means of delivering help create a sustainable home, 96% and goods in new and unprecedented value, with two important ingredients. of timber products now responsibly ways. Combined with digital platforms, sourced and energy saving products the sharing economy will, and arguably 60 61 The first is the placing of the Kingfisher and services that are saving customers already is, disrupting traditional retail. customer squarely into the centre of £750 million a year. However, much But rather than hope this all goes away, the business strategy, arguably where remains to be done in areas like Kingfisher is trying to understand what this it should have been for a while; but community investment, business carbon shift in commerce means, and incorporate it is refreshing to see such clarity emissions, waste and supply chain it into its business model. Through Casto of insight into the centrality of the management, with many of the 2020 Lab, and wikiforhomes Kingfisher is customer experience at the heart targets still looking very stretching. dipping its toe into the sharing economy, of any successful retailer. to learn, and to adapt. There are two aspects of this report The second ingredient is Kingfisher’s that particularly excite me. The first Integration, ambition, experimentation – aspiration to become ‘a truly is the strong link between all things three themes then that run through this sustainable company’. With Net Net Positive and business value. This report. If there was one thing I’d like to Positive being an enabler for this. feedback loop is critical if businesses see more of, though, it’s pace. In order to The combination of this customerare successfully going to play their role truly realise the benefits of Net Positive, centric strategy and the weaving of in tackling big sustainability issues. At to go with the end customer on their sustainability through every aspect of Forum for the Future, we have a term journey from bricks and mortar retail to its delivery means that Kingfisher might ‘system innovators’, that we use to digital, to realise the opportunity of the just be able to pull off something that describe businesses who are trying to sharing economy, and not be left fighting no major retailer has really managed shape the system around them in ways its inevitability as a threat, Kingfisher will yet: mainstreaming of sustainability that help solve difficult issues (climate need to be nimble and adaptable. And into its core market proposition. The change, community cohesion etc), but keep looking outwards. The trick is to bold and brilliantly simple ambition also create business value. Only by keep the customer at the heart of the ‘everyone should be able to create showing this link will these pioneering strategy, with the strategy itself having a sustainable home’ might actually businesses succeed, and help create very porous boundaries, allowing the become a reality. the next wave of corporate sustainability. outside in, and adapting as a result. APPENDICES: ABOUT OUR REPORTING APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST MILESTONES 2015/16 WE HAVE ACHIEVED OR ARE ON TRACK TO Our Sustainability Report explains our progress towards our 53 targets and longer-term aspirations. Progress against targets We publish a Group score for each of our 53 targets, MANY OF OUR TARGET MILESTONES FOR It summarises performance at a Group level covering the financial year 1 February 2015 where data is available (see page 58). For qualitative targets this is a weighted average of the individual 2016/17. THIS SECTION SUMMARISES OUR – 31 January 2016. operating company scores. The weighting is based on the sales contribution of each operating company. PROGRESS DURING 2015/16. A SUMMARY OF We also communicate our progress via our more integrated Annual Report for investors which For quantitative targets the score is based on Group KPI performance data. We also indicate on pages PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR 2020 TARGETS explains the financial, economic, social and environmental value our business creates over both 63 – 70 where we are on track to our milestones for the end of financial year 2016/17. IS ON PAGE 58. the short and long term, see http://annualreport. kingfisher.com/2015-16/ Our data is still incomplete in some areas and we are working to address this so we can report progress Regular updates are also posted on our website against all targets in future years. We are also working kingfisher.com/sustainability with our partners to explore how we can track and report progress against our longer-term aspirations. About our data STATUS AGAINST Our sustainability data covers our wholly-owned External assurance TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE operating companies, except where stated. We engaged KPMG LLP to deliver a limited assurance engagement over selected aspects of our Sustainability Innovation In previous years, we included data for our joint Report for the year ended 31 January 2016. The Sustainable home products – innovation Sales of best in class products, our most venture Koçtaş in all our Group totals at 50%. information marked throughout the report with the 2020 target: To be at the forefront of innovative sustainable home products, were However, to bring our sustainability reporting in line symbol * or ∆ indicates the scope of their work. sustainable product innovation, by achieving worth £573 million in 2015/16, 6% of sales. with our financial reporting, we have now removed Achieved 10% of Group sales from the most innovative Koçtaş from Group totals with two exceptions. Koçtaş Please see page 72 for their full independent limited milestone sustainable home products. is included in our pre-tax profit and therefore is still assurance report which includes details on their included in our community investment data as we scope, work performed and conclusion. 2016/17 milestone: 5% of Group sales. state community investment as a % of pre-tax profit. In addition, Koçtaş is included in our GHG report Reporting standards Sustainable home products – compliance Sales of sustainable home products, those with under scope 3, in the ‘Investments’ category. For This report contains standard disclosures from the 2020 target: To bring sustainable products improved environmental credentials, reached 62 both areas, 50% of Koçtaş data is included in line Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting 63 into the mainstream by achieving 50% 28% (2014/15: 22%), meaning we achieved our with our 50% ownership. Guidelines. To aid comparison with other businesses Achieved of Group sales from products that help milestone ahead of schedule and generated we provide a GRI Index on our website: kingfisher. milestone create a sustainable home. £2.9 billion for the business. Kingfisher disposed of a controlling 70% stake in B&Q com/sustainabilityreport China in 2015 and we have therefore excluded their 2016/17 milestone: 25% of Group sales. performance for 2015/16 and restated prior years. United Nations Global Compact Index We joined the United Nations Global Compact Sustainability of own brand As we create our unified offer, we are taking the We now include floor space and energy consumption (UNGC) in 2014, and are committed to its 10 2020 target: Demonstrate leadership on sustainability standards achieved in our most data for B&Q distribution centres run by third parties principles covering the areas of human rights, sustainable innovation across our Group advanced operating company for each range where they are owned or leased by B&Q. Data has labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our UNGC Not on track own brands (focusing on relevant issues and applying these to our new group range. This been included in property energy use and property Index on page 74 shows where information on our to milestone to each brand). will improve the sustainability performance of our carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2) for the current year performance relevant to the 10 principles is included own brand ranges, particularly at lower scoring and prior years have also been restated. in our Report. 2016/17 milestone: All Group own-brands to operating companies. During 2015/16, we focused conform to Kingfisher minimum sustainability criteria. on 20 categories of core essential products. This report contains our key performance data Read our Sustainability Report Appendix – Detailed showing progress against our targets. More Performance Data and Sustainability Data Collection Sustainable lifestyles Our companies are providing information detailed data is available in our Sustainability Report Methodology at kingfisher/sustainabilityreport 2020 target: To use our global brands and online, at point of sale and in catalogues to give Appendix – Detailed Performance Data. marketing to help shift our millions of customers customers the knowledge and encouragement On track towards sustainable lifestyles. they need to adopt more sustainable lifestyles. Detailed information on the scope of the data and to milestone For example, Screwfix has introduced icons for the methodologies used to calculate our data are 2016/17 milestone: To give customers Saves Energy, Saves Water, Solvent Free to help explained in our Sustainability Data Collection comprehensive information and advice in-store and customers quickly identify sustainable products. Methodology document. online to help them with their sustainable choices. Sustainability experts Bioregional coordinate our Sustainable marketing We are integrating sustainability into our marketing head office data review process for Net Positive. 2020 target: Embed sustainability into the to increase sales of more sustainable products. Bioregional helped to develop our sustainable home marketing strategy for each of our brands/ Our companies in Iberia, Romania and Russia have product guidelines which are reviewed and updated Not on track divisions/ operating companies. made less progress in this area, meaning that on an annual basis. They also monitor our progress to milestone we are not on track to our milestone overall. on sustainable home product innovation and 2016/17 milestone: Sustainability issues feature calculate our figure for customer energy savings. in at least three significant marketing campaigns. APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS STATUS AGAINST STATUS AGAINST TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE Water-using products We worked with Bioregional, the sustainability Carbon intensity property We have achieved a 16% cut in our property 2020 target: All water-using products to meet experts, to establish a clear definition of best 2020 target: 50% reduction in the carbon intensity carbon intensity since 2010/11, through ‘best practice’ standards on water efficiency. practice for water efficiency. This covers all (CO2e/m2) of our property portfolio from a 2010/11 improvements in energy efficiency and Not on track On track products included in the European water labelling baseline. investment in renewable generation. to milestone to milestone 2016/17 milestone: 50% of water-using initiative. We now have data for six operating products to meet ‘best practice’ standards companies, showing that in these businesses 2016/17 milestone: 20% reduction. on water efficiency. 39% of water-using products (such as toilets, baths, taps and showers) met our best practice Renewable energy We installed solar photovoltaic panels on two standards in 2015/16. 2016/17 target: We will develop a renewable stores and three distribution centres with a energy plan for our own operations by 2016/17. generation capacity of 4.1MW during 2015/16. On track Our renewable energy plan will establish a roll Closed-loop products We reached 748 products in our ranges to target out strategy for each of our markets, identifying 2020 target: 1,000 Kingfisher products with closed-loop credentials. the best technologies for each location. with closed-loop credentials. Achieved Direct haulage emissions Our direct haulage emissions increased milestone 2016/17 milestone: 300 Kingfisher products 2020 target: 20% reduction in CO2 by 7.5% overall against our 2010/11 baseline, with closed-loop credentials. emissions from direct transport impacts largely due to an increase in home deliveries. Not on track from a 2010/11 baseline. to milestone Closed-loop supply chains We are making progress in this area and our 2020 target: Work with partners across the performance against our milestone will be 2016/17 milestone: 10% reduction. product lifecycle to achieve ten ‘closed-loop’ assessed by Bioregional during 2016/17. We On track supply chains. developed our Principles for Circular Product to milestone Indirect haulage emissions Indirect haulage emissions have increased by Design that will help our product developers 2020 target: Demonstrate a comprehensive 8% since 2010/11, due to a growth in deliveries 2016/17 milestone and suppliers integrate circular design principles programme of action to reduce the overall and improvements in our data collection. There Five ‘closed-loop’ supply chains. into our supply chains. On track carbon footprint of our indirect transport impacts. was a 3% drop in emissions year-on-year due to to milestone a reduction in emissions from sea and air freight. Alternative services Examples of alternative services include 2016/17 milestone: Make progress in measuring 2016/17 target: Explore and trial alternative Castorama Poland’s successful tool repair and reducing the carbon footprint of our indirect business models, such as product hire and service. We are also testing approaches that 64 On track transport impacts, e.g. in a key supply chain. 65 repair, which encourage a perpetual reuse draw on the benefits of the sharing economy to target of products. such as Castorama France’s Casto Lab space where customers can share information and Timber use specialist tools. Responsible sourcing We have made good progress on responsible 2020 target: 100% responsibly sourced sourcing, particularly for our products; however, timber and paper in all our operations. we are not on track for our milestones for timber Not on track Energy in construction and GNFR paper. to milestone 2016/17 milestone Customer energy use Our customers are saving 10.8 TWh every year Achieve our 2016 milestones on timber used 2020 target: 38 TWh of energy saved due to the energy saving products and services in products, packaging, Goods Not For Resale for customers. they have purchased from us since 2011/12. We On track (GNFR) and construction. estimate this could save our customers almost to milestone 2016/17 milestone £750 million every year.1 Timber in our products We achieved 96% responsibly sourced timber 11 TWh of energy saved for customers. 2020 target: 100% of the timber and in our products, with B&Q at 100% and a further paper we sell to be responsibly sourced. four companies at or over 95%. Our data does Achieved Energy-using products 42% of energy saving products in five operating not yet include our business in Russia. When milestone 2020 target: All energy-using products meet companies meet our best practice standards. 2016/17 milestone: 90% of the timber and this is included it could reduce the percentage best practice standards on energy efficiency. Screwfix was our strongest performing company, paper we sell to be responsibly sourced. of timber that is responsibly sourced overall. Not on track reaching 59%. to milestone Timber in packaging We have appointed a partner to help us collect 2016/17 milestone: 50% of energy-using products. 2020 target: 100% of packaging which contains data on packaging materials used and to wood fibres to be responsibly sourced. monitor compliance with our packaging policy Energy use in our operations We achieved our energy intensity milestone On track and responsible sourcing policy. We hope 2020 target: 45% reduction in the energy ahead of schedule with a 15% reduction since to milestone 2016/17 milestone: To develop a methodology to be able to report progress against our intensity (kWh/m2) of our property portfolio 2010/11. However, we saw an increase in energy Achieved and data collection system for achieving our 2020 target next year. from a 2010/11 baseline. intensity year on year and considerable work is milestone 2020 target on responsible sourcing of wood needed to reach our 2020 target. fibres in packaging. 2016/17 milestone: 15% reduction. Timber in construction We are working with contractors to improve Carbon footprint We have achieved a 0.6% reduction in our 2020 target: 100% of timber procured for data collection in this area. We have data for 2020 target: 25% reduction in our absolute carbon absolute carbon footprint since 2010/11. However construction and fit-out to be responsibly sourced. seven operating companies (B&Q, Brico Dépôt Not on track footprint (tonnes CO2e) from a 2010/11 baseline. achieving our ambitious target for 2020 will France, Brico Dépôt Iberia, Brico Dépôt Romania, On track to milestone be very challenging due to business growth, 2016/17 milestone: 90% of timber procured for Castorama France, Castorama Poland and to milestone 2016/17 milestone: No increase from particularly growth in customer home deliveries. construction and fit-out to be responsibly sourced. Screwfix) which shows that 60% of timber used a 2010/11 baseline. in the construction projects reported on by these companies was responsibly sourced. 1 Based upon the average UK household energy bill. APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS STATUS AGAINST STATUS AGAINST TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE GNFR paper We have reached 80% responsibly sourced Skills sharing Our businesses in the UK and France have 2020 target: 100% of the paper used paper in our catalogues and customer marketing Target 2016/17: Promote sharing of skills launched or are developing online platforms in our Goods Not For Resale (GNFR) materials and office paper. This includes all and ‘know-how’ in local communities by where customers and communities can connect, Not on track On track to be responsibly sourced. markets except for Screwfix Germany for building online community platforms in the learn from experts and benefit from each other’s to milestone to target catalogues and customer marketing, and UK and France. skills and know how. These include 2016/17 milestone: All paper used in all markets except for Brico Dépôt Iberia, wikiforhome.org developed by Castorama catalogues and customer marketing Castorama Poland and Screwfix Germany France, needhelp.com at Brico Dépôt France, to be responsibly sourced. in relation to office paper. The Screwfix Community Forum and StreetClub established by B&Q which is now part of Streetbank. Tropical deforestation All new tropical hardwood products in B&Q 2020 target: None of our products to be UK, Castorama France, Brico Dépôt Iberia People sourced from materials that are linked to tropical and Screwfix complied with our policy. Not on track deforestation (including hardwood products, Further work is needed at our other operating Engagement surveys Our annual Engagement Survey covers all to milestone cow leather and palm oil). companies and to improve our data. 2016/17 target: Improve our employee operating companies and employees. A set engagement by extending engagement of 12 core questions are used across each On track 2016/17 milestone: All new tropical hardwood surveys to cover all employees. company to help us evaluate engagement. We to target products to comply with Kingfisher’s Timber achieved an overall engagement score of 4.20 Policy Standard. out of 5.00, an improvement from 4.06 in 2014. Sustainable forestry In 2014 we were one of the founding partners of Diversity and inclusion Two of our companies now have action plans 2020 target: Work with partners to measure Value and Impact Analysis (VIA) that will develop 2020 target: To be recognised as a ‘best in place (Brico Dépôt France and Castorama the impact of FSC certification on forests, a methodology for quantifying the impacts of On track practice’ company for equality and diversity France) but further work is needed to achieve biodiversity and forest communities and assess FSC certification for forests, their biodiversity and Not on track to target within our local retail markets. the milestone at our other companies. the effect of our responsible timber sourcing. communities. During 2015/16 we worked closely to milestone with VIA on a number of initiatives, including 2016/17 milestone: All our operating companies agreeing seven focus areas for VIA’s work. to have in place an action plan to become a Strategic sourcing Strategic sourcing means securing affordable ‘best practice’ retailer in their market on equality 2020 target: Demonstrate resilient supply and sustainable timber supplies for our business and diversity. chain relationships that can guarantee the future over the long term by implementing our On track 66 provision of responsibly sourced timber across responsible sourcing standards, establishing Health and safety – employees Our total accident rate (number of all workN/A 67 to milestone the Group’s major timber categories. long-term relationships with suppliers and 2020 target: Achieve a 20% reduction in the related accidents per 100,000 full-time equivalent helping to create local timber supply chains. employee lost-time accident rate (number employees) was 12,160, a decrease of 9% year 2016/17 milestone: Demonstrate a resilient We are looking at opportunities including of lost-time accidents per 100,000 full-time on year and 2.3% reduction since 2012/13. supply chain relationship that can guarantee the exploring the potential benefits of contracting equivalent employees) from a 2010/11 baseline. future provision of responsibly sourced timber directly with sustainably managed forests to We have changed the data we use to monitor our for at least one of the Group’s major timber source timber for our unique product ranges. 2016/17 milestone: 10% reduction in the employee accident rate. This now includes all accidents, not categories (by volume or value). losttime accident rate from a 2010/11 baseline. just major and over three-day lost-time accidents as reported in previous years. Major accidents Reforestation To date our forest projects have benefited forested are defined differently across our markets which 2020 target: Implement a unified group forest areas covering over 13,000 hectares (equivalent made it harder to compare performance. Our or woodland enhancement initiative that makes to 19,000 full-sized football pitches) working with Achieved new approach will address this and provide a a substantial quantifiable step towards our 255 landowners. This includes projects in Poland, milestone fuller picture of performance. However, it means aspiration of creating more forest than we use. Spain and the UK. We started a collaboration with we are not able to report progress against our RSPB and their BirdLife partners in early 2016, target. We will be updating our target to reflect 2016/17 milestone: Group to have at least one through which we will support Indonesia’s first our new reporting approach. forest or woodland enhancement initiative that ever Ecosystem Restoration Concession. This makes a quantifiable contribution towards the will restore an area of over-logged tropical forest Health and safety – customers and contractors There were 4,060 accidents reported by Group aspiration of creating more forest than known as Hutan Harapan on the island of Sumatra 2016/17 target: Develop a Group-wide accident customers in our stores during the year we use. covering 100,000 hectares (approximately the reporting framework for customers and onsite (2014/15: 4,722) and 383 contractor accidents size of Greater London) and will ensure future Not on track contractors, and set a reduction target. (2014/15: 423). Our data does not currently sustainable forest management. to target include construction contractor accidents Communities and we have not set a reduction target. Community plan We are reviewing and updating our communities Senior management sustainability training Our Kingfisher One Academy Net Positive Target 2016/17: We will create a unified plan strategy, and will publish a new plan for how 2016/17 target: Top 250 managers from around executive education module was developed for community involvement across our business, our community involvement can help us deliver On track the Group to have completed a development to inspire our leaders on sustainability, improve focusing on our core purpose. our purpose. On track to target programme on Net Positive. understanding of the business benefits and to target catalyse action. 86% of our most senior leaders Community projects We reached 1,142 community projects supported completed the module. Members of our Group 2020 target: 4,000 community projects since 2012/13 and are on track to our milestone. Sustainability Committee also completed a twocompleted by our people. However, our total community investment day intensive course run by the University of On track decreased to £1.7 million in 2015/16 (2014/15: Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership. to milestone 2016/17 milestone: 1,500 community projects. £2.3 million), equivalent to 0.24% of pre-tax profits (2014/15: 0.34%). APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS STATUS AGAINST STATUS AGAINST TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE Performance management for sustainability We are reviewing our approach in this area. Ethical conduct Our companies’ reporting and compliance 2020 target: Integrate Net Positive into the Some of our operating companies have 2020 target: Maintain the highest standards procedures include: the appointment of a senior performance management systems for all integrated sustainability into performance of ethical business conduct through ongoing compliance officer in each company; training for On track On track relevant employees. management for leaders. For example, the implementation of, and compliance with, the relevant employees; raising awareness of our to milestone to milestone Screwfix board of directors each have an Group Governance Manual and Code of Conduct. whistle-blowing procedures; and integration of 2016/17 milestone: Integrate Net Positive into objective related to implementation of True the Code of Conduct into employee and supplier the performance management systems for the to our Trade, the Screwfix sustainability plan 2016/17 milestone: Operating companies to contracts. We have a compliance network for our top 250 managers from around the Group. and employee engagement initiative. demonstrate robust reporting and compliance operating company compliance officers to share with the Group Governance Manual and Code information and best practices. Our milestone Net Positive engagement Sustainability is integrated into our of Conduct. has been achieved at all our companies with the 2020 target: Net Positive engagement and induction training for new employees exception of Brico Dépôt Romania. development programmes to motivate all at five operating companies. Not on track our employees to become more sustainable SRI Indices We participate in a number of SRI indices and to milestone at work and at home. Target 2016/17: Kingfisher to maintain its corporate responsibility ratings and maintained position in key SRI indices and corporate an above average ranking in these surveys during On track 2016/17 milestone: To include Net Positive responsibility ratings. 2015/16, in line with best practice. These are the to target in induction training for every new employee. Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good Index, CDP Carbon Disclosure Project and CDP Sustainable product training We train our buyers on our Sustainable Home Forest Programme. 2020 target: Every employee has the right skills Product Guidelines, and as part of the development to help customers lead sustainable lifestyles. of our unified range our sustainability experts are Sustainability accounting We measure the financial impact of our Not on track running training sessions for their colleagues in Target 2016/17: Calculate and account for the sustainability strategy in key areas, including sales to milestone 2016/17 milestone: Our store staff who give product development. More work is needed to impact and value of our sustainability strategy of sustainable home products and cost savings Not on track advice to customers are trained on sustainable roll out training to all relevant employees in every to the business and communicate this to associated with increased recycling, installation of to target home products and services so they can help operating company. investors and employees. energy efficient LED lighting, and energy efficient customers make more sustainable choices. IT. We no longer plan to develop an overall metric for calculating the impact of our sustainability Suppliers & partners strategy, as we don’t believe the benefits would justify the time and investment required. 68 Ethical sourcing We sourced from 2,167 critical suppliers including 69 2020 target: All suppliers will meet or exceed 1,028 factories and 1,139 suppliers of own and our ethical and environmental standards. exclusive brand products in 2015/16. The majority Environment Not on track of products sourced directly from factories are Standardised policies We now have in place group policies for timber, to milestone 2016/17 milestone: High priority suppliers of own own and exclusive brand products. 52% of these 2020 target: To standardise company policies packaging and ethical sourcing and expect to brand/ exclusive brand products will meet or suppliers and factories have had an on-site audit in across all relevant product sustainability issues. publish our chemicals policy during 2016. During Achieved exceed our ethical and environmental standards. the past three years and 5% a desk-top assessment. 2016/17 we will review our current set of policies milestone Eight potential suppliers or factories were not 2016/17 milestone: Have signed off at least and identify where additional policies are needed. accepted in 2015/16 because they failed to meet half of company policies across a range our ethical sourcing standards. 308 factories (77% of key product sustainability issues. of factories audited) were required to implement a corrective action plan in relation to ethical sourcing Packaging We are redesigning our packaging, to use fewer requirements following an audit in 2015/16. 2020 target: Packaging on all own-brand and and more sustainable materials, in line with our exclusive brand products to conform packaging policy. We have appointed a partner to Not on track GNFR contracts During 2015/16, we integrated sustainability criteria to Kingfisher packaging standards. help us collect data on packaging materials used to milestone 2020 target: Key GNFR contracts will meet into the request for proposal process for a number and monitor compliance with our packaging policy. or exceed our sustainability standards. of GNFR contracts including print and paper for 2016/17 milestone: Packaging on new ownWe hope to be able to report progress against our Not on track customer marketing. We are also working closely brand and exclusive brand products to conform target next year. to milestone 2016/17 milestone: Process established to apply with GNFR suppliers in areas such as clothing, to Kingfisher packaging standards. our sustainability standards to key Goods Not For and cleaning and security services to ensure they Resale (GNFR) contracts. comply with the requirements of the UK’s Modern Chemicals We developed our company-wide chemicals policy Slavery Act. 2020 target: None of our Goods Not for Resale in 2015 to help us phase out, substitute or eliminate (GNFR), own-brand, unbranded or exclusive chemicals covered by EU REACH. We will use a Not on track Supplier footprint From 2016/17 we will be engaging with our N/A brand products and packaging will contain risk-based approach to identifying and phasing out to milestone 2020 target: Require our top 40 suppliers to largest group vendors, including suppliers for the chemicals of concern we have committed chemical substances in our products, focusing on develop a waste, carbon and water reduction our unified ranges, to help them put in place to remove. products more likely to contain chemicals of higher plan by 2020, towards delivering a 50% waste, carbon and water reduction plans. concern. Under our new policy suppliers will be impact reduction. This target was revised during 2015/16 and 2016/17 milestone: Work is in progress to phase required to provide a list of all substances found we will begin reporting progress next year. out, substitute or eliminate the chemicals of in their products, and to substitute chemicals where 2016/17 milestone: 50% of our top 40 suppliers concern we have committed to remove from required by EU REACH. have demonstrated that they have waste, carbon our own-brand or exclusive brand products. and water reduction plans in place towards delivering a 50% impact reduction by 2020. APPENDICES: PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS APPENDICES: OPERATING COMPANY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY STATUS AGAINST TARGET AND MILESTONE SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE MILESTONE Peat elimination 2020 target: All growing media for sale and 62% of UK bagged growing media (by volume sold) was peat-free, a decrease from 64% in 2014/15. WE MEASURE THE PROGRESS OF EACH OF use in our operations in the UK to be from sustainable sources ahead of the government This was mainly due to a number of promotional campaigns running on products containing peat. On track OUR COMPANIES AGAINST OUR 53 TARGETS to milestone 2020 and 2030 deadlines. 46% of growing media used by B&Q’s plant suppliers was peat free. ANNUALLY AND WE PUBLISH THE AVERAGE 2016/17 milestone: 65% of bagged growing media (by volume) sold in the UK to be from SCORES FOR EACH OPERATING COMPANY sustainable sources. We have multiple targets for each issue and the scores included here are average scores, calculated from the individual scores for each relevant target. The details of how we score progress on each target Waste Our recycling rate remained at 70%, not on track is explained in our Foundations Questionnaire Scoring Guide (kingfisher.com/sustainabilityresources) 2020 target: Achieve zero waste to landfill for our milestone. We generated 237,780 tonnes from our own operations. of waste in 2015/16, an increase of 1.5% year-onNot on track The up and down arrows indicate where scores have changed since 2014/15. Our performance is year (2014/15: 234,344) compared to an increase to milestone strongest in our largest and longest established companies – those in the UK and France, with most work 2016/17 milestone: Recycle at least 75% in sales of 3.8%. still to do in our businesses in Russia and Romania. This is the first year we are reporting data for Screwfix of the waste we generate. Germany and we do not yet have data for this operating company across all our Net Positive themes. Construction waste We are working with construction and waste Full data 2020 target: 90% of construction waste management suppliers as well as landlords not available recycled in new build and major refurbishments. to increase recycling of construction waste B&Q UK Brico Dépôt Brico Dépôt Brico Dépôt Castorama Castorama Castorama Screwfix Screwfix and to improve data quality. Issue France Romania Iberia France Poland Russia Germany 2016/17 milestone: 50% of construction waste Product recycled in new build and major refurbishments. Innovation N/A Water Our water use has risen by 15% compared Energy N/A Target 2016/17: To understand the water with 2010/11. footprint of our own operations. Not on track 70 to target Timber 71 Green travel Our companies are developing green travel plans 2020 target: Demonstrate a proactive green to reduce CO2 emissions from employee and Communities travel programme to minimise the environmental customer travel. These include measures to reduce On track impact of travel by employees and customers. unnecessary business travel, and to encourage to milestone Employees the use of public transport, car sharing and lower 2016/17 milestone: Some key actions taken carbon transport options. on green travel to minimise the environmental Suppliers impact of travel by employees or customers. and partners N/A Learning stores We test out sustainable approaches to building 2016/17 target: Every operating company to design, construction and operation at ‘learning Environment develop at least three ‘learning stores’ and to stores’ in each of our businesses. We now have 22 Not on track confirm the site for a store that champions low learning stores including three flagship stores that to target carbon and sustainability innovation. champion low carbon and sustainability innovation. Biodiversity Biodiversity audits were carried out for 7% of 2020 target: Enhance biodiversity on new build new-build projects and major refurbishments 0-25% 26-50% 51-75% 76-99% 100% target achieved projects, major refurbishments and existing stores. during 2015/16. Not on track Enhance biodiversity on new build projects, major to milestone refurbishments and existing stores. 2016 milestone: Biodiversity audits and action plans to be completed for all new-build projects and major refurbishments. APPENDICES: ASSURANCE APPENDICES: ASSURANCE Independent Limited Assurance Report to • m easuring and reporting the Selected Information Management the scope of work and extent of Kingfisher plc in accordance with the testing that Kingfisher’s Internal Audit function KPMG LLP (‘KPMG’ or ‘we’) were engaged by • Reporting Criteria; and would perform. Their testing included considering Kingfisher plc (‘Kingfisher’) to provide limited • the contents and statements contained within the processes and controls used to report the assurance over the Selected Information described the Report and the Reporting Criteria. Selected Information and agreeing a selection below for the year ended 31 January 2016. of the Selected Information to the corresponding Our responsibilities source documentation. Their scope included: Our conclusion Our responsibility is to plan and perform our work to – Timber (B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt France) Based on the work we have performed and the obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected – Energy (All OpCos) evidence we have obtained, nothing has come Information has been prepared in accordance with the – Innovation (Castorama France, Screwfix UK) to our attention that causes us to believe that Reporting Criteria and to report to Kingfisher in the form – Communities (Castorama France, Screwfix UK, the Selected Information has not been properly of an independent limited assurance conclusion based B&Q UK) prepared, in all material respects, in accordance on the work performed and the evidence obtained. – Suppliers and Partners (Castorama France, with the Reporting Criteria. KSO Asia) Assurance standards applied – Environment (Brico Dépôt Iberia, Castorama This conclusion is to be read in the context of the We performed our work in accordance with Poland, B&Q UK) remainder of this report, in particular the inherent International Standard on Assurance Engagements – Employees (Castorama Russia, Brico Dépôt limitations explained below and this report’s 3000 – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits France, Koçtas Turkey, Brico Dépôt Romania) intended use. or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ – Targets (B&Q UK, Castorama France, Screwfix (‘ISAE3000’) and, in respect of the greenhouse gas UK, Group) Selected Information emissions information included within the Selected • considering the work performed by Kingfisher’s The scope of our work includes only: Information, in accordance with International Internal Audit function, which included attending • the selected sustainability performance data Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 – the audit close out meetings, understanding and for the year ended 31 January ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas challenging the conclusions reached and re• 2016 marked with the symbol *; and Statements’ (‘ISAE3410’), issued by the International performing a selection of the work • the assertion by Kingfisher that they have followed Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. • considering the data collation and validation a specified process to determine the progress processes at the Kingfisher Head Office towards selected sustainability targets for the year The work performed in a limited assurance level, including: ended 31 January 2016 marked with the symbol Δ engagement varies in nature and timing from, and – understanding the functionality of Kingfisher’s is less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance online CR reporting system included within Kingfisher’s Sustainability Report engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance – considering the appropriateness of the carbon for the year ended 31 January 2016 (‘the Report’) obtained in a limited assurance engagement is conversion factor calculations and other 72 (together, the ‘Selected Information’). substantially lower than the assurance that would unit conversion factor calculations used by 73 have been obtained had a reasonable assurance reference to widely recognised and established We have not performed any work, and do not engagement been performed. conversion factors express any conclusion, over any other information – re-performing a selection of the calculations and that may be included in the Report or displayed Independence, professional standards and conversion factors used by Kingfisher to prepare on Kingfisher’s website for the current year or quality control the Selected Information for previous periods unless otherwise indicated. We comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional – performing an analytical review that compared Accountants issued by the International Ethics current year data against prior year data Reporting Criteria Standards Board for Accountants and we apply – reading the query logs completed by the Kingfisher The Reporting Criteria we used to form our International Standard on Quality Control (UK Head Office team and submitted to OpCos judgements in relation to the Selected Information and Ireland) 1 – ‘Quality Control for Firms that • reading the Report and narrative accompanying marked with the symbol * and with the symbol Δ Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial the Selected Information in the Report with regard are included within Kingfisher’s Data Collection Information, and Other Assurance and Related to the Reporting Criteria, and for consistency with Methodology Document 2016 respectively, as set Services Engagements’. Accordingly, we maintain our findings. out at kingfisher.com/sustainabilityresources. The a comprehensive system of quality control Selected Information needs to be read together with including documented policies and procedures This report’s intended use the Reporting Criteria. regarding compliance with ethical requirements and This assurance report is made solely to Kingfisher in professional standards (including independence, accordance with the terms of the engagement contract Inherent limitations and other requirements founded on fundamental between us. Those terms permit disclosure to other The nature of non-financial information; the absence principles of integrity, objectivity, professional parties, solely for the purpose of Kingfisher showing of a significant body of established practice on competence and due care, confidentiality and that it has obtained an independent assurance report which to draw; and the methods and precision professional behaviour) as well as applicable legal in connection with the Selected Information. used to determine non-financial information, and regulatory requirements. allow for different, but acceptable evaluation and We have not considered the interest of any other measurement techniques and can result in materially Summary of work performed party in the Selected Information. To the fullest extent different measurements, affecting comparability Considering the level of assurance and our permitted by law, we accept no responsibility and between entities and over time. assessment of the risk of material misstatement of deny any liability to any party other than Kingfisher the Selected Information, whether due to fraud or for our work, for this assurance report or for the Directors’ responsibilities error, our work included, but was not restricted to: conclusions we have reached. The Directors of Kingfisher are responsible for: • assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting • designing, implementing and maintaining internal Criteria for the Selected Information; Paul Holland controls relevant to the • understanding the process to determine for and on behalf of KPMG LLP • preparation and presentation of the Selected progress towards targets through interviewing Chartered Accountants Information that is free from specialists in Kingfisher Head Office and London 20 June 2016 • material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; Operating Company (‘OpCo’) teams and • selecting and/or developing objective inspecting selected supporting documentation; Reporting Criteria; • planning and agreeing with Kingfisher APPENDICES: GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX APPENDICES: GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX PRINCIPLES SUMMARY OF APPROACH LOCATION We joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2014, and are committed to IN REPORTING its 10 principles covering the areas of human rights, labour, environment and Environment anti-corruption. This Report is our second Communication on Progress against Principle Seven We aim to be restorative to the environment, going Product innovation, the Global Compact Principles, covering our financial year 2015/16. This table Business should support a precautionary beyond zero impacts to create positive change. We page 12. summarises our approach and shows where information on our targets and approach to environmental challenges; have identified the issues of sustainable innovation, progress for each principle can be found in the report: energy and timber as most significant for our business Energy, page 18. Principle Eight and are also reducing our impacts in areas such as undertake initiatives to promote greater waste, transport, packaging, water, chemicals and Timber, page 26. environmental responsibility; and biodiversity. We have set ambitious targets and report PRINCIPLES SUMMARY OF APPROACH LOCATION progress annually. Our approach is summarised in our Environment, Human rights and labour IN REPORTING Principle Nine Sustainability Policy. page 49. encourage the development and diffusion Principle One We take steps to protect the human rights of people Human rights, of environmentally friendly technologies. We focus on reducing the environmental footprint Businesses should support and respect affected by our business, including employees page 56. of our products while enabling customers to create the protection of internationally proclaimed and suppliers. more sustainable homes. We are also cutting the human rights; and Suppliers & environmental footprint of our own operations. We have clear policies on human rights and labour partners, page 44. Principle Two standards including our Code of Conduct, our We support a precautionary approach as illustrated make sure they are not complicit in human Ethical Sourcing Policy and the Kingfisher Workplace Ethical conduct, by examples such as our decision to remove rights abuses. Standards. These reflect international human rights page 46. pesticide products containing certain neonicotinoid frameworks including the UN Universal Declaration chemicals that are thought to contribute to bee Principle Three of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Inclusion and decline, across our global operations. Businesses should uphold the right to freedom Business and Human Rights, the International diversity, page 38. of association and the effective recognition Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental of the right to collective bargaining; Principles and Rights at Work. Health and safety, page 41. Anti-corruption Principle Four We support the introduction of the UK’s Modern Slavery Principle 10 We will not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. Ethical business the elimination of all forms of forced Act. We are reviewing our processes and procedures Businesses should work against Our Code of Conduct explains our approach and conduct, page 46. 74 and compulsory labour; to ensure we comply with its requirements and will corruption in all its forms, including helps us to comply with regulation such as the UK’s 75 report on our approach during 2016/17. extortion and bribery. Bribery Act. Principle Five the effective abolition of child labour; and We respect the rights of our employees and suppliers To implement the Code, our companies have in areas such as freedom of association, the right to established reporting and compliance procedures Principle Six collective bargaining, no child labour or forced or including the appointment of a senior compliance eliminate discrimination in respect compulsory labour. We work to eliminate discrimination officer in each company, training for relevant of employment and occupation. and to promote diversity in our workforce and take employees, raising awareness of our whistle-blowing steps to protect the health and safety of employees, procedures for employees and suppliers and customers and contractors. We have an ethical integration of the Code of Conduct into employee and assessment and audit programme for supplier factories supplier contracts. which covers human rights and labour standards. We set targets and report our progress annually. All employees whose location or role poses a potential corruption risk must complete our anti-bribery and Employees can report concerns via our independently corruption training module. managed hotline. The number of open and resolved cases and the outcomes are reported to the Audit We have a target on ethical conduct and we monitor Committee of the Board of Directors. We also run compliance with our standards through our internal an online reporting system for vendors. audit programme and annual self-certification process. “I am pleased to reaffirm Kingfisher’s support for the United Nations Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labour practices, the environment and anti-corruption. We will continue to strengthen our approach in each of these important areas over the year ahead and to share our progress with our stakeholders.” Véronique Laury Chief Executive Officer FIND OUT MORE Our sustainability website kingfisher.com/sustainability Annual Report and Accounts annualreport.kingfisher.com/2015-16 Sustainability Report Appendix – Detailed Performance Data and Sustainability Data Collection Methodology kingfisher/sustainabilityreport B&Q UK One Planet Home diy.com/eco Castorama France Corporate Responsibility castorama.fr/store/pages/rse-home.html Castorama Poland castorama.pl/castorama/odpowiedzialnosc-spoleczna/raportodpowiedzialnosci-spolecznej GET IN TOUCH We want to hear your feedback, positive or negative. You can tell us what you think about sustainability at Kingfisher at netpositiveconversation@kingfisher.com This document is printed on Edixion offset, a woodfree uncoated, quality offset paper sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC® certiﬁed forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. Designed and produced by: The Clearing theclearing.co.uk Advice and writing: BDH Sustainability Ltd bdhsustain.com Editorial oversight: Kingfisher: Becky Coffin and Alex Duff
