Sustainability Report “Water, water everywhere, Nor any drop to drink’. From The Rime of the Ancient Mariner by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. 2015-2016 “We are all immersed in our daily lives that we hardly stop and think how our work, our attitudes and actions affect our surrounding environment. It is therefore necessary to remind ourselves that we are ‘doers’ and not just ‘victims’ to climate change or any other natural calamity. In this annual sustainability report Metito gets to share with its stakeholders the company’s latest achievements, best practices and initiatives as we report our community, environmental and educational initiatives, alongside our latest business wins in an attempt to lead our industry by example and inspire others to follow suit.” Mutaz Ghandour Metito Chairman and CEO Table of Contents Table of Contents LOCAL PRESENCE... GLOBAL KNOWHOW 06 OUR COMMITMENT 08 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 04 LEADING BY EXAMPLE 10 Our People -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------24 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------32 03 Message From The CEO “Water, water everywhere, and infrastructure companies. Metito has been at the forefront of embracing this alternative method of finance, and in the past year we have signed longNor any drop to drink’. term agreements with both Emirates Islamic Bank and Dubai Islamic Bank, for sizeable amounts. This was the first time Metito has embraced Islamic finance for project financing, but it will now be thoroughly considered for our work From The Rime of the Ancient Mariner by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. moving forward. We expect to see Islamic finance taking a more prominent role in financing large scale water and infrastructure projects in the coming The need for water security and a sustainable approach to this resource is years, and as pioneers in our industry it gives us pride that we set the pace for truly a global issue, not just something confined to particular countries or what sure will be a growing trend. regions. In the scope of our work we have very much seen that this is the case, with demand for efficient, sustainable water solutions becoming ever As well as financing, partnerships have remained a key way for Governments greater in markets spanning the Middle East, the entire continent of Africa, to deliver much needed water infrastructure. Public Private Partnerships and Asia. As developing markets experience massive growth, in terms (PPPs) remain an important vehicle for establishing new projects, and Metito of both population as well as infrastructure, there is a need for water like has continued to advocate this approach. One of the markets we have had never before. This has placed greater pressure on governments and private success in using PPPs is Africa. The extensive opportunities there continue to companies to seek the latest solutions, the most effective technologies and grow for Metito, as countries across the continent continue to look to solve the most sustainable choices to ensure long-term security for populations and their relentless need for water management solutions and to find the balance industries. This demand spurs Metito on to continually evolve our offerings this requires from securing the needed capital to drive this development. to deliver maximum benefits to communities, becoming a valuable partner The progress made in the last 12 months on current projects is significant. for developing markets, and sustaining water as one of the most important The Kigali Water Supply Project signed with the Rwandan government in natural resources. 2015 is firmly on track and is approaching financial close which will see the project move into its next phase. Considered the first and largest project of There is a clear need to seek out new solutions, fresh ideas and approaches. its kind in sub-Saharan Africa outside of South Africa, this development takes This is exactly what Metito endeavors to do and in the last 12 months this can Kigali another step further to solving a critical issue. Metito’s wholly owned be clearly depicted in our increased investment in R&D and scouting for new company, Kigali Water Limited, will deliver 40 percent of the country’s potable technology and assigning a devoted workforce to handle this critical process. water needs through a PPP structure, and the project will become another We are on a constant hunt for the next generation technology that can help blueprint for future long term PPPs in Africa. communities efficiently and sustainably. Through this unit and this dedicated team we already made significant progress, investing in and developing some Metito’s involvement in numerous North African projects, especially in Egypt, astonishing ideas and technologies that can really make an impact where it has also demonstrated the intensive demand for robust water management in matters the most. It’s a race with time to identify and develop solutions that Africa. Last year there was a resurgent Egyptian economy which acted as the can match the pace of change in emerging markets–as our core focus. stimulus for a large number of high profile projects which Metito was involved with. As part of Egypt’s infrastructure strengthening there were several new One of the standout technologies which marked this push by Metito is Biopipe. builds as well as refurbishments commissioned among them; the standout A very exciting technology developed by young Turkish entrepreneurs whose project awarded to Metito by El Gharibia Company for Water and Wastewater sole ambition was to create something to ‘make a difference’. They did just to construct the new El Mahalla El Kobra City water treatment plant, being that. They came up with the world’s first biological wastewater treatment built to supplement two existing treatment plants. This saw Metito coming in solution fully contained in a pipe; the patented Biopipe. The possibilities and to add value and offer a cost effective solution which will be used to enhance applications for Biopipe are myriad, and Metito saw the potential to further the current infrastructure. Further deals saw Metito build on a longstanding invest in the technology, and to mutually develop it to enhance its use in partnership with the National Organisation for Potable Water and Sanitary emerging markets, across wider applications. Metito signed an exclusive Drainage (NOPWASD) which assigned Metito to two projects the Arymon development and commercialization deal for Biopipe in Africa and Asia, Waste Water Treatment Plant and the Shahidy Sewage Treatment Plant. A and already the solution has made waves in the market and thought to be fourth strategic project awarded to Metito was the Toshka compact surface a ‘game changer’ by many experts. The fact it creates no sludge, no waste, water treatment plant for the New Urban Communities Authority (NUCA). no noise and no odour and the only output is clean water that can be used for applications like irrigation, farming or aquifer injection coupled with the Metito’s commitment to Egypt continued by bolstering their intra-country fact it is a very flexible and scalable technology makes it a viable eco-friendly tourism sector, a highly important piece of Egypt’s renewed economic proposition for everyone from individual households to cities of millions. development. In many resorts there is a need for a more robust infrastructure set up to ensure the resorts are ready to offer visitors a complete experience. As Governments and companies increasingly look to these technologies and This is where Metito came in to support this vital segment of the local economy. solutions to solve their water and environmental challenges, the attention Four major projects were signed to develop projects including sea water turns to how to finance projects utilising them. In the last 12 months, desalination installations and sewage treatment plants at the luxury resorts of one method of financing has begun to fully emerge in our sector; Islamic ‘City Stars’ by Golden Coast, ‘Hacienda Bay’ by Palm Hills, ‘Porto Sharm’ by finance. Islamic finance hasn’t been traditionally considered a perfect fit for Amer Group and ‘Marassi’ by Emaar Egypt. These projects play a key role in infrastructure projects, but the long timeframes for projects and the need for strengthening the appeal and value proposition of these resorts as we make on-going financing, at competitive rates, is something which works with the safe, sustainable and clean water supply available from the outset. latest Islamic finance models. As such, Islamic finance is now much more relevant to our line of business, and has become a viable option for water In the GCC and wider Middle East there have also been robust growth 04 Message From The CEO opportunities. The UAE, Saudi Arabia and Qatar remain to be important attend a two-part session on risk management in public finance at this year’s markets, particularly as all three are actively looking forward to the future and Global Water Summit held in Abu Dhabi. The event was as insightful as ever, how sustainability and water play a part in that future. We continue to work and the focus on public financing was a hot topic over the two days. Metito extensively with long-term partners such as Emaar in the UAE, supporting was also represented at the MENA Project Finance Forum where we joined its push to create developments and communities that have sustainability at the discussion about the varied facets of deals and financing arrangements their core. In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Metito Saudi is also keeping pace especially from the perspective of a developer. Metito highlighted the with the rapid development plans in accordance with the Kingdom’s vision important issue of how developers are looking at their funding mix in relation 2030. Most recently we have been assigned by the KSA Ministry of Finance to decreased government spending, namely analyzing banks loans, project to execute the strategic grey water treatment plant in Madinah Hajj City. On financing and capital markets. the same accelerated rhythm, Metito Qatar is also continuously cementing One of the highlights of last year was also the industry recognition for our its valued relationship with Qatar Petroleum and now developing the sewage work and industry engagement. Metito was acknowledged and shortlisted for treatment plant in Dukhan. a number of events, lauding the use of our technology, but also for our focus China also remains a large and important market for Metito. The last year and participation in notable PPPs. Metito was shortlisted for the Water Reuse has been challenging due to the slowdown of China’s economy, but despite Project of the Year award at the Global Water Summit, for our work with Emaar this, water remains a priority for the country especially in its industrial sector. on its Downtown water reuse plant, and nominated for the Best Infrastructure Our projects are still ongoing, and we forecast some return to growth in the PPP Team–Middle East 2016 at the Capital Finance International Awards. This medium to long term. industry recognition demonstrates the continued value our work brings to the industry, and is always appreciatively received. As important as the projects themselves is our engagement with the wider Indeed, it has been another year of milestones, development and evolution. industry and our stakeholders. Always something we have taken great In challenging conditions we have seen growth and change for the better, efforts to focus on and this past year was no exception. The memberships and this has been the result of hard work, but most importantly the positive with industry bodies and groups including DW&R, the IDA and the Global approach to change and development. Embracing and incorporating change Water Leaders Group (GWLG) allows Metito to take our connections and as a concept to form what we do as a company is something we have instilled engagement level to a new height. in our teams. As the world around us is changing quickly, we must be looking Metito’s work in education has also continued and we have not rested on ahead, staying tuned in to the newest developments and technologies our previous laurels with this regards. This year we have partnered with the and analysing how we can best use them to benefit our customers and Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) to support its annual Student’s Workshop communities. This forward thinking approach is something everyone must at Dubai’s Rashid School for Boys. Metito delivered an engaging workshop keep in mind–we are very proud of our heritage, now approaching sixty to students, feeding into the workshop theme; “Global Environmental years, and all we have achieved, but we must not catch ourselves becoming Challenges–From Green Attitude to Green Action”. Raising children’s complacent. We will never stop striving to deliver more efficient solutions, awareness of the importance of water conservation from an early age is key to processes and technologies which lead to bigger milestones and greater benefits for communities and economies. We will keep moving forward. safeguarding our water supply in the future, so to see such enthusiasm from students is really encouraging, and really highlights the value of partnerships This is the attitude that we as an industry need to adopt, and Metito will such as that with EEG. embody what we want to see reflected globally when it comes to water. It is no good just doing this locally, when water is a global issue. Mahatma Ghandi Communicating the water security issue, and the processes and initiatives famously said, “be the change you want to see in the world”. That is what to combat it to wider audiences is also critical so our executives have once Metito aims to do, and we hope to inspire others to do the same. again been very active in speaking to stakeholders at industry events. Metito was represented at the ‘5th Edition PPPs in Emerging Markets’ event, as well as extoled the virtues of PPP at the Lebanese Higher Council for Privatization Sincerely, event; “PPP Opens New Horizons”, reinforcing how important this type of agreement is to the water sector. Financing was a major theme at industry events in the last year–unsurprising due to the global economic climate–and Metito was involved in the discourse Mutaz Ghandour around the subject. Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, was invited to “As developing markets experience massive growth, in terms of both population as well as infrastructure, there is a need for water like never before. It’s a race with time to identify and develop solutions that can 05 match the pace of change in emerging markets–as our core focus.” Local Presence... Global Knowhow Metito Saudi at a Glance Leading the Team to Success Metito Saudi was founded in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) in late 1968 as Metito Group first regional • What do you think is the headquarters. The company cemented its leadership main factor behind Metito position in the KSA market and in the 1979 Metito Saudi Saudi success? became the first and foremost company that is officially Local Presence… Global licensed to locally manufacture desalination plants. Safi Halaoui, Metito Saudi knowhow. Our local teams General Manager include the largest engineering Today, Metito Saudi is headquartered in Riyadh, with operations covering; building, installation, operation workforces who are residents of the areas we operate and maintenance of water and wastewater, desalination, in, creating a grass root commitment to such and sewage treatment plants serving various industries communities and a sustainable pool of local talents. including oil and gas, petrochemicals and chemicals. • What advice would you give your team to maintain MetitoÕs Saudi journey of success/to ensure it continues to grow and develop as a leader? The Outlook Commit to provide Metito Saudi clients with valueThe Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is a key market for Metito added products and services and to achieve high where it has an established local operation committed returns on investments for its shareholders and to to play a role in developing the Kingdom’s water and further strive to exceed their expectations. wastewater sector. Metito has over SR350m worth • Where do you see Metito Saudi in 20-10 years from now? of investments excluding projects currently underway across a diverse range of sectors including construction, The Leaders in the Water and Wastewater Treatment oil & gas, naval, telecoms, industrial and housing in KSA. sectors. These highly regarded projects enable the • How itÕs like to work for Metito Saudi? conservation of natural water resources, the treatment Working hand in hand for 30 years with our dedicated and safe reuse of wastewater, and will provide clean staff, clients, local authorities and the people we and safe water supply to local communities. serve, has been incredibly rewarding and inspiring experience. Over the years, Metito has become The Team known for its positive workplace culture where I had expanded my way of thinking to respond to the needs Metito Saudi team works within a collegial atmosphere of my team members. Now the company is keeping that identified and defined their overall objectives pace with the rapid changes in the Kingdom, it has allowing each member to head in the same direction been great as there are more challenges to go after and achieves the desired common outcome. The team’s and even bigger team to work with. effectiveness grows working productively, displaying My most rewarding experience was in hiring and wide range of skills, world-class knowledge, and training new resources and capabilities, all of whom forming the right mix of these to meet with its steady and developed into well dedicated employees and continued success. The team is constantly encouraged contributed the overall company growth and success. to contribute ideas, take risks and harmonise their efforts, hard work and commitment toward maintaining • What one word does Metito Saudi want to own in the best performance utilising and integrating diversity the minds of its clients, employees, and partners? of thoughts, technologies and practices. Excellence. 06 Local Presence...Global Knowhow Sample Projects in KSA Project Plant Type Location Capacity End User Madinah Hajj City Ministry Of Finance, 1 Infrastructure STP Madina 21,000 m³/day KSA Grey Water Treatment Plant Ministry Of Higher Hail University 2 STP Hail 10,000 m³/day Education, Hail University, STP KSA Student Housing At King Ministry Of Higher Fahd University Education, King Fahd 3 RO Dahran 6,500 m³/day Of Petroleum University For Petroleum and Minerals And Minerals, KSA RO Plant General Directorate Of Al-Aqiq City 4 STP Al Aqiq 6,250 m³/day Water In Baha Region, STP KSA Al Madina Saudi Industrial Property 5 Industrial City STP Madina 5,000 m³/day Authority (Modon) WWTP Gulf Union 6 RO Al Kharj 3,000 m³/day Gulf Union Juice Factory BWRO Plant King Fahad Ministry Of Health, 7 Central Hospital STP Jizan 3,000 m³/day KSA STP Temporary Camp Facilities 400 m³/day 8 RO & STP Jizan Aramco at Hal Site RO & each STP Temporary 9 Camp Facilities RO Jizan 1,800 m³/day Aramco at SK Site RO 07 Our Commitment... Our Mission Metito commits to a sustainable environment through providing effective water management and treatment systems that can reconcile the ever growing demand for water and its dwindling natural resources. 08 Our Commitment...Our Values Our Values Customer Focus Every employee is customer satisfaction driven. We commit to provide our clients with value-added products and services and to achieve high returns on investments for our shareholders; we further strive to exceed their expectations and keep them continuously informed through personable, honest and open communications. People Focus Our employees are our most valuable asset; we recognise their needs and professional aspirations and make every effort to provide them with relevant training and opportunities to empower them to achieve their goals, and in turn support our mission by their high quality performance and refined service. The health and safety of our employees is also paramount to our organisation and we commit to continually improve their standards. Leadership We lead with integrity, refined expertise Quality and creativity, both as individuals within an organisation and as an organisation operating in We commit to deliver quality services and products that are in local and global markets. Our tried leadership line with our customers’ needs, and to maintain World Class approach demands leading by example and performance in all our business undertakings. This is founded influencing others to do likewise and with on the highest standards of customer service, uncompromised this, accountability becomes a guaranteed ethics and environmental consciousness. Our quality systems bi-product. ensure that we do this right the first time, every time. Collaboration, Team Work & Passion Sustainability We believe in, and encourage teamwork, as it Metito is a responsible corporate citizen that aims to creates a sustainable flow of information and implement sustainable practices throughout its businesses. knowledge sharing that helps benchmark our Our commitment to sustain the environment is achieved work, enables us to better our performance fundamentally through being an integral player in an industry and leverage our collective know-how and with a mission to meet the world’s water demands and to refined skills. Our passion and belief in what preserve its resources. Stemming from our People Focus, we we do, complement this spirit and take us that also aim to invest in and develop human elements to help extra mile that helps Metito stand out, further, provide a sustainable pool of talents to the communities we from its competitors. work with. 09 Leading By Example 10 Leading By Example A Case Study Seawater desalination plant for Pearl Qatar, Doha Qatar Location Doha-Qatar Metito was contracted by UDC to construct a seawater Key Data Plant Type Seawater Desalination Plant  reverse osmosis (SWRO) desalination plant to supply Capacity SWRO 40,000 m3/day BWRO 35,000 m3/day water for potable purposes, district cooling and irrigation Use Supply water for potable, with a flow capacity of 40,000m3/day. Due to the district cooling & irrigation reclaimed nature of the land and its prime value, it was purposes not permitted to construct a single story plant room and Client United Development Company (UDC) this constituted a major challenge. To overcome this End User Pearl Qatar challenge, Metito opted for a more effective, sustainable Contract Type Design, supply, installation, commissioning and practical solution which comprises a multiple-story and operation and maintenance of the seawater reverse osmosis plant, seawater structure that includes 4 levels. intake and brine outfall works The structure includes a basement floor that stands at nine meters below seawater level, hosting: filter feed Introduction pumps, pressure filters, product water pumps, irrigation transfer pumps, filter backwash pumps and air scouring The Pearl Qatar is an iconic and innovative mixedblowers. The ground floor is home to the cartridge filters, use urban development in Doha-Qatar owned and chemical conditioning systems, and carbon dioxide developed by United Development Company (UDC), a storage and injection system and the mezzanine floor Qatari shareholding company with a mission to identify houses the MCCs and LV systems. The first houses the and invest in long-term projects contributing to Qatar’s high pressure pumps for 1st and 2nd passes, energy growth. The island spans over four million square recovery turbochargers, 1st and 2nd passes membrane meters of land that was meticulously developed into a racks, control systems and 3.3 KV HV MCC for the huge masterpiece of private and modern living. 1st pass high pressure pumps. The Pearl offers residents and visitors a complete Another challenge was to ensure that the treated water lifestyle experience that includes residential solutions will have salinity less than 400ppm, and in full compliance of the highest international standards, a fantastic choice with the local water quality standards. of retail, dining and hospitality outlets and a host of other amenities and facilities. The Pearl’s first phase and To achieve the required permeate salinity, Metito utilised gateway to the island also houses the world’s longest the 2 pass RO system. waterfront luxury retail walkway, the 3.5 km marina-front pedestrian boardwalk ‘La Croisette’. 11 • Installation of 1.2m diameter HDPE pipeline at 2.5m Scope of Work under seabed to deliver the highly saline sea water of 47,500ppm by gravity from intake heads to SWRO The scope of work included design, engineering supply, plant inlet tank. installation and operation of the SWRO plant which • Developing an automatically functioning and compromised of the following; monitored plant that is controlled by a SCADA system • Two travelling band screens for seawater intake. with minimal manual intervention. • Chemical conditioning for disinfection and coagulant • Providing local instruments to check operational dosing. parameters such as flow, pressure and conductivity. • Six filtration forwarding pumps to feed the disinfected water to the pressure sand filters. Key Benefits • A total of 15 horizontal multimedia pressure sand filters were provided in order to separate fine • An efficient design that takes into consideration suspended particles and colloidal particles. the stringent requirements set by the owner and the • Pretreatment through antiscalant and dechlorination project manager. agent dosing. • The technologies used decrease the plant’s eco • First pass SWRO plant and second pass brackish footprint by utilising low carbon emission equipment water reverse osmosis (BWRO) plant. such as Turbo Chargers to recover energy from brine. • Post-treatment using chlorine, lime and CO2 injection. • An Environmental Impact Assessment study was • Brine outfall pipe line. prepared to assess the area affected by the construction and operation of the plant, and to • Installation of two concrete seawater intake heads decide on the required mitigation measures and including submerged coarse screens at 1.1km below precautions to minimise such impacts to preserve sea level. marine life. 12 Leading By Example Industry Recognition and Engagement Members of Metito’s management team formed a Industry Recognition panel to reward 30 onsite employees with appreciation certificates acknowledging their role in achieving this Five Million Man Hours without LTI latest milestone. The panel included Hussein Sayed, Metito Abu Dhabi Projects Manager; Yaser Imam, Continuing to underline Metito’s commitment to Metito Abu Dhabi Construction Manager, and Siegfred worker safety, Metito Abu Dhabi achieved five million L. Panilagao, Metito QHSE Team Leader. man-hours without LTI at the ADNOC Ruwais Housing Complex Phase III new Sewage Treatment Plant project. Also joining the panel representing ADNOC were Senior HSE and Construction personnel. The large-scale turnkey project has a total capacity of 30,000m3/day and the new safety record was accomplished over the two-year period of the project. Metito recognised for delivering business value through innovative IT use Metito was recognised at the CNME’s Annual Chief Information Officers (CIO) 100 Awards, for its innovative IT management. In recognition of its distinguished project “Chemical Self Control Portal, EPRO Approval and Finance Analytics Dashboard”, Arnab Debroy, Metito IT System Manager, received the prestigious award on behalf of Metito’s IT team at the CNME’s 7th annual awards ceremony which took place at The Address Marina Hotel in Dubai, UAE. The strategic aim behind the project was to maintain a The celebration at ADNOC Ruwais Housing precise and smooth business management process by Complex in Abu Dhabi, UAE Metito IT team celebrating the new achievement, from left to right; Abhinav Sharma, BI and Consolidation Analyst; Arnab Debroy, Information Technology System Manager, Wafic Ghanem, Chief Financial Officer, Akram Daoud, Regional Finance Controller & Group IT; Ashish Joshi, Metito India Enterprise System Analyst; and Rajesh Loganathan, Enterprise Technical Analyst 13 resolving all Metito’s technical issues including lack of The new recycling facility means Emaar does not need visibility in various approval data such as forecasting to draw on expensive desalinated water for its district information, chemical self-control mechanism, intercooling make-up water needs, reducing costs by 75%, company and intra-divisional accounting which might and cutting its carbon footprint by 36.85 tons of CO2 result into several variances and audit issues. per day. The nomination at the GWI Awards recognised Metito’s engineering prowess that brought the plant The awards which celebrate the innovation, intelligence into operation under such demanding circumstances – and intuition demonstrated by organisations over the and in record time. past 12 months, recognised alongside Metito a host of other leading organisations such as the MBC Group, Emirates Palace, SEHA, UAE General Civil Aviation Industry Engagement Authority, Bukhatir Group, Qatar Airways, Aluminum Bahrain, and Zulekha Hospitals. Middle East and GCC Metito nominated for ‘Water Reuse 3rd Annual PPP Investment Summit Project of the Year’ at Global Water Metito sponsored and attended the 3rd Annual PPP Investment Summit 2015, which was held under the Intelligence Awards 2016 auspices of the Prime Minister of Egypt, H.E. Sherif Metito was nominated for the Global Water Intelligence Ismail at Four Seasons Hotel Nile Plaza in Cairo, Egypt. ‘Water Reuse of the Year’ award at the annual GWI Awards The summit provided a platform to address the key which was held in Abu Dhabi, UAE. This nomination challenges related to evolving the Public Private was in recognition of the tremendous success achieved Partnerships business model in Egypt – a key vehicle for at the Emaar RO Polishing Plant in Dubai. Located at infrastructure development in the country. The forum Emaar Properties’ flagship development in Downtown offered insights into the latest strategies taken by the Dubai, the 20,000m³/d treated sewage effluent reverse PPP Central Unit under the Egyptian Ministry of Finance osmosis polishing plant came online in February 2015. An expedited project management process enabled the USD $10million plant to be designed and commissioned in only six months. Metito had the added challenge of dovetailing the plant into an extremely tight space in a multi-storey building, without any interruption to the operation of the adjacent district cooling facilities. With some of the most expensive real estate establishments in the UAE just feet away, a structural stability study was used to identify safe locations through which pipes and cables could be passed in order to integrate the plant into existing infrastructure. The polished treated sewage effluent is now used as feedwater for all three Downtown Dubai’s district Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities Vice President Business Development, speaking at 3rd Annual PPP Investment Summit cooling centres. 14 Leading By Example Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director, with Atter Hannoura, Director of the PPP Central Unit, Ministry of Finance-Egypt to overcome these challenges. There was significant Roadshow’ presentation part of this event. representation from the Egyptian Government and substantial attendance by leading bankers and META Projects is one of the few events to bring together established service providers in Egypt. Atter Hannoura, over 500 government officials, off takers, developers, Director of the PPP Central Unit, Ministry of Finance, financiers and investors to discuss the latest market welcomed Metito’s team with sincere greetings at the trends and opportunities for projects across the Middle venue. East, Turkey & Africa. It is a unique opportunity to hear from decision makers and obtain exclusive insights into Representing Metito Africa at the event were Karim the risks and returns involved in each project to better Madwar, Managing Director; Salah Degheidy, Executive align Metito Africa’s ambitious growth and business Director; and Ahmed Zaky, Business Development strategy for the short, medium and long-term. Manager. The team was also joined by Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities Vice President Business Development, who participated as a panelist in the session: ‘Project sector focus: Wastewater and desalination sector’. Metito showcased some of its key projects as well as reinstated its support for the initiatives taken by Egyptian Government committed to preserve the environment while enhancing infrastructure to accommodate the developing communities. META Projects Global Financial Conferences (GFC) invited Pedro Jorge, Metito Utilities Executive Director, to attend META Projects 2015, which took place at the Intercontinental Dubai Festival City, in Dubai, UAE. Metito had the opportunity to showcase the group’s Pedro Jorge, Metito Executive Director, during his speech key business lines and landmark projects in the ‘5min 15 International Water Summit Industrial by Vienna Water Monitoring Solutions. ColiMinder® Industrial is a fully automated measurement Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, joined the system which is able to measure microbiological International Water Summit (IWS) 2016 Judges’ panel contamination of liquid Samples within 15 minutes. at Innovate@IWS. The panel was part of Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week that took place at the National As a judge, Rami Ghandour was also joined by Alan Exhibition Centre (ADNEC). Thompson, Abu Dhabi Sewerage Service Company Managing Director; Dr. Hanifa Taher, Assistant The Panel was organised by Isle Utilities independent Professor–Chemical Engineering, Masdar Institute; and technology and innovation consultancy that brings Eva Ramos Perez Torreblanca, Director of Environment together technical and commercial specialists to facilitate Analysis and Economic Integrated Environment Policy business introductions and building relationships. & Planning, Environment Agency–Abu Dhabi. Rami was joined by Zain Hassan, Metito Utilities Innovate@IWS is an initiative focused on making it Investment Associate, and Reem Saleh, Metito Corporate easier for innovators and clean technologists to connect Communications Senior Manager. with investors, partners and end users in the quest for sustainable water. Innovate@IWS allowed the finalists in three water categories municipal, industrial and real estate to appear before a distinguished panel of judges from 5th PPPs in across the Middle East and North Africa region in a Emerging Markets live competition to determine the most promising technologies. Sulaiman Hallal, Metito Utilities Senior Business The winner selected by the panel was the ColiMinder® Development Manager, Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, during award presentation 16 Leading By Example was invited by KW Group to deliver a key case study Investment Park (DIP) Sewage Treatment Plant with an presentation titled: “Kigali Bulk Water Supply PPP, ultimate capacity of 120,000m3/day in Dubai, UAE and Rwanda” at Meydan Hotel in Dubai, UAE. also the Water Treatment Plant with a total capacity of 40,000 m3/day in Kigali, Rwanda. The conference series gives access to emerging markets from across Africa, Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe & the Middle East for a programme of capacity building MENA Project Finance and networking with Infrastructure & Project Finance Forum leaders across government agencies, investors, project Metito attended MENA Project sponsors, EPC’s and consultants. Finance Forum 2016, which was PPP Opens New Horizons orgnaised by Euromoney Seminar and Project Finance and Infrastructure Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, was invited to speak Journal in Dubai, UAE. at the PPP Opens New Horizons event organised by the Lebanese Higher Council for Privatisation at The Ecole David Mizoule, Metito Utilities Senior Manager-Project Superieure des Affaires (ESA) in Beirut, Lebanon. Finance & Biddingwas a key speaker at one of the panel discussions titled; ‘The developer’s perspective: Fady joined the “Concept and Enablers” session where Assessing market dynamics, deal attributes and optimal he discussed an important topic; ‘PPPs: From Concept financing methods’. to Successful Implementation’. During the panel, David discussed varied topics with the other panelists. Key project attributes that attract equity providers to RFPs was one focus, alongside how subsidiary financing might affect pricing. David also discussed how developers are looking at their funding mix in relation to decreased government spending, namely analysing banks loans, project financing and capital markets. 4th Saudi Forum for Planning, Design & Equipping of Hospitals Metito participated as an exhibitor an the Fourth Saudi Forum for Planning, Design Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director and Equipping of Hospitals 2016 which took place at Riyadh International Exhibition and Conference Centre in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Fady analysed the opportunities and potentials for PPPs versus the current challenges they may face in The forum aims to share industry knowledge in the field the MENA region. He also showcased some of Metito’s of hospital planning and design and further encourage successful PPP projects in GCC and Africa such as and support scientific research related to the same the 1st PPP with a private entity in the region; Dubai topics. 17 Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, speaking at his panel Global Water Summit Africa Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, was invited to speak at the Global Water Summit (GWS) in 18th AFWA International Congress & a two parts session titled; ‘Risk management in public Exhibition finance’. The event took place at Jumeirah Etihad Towers, Abu Dhabi-UAE. Pedro Jorge, Metito Utilities Executive Director, joined AFWA 2016 in Nairobi Kenya as a panelist in the Joining Rami at GWS were; Pedro Jorge, Metito Utilities session titled; ‘Re-thinking finance to drive water Executive Director, Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities Vice performance: The Kigali Experience’. This panel was President Business Development; Zain Hassan, Metito under the auspices of the Global Water Leaders Group Utilities Investment Associate; and Vera Masurat, Metito (GWLG). Utilities Senior Engineer. The panel focused on the importance of the partnerships GWS is one of the major global business meetings for between private and public sectors taking Metito’s the water industry, connecting the public and private USD $75 million Kigali Bulk Water Supply Project as an sector to accelerate change and innovation within the example. industry. 18 Leading By Example In his presentation, Pedro highlighted the benefits this Metito partners with Global Water Leaders PPP agreement will bring to the residents of Kigali. Group Metito’s responsibility covers financing, designing, constructing, operating and maintaining the water Metito partnered treatment plant. with Global Water Leaders Group (GWLG) to widen Elsewhere in the World its global exposure at significant platforms such as Global Water Summit in Abu Dhabi, UAE and Africa IDA World Congress Water Association International Congress and Exhibition The IDA World in Nairobi, Kenya. Congress 2015 was The GWLG is made up of the top people in the global held in San Diegowater sector from all corners of the world providing USA and Metito wealth of experience that fuels the transfer of knowledge participated through and solutions across regions. the presentation of a technical paper on ‘Precipitation & Softening Approaches Members of the Group include water ministers, mayors, For Membrane Based Zero Liquid Discharge Systems directors of major public and private water utilities, (ZLD) In the Fertilizer Industry’. The paper was delivered CEOs of large private water companies, senior water by Mohammed Rashid, Metito Egypt Senior Proposals managers in NGOs and international organisations. Engineer, at the Brackish Water Desalination session part of the Concentrate Management segment of the congress. Pedro Jorge, Metito Utilities Executive Director, speaking at AFWA 19 Introducing the WorldÕs First Biological Wastewater Treatment System Metito, and Biopipe, a new startup company owned by the Swiss company Biopipe Global AG and lead by young Turkish entrepreneurs, unveiled the world’s first biological wastewater treatment pipe after announcing their joint venture and exclusive licensing agreement in Turkey earlier this year. Through this agreement Metito exclusively offers the revolutionary new system to communities across Asia and Africa. Inspired by nature At the Press Event in Dubai, UAE (from left to right): Biopipe; Enver Misirli; Enes Kutluca; and Erinç Alper and Metito; Mutaz Ghandour; Rami Ghandour; and Fady Juez 20 Leading By Example The patented green system is inspired by nature and uses a simple process to treat wastewater in an unpretentious manner, all inside a pipe! Unlike other traditional wastewater systems, Biopipe produces no sludge, no odour, no sound, and no waste, making it one of the most eco-friendly wastewater treatment processes in the world today. It also brings the benefits of wastewater treatment, recycling and reuse to a much wider audience with its ability to treat the wastewater generated by individual houses of two people to cities Ability to treat the wastewater generated by individual of millions just as efficiently. houses of two people to cities of millions 21 22 Leading By Example Why choose Biopipe? 23 Our People Human Capital ‘Metito’s people are the company’s most valuable asset and their contribution, loyalty and dedication are the secret of its undebatable success’, confirmed Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director. Our training and development programs are focused on enhancing our people’s technical and soft skills thus equipping them with the necessary skills to grow, evolve and reach their full potential which will help them with their career progression. Our recruitment and selection policy aims at attracting the Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director best talents in the industry and our mission is to foster a corporate culture that is able to retain and nurture this maintained through the use of a comprehensive appraisal talent. Metito’s long standing culture is fundamentally system aimed at creating a solid platform for ongoingbuilt on mutual understanding, respect, ownership, two way communications to share constructive feedback, engagement and performance without any prejudice views and inspiration in an encouraging environment. to gender, religion and/or ethnicity. This culture is then 24 Our People It is also important to ensure that employees have full Employees by Nationality access to needed information and updates and for this 62% reason Metito has created various communication channels 60% such as the intranet and the intranet imbedded HRMS. 50% The latter constitutes yet another platform to disseminate 40% 37% relevant news and information and also allows employees 30% to access; policies, procedures, and practical tools to help 20% 10% 0.5% 1% them navigate through their needs and HR relevant matters 0% (vacations, leaves, forms…etc.). A an As n M frica A pe ia id n dl a C me ro e nd Ea Au ana rica Eu ste str dia n/ All such efforts are only augmented through maintaining ali n/ rn an a healthy and safe working environment which is another commitment Metito dedicatedly honors. This is reflected Employees by Length of Service by the measures the company takes across all offices and sites to ensure compliance and the QHSE and LTI statistics 1% that validate such efforts. 28% < 5 years ‘The key to our success is our growing family of dedicated 5-10 years and experienced talents who are inspired and equipped 54% 10-15 years to see opportunities where others lack and to overcome 15-20 years challenges through pioneering solutions and innovative 5% > 20 years technology. This is the contribution we make as a company to close the growing gap between fresh water 12% supply and increasing demand, especially in emerging markets’, added Hisham Fadda. Training Statistics No. of Employees Trained 646 No. of Training Hours 11,622 Training and Development Metito Qatar trains Qatar Gas LR2 Start Up 39% & Operations Personnel Training Type Technical Training Metito Qatar delivered an intensive training programme to Non-Technical a group of 60 professional from Qatar Gas start up and operation teams in Doha, Qatar. Sophie Soubra, Metito 61% Process Design Engineer, and Piush Bhandari, Metito Qatar Pearl SWRO Plant Manager, conducted a 3 day informative and practical training programme covering process design, QHSE Statistics pre-commissioning and biological treatment. 3,600,712 The training also displayed Metito’s solutions for every No. of Safe Man-Hours since June, 2015 until May, 2016 in the UAE aspect of water and waste water treatment such as oil water separation, COD / BOD reduction by biological process, ion exchangers, filtrations, UF–RO, drinking water, disinfection 0 and water recycle and reuse. LTI Frequency Rate since June, 2015 until May, 2016 in the UAE 25 Team Building Initiatives Over 100 awards were distributed on the day with the recognitions for employees with the most years of experience in Metito Africa saved to the end. Hosts Karim Madwar and Salah Deghedy were both recognised for their dedicated service at Metito that span thirty years. Four other employees were among the longest serving group in Metito Egypt; Mohamed Hemeida, Operations Director; Sherif Badr, Civil Construction Manager; Alaa Gobba, Business Development Manager; and Ahmed Ibrahim, Metito Africa Business Development Director, who were recognised for their 25 years of service. The ceremony was a great success all thanks to the team behind its organisation; Marwa Abdul Salam, Metito Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director, receives his 30 years’ service Africa Human Capital Manager, and the Admin team award from Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director. represented by Nada Ahmed and Ahmed Mahmoud Metito Egypt Admin Assistant. Metito Africa celebrates Metito’s service awards celebrate commitment, hard work Metito Africa-Service Awards ceremony was held at the and years of loyalty displayed day in and day out. From a Seasons Country Club, in Cairo-Egypt. Hosting the event relatively small operation at its inception to a dedicated was Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director; team of over 800 employees, the spirit and ambition of Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director; this team has never failed to impress. and Salah Deghedy, Metito Africa Executive Director. Metito Africa celebrates its Service Awards 26 Team Building Initiatives Metito Qatar Service Awards Ceremony Metito Qatar celebrates ‘International Workers Day’ Not so long ago, Metito Qatar held its Service Awards Hosted by Walid Oraby, Metito General Managerceremony at the Marriott Hotel in Doha-Qatar. Qatar, Bahrain & Kuwait, Metito Qatar celebrated the Welcoming the growing Qatari team to this well organised International Workers Day on April 29th, 2016. Over 200 event was Walid Oraby, Metito General Manager-Qatar, employees attended the celebration, which was held at the Bahrain & Kuwait, along with the guest of honor; Hisham Barwa Workers Recreation Complex in Al Khor Industrial Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director, who was Area. Everyone enjoyed a variety of different games, representing the Executive Management Team and valuable prizes, and live cultural and orchestra Metito’s Chairman and CEO; Mutaz Ghandour. Also joining performances. The event also brought the office and site the event from Metito Group Headquarters were; Ali teams together creating an opportunity for both teams to Ladan, Senior Manager -Administration and Reem Saleh, network and gain a better understanding of their various Senior Manager -Corporate Communications. roles. Congratulations are due for the thirty one employees awarded during this event. Hisham Fadda gave a short speech reminding the team of how Metito Qatar started and how it grew to the success it is today and was later joined by Walid Oraby to present the awards to all well the well-deserved, dedicated employees. The ceremony was organised by Omar Aboumourad, Metito Qatar Executive-Procurement & Admin, who did a great job making sure everything ran smoothly and that Metito Qatar celebrates ‘International Worker Day’ everyone is happy and well taken care of. Metito Qatar celebrates its Service Awards 27 Team Building Initiatives Metito India celebrates ‘International Women’s Day’ Women represent 15% of the total headcount in Metito India Pune office, out of which 83% are working in Engineering. Egypt: A Growing Market and a Remarkable Team Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO, and Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, visited Metito Egypt and took the opportunity to visit four of the most strategic projects: 6th of October Surface Water Treatment Plant; Suez Thermal Power Plant Water and Wastewater Plant; El Yosr Desalination Plant; and El Galalah Desalination Plant – which ongoing structures have reached significant stages. Metito Egypt, also home to Metito Africa headquarters, welcomed the visit and the team presented an overview Metito India the Ladies team celebrates ‘International Women’s Day’ of their various operations and ongoing success. Metito Egypt team, led by Karim Madwar, Metito International Women’s day, celebrates the social, Africa Managing Director, and Salah Deghedy, Metito economic, cultural, and political achievements of women Egypt Executive Director, also included; Mohamed across the globe – something that the team at Metito Hemeida, Operations Director; Mostafa Nassar, O&M India’s Pune office was keen to commemorate. Director; Mamdouh Bayoumi, Financial Controller; At Suez Plant 28 Team Building Initiatives Ahmed Ibrahim, Business Development Director; Atif the largest constructed, commissioned and operated Abdel Gawad, Senior Projects Manager; Hassan Rafei, plant of its kind by Metito Egypt in the Egyptian municipal Project Manager; Amgad Alsisi, IT Manager; Tarek sector and in Africa with its 2nd phase now being Khafagy, Project Control & Planning Manager; Walid commissioned. The team then traveled to Suez Ismail, Plant Sales Manager; Ahmed Zaki, Business Development Manager; Mohamed Shehab, Finance Manager; and Marwa Abdelsalam, Human Capital Manager. The overviews and follow up meetings were then followed At Al Yosr Plant At 6th of October Plant Thermal Power Plant which will see Metito Egypt providing East Delta Electricity Production Company by a special dinner that gathered Metito Africa and Metito with 650 Mega Watt by treating its water and wastewater Egypt Directors to reward more than 40 dedicated in Suez Governorate. employees from different departments. Commenting on the visit and the rewards Mutaz Ghandour said; “The The next day the team visited El Galalah Desalination success Metito Egypt achieved so far is the ultimate Plant, which provides 150,000m3/day of desalinated result of the combined and dedicated effort by capable water to the Egyptian Ministry of Defence, Engineering and professional employees and an expert leadership Authority, Water Department, in Ain Sokhna, Suez team that truly leads by example. The local presence of Governorate where its site mobilization was recently the project management and technical teams and their completed. impressive knowledge of the market coupled with the global know-how of the Metito Group can only result in The visit was then concluded with the team visiting world class quality output and make us all excited about El Yosr Desalination Plant dry operations that apply the the prospects that are yet to be achieved.” latest automation technology. This Distributed Control System allows the plant to be operated, controlled and The three days visit started with visiting the 6th of October monitored remotely based on an authorisation level. The Surface Water Treatment Plant which provides a total plant which is yet to be commissioned will provide a capacity of 400,000m3/day treated water to the Egyptian total capacity of 80,000m3/day desalinated water to the Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban Communities in National Authority for Potable Water and Sewage in Giza Governorate. This iconic project is expected to be Hurghada, Red Sea Governorate. 29 MUL cruise trip Whilst recognition and motivation comes in many facets within Metito, we also recognise other softer approaches to these essential elements for success. Teamwork is an imperative part of our ethos, culture and values. We work hard, we work together, and we work in harmony and we do recognise that nourishing the team spirit beyond work environment strengthens these attributes. MUL team building activity this year involved amazing music by the talented MUL band; Pedro, Karim and Ricardo, on a beautiful sunset cruise in Dubai. A day to truly remember… 30 Team Building Initiatives Metito Basketball team playing the final game Metito hosts ‘Wellness Day’ In partnership with Metito’s healthcare providers and The team won the championship with a remarkable 84-64 Human Capital team, Metito held a series of Wellness score against the Cardinals team. Metito also took away Days across its offices in Dubai, Sharjah and Doha. several awards including the Most Valuable Player (MVP), three ‘Mythical Five’ awards and the ‘Best Coach’ award. More than a hundred employees enjoyed complimentary, comprehensive, health risk assessment that included The tournament was played in single-round robin during testing and measuring blood sugar, blood pressure and elimination, crossover for the top four ranks during BMI monitoring. UniCare Medical Centre supported semifinals followed by the final match in January, 2016. the on-site testing, and Magrabi Optical provided free The 2nd Season of CMP Sports Basketball Tournament optometry tests. lasted for three months, with Metito competing against six other teams in its league. In the 3rd Season, Metito Basketball Team won the championship at the CMP Sports Basketball TournamentClass D Unrated 5’10”. The team claimed the top title with a remarkable 86-76 score against the Papa Rante team. Metito Basketball team was again rewarded with ‘Most Valuable Player’ (MVP), 3 ‘Mythical Five’ awards and ‘Best Coach’ award for Siegfred L. Panilagao, Metito QHSE Team Leader. Metito Qatar Wellness Day Just hit it! “Challenge yourself and your community to take steps Metito joined Ports Customs & Free Zone Corporation to improve your life from within”, was the headline for (PCFC)–Trakhees-,“Trakhees Badminton Tournament this health awareness roadshow, and in Qatar, Metito 2015” which attracted 82 teams and took place at Asma partnered with Naseem Al Rabea Medical Center to Sports Hall, Al Tawar in Dubai-UAE to commemorate the offer body mass index, blood pressure, blood sugar and UAE National Day. cholesterol level testing which eventually also attracted more than 100 employees. Metito team represented by Hayat Chowdhury, Team Leader-Shipping and Masud Kawsar, Store Supervisor, This activity is a representation of Metito’s commitment competed with the Emarat Maritime team who won by to the health of its employees and part of its role to raise only three extra points! awareness of the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle, the importance of early detection and follow Trakhees has been organising the badminton tournament ups. since 2013, targeting all employees of PCFC clients’ and their families including but not limited to companies in In It To Win It! Technopark, JAFZA, Dubai Maritime City (DMC), Dubai Ports World, and All PCFC Trakhees prequalified After bringing home the 2nd runner up title in last year’s service providers. Warriors 4As Basketball League 2015 , Metito Basketball Team claimed the top title at the 2016 CMP Sports Basketball TournamentSeason 2, Class D Unrated 5’10”, in Dubai-UAE. 31 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity 32 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Community Initiatives Gifting Life... Donating Blood PT Metito Indonesia continued one of its long running initiatives the regular blood donation drive. This year marks PTI’s 31st blood donation drive in cooperation with 8EH Radio Bekasi in Jakarta, this year attracting more than 200 donors. Elsewhere, with Metito Pune office celebrating its 10 th anniversary, the team couldn’t find a better way to commemorate this milestone than organising an emergency blood donation drive that was called for by Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Pune. With the same conviction, Metito Qatar also launched a blood donation drive an activity that is becoming a signature for the team. More than 50 employees took Gamal Awad, Metito Qatar Senior Operator, donating blood part in this activity with the collected blood going to during Qatar’s blood donation drive support Hamad Medical Center Blood Bank. Donors at PTMI blood donation drive in Jakarta, Indonesia 33 Community Initiatives Ban Tha Wang Hin School in Thailand celebrating Metito’s visit and initiative Ensuring a quality education for a brighter visited Ban Tha Wang Hin School and helped distribute the stationery among students in grades 1 through 6. future Metito Thailand supported three schools in Pranburi Supporting the Special Needs in the west of Thailand by providing the students with Metito has renewed its basic stationary. More than 500 students benefited support to Al Noor Training from this initiative where the stationary was distributed Center for Children with at the Thai Border Patrol Police, Ban Tha Wang Hin and Special Needs in Prachuabkhirikhan Schools. In addition to this, 800 Dubai, UAE for the water bottles were also distributed to ensure that the fifth consecutive year. students have access to safe and clean drinking water Providing complimentary testing for the centres’ that is vital for their well-being. facilities such as swimming pools as well as supplying A representative from Metito Thailand, Thanasan all special chemicals and services needed to ensure the Sittichatburana, Metito Business Development Engineer, quality and safety of the water being used at the centre. 34 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Knowledge Sharing and Educational Initiatives Metito joins Ashghal Workshop in Qatar General Electricity & Water Corporation (KAHRAMAA) Eng. Essa Bin Hilal Al-Kuwari; representative of the Under the patronage of the Qatari Minister of Cooperation Council for Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) Municipality and Urban Planning (MMUP), H.E. Sheikh Eng. Ibrahim Al Fawzan; and Head of the GCC’s Treated Abdel Rahman bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the Public Works Wastewater Team Eng. Khaled Al Emadi. The coveted Authority (Ashghal) held a workshop titled; ‘Examining attendees were joined by more than 50 representatives the successful experiences in wastewater treatment from across the GCC states. Representing Metito Qatar and reuse in the GCC’. The workshop was held at at the workshop were; Walid Oraby, Metito General Kempinski-The Pearl in Doha, Qatar. Manager-Qatar, Bahrain & Kuwait; Ahmed Tantawy, The workshop co-organised by Ashghal, the GCC Senior Plant Sales Engineer; Mina Yacoub, O&M General Secretariat, Qatar General Electricity, and Manager; and Preetesh Patil, O&M Manager. Water Corporation (KAHRAMAA), was aimed at uniting the Gulf vision on developing joint strategies From green attitude to green action addressing treated sewage water and its reuse. Metito contributed a paper covering one of the three key Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) held its annual areas being addressed; marketing treated wastewater. Students’ Workshop at Rashid School for Boys in The paper, which looked specifically at treated sewage Dubai, UAE. The 2015/16 workshop focused on effluent treatment and RO polishing technology, was the “Global Environmental Challenges–From Green presented by Vignesh Iyer, Metito’s Qatar Deputy Manager. Attitude to Green Action”. Under that theme Metito was invited to lead a session covering one of the most Attending the workshop was President of Ashghal, important environmental challenges facing the world Eng. Nasser bin Ali Al Mawlawi; President of the Qatar today; water conservation. Metito leads EEG’s Annual Students Workshop 35 Representing Metito at the workshop were; Hans Meu, All participants including school team leaders, EEG Metito Utilities General Manager; Reem Saleh, Metito members and students, acknowledged the importance Corporate Communications Senior Manager and Alaa of tackling the issue of water conservation as part of Waswas, Metito Corporate Communications Executive. creating a sustainable future and all had very positive feedback. To break the ice, Metito presented the students with an individual challenge that set the scene for a truly Canadian School students visit Pearl Qatar SWRO engaging session. A group of 27 students from Qatar Canadian School As part of Metito’s engagement, Hans Meu, Metito visited Metito-the Pearl Sea Water Reverse Osmosis Utilities General Manager, then presented an overview Plant (SWRO) in Doha, Qatar to learn more about the on ‘Innovations in wastewater treatment and sustainable basics of reverse osmosis in water treatment process. solutions’ where he highlighted how water recycling and reuse can really change the world, and make Piush Bhandari, Metito Qatar Pearl SWRO Plant Manager, a significant difference in water conservation. This led the visit and the informative presentation. was followed by a group challenge with 30 groups participating and each made up of 5 senior students from over 100 schools from across the UAE. Qatar Canadian School students at Metito Pearl Qatar SWRO Plant 36 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Environmental Initiatives Saving Marine Life in Thailand Metito Thailand’s Business Development Engineer, Thanasan Sittichatburana, acted as the master of the Metito supported the King Mongkut’s University of ceremonies to further promote the programme. He Technology Thonburi Alumni Association’s helped inaugurate a 130km rally from Rayong, the (MODTAWANOAK) advocacy initiative titled “Rallybiggest Industrial Estate in Thailand, to Chanthaburi Afforest (Mangrove forest)” in Eastern Thailand followed by afforesting 3,000 mangroves. by providing 840 water bottles to more than 200 participants. MODTAWANOAK is a group of professionals with engineering and management backgrounds who This initiative was aimed at supporting the Government’s promote sustainable living and commit to raising ongoing programme, Mangrove Plantation, in the coastal awareness on environmental issues. The group districts of Chantaburi, Thailand. The programme members work for some of Metito’s industrial clients. also aspires to educate the local communities on a number The group has presence in seven provinces including of marine life issues including; Chonburi, Rayong, Chantaburi, Trad, Chachoengsao, Srakaew and Prachinburi. • Basis of a complex marine food chain. • Creation of breeding habitats. Switch it off! • Establishment of restrictive impounds that offer Under the patronage of H.H. Sheikh Hamdan Bin protection for maturing offspring. Mohamed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of • Filtering and assimilating pollutants from upland Dubai and Chairman of Dubai Executive Council, Metito run-off. was invited to participate in the 7th Annual Car Free Day. • Stabilisation of bottom sediments. More than 20 technicians from Metito field services • Water quality improvements and protection of team embraced the initiative by riding bicycles from shorelines from erosion. their accommodation to the Dubai Investment Park Metito Thailand supports “Rally-Afforest (Mangrove forest)” advocacy initiative 37 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity (DIP) site, contributing to Dubai Municipality’s efforts to make Dubai a sustainable city by encouraging the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This year, Dubai Municipality, widened its initiative to reach 1,000 organisations from various sectors such as: education, development, retail, hotels, banks and people with special needs. Also, the scope of the initiative has been broadened from “Car Free Workday” to “Car Free Day”, to adopt sustainable solutions for the growing environmental challenges witnessed by the Emirate’s and the growing carbon footprint, especially resulting from road transport. India Car Free Day Metito Pune cemented its commitment to a more sustainable future by imposing a car free day on. They made a resolution to reduce consumption of fossil fuels by coming to the office riding bicycles once a week. The team also took the lead to encourage other members to follow this cause and contribute to their local environment hoping that this initiative will not just be confined to one day a week, but will extend to become an Metito field services team participating in 7th Annual Car Free Day everyday activity/habit. Umesh Dixit, Metito India Engineering Manager, riding his bicycle to office 38 This report remains to be a measure of choice that demonstrates Metito’s willingness and efforts to track the effectiveness of its community engagement and a testament of our pledge to encourage others to follow suit. The report is uploaded annually/simultaneously on Metito’s official website, portal and on the United Nations Global Compact* as a continued support for this important initiative. metito.com Design and Build l Utilities l Chemicals Intelligent Water Management
