ASIANA AIRLINES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ASIANA AIRLINES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Overview 2015 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report focuses on major promotion policy and performances, diverse opinions of the stakeholders, media analysis which has induced significant issues. This report contains the performance of sustainability management activities that we achieved in 2014 with our passion and devotion. Reporting Period This report covers from January 1 to December 31, 2014 with some informations which had changed until August 2015. Reporting Scope This report includes major operational activities and performances at domestic business sites(the headquarters, hangars in Incheon and Gimpo, branches, etc), and overseas business sites for the passengers and cargos. Principles & External Assurance To assure reliability of the information herein, the Korea Productivity Center has offered external assurance in accordance with the validation standards of AA1000AS 2008, ISO 26000 and GRI G3 Guideline. Further Information Further information contained in this report can also be found in the business report which is included in the Electronic Disclosure System of the Financial Supervisory Service homepage(http://dart.fss.or.kr) and the Asiana Airlines homepage(http://flyasiana.com). ※ Company information such as corporate governance and financial structure is based on the statistics available as of December 2014. ※ The information can be subject to change after the publication of this report. Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 CONTENT 04 CEO MESSAGE 06 Major Achievements In 2014 Economic Value Company Overview 36 Domestic and Foreign Market 36 Conditions 12 Introduction 36 Passenger 14 GLOBAL NETWORK 39 Cargo Environment & 41 Value Sharing of Stakeholders Social Responsibility Sustainability Management 60 Environment Management 42 Risk Management 18 Material Issue Identification 42 Fair Trade 61 Climate Change Response 20 Sustainability Management 43 Disclosure 66 Environment Control 20 Structure 69 Environmentally-Friendly Activities 22 Sustainability Management 20 Organization Customer Satisfaction 70 Social Responsibility 23 Win-Win Management 46 Safety Management 25 Ethics Management 49 Aviation Safety Support APPENDIX 26 Corporate Governance 52 Service 77 Financial statements 28 Stakeholder Communication 54 Marketing 86 GRI G3.1 Index & Alignment with 28 Employee 86 ISO 26000 55 Customer Satisfaction 29 Fostering Human Resources 55 Management System 90 Organization Chart 32 Safety and Health In Workplace 57 Awards 91 Third-Party Assurance Report CEO MESSAGE All of us will do our best without stopping for sustainable growth and development First of all, I would like to convey my sincere appreciation to our stakeholders for continued affection and trust. In the last year, we were able to reinforce our core competency and competitiveness under the motto of ‘new Kumho Asiana’. These achievements were made possible because of the passion and unwavering focus which we learned in our early years. We chose ‘Flawless Operational Safety’ and ‘Regaining Customer Trust’ as our top priorities because safety and service are Asiana Airlines’ highest goals. We’ve made improvements in flight training system and maintenance quality system to reinforce our general safety systems. Aisana Airlines has introduced A380, the next generation cutting-edge aircraft, to provide convenience for customers and put them into lA flights. In order to reinforce the competitiveness of long-haul flights, we expanded Paris and Istanbul flights. Furthermore, we added more flights to Guangzhou, yanji and Shenzhen to take the dominance as a leading carrier in the Chinese market. Asiana Airlines has laid the groundwork for sustainability with the revitalization of organizational culture. ‘Smile brings blessings’ campaign, the meeting between executives and staffers which leads to frank exchanges of opinions, has given us the sense of belonging and strong bond by tearing down the walls between positions. Asiana Airlines is going to fulfill the management policy of the last year, new Kumho Asiana, in 2015 and will try its best to be a reliable and beautiful company under the new motto “Strengthen Self without Stopping”. That means we are ready to stand as one and work tirelessly for the steady development and growth of the company. In addition to the safety and service items we have already promoted, an integrated safety information system will be built and bold investment for hi-tech operation equipment will be made to continuously strengthen the infrastructure for safety. This will also enhance the foundation for bringing about the awareness of safety issues. In order to reinforce our competitiveness through the latest aircraft, we confirmed the plan to introduce A350XWb and A321 nEO. We hope this will help build up the foundation for future growth. This year, we will put additional A380s into new york flights and will start a new flight to Rome to reinforce our competitiveness in long-haul flight. Also, we will speed up the plan to add our strategic air routes in China and other Asian countries. Asiana Airlines hopes to become a company that contributes to the nation and society by social and environmental activities. We are going to take responsibility for social and environmental issues with persistence and sincerity. One of such efforts is the ‘unICEF Spare Coin Collection’ which we has been working with the Korean Committee for unICEF (united nations Children’s Fund). In the last year, the accumulated amount of money has exceeded 10 billion won. This fundraising campaign will be continued for the benefit of underprivileged children. There are also other activities and campaigns to promote corporate responsibility such as ‘Social Work Volunteering In Relay’, ‘beautiful Classroom’ in China, tree planting events on the reclaimed lands near metropolitan areas and various environmental activities to reduce greenhouse gases. In retrospect, Asiana Airlines has grown and evolved thanks to our stakeholders’ continuous affection and support. We will make utmost efforts to raise the corporate value to the best in the business and to be a ‘beautiful Company’who is willing to take the social responsibilities by raising awareness of safety issues and differentiating the services with distinct ideas. We hope all our stakeholders will favor us with supports and expectations. Thank you. Soo Cheon, Kim President & CEO 2 014 A S I A N A ’ S F O C U S 6 Main Achievements In 2014 Strategic network Management ● Creating Competitiveness ○ Reinforce the competitiveness for large aircraft and premium service by introducing A380 ○ Increase the efficiency of small aircraft → Reinforce the competitiveness for short-haul flights ○ Preparations for the changeover to a new fleet(with new types of airplanes) from 2017 on ● Network Reinforcement ○ Passenger • new Flights : Jinan(2 times per week), barcelona(between May and June), Irregular Flights to Venice(between July and September) • Increased Flights : Guangzhou(10 times per week → 14 times per week), Shenzhen(4 times per week → 7 times per week), yanji(5 times per week → 7 times per week), Shenyang(3 times per week → 4 times per week), Paris(4 times per week → 5 times per week), Istanbul(4 times per week → 5 times per week), Hanoi (11 times per week → 14 times per week) ○ Cargo • Expanded Flights : Hanoi(6 times per week → 7 times per week), narita (2 times per week → 3 times per week) • Extended Flight networks : Interline(2 more companies) • Flexible Flight Operations : Hanoi(7 times per week ↔ 5 times per week) Responsiveness to the Market & IT based Management ● Creating Competitiveness ○ build the integrated management system for seats and fares ○ build the integrated management system for seats and fares Reinforcement of profitability management (expertise, effectiveness) ○ Increase profits by wet leasing u.S. lines during the peak seasons for cargo transportation ○ Make contracts with more GPA(Global Partnership Agreement) partners : 12 companies in 2013 → 13 companies in 2014 ○ Detailed classification of cargo RM(Revenue Management) Class ● Diversification of Marketing ○ Expand the foundation of foreign market ○ K-POP Marketing : Increase our brand recognition to the fans of the Korean Wave (Sponsoring for the Korean Wave concerts) ○ Expanded Participations for younger Generation (College Students) back up the dreams and passion → Elevate the corporate image Dream Wings (Elementary, middle and high school students) Running hands-on programs by age → Increase friendliness and preference Flying Marketer (Customers in their 20s) Produce and spread online promotion contents ○ Increased supply of E-Commerce : An increase of 40% from 2013 ○ Increased amount of mail order retailing supply (Germany, China, Singapore, belgium) 7 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 ● Reinforcement of IT Sales Fundamentals ○ Open Altea customer management system and build an airport system Improvement of airport automation service(Self check-in automatic ticketing system[KIOSK] usage rate : 17%(2013) → 25%(2014)) ○ build overseas online infrastructures (China, Europe, Southeast Asia, Oceania, CIS → Real-time ticketing on the internet) ○ CRM(Customer Relationship Management) system construction • Establishing the integrated management and analysis system for customer information Safety and Service Reinforcement ● Safety Reinforcement ○ Reinforcement of flight training system • Special Simulator training for all the flight crews (Evaluation and special education included) • Increase instructor's turnout during flight training • Develope and introduce a new training system(EbT : Evidence based Training) ○ Improvement of Maintenance Reliability • Reinforce the technical support for foreign airports (build real-time wired and wireless communication system) • Develop techniques to repair core parts of airplanes and engines • Acquiring a certification of international standard for maintenance system(EASA[Europe]) ○ Reinforcement of cargo safety • Reinforce the transport process of lithium batteries (not allowed in any aircraft and routes) • Reinforce the transport process of animals(Rodents are not allowed in any aircraft and routes) • Reinforce loading checkup steps (loading machine operators → load controllers → cockpit crews) ● Service Reinforcement ○ Differentiate and stabilize the A380 services • Develope in-flight fast menus, Specialty services (barista, sommelier) • Improve Service process and facilities, Supply new items (Improve comfort wears and Slippers etc.) ○ Improve service by service quality monitoring and coaching • Run cabin service monitoring committee and auditor • Carry out overseas airport service coaching : 10 branch offices in Southeast Asia ○ Reinforce customer guidance services(utilize SnSs etc.) • Offer the information about A380, Improve in flight meals, Offer Mobile check in 2 014 A S I A N A ’ S F O C U S 8 Reinforcement of Sustainability Management ● Nurture and recruitment of power ○ Foster A380 flight crews and confirmation mechanic ○ Provide engine maintenance experts ● Activation of Organizations ○ Fortune comes to a merry home(28 times of unreserved meetings with Executives) ○ All for One Program(build trust and understanding between departments and levels. 8 times a year) ○ Positive Communication Process, Culture Travel of OZ ● Financial Structure Improvement ○ Raise manpower efficiency through process improvement ○ Maintenance engineering activities → Switch over to self repairing system ○ Secure natural hedge and long-term liquidity through diversification of currency borrowing ● Introduction of Aircraft ○ Two A380-800s, an A330-300 and two A321-200s ● Reinforcement of Advertisement and Promotion ○ Promote and advertise the A380 by steps ○ Customer participation(Two-Way) promotion : ‘Fly to’ campaign ○ Raise preference for the company by inserting PPls in major variety programs, dramas, education programs on TV 9 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 ● Improvement of Corporate Image ○ Environmentally-Friendly Activities • Tree planting activities on the world’s largest landfill • Chosen as the best airline company by DJSI for six consecutive years • Raise Environmentally-friendly image : Incheon-lA flight was selected as a Green product of the year for five consecutive years ○ Social Contribution in Overseas • Installation of 26 Environmentally-friendly solar-powered streetlights (Istiqlal Mosque in Jakarta) • beautiful Class Project has been completed in China (21 schools in 3 years) ○ Operating a talent donation group • Service group (114 persons), Attendees(45,000 persons in 420 classes) ○ Safety equipments trial • Hands-on experience of safety equipments with customers • Safety training experience programs for overseas councils ○ Coin collection in the airplane for the unICEF • The collection for charity has reached to over 10 billion KRW since 1994 56,381 55,526 54,633 Sales(KRW 100M) Sales and Transport Performance 1,325 ● Sales and Operating Profits 422 615 Operating Profits Classification 2012 2013 2014 (KRW 100M) Sales(KRW 100M) 56,381 54,633 55,526 2012 2013 2014 Operating Profits(KRW 100M) 1,325 -615 422 37,036 34,523 32,870 Passenger ● Transport Performance (1M Passenger KM) Classification 2012 2013 2014 4,209 4,062 4,000 Passenger(1M Passenger KM) 32,870 34,523 37,036 Cargo (1M ton KM) Cargo (1M ton KM) 4,209 4,062 4,000 2012 2013 2014 INTRODUCTION 12 Introduction 14 Global Network Asiana Airlines will fly up into the beautiful future with our customers with the spirit of “Strengthen self without stopping.” ✽Strengthen self without stopping: strive for oneself with unceasing effort INTRODUCTION 12 Company Overview Management Philosophy and Business Credo Asiana Airlines actually fulfilled the management policy of the year, new Kumho Asiana, in 2014. In 2015, we are trying our best to be a strong and beautiful company under the new motto, “Strengthen Self without Stopping.” Company Name Asiana Airlines Inc. Date of Feb. 17, 1988 Establishment Business Credo Company philosophy Asiana Town, 443-83, Ojeong-ro, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea Customer satisfaction The safest, fastest and most (headquarters) through maximum safety comfortable flight to the Address Gonghang-ro 94-1 Gangseo-gut, Seoul, Korea (Gimpo Hangar) and the best service destination on time 272, Gonghang-ro, Jung-gu, Incheon, Korea (Incheon Hangar) President & CEO Soo Cheon, Kim(金秀天) Business Air Transport Revenue KRW 5 trillion 552 billion 678 million EBIT KRW 42 billion 228 million Employees 10,380 persons (as of April 30, 2015) Management Philosophy Job creation for communities and rationality-based management 13 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Aircraft Fleet A total of 5 aircrafts(two A380-800s, an A330-300 and two A321-200s) have been newly introduced in 2014. The aircraft fleet operated by Asiana Airlines at the end of 2014 consisted of 84 aircrafts(73 Passenger Aircrafts and 11 Cargo Aircrafts) in total. In 2015, we are planning to introduce four aircrafts (two A380-800s and two A321-200s). under a medium and longterm perspective, we have a plan to introduce 30 A350XWbs(from 2017 to 2025) and 25 A321nEOs(from 2019 to 2025). Aircraft Type The Numbers of Aircrafts Aircraft Type The Numbers of Aircrafts A320-200 8 b767-300F 1 A321-100 2 b747-400F 4 A321-200 23 b747-400SF 6 A330-300 15 Passenger A380-800 2 Cargo Aircrafts b767-300 7 Aircrafts b777-200ER 12 b747-400C 2 b747-400P 2 Subtotal 73 Subtotal 11 Total 84 INTRODUCTION 14 Global network (as of September 1, 2015) ○ 355 Domestic flights per week on 11 routes to 11 cities ○ 656 international passenger flights per week on 91 routes to 77 cities in 25 countries ○ 70 international cargo flights per week on 25 routes to 28 cities in 12 countries 15 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Star Alliance The Star Alliance is the largest global airline alliance(28 Airlines) that connects 1,330 airports in 192 countries and operates 18,500 flights a day as of September 1, 2015. Star Alliance members offer a range of high-quality customer services such as priority booking and standby, exclusive check-in counter, the frequent flier program, the rights to use about 1,000 airport lounges across the globe, one-stop check-in service and priority baggage check. S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 18 Material Issue Identification 20 Sustainability Management Structure D E V E LO P M E N T 22 Sustainability Management Organization 23 Win-Win Management 25 Ethics Management 26 Corporate Governance 28 Stakeholder Communication 28 Employee 29 Fostering Human Resources 32 Safety and Health In Workplace Asiana Airlines will enhance the company’s prestige to THE WORlD bEST by creating premium corporate value. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 18 Material Issue Material Issue Identification Process Identification Through the following process, Asiana Airlines has conducted analysis to identify material issues to be included in 2015 Sustainability Report. Especially, we have induced the material issues which have a influences on Asiana Airlines' sustainability management and put them into the report. Significance Assessment Step3 Step2 Material Issue Selection Step1 Material issues were selected Significance Evaluation through Significance Evaluation. We evaluated the issues identified The contents of the 2015 Asiana Stakeholder Issue Airlines sustainability report are from the issue pool in step 1. Identification centered on the selected material Relevance(degree of correlation with Aisiana Airlines organized sustainability management) and issues. an issue pool to pick out the impact(effects to the sustainability material issues management) were taken into account. ◦ Identification Methods of the Material Issue Pool • Media Analysis Asiana Airlines has analyzed a total of 1,270 articles and press reports published from January 2014 to May 2015 to identify relevant issues that help us find out the public’s perception of the company and material sustainability issues. • International Standards Analysis GRI G3.1, ISO26000, etc. • Relevant Company Analysis Asiana Airlines has analyzed sustainability management strategies, reported issues and success cases based on the reports published by relevant companies home and abroad. • Internal Policy and Document Analysis Confirmation and analysis of Asiana Airlines' strategy, policy, major activities and performance in 2014 • The Survey of Stakeholders ① External Stakeholders Asiana Airlines conducted the survey to understand external stakeholder interest per issue and to pick out sustainability issues. A total of 150 respondents participated in the survey and the results were studied to derive 38 issues of relevance. ②Internal Stakeholders An additional internal employee survey has been conducted on the issues of relevance derived from media research and external survey to use the results as the basis for significance assessment. 19 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 ◦ Significance Assessment Matrix 14 12.25 business Relevance 10.5 8.75 3 8.1 9.2 10.3 11.4 12.5 Stakeholder Impact No. Issues Significance 1 Perfect Safety Operation 11.9 Improvement of service quality for customer satisfaction 2 11.5 (ex. Enhancement of the entertainment function, Differentiated service) Corporate reputation management (ex. Advanced brand promotion and marketing) 11.3 3 Social contribution that reflect the characteristic of business (ex. Education donation Field trip to observe an airplane, lectures on the principle 11.3 of flying, maintenance engineer’s lecture on the job) Promotion of the communication with customers 4 11.2 (utilization of SnS, Resolving customer complaints and disputes) 5 Interactive corporate culture (Grievance Redress Committee, Joint mountaineering) 11.0 6 Health care for the employees 10.6 7 Disclosure of management activities for corporate transparency 10.4 Investment for aircrafts and facilities 10.2 8 Inspection for safety management, sophistication of the system 10.2 Securing the work-life balance of the employees(ex. Family-friendly management) 10.1 9 Climate change response 10.1 10 Global social contribution that meets the local needs 9.9 Employment creation, Talent recruitment 9.7 11 Fairness in partner company selection, Transparency in partner 9.7 company evaluation 12 Increase the use of eco-friendly aircrafts and equipments 9.5 Sophistication of ethics management practice system 9.3 Fairness in achievement evaluation, Reasonable reward 9.3 13 Global network expansion (ex. MOu, strategic partnership) 9.3 Supporting the capacity building of partner companies 9.3 Observance of environmental laws, Taking measures against restriction 14 9.1 (ex. Carbon emission trading) Fair and balanced competition 15 9.0 (ex. prohibition of price rigging and monopolization) 16 Educations for the employees' capacity building 8.8 17 Advanced risk control for financial and non-financial management 7.9 18 Reinforcing the soundness of corporate governance 7.8 Activation of the employees’ social contribution 19 7.4 (ex. Donation and Voluntary service) 20 continuous communications with partner companies 6.1 21 Securing the new growth engines (Preparing for the budget airlines) 5.8 22 Educations for accident prevention and simulation drill reinforcement 5.6 23 Reinforcement of the protection for the customer’s personal data 5.0 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 20 Sustainability Asiana Airlines’ sustainability management structure is organized on the basis Management of the new Values of Kumho Asiana Group. Structure Mission Mission ▶ Improving the quality of life all of Asiana Airline stakeholders Strategy ▶ A beautiful corporation creating the highest corporate value Vision ▶ in each related industry Vision ▶ Four core management principles Strategic Management, Strategy ▶ Human Resources Management, Ethical Management, Asiana Airlines ▶ Quality Management Spirit new Values Spirit ▶ Passion and Tenacity Right Right People ▶ Sincere and Diligent, Studious and Earnest and Driven People ▶ Taking the Initiative and leading by Example, Judgment, leadership ▶ Decisiveness, Drive Culture Culture ▶ An open community where order freedom co-exist in harmony Leadership 21 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Vision A beautiful corporation that creates the best values in the industry Vision Beautiful A workplace whose employees are Corporation satisfied with their work and pleased to be a member. A company that is run in partnership with the employees Together with Trusted by Contribute to those who set themselves to fulfill Employees Customers Public Welfare their common missions and visions Beautiful Exert one's best for the assigned job with People passion and devotion Work together with all Provide only the best Fulfill corporate social employees in the journey service, quality and responsibilities toward achieving Asiana technology to customers, vision and mission keep promises made to customers to gain their trust Mission Enhance life quality of stakeholders ◦ Disclose business information in a transparent ◦ manner and have active communication ◦ Create future values for sustainable ◦ growth of the company ◦ Identify potential partners with competitive ◦ Provide the best service and act on our ◦ edge and grow together to maximize our ◦ promises for maximum customer satisfaction ◦ competitiveness in service and quality ◦ Act consistently, assure quality and undertake ◦ Reinforce win-win partnership through ◦ business in a responsible manner ◦ active communication and idea sharing ◦ to build trust Shareholders er P Co artn stom mp er Cu an y Employee Society Improving the quality of life all of Asiana Airline stakeholders ◦ Engage both employees and customers ◦ in proactive outreach campaigns to create ◦ a ‘beautiful World’ ◦ Develop employee talents from the thought ◦ Grow into a ‘beautiful Company’ that fulfills ◦ that humans are the core assets of the company ◦ its social responsibility by carrying out * Talent Management : Train and manage the best and the ◦ initiatives based on objectives such as * brightest who can represent corporate values ◦ education donation, culture of sharing, ◦ eco-friendly management S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 22 Sustainability Organization Management Organization CEO Financial Affairs, Environment, Education Corporate Support Dept. Passenger · Cargo Safety(Flight/On the Ground) (Sales/Service) Safety & Security Management, Passenger business Dept. Flight Operations, Cargo business Dept. Maintenance & Engineering, Operations Control Strategic Planning, External Cabin Service Cooperation, Social Cabin Service Dept. Contribution Strategic Planning Dept. Domestic & Overseas Branches Passenger business Dept. Cargo business Dept. ◦ Major Committees Name Meeting Major Tasks Frequency labor Management • Discuss how to induce collaboration and improvement for working conditions, Quarterly Council • benefits, health, welfare • Review the company ’s safety functions from a strategic perspective, and verify Safety & Security • whether sufficient resources are adequately allocated Monthly Review board • Monitor safety performance of the safety policy, safety objectives and the • effectiveness of Safety Management System(SMS) Customer Satisfaction Semi-annual, • Share service quality issues and the present actual conditions. Discuss the Improvement Committee ad hoc • controversial customer service issues and draw the improvements Internal Council for • Prevent unfair business deals and establish a self-regulated monitoring system · Monthly Joint Growth • Check the details on the joint growth promotion and discuss the direction of progress Fuel Management • Review results of energy-saving initiatives and generate plans Monthly Committee • Develop new ways for energy saving, analyze statistics Occupational Safety & • Develop plans to improve safety and health and prevent occupational accidents Quarterly Health Committee • Analyze the cause of industrial accidents and take measures against recurrence • Define targets in environment aspect and set specific goals Environment Committee Annual • Discuss material issues and define plans to enhance the environment ◦ Sustainability Management Activities 2012 2013 2014 • Signed an MOu with unESCO Korea for • Awarded in China for excellent in-flight • Introduced A380 Special Edition(for the • world heritage preservation • service • second time) • Raised KRW 7 billion for its spare coin • named no. 1 ‘Good Airline’ • Fund raised by collecting spare coins • collection initiative • Fund raised by collecting spare coins • exceeded KRW 10 billion • Accredited to offer educational outreach • exceeded KRW 8.5 billion • named no. 1 in Customer Satisfaction • initiatives • named the best airline in fuel efficiency • by KCSI, nCSI and KS-SQI • Airline of the year(Premier Traveler) • no. 1 in nCSI • Awarded as the world best customer • no. 1 in KCSI aviation service for 2012 • World Airline Award (best employee • service and in-flight service (business • no. 1 Airline in 2012 KS-SQI • service, best in-flight meal service for • Traveler) • named the leader of air transport • economy passengers) by Skytrax • Awarded as the best in-flight service and • industry by DJSI Korea (4 consecutive years) • built its own power generation system to • the best flight attendants (Global Traveler) • Grand Awards for Excellence in • prevent blackout • Grand Award for Marketing(2014 Travel • Sustainable Management (Ministry of • no. 1 in 2013 KS-SQI • business Awards in China) • Knowledge Economy) • Completed the construction of the 2nd • named the leader of air transport industry • Grand Award for Family-Friendly • hangar in Incheon • by DJSI Korea (6 consecutive years) • Management • Introduced the next generation • named Green Product of the year • Grand Award for Transparent • passenger system • (Incheon lA flight) • Management selected by 5 major • named the leader of air transport • built a world standard systems for • economic associations • industry by DJSI Korea (5 consecutive years) • reservation, ticketing and transport 23 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Win-Win Vision Management “Marching toward a beautiful future with Partners” is the win-win management vision that Asiana Airlines has established. We have been trying to maximize service and quality competitiveness by identifying and developing partners with competitive edge. The results have been shared fairly through partnership. building an infrastructure for win-win management, cultivating good partners, interactive communications, supporting for partner companies are some of our efforts to reinforce the partnership. Operation Program Division Program • Operate AVEPS(Asiana Value Enhancement Purchasing System) Win-Win • Agreement for fair trade and joint growth (Fair Trade Commission) Infrastructure building • Establish and spread the ethical principle for purchase • Partner assessment Cultivating Good Partners • Good partner grading system(Compensation based on evaluation grades, Support for events • and education) • Win-win meeting with partners Interactive • Day for partner communication Communications • Grievance redress and suggestion for good practices, Surveys for partners on • Ethics Management satisfaction Support for Partners • 100% cash payment, Cyber foreign language course, Membership to use culture center contents Partner Management System ◦ Partner Selection The purchase system of Asiana Airlines consists of Requisition Department(Request and review the procurement), budget Management Department(Review and approve the budget) and Procurement Department(Conduct real procurement and payment). When selecting partners, we observe the procurement guideline to ensure the detailed information on transparent and fair procurement process. Process to Ensure Fair Procurement Purchase Decision Purchase Request Partner Selection ■ Compile requisitions for ■ Submit purchase requests ■ General competitive bidding needed materials to Purchase Department ■ Restricted competitive ■ Finalize specifications and (AVEPS) bidding needs for materials ■ Designated competitive based on relevant bidding policy ■ Private contract The process guides purchasing department to select the most optimum partners in consideration of price, quality, deadline management, follow-up measures, good practices, recommendation by relevant departments and environmental footprints of their products. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 24 ◦ Partner Evaluation and Good Partner Program Asiana Airlines assigns 30% weight to the corporate evaluation result and 70% weight to product/transaction evaluation result when assessing partners, and defines evaluation items under such standards. Corporate assessment looks at management environment and operational capability of a partner for the transaction, and product/transaction assessment has criteria such as price, quality, service, shipment, deadline observance, and inventory management. Fair Transaction and Win-Win Growth Agreement On July 10, 2013, Asiana Airlines held a conference for partners where we announced the win-win statement, signing a fair transaction and win-win growth agreement with partners. Afterwards, we have been establishing an autonomous fair transaction system by setting up a contract guideline and a partner selection & application guideline. We also established an internal deliberation committee and introduced a standard contract document following the guideline of the Fair Trade Commission. Internal Deliberation Committee for Joint Growth Internal Deliberation Committee for Joint Growth has been established to prevent unfair trade practices and introduce a voluntary monitoring system. The committee reviews implementation and progress of joint growth plans and discuss how to drive it further. Internal Deliberation Committee consists of a chairman(a procurement executive) and a secretary(a win-win cooperation team leader), two standing committee members and two temporary committee members. 25 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Ethics Organization Management Asiana Airlines is running an Ethics Audit Office(Ethics Audit Team) under the direct control of the CEO to fully implement ethical management. Implementation Plan Establish ‘beautiful Culture’ Develop new Values for Kumho Asiana Maximize business Efficiency ▲ Establish Transparent Management Prevent Fraud • Error or Accident Fraud Risk Audit Planning Stronger Employee Management and Execution Ethics • Improve the audit manual • Plan and execute with a focus • Extend ethical management and auditing skills on risk management education for employees • build fraud/corruption • Monitor compliance with • Conduct ethics surveys monitoring system relevant rules and campaigns • build on-going • Enhance work efficiency • Develop employee monitoring system by conducting periodic audits education program Practice Program ◦ Ethics Management Education We are inspiring employees to aware the Ethics Management by providing various ethics management educations(cyber ethics management education, ethics management education on duty educations or promotion educations) Especially, we are providing intensive ethics management educations for new employees and executives. Ethics Management Education Results General Sales Airport Operation Division Cabin Procurement Maintenance (Pilot etc) Educated Persons 312 208 105 73 Ethics Management Campaign Asiana Airlines has waged a self regulating campaign that bans employees from receiving money or gifts offered by business partners to establish the Ethics Management. We have held a total of 25 campaigns until 2015. During the campaign period, we regularly invite partner companies to relay our messages and hold a rally to promote ethics management. Starting from 2013, Asiana Airlines has launched campaigns that bans employees from receiving money for their lifecycle events (e.g. a funeral, a wedding, giving birth to a child, etc) from business partners. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 26 Ethics Management Homepage Ethics Management Homepage, which has been created for real time monitoring on whether the employees are following the ethics management(social contribution activities included) regulations, consists of three sections(Ethics Management, Social Contribution, Cyber Ethics Managements center). We improved the accessibility by placing the banners, made from stakeholders’ opinions and tip-offs, onto the top of the page. Corporate Shareholder Status Governance Name Equity Stake(%) Owned Shares 30.08 ① ① Kumho Industry 30.08 58,688,063 ② Kumho Petrochemical 12.61 24,593,400 unit % ④ 51.06 ③ Korea Development bank 6.25 12,200,000 12.61 ② ④ Others 51.06 99,619,902 ③ 6.25 The Composition of Board of Directors Type Name Role Work Scope Recommended by Note Park Sam-Koo Overall business CEO(appointed on Supervise business management Kim Soo-Cheon management March 27 ’ 14) Inside board of Director Seo Jae-Hwan Supervise external affairs External affairs Directors Appointed on March 29 ’13 Supervise business management Han Chang-Soo Finance, etc Overall business management and external affairs Aviation industry Im In-Taek Aviation & transport expert Reappointed on March 31 ’ 15 advisor Jeong Chang-young Economy expert Economic advisor Outside Reappointed on March 27 ’ 14 Outside Director Director lee Seong-Geun legal expert legal advisor Recommendation Reappointed on March 29 ’ 13 Committee Jeong Gun-yong Reappointed on March 27 ’ 14 Financial expert Financial advisor Kim Jong-Chang Appointed on March 29 ’ 13 Board of Directors Outside Director Recommendation Committee (3 Persons) Audit Committee(3 Persons) • Purpose/Authority: Audit the Management of • Purpose/Authority:Recommend outside director Internal Accounting Control System candidates • Chairman(Outside Director):In taek Im • Chairman(Inside Director): Soo cheon Kim 27 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Independence of Directors Candidates recommended by the board of directors(for inside directorship) or Outside Director Recommendation Committee(for outside directorship) must receive unanimous support from the board of directors, and biographical information of the candidates is disclosed to both shareholders and other stakeholders before a general shareholders ’ meeting in compliance with applicable laws. ◦ Major Agendas in 2014 : A total of 18 board of director meetings An approval for the financial Agreements on a bond trust of An approval for the establishment statement of closing air cargo fare and asset-backed and management of the life-long account on the 26th general loans transactions learning center on the 2nd shareholders’ meeting hangar in Incheon ▶ ’14.2.6 ▶’14.5.8 ▶ ’14.7.17 ▶ ’14.10.6 ’14.12.19 An approval for signing a financial Extension of foreign currency agreement backed by Export-Import loans funded by Korea Finance bank of Europe for one A380 Corporation for facility addition Executive Compensation Status of the Compensations for Directors and Auditors < unit: KRW 1K > Type Persons Total Compensations Average Compensation per Director Registered Directors 4 1,291,550 321,887 Outside Directors 5 252,000 48,000 Members of the Audit Committee or Auditors 3 156,000 48,000 Total 9 1,543,550 171,506 note) 1. Only the inside directors were marked as registered directors. All the three members of the Audit Committee are outside directors. The ‘Total’ note) above is a total of the registered directors(inside directors + outside directors). note) 2. The ‘Total Compensations’ is an accumulated payment until the end of that quarter. The average payment per registered director has been calculated note) simply by dividing the total payment with the number of registered directors. note) 3. The average payment per outside director or member of the Audit Committee or Auditor has been calculated in consideration of the numbers of note) retired/newly appointed directors during the disclosed period. note) 4. no stock option Committees under the Board of Directors Division Purpose of Establishment Composition Note Outside Director 2 outside directors 1 chairman Recommend outside directors Recommendation Committee 1 inside director 2 members Audit the inside account 1 chairman Audit Committee 3 outside directors management etc. 2 members S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 28 Stakeholder Customer Satisfaction Improvement Committee, service quality monitoring Voice of Customer management system customer satisfaction survey, IR Meeting & Conference, Communication global talent growth project Investor conference, disclosure, annual report Shareholder & Investor Policy discussion regarding air transport. collaboration for domestic/foreign information exchange Domestic and foreign issue discussion, Customer Government & Aviation or other relevant councils Relevant Agency Partner Employee Telepia(corporate reporting and approval system), various employee engagement programs, corporate newsletters Win-win growth meetings, English brakers/In the Cabin(cabin members). Roundtable meetings with club activities, internal councils supplier CEOs Internal Deliberation Committee Environment & for Joint Growth, Green Corporate Council, activities for domestic and foreign councils, Society labor consulting, Partners’ Day partnership with the government AVEPS(Procurement Portal System), beautiful Sharing(1 Company 1 Village, unICEF spare coin collection), information/idea sharing beautiful Classroom(education donation, beautiful Classroom initiative in China), beautiful Culture(Asiana International Short Film Festival, art sponsorship) Employees Employees Status The total number of employees is 10,138 and the ratio of female employees is 54.8%. Oceania 14 < unit: persons > Asia 318 Employee Composition 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employees by Europe 118 geographies Male 3,910 4,112 4,356 4,485 4,583 China 356 Japan 191 Female 4,670 4,961 5,239 5,461 5,555 America 253 Total 8,580 9,073 9,595 9,946 10,138 < unit: persons > Female Share 54.4% 54.7% 54.6% 54.9% 54.8% Korea 8,888 note) 1. 10,380 persons (Male: 4,649 / Female: 5,731 / as of April 30, ’15) Total 10,138 note) 2. the average length of service: about 10 years (as of Dec 31, ’14) Manpower Index(New Hiring, Career Change etc.) New Hiring Retirement & Discharge Physically Challenged new Hires : 829 people 637 people(those leaving for other companies after resignation:6.3%) 72 people Manpower Index(Female Managers, Temporary Staffs) Female Managers Temporary Staffs 2 Executives 5 Team leader 26 Part leader 2 Executives 122 Flight 82 153 Office 267 Cabin 148 Group leader 180 Cabin Manager Operation Maintenance Total : 361 Total : 598 29 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Talent Growth Vision and Strategy Fostering global leaders for creating future values and outcomes Vision Enhance global and creative capability, Foster an organizational culture of communication and fusion, Create learning environment in the workplace Strategy Purpose of Education Initiatives Stronger global capability, Innovative corporate culture, Performance Establish leadership education system improvement Reinforce communication program, Smart learning Grow key talents and experts, Introduce more family program Foster Infrastructure and culture, Career Development Program Improved global capability When hiring and positioning the employees, Asiana Airlines secures adaptability, expertise and stability by reflecting their wills. We are running a Career Development Program to recruit talented people. Systematic Duty/ Career • Develop the career by CapabilityDevelopment • configured career path • Duty-centered career development Centered • Provide opportunities • Judge the conformity between the Development • based on the career • capability needed from the • development system • duty and personal capability, • develop necessary capability Career Development Inspection and Modification • update the career plan annually after testing • Manage the progress of practice issues Talent Growth System Asiana Airlines is reinforcing the global capability education by hierarchical education(centers on the leadership pipeline of the job hierarchy), the nurture of key talents and the cultivation of the next generation leaders. basic education by position consists of essential hierarchy education, duty expertise education and organization activation education. Advanced education consists of Capability Development Class and Key Talent Class. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 30 The status of Employee Education Training Expense Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Total Expense KRW 100 million 128 138 138 Per Capita Expense(Full-Time Worker) KRW 1,000 1,498 1,501 1,563 Education Expense to Sales Ratio % 0.23% 0.25% 0.25% Major Specialized Programs Course Description CS Consulting Service training to help employees understand customer service and service-oriented mindset Outsourced Training for Partners Outsourced training to improve job capability of partner companies Foreign language and Culture Class Foreign language and culture classes for self-development of employees Remuneration and Counseling Asiana Airlines has given salary raises for high performers by their positions or duties through the annual personnel evaluation based on achievements in order to motivate employees. Through the 'Extra Promotion Point Program', we give graded promotion points to talented employees to offer a faster track for promotion. We also offer the opportunity for promotion to those who have received good grades in the Asiana MbA course. Exemplary employees and those who have made great contributions to the company are rewarded on a monthly basis or on the company foundation day(Employee Reward, long Service Reward). For Performance evaluation, we set concrete targets and offer interim assessment for feedbacks to help improve performance in the process. Asiana Airlines evaluates work performance of an employee by the annual achievements. The result of evaluation is used as reference for career development plan and rewards. Evaluation Results are also utilized as capacity development tools for an employee or the organization. Employees share the results with evaluators so as to use the evaluations as tools for determining their self-development fields. Telepia Grievance Redress Center Human Rights ▲ Difficulty Counseling Asiana Airlines is running a counseling center for rapid and easy settlement of difficulties and difficulties, grievances. grievances Receive Sexual psychological OZ Consult with 休Port Harassment counseling from ◀ Counseling ▶ HR manager professional Psychological in charge psycologists Counseling sexual harassment report, counseling 31 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Maternity Protection Asia Airlines has been making efforts to fulfill the responsibilities and roles as a familyfriendly company that leads gender equality in employment. Some of those efforts include the expansion of female employment, fostering women with professional careers, supporting the coexistence of career and family life and creating a sound corporate culture. Maternity Protection Programs Programs Contents • From the diagnosis to the day before the maternity leave Prenatal leave • up to 2 years for childbirth and childcare • 90 days in total + 30 days upon employee request Maternity leave • 120 days of maternity leave for multifetal pregnancy parental leave • Institutionalized for all the applicable employees to use lessen the workload • Pregnant employees placed at posts with less workload upon their request for the pregnant • Shorter work hours for female employees(less than 12 weeks of pregnancy or more than employees • 30 weeks of pregnancy) A leave before • Female employees suffering from morning sickness, at risk of miscarriage or premature childbirth • delivery are given the prenatal leave Fertility leave • Reproductively challenged employees can take a leave for fertility treatment Miscarriage & • up to 30 days of leave given in addition to the legally mandatory leave considering the health stillborn leave • condition of pregnant employees Fetus checkup • Paid 4-hour leave assured for fetus checkup Gift for childbirth & leaves • KRW 500,000 granted per childbirth for lifecycle events • 3-day paid leave have been implemented before the legislation Childcare expense • KRW 203,000 granted per child aged 6 or lower support • All employees are entitled Labor-Management Communication Classification Aviation Office/Cabin/Maintenance Asiana Pilot union Asiana Airlines Human Title Corporate labor union Cabin union (APu) Pilot union (AHPu) Date of Establishment June 7, 2000 August 27, 2014 April 30, 1999 September 23, 2013 Occupational Office, Cabin Crew, Flight Crew Flight Crew Cabin Crew Category Maintenance Collective agreement Negotiations in 2014 renewal negotiation, Wage negotiation Wage negotiation Note Head of the negotiations Head of the negotiations ◦ Labor-Management Council labor-Management Council was established to enhance common benefits of both the labor and the management alike by enlisting more proactive engagement and cooperation of corporate labor union and the pilot union. ✽ Periodic labor-management council meetings are held on a quarterly basis. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y D E V E L O P M E N T 32 ◦ Occupational Safety Health Committee The Occupational Safety Health Committee is evenly split between the labor and the management with five people coming from each front, following Article 19 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. The Occupational Safety Health Committee is also held on a quarterly basis with ad-hoc meetings organized whenever needs arise, and operation of the committee is subject to the Asiana Airlines’ operational provisions for the Occupational Safety Health Committee. ◦ Grievance Redress Committee The Grievance Redress Committee is evenly split between the labor and the management with five people coming from each front, following Article 26 of the Worker’s Participation and Cooperation Promotion Act. Operation of the committee is subject to the Asiana Airlines’ operational provisions for the Grievance Redress Committee. Asiana Airlines also runs a grievance and counseling center(OZ Hueport) with a professional psychology counselor in the company along with a counseling page on in-company intranet. Safety and Health Health Care System in Workplaces Asiana Airlines has been carrying out the health tests specifically designed for the cockpit crew to help maintain flight safety by managing their physical conditions to the optimum level. We also adopted specialized aviation medical examination and one to one customized health care. We offer year-round one to one customized health care to the employees with potential health issues identified in the health exam. Each employee’s health care continuity is maintained by the Integrated Medical Information System which contributes greatly to the prevention of disease and the promotion of health. Especially, we are concentrating on the treatment of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease which are caused by unbalanced eating habits and the change of living habits. We are running the year-round health care program in an effort to prevent Dyslipidemia, high blood pressure and diabetes. Employees are able to access to their health information at any time and use them for health care through the Integrated Medical Information System. The system has security measures for information protection in accordance with the related laws. Aiana Airlines offers primary care and counseling to employees for any health issues or emergencies at work. We have introduced a collaborative network with external medical institutions for consistent and seamless health care. Routine medical checkup, special checkups prior to and after new job assignment, health exams before overseas assignment or returning to job have been underway following article of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Asiana Airlines provides comprehensive health checkup system for workers to boost employee productivity and satisfaction with better health and welfare services. 33 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 We have adopted proactive measures and are monitoring the disease outbreak information of health authorities and international organizations to prevent infectious disease. We offer vaccinations preferentially for the workers at the points of contact with customers and field workers. Recently, we have expanded the scope of vaccinations to employees’ families. Medical Support for Customers To take sick and infirm passengers to their destinations safely and comfortably, Asiana Airlines offers medical recommendations and supports based on aviation medicine. Flight crews should be educated about first aid to prepare for the emergency conditions. Each aircraft should be provided with medical supplies. We also operates a 24-hour hot line call to cope with emergencies. Medical Support for the Families Asiana Airlines offers medical supports for employees' families by mutual aid organization activities when employees' family members need expensive treatments(e.g. serious injuries, tumors). Work Environment Control Danger Evaluation, which has been practiced annually from since 2013, is a series of activities to reduce the dangerousness by priority. Field Supervisors and workers can also participate to evaluate harmful factors in workplaces. We sort out risk materials that might cause reproductive harm and replace them with alternative ones by negotiations with aircraft makers. Hearing Preservation Program is underway to prevent noise-induced hearing loss. We are aiming for the identification of the cause of noise emissions and are pursuing fundamental improvements to create safe and comfortable working conditions. ECONOMY 36 Domestic and Foreign Market Conditions 36 Passenger 39 Cargo 41 Value Sharing of Stakeholders 42 Risk Management 42 Fair Trade 43 Disclosure Asiana Airlines will raise the corporate value through the reinforcement of Aircraft Competitiveness. ECONOMY 36 Aviation Industry In 2014, the overall number of passengers increased 11.4% for international flights and 10.3% for Overview domestic flights yoy with the international cargo volume also increasing 3.7% from the previous year. International flights carried 56.78 million passengers throughout the year, which marked the highest-ever performance, buoyed by the combination of factors such as an influx of foreign visitors from China and East Asia to Korea, increment of passenger traffic by lowcost airlines, a stronger won, reduction of fuel surcharge and introduction of the ‘alternative holiday’. Domestic flights also maintained the upward trend carrying 24.65 million thanks to the factor of increase in demand such as the introduction of the alternative holiday, expansion of lCC domestic fights and increased demand for the flights to Jeju(Gimpo-Jeju flights). The international air freight marked 3.41 million tons supported by the expanded cargo flights of airlines and increased transport volume caused by export and import surge thanks to economic recovery in advanced countries. In 2014, the number of outbound Korean passengers(according to the Korea Tourism Organization’s statistics) increased 8.8% yoy with inbound foreign passengers increasing 16.8%. The number of both inbound and outbound passengers went up 12.2% from the previous year. For 2014, Asiana Airlines’ market share stood at 21.4% in domestic passenger(20.6% in 2013), 21.9% in international passenger (23% in 2013), and 24.1% in international cargo. Passenger External Environment In 2014, the number of passengers increased 11 percent by the factors, such as increased number of seats by the introduction of new aircrafts, increasing number of Koreans who trip to overseas because of a stronger won, an influx of foreign visitors from China and East Asia to Korea by the Korean Wave and increased number of tourists who visit Jeju island. International passengers increased 11.4 percent(56.78 million people) in a year which is an all-time high performance. The Driving factors for the performance are the introduction of new aircrafts by airlines, expansion of routes, increase of flights, increased number of foreign visitors from China and East Asia by the popularity of Korean dramas, the Sochi Winter Olympics, the 2014 brazil World Cup, the Incheon Asian Games, APEC in China and introduction of the ‘alternative holiday’. Domestic passengers were increased 10.3 percent(24.65 million people) in a year. The driving factors are expansion of domestic routes by low-cost airlines, introduction of the ‘alternative holiday’, increased number of tourists who visit Jeju island and the increased demands for air travel by marketing campaigns of airlines. In 2015, aviation industry’s cost burden is expected to be reduced by stabilized oil price. International flights’ competition with foreign airlines and low-cost airlines is likely to be aggravated, but the increased demand in China and Southeast Asia will be more pronounced. Domestic flight is likely to be reduced by the KTX Honam line, but the number of passengers on Jeju line are constantly increasing. Response Asiana Airlines reinforced competitiveness by introducing two A380s, two A330s, an A330 37 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 and two A321s in 2014. Altea system has been deployed on november 2014 to create the passenger-airport integrated management system. Altea will contribute to the enhancement of productivity and customer service. As for long-haul flights,we expanded Istanbul flights(since March 30) and Paris flights(since May 24) to five flights per week, by adding an extra flight per week for each line, to extend long distance networks. As for short-haul flights, we added a new route to Jinan(two flights per week) in May and two new unscheduled route to Wuxi and Wenzhou. Furthermore, we expanded some routes to China(Guangzhou, Guilin, Chongqing, yancheng, and busan-Hangzhou) to sharpen the competitive edge in Korea-China routes. In consideration of profit and loss, Asiana Airlines expanded Gimpo-Jeju route following the ch anges to customer preferences and reduced some routes to Japan. Passenger sales increased by 2.8 percent(totaled 3,652.9 billion in KRW) compared to 2013 by the reinforcement of route competitiveness, introduction of new unscheduled routes and flexible supply policy. We have supported various culture and sports events such as K-Pop concerts and the Gwangju universiade to reinforce our brand image as a leading company of the Korean Wave. We promoted a marketing that lived up to customers’ expectations by ‘Dream Wings’ program(an international marketing event for college students) and the introduction of CRM system(a system that manages customer-related works such as systemization of information and reflection of information to optimize the information about customer satisfaction). In 2015, Asiana Airlines will reinforce the competitiveness by the introduction of additional A380s, the expansion of mid-to long-haul flights and profitable nonscheduled routes. Especially, we are planning to obtain the competitive edge in Chinese routes. Also, we will organize a friendly response system for customers through the diversification of sales channels and customer valuecentered marketing. Accordingly, we will cope with the complex change of external environment strategically with the growth of the company and profit-oriented substantiality. ECONOMY 38 Major Indexes(Passenger) Market Share < unit : % > Classification 2012 2013 2014 International Passenger 23.5 23.0 21.9 Domestic Passenger 21.1 20.6 21.4 Performances 2012 2013 2014 Classification The number of Amount(KRW The number of Amount(KRW The number of Amount(KRW People(KM) 1 million) People(KM) 1 million) People(KM) 1 million) Passenger 32,870 3,671,076 34,523 3,552,094 37,036 3,652,889 Domestic Flights 1,664 307,469 1,706 314,499 1,965 347,259 International Flights 31,206 3,363,607 32,817 3,237,595 35,071 3,305,630 Revenue share by Flight Route < unit : % > Classification 2012 2013 2014 Japan 20.9 18.9 16.6 China 19.6 21.0 22.4 Southeast Asia 17.8 18.3 18.5 CIS 1.2 1.4 1.5 America 6.6 6.5 6.2 Europe 2.9 3.0 3.3 Oceania 3.4 3.7 3.2 Domestic 27.6 27.1 28.4 39 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Cargo External Environment In 2014, major sporting events such as the Sochi Winter Olympics, the 2014 brazil World Cup and the Incheon Asian Games were held one after another. Thus, the increased demand of uHD TVs and new smart phones lead to a boom in air cargo business. In the fourth quarter, the demand of air cargo increased rapidly by the influence of the west coast port strikes in America and the amount of freight cargos increased 3.8 percent year on year. The slide of oil price from the fourth quarter of 2014 to the first quarter of 2015 influenced the reduction of oil expenses in aviation industry. Oil price has been creeping up since the second quarter. Exchange rate shows the sign of the weakened won against the dollar with the rate increase in America just ahead. but yen and Euro is expected to be weakened. FTA with new Zealand, China and Vietnam will have an impact on the increase of air cargo. but the profitability can be worsened by fierce competitions with Middle East and Chinese airlines those which are penetrating into Korean Market. Response In 2014, Asiana Airlines’ international cargo volume has decreased by 4.0 percent year on year(72.9 kilo tons). Accordingly, the domestic market share decreased 2.4 percent. Most of the decrement led to the increased market share of foreign airlines. Our capacity of supply has been reduced by the deterioration of aircrafts which led to increased maintenance time. Middle East and Chinese airlines’ supply has been increased relatively. but the yield, which represent the sales price of Asiana Airlines increased by 2.5 percent in dollar terms and this helps improve the profitability. Thus, the revenue from routes marked KRW 1,306 billion(only 2.4 percent decreased year on year). As for the changes in surroundings of air freight in 2015, our predictions are decline of oil price, expansion of cargo plane operations, growth in trade between countries by the economic recovery in America and increase in trade of the equipments related with smart phones and semiconductors. In the long term, air freight will show a modest increase by the decline of oil price and the recovery of the world economy with the advanced countries at the center. Considering those external factors, we selected e-commerce and temperature control goods, which represent the increase in demand, as our next generation growth engines and will expand the supply. In addition to that, we will reinforce the manpower to expand the sales of belly using the aircraft networks. To enhance business operation efficiency, we will computerize export cargo works at the airport by introducing PDAs and will introduce next generation cargo system to increase the revenue from routes through demand prediction. We will monitor the real time operation status by linking the cargo operation system and cargo homepage to improve customer service quality. The demand for cargo is influenced by global economic downturn from the financial crisis in Europe because of its sensitiveness to the changes in global economy and fluctuations in volume of freight cargoes. According to a press release from the Ministry of land, Infrastruct ure and Transport, in 2015, cargo transport maintained an increase by the decline of oil price, expansion of cargo plane operations, growth in trade between countries by the economic recovery in America and increase in trade of the equipments related with smart phones and ECONOMY 40 semiconductors. In the long term, air freight will show a modest increase by the decline of oil price and the recovery of the world economy with the advanced countries at the center. To respond to the cargo business, which is sensitive to the changes in market, in a flexible manner, Asiana Airlines will do the best to increase sales by strategic marketing and effective operations of aircrafts. At the same time, we will apply practical route patterns and freight operations to reinforce cost competitiveness. Major Indexes(Cargo) Market Share <unit : % > Classification 2012 2013 2014 International Cargo 25.6 26.5 24.1 Performances 2012 2013 2014 Classification The number of People Amount The number of People Amount The number of People Amount (million tons KM) (KRW 1 million) (million tons KM) (KRW 1 million) (million tons KM) (KRW 1 million) cargo 4,209 1,450,584 4,062 1,401,365 4,000 1,373,670 Domestic Flights 16 6,094 18 7,618 20 9,078 International Flights 4,194 1,444,490 4,044 1,393,747 3,980 1,364,592 Revenue share by Flight Route <unit : % > Classification 2012 2013 2014 Japan 6.1 4.8 4.0 Southeast Asia 15.4 17.3 16.2 northeast Asia 8.9 9.6 8.9 America 46.2 44.2 46.9 Europe 22.2 22.8 22.6 Oceania 0.8 0.7 0.7 Domestic 0.4 0.5 0.7 41 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Value sharing with We Asiana Airlines will accomplish a consistent growth by sharing the values with internal Stakeholders and external stakeholders. ⑧ ⑨ Classification Cost(KRW 1,000) Share(%) note ⑦ ⑥ ① ① Personnel expenses Employee Wage, Incentives, benefit Allowance, Severance Payment, 763,268,236 17.3 Employee benefits, national Pension, Medical Insurance ⑤ ② Depreciation and intangible Tangible Assets(Aircraft, Equipment and Supplies for Aircraft, buildings) 344,268,820 7.8 asset amortization and intangible Assets(Software, etc) ② ③ Fuel 2,001,640,099 45.5 Jet Fuel Cost, etc. ④ ④ Rental 465,361,076 10.6 Aircraft/Airport Office lease ⑤ Maintenance 282,214,028 6.4 Equipment and Machinery for Maintenance, Outsourced Repair, etc. Ground Expense, Airport Facility usage Fee for boarding bridges, ⑥ Airport 395,875,867 9.0 Counters, etc. Ground Passenger Expense for Airport Specialty Service Fee etc. ③ ⑦ Interest 134,684,229 3.1 Aircraft lease, etc. ⑧ Taxes, Public Dues 9,362,006 0.2 Aircraft Property Tax, Worksite Tax, Overseas business Tax, etc. ⑨ Community Investment 5,600,899 0.1 Donation, Grants for Social Contribution, etc. Major Cost Shares < unit : % > Classification 2012 2013 2014 Fuel 48.6 48.1 45.5 Personnel expenses 16.1 16.5 17.3 Sales office & Branches ◦ Passenger Branches Sales : 10 domestic branches(3 offices), 74 foreign branches(30 integrated branches, 9 offices) Airports : 10 domestic airports, 38 foreign airports ◦ Cargo Branches 14 branches, 1 office China •23 sales branches CIS (11 integrated branches, 2 offices) 11 airport branches •6 sales branches ◦ Details (4 integrated branches, 1 office), •1 cargo branch 1 airport branch Domestic •10 sales branches (3 offices) 10 airport branches Japan •14 sales branches (9 integrated branches) 6 airport branches •1 cargo branch America •6 sales branches, Southeast Asia 6 airport branches •11 sales branches •6 cargo branches, 1 office Europe (3 integrated branches, •5 sales branches 5 offices) 10 airport (2 integrated branches) branches Oceania 3 airport branches •1 cargo branch •3 sales branches •5 cargo branches, 1 office (1 integrated branches, 1 office) 1 airport branch ECONOMY 42 Risk Management Aviation industries are bound to have more foreign currency-denominated debts than assets and spend more foreign currency than revenue received on foreign currency. We also have a continuing demand for air fuel. Thus, the changes in exchange rate and oil price have significant impact in company's profit and loss. That is why Asiana Airlines has established and applied risk management policies for more structured and efficient risk management. A risk management committee has been established to promptly respond to external risks, having business Management Office Head as Committee Chair, and executives and team leaders from relevant departments as committee members. Risk Management Committee Classification Note Develop risk management strategy against external risks and define hedging tactics Objective and the optimal hedging ratio • Chairman : business Management Office Head Structure • Committee Members : Financial officer, Strategy & Planning officer, Procurement officer, • practical business affairs team leader (5 People) Period of meeting • Periodic quarterly meetings complemented by ad-hoc meetings whenever needs arise • Exchange rates – currency exposure Agenda • control, Oil price program hedge strategy, interest • rate – interest rate (fixed, variable) strategy Activities in 2014 • 4 periodic meetings (quarterly) To deal with the exchange rate issues, we preferentially apply internal management techniques such as matching the foreign currency income and expense through the change of the currency of settlement and/or expanding the borrowing portion of the currency in long position(income > expense). We are coping with the exchange risk through the external techniques such as forward exchange dealing for the remaining exposed currency. As for the oil price, we pay due regard to the effect of oil surcharge, an interrelation between oil price and corporate performance and the level of oil price. Then we apply ‘Program Hedge’ by buying certain portion of prospective annual oil supply consistently. With that, Asiana Airlines reduces volatility by oil price fluctuation. lastly, as for the interest, we take the equal maintenance of the portion of amount between fixed interest rate and variable interest rate as our basic strategy. but when new borrowings or aircraft rental contract takes place, the portion of amount is varied flexibly to deal with the changes in the financial market actively. Fair Trade Asiana Airlines has an internal fair trade compliance program in place to ensure voluntary compliance for fair trade and better competitiveness. For more rigorous compliance, we provide information on relevant laws home and abroad, and case examples of law enforcement via the bulletin board. The proactive work agreement system for fair trade has been in place in 2013 to preempt abuse of market dominance, unfair collusion and outsourcing, breach against contract terms, and advertisement agreement. In 2014, regular trainings on Fair Trading Act were provided to new hires, and overseas assignees working in relevant practices and employees in domestic and foreign branches . We gave fair trade law educations for those who work at high-risk departments. 43 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Disclosure Asiana Airlines gives all stakeholders an access to corporate information, business performance and other important issues, and enhances accounting transparency through disclosure. We introduced an internal regulation system in order to be prepared against any possible lawsuits due to violation of the Capital Market & Financial Investment law and class action lawsuits, holding each team who has generated the report accountable, generating a checklist by sector to prevent omission or errors in the periodic reports and having it reviewed and approved by CEO and CFO to enhance credibility of the disclosed financial information. Classification Business Report Semi-Annual/Quarterly Reports Corporate overview, business performance, business performance, corporate overview, Disclosure Scope financial information, audit opinion at the end financial information, etc at the end of of the business year 1H/2H and every quarter In less than 90 days after In less than 45 days after the quarterly Disclosure Period the business year is over closing date Disclosure in ’14 1 time 3 times Whenever there is any change that may impact business management, Asiana Airlines makes sure the change or news to be disclosed immediately. We also proactively disclose nonfinancial activities such as a voluntary compliance program for fair trade, green management information and etc. Internal Accounting Control System Pursuant to Article 2, Section 2 and 3 of Act on External Audit of Stock Companies, which serves as the legal ground to obligate businesses to prevent any error or fraud in the financial statements and subject any non-compliance to disciplinary measures, Asiana Airlines has introduced an internal accounting control system to assure generation and disclosure of accurate accounting information and conduct on-going monitoring. The internal accounting control system holds an inspection in accordance with the corporate provisions and the business accounting standards, which closely examines accounting process, valuation of corporate assets and debts, compliance with the accounting standards regarding profits and expenses. by taking those steps, now are assured that the Internal Accounting Control System is operated by regulations. C U STO M E R S AT I S FA CT I O N 46 Safety Management 49 Aviation Safety Support 52 Service 54 Marketing 55 Operation of Customer Satisfaction Management System 57 Awards Taking safe, fast and comfortable flight as the highest value, Asiana Airlines offers one step ahead customer service. C U S TO M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 46 Safety Establishment and Operation of Safety Management System Management Asiana Airlines has established a management system in accordance with the ICAO(International Civil Aviation Organization) requirements for the first time in Korea. When introducing the system, we laid emphasis on the prevention of safety accidents. It is an integrated safety management system that manages the safety of every workplaces including Asiana Airlines' headquarters in a systematic way. The system was built to fulfill our safety objectives and safety performance goals through the risk management process. ✽SMS, Safety Management System : A system structured to analyze various risk factors that impact flight operation in a comprehensive way to ✽SMS, Safety Management System : eliminate potential accidents and hazard elements. Safety Management Key Map Inspection Safety Patrol Trainings Safety ◦ safe Performance ◦ fast Safety Audit Index Safe Flight Management ◦ comfortable Assurance Customer Flight Satisfaction through Safety & Operations optimal safety Security Forum Quality and service Assurance Safety Management System Key Map ⇠ Report & Internal Review Assessment Hazard Identification Establish CountermRisk Safety Target Setting easures, Maintain Zero Assessment Action Aircraft Accidents Target Setting Risk Management Process Reach Target 47 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Safety Management Organizations Classification Role Note • Report major safety and security issues and • Host: CEO Safety & Security • SCM’s conference results to executives • Participants: Division chiefs President & CEO Review board (SRb) • Approve risk management results of • Function: Top decision-making body of corporate • major events • safety issues Safety & Security Management • Discuss decisions and action plans • Host : Head of Safety & Security Management Safety & Security • decided by SRb • Participants: Executives of each division who is in Safety & Security Officer In Charge Committee • Discuss Safety Performance Index • charge of safety issues, Section leaders (SCM) • analysis results • Function : Decide Safety Performance Index action plan Proactive Safety Aviation Safety • Discuss agendas Transferred from • Form: ad hoc organization Safety Audit Security Investigation Safety Acting • SRb and SCM Team Team Team Team Group • Function: solve disputes through the agreement • Establish remedial actions for agendas • between teams Organizations for Safety & Security Management Head of Safety & Security Management and Division Chief Safety & Security Review Board Chairman : President & CEO Mainteoperation Cargo nance Safety & Security Committee Chairman : Safety & Security Management General Cabin Airport Control MainteOperation nance Cargo Quality Quality Service Safety Acting Group Cabin Airport Control Quality Service Support Safety Training Safety Management System Training Asiana Airlines is instilling the awareness of safety in all the employees and providing education on accident and incident prevention. We make proactive efforts to prevent possible Trainees (unit: persons) 8,178 9,729 dangers through special education on training per area of expertise. 7,763 7,239 6,204 Safety Training Plan (2015) • Specialty trainings for safety and quality control Safety Management System Training • (accident inspection course, safety audition course etc.) All Employees including Executives • Managers and/or employees who is in charge of internal safety and quality control 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 C U S TO M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 48 Annual Flight Crew Training hours and costs 1,433 Classification 2011 2012 2013 2014 Average 1,385 Total 139,865 210,901 159,684 163,166 166,904 1,315 1,225 Training hours Per person 114.2 160.4 115.3 113.9 126 The number of Training Cost(KRW 1 million) 8,835 8,168 9,114 9,236 8,838 the pilots Per person(KRW 1,000) 7,213 6,212 6,585 6,445 6,614 2011 2012 2013 2014 note) table above is written on the basis of Safe Flight Crew training annually conducted including on-off line training 주) Special Trainings for Safety Operation & Investment on Training Facilities ◦ Reinforcement of Cockpit Crew Training SIM Special Training and Check for A320 pilots • Training Hours : Special Training(0+30), Special Check(0+30) • Trainees : 349 people • Training Period : April 16 ~ June 20, 2015 • Details : Holding takeoff in low visibility Rejected landing during non-precision landing approach Go-Around on non-precision approach or at decision altitude련 내용 Crew Concept Training application to F/O initial, Transition course Application Assign a line captain in 3 major lessons for co-pilot(Final Training, Audition, lOFT) SIM Training Situation A cockpit team in the same environment as a real flight (flown by Captain and F/O) Investment on Training Facilities Order A350 SIM Scheduled to introduce SIM of next generation aircraft A350 Upgrade B747-400 SIM The same panel and flight system as a real aircraft updated to new visual system, Change lED Projectors, Offer real scene Upgrade A320 SIM Visual System training environment which is the same as the latest airport 49 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Safety Operation ◦ CRM Training Result Total Number of Note Program Attendees Times (hours) Joint CRM(Type A) 42 823 8 Joint CRM(Type b) 18 487 2 CRM Training Promotion 12 71 8 Refresh CRM Training 3 34 8 Family CRM 5 102 6 Communication Skill-up 5 123 24 Trainer Appointment CRM Training 11 54 8 Regular CRM Training for Trainers 9 164 4 Initial CRM Training 4 73 24 Regular Common CRM Training (First half of the year) 1 1,325 E-lEARnInG Regular Common CRM Training (Second half of the year) 32 1,372 Collective training ✽CRM(Crew Resoure Management) : A system introduced to get rid of possible obstacles of safety flight and to set a trend of respecting cockpit ✽CRM(Crew Resoure Management) : crew’s role and responsibility. CRM has contributed to the establishment of safety culture. ◦ Improvement of LOFT(Line Oriented Flight Training) Training Method Establish 3 scenarios1) before training and apply one randomly to a cockpit team (Former) note1) SCENARIO : A method applied to lOFT which is created by integrating materials such as, training contents of each aircraft models, seasonal changes, weather characteristics on flight areas, training results of the past that was analyzed by operation training team, information collected from external education institutes. The materials are demanded by safety operation team. Cockpit crews deal with the scenario by using CRM methods. Create other types of scenarios(methods for the adaptation to lOFT2) which consist of Purpose & Operating Guide, Event Guide, Flight Operation Documents, load Sheet) instead Training Method of former ones. Trainees are only given another Operating Guide(which specifies trainer's (Improved) duty, training category and guideline). To accomplish an objective and practical training, a trainer is given complete authority for the supplied Event Guide. note 2) LOFT (line Oriented Flight Training) : Various operational and technical problems are given from a high-performance simulator. Cockpit crews cope with the problems in “real time(in a situation which is the same as real line flight)”. Aviation Safety OCC(Operations Control Center) Support ◦ System Configuration The systems(aircraft scheduling system, real-time flight monitoring system, Asiana Flight Operations Control System(AFOCS), web-based voice communications system, spot management system) are shown on a large wall screen made of twelve 50-inch lCD TV screens. We collect various information from the screen and make effective decisions. To be always ready for emergency situations, OCC is equipped with uPS(uninterrupted Power Supply), automatic fire extinguishing system, and network security system. C U S TO M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 50 ◦ Operation In OCC, there are experts in various fields including flight dispatchers, cockpit crews, maintenance engineers, load controllers, cabin crews, sales people who are stationed at all times. To track airplanes in operation across the globe on a real-time basis moreover, these experts instantaneously control any disruption based on real-time communications with the cockpit crew through satellites or web-based communications, in order to provide best-in-class flight safety and customer services. Aircraft Operation Control System Scheduling system used to decide aircraft operations such as assignment, change, PegaSys delay, cancellation A system that monitors whether an aircraft is in normal aviation by comparing a flight FWMS plan with location, altitude, fuel consumption, flying time of a aircraft in real operation Integrated control system to monitor every information related to aviation operations AFOCS (such as operation information, operation statistics, weather conditions, nOTAM, aircraft, airports, crews, flight plans) at a glance Voice communication system to make contacts with crews or ground staffs in all WEB-IOCS domestic airports and major foreign airports by linking company radio frequency or walky-talky radio frequency to the internet Data/character communication system that report location, altitude, fuel ACARS consumption, operation status of an aircraft to the ground automatically. This system also supervise text communications between aircraft and the ground. Spot management A control system for adjustment, change and allocation of the spots to put aircrafts in system Incheon and Gimpo Airport. note) ACARS(Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System) Management and Construction of a Weather System Asiana Airlines receives weather information from all over the world and monitors the weather conditions in real time. We have built an integrated control system(AFOCS) which is able to give warnings to the airports when the bad weather is expected and supervises internal sharing and spread of weather information to take proactive measures. Asiana Airlines has introduced a weather system from Weather Service Incorporated, an American private company that supplies forecasting information of airports and routes with precise analysis of the weather conditions, in May, 2015. We have strengthened the safety operation and customer service with proactive safety measures such as taking detour routes by monitoring bad weather and reinforcing the weather information supply for operation crews. Our new weather system supplies quick and precise information(turbulence on routes, volcanic ash, icing, dust storm, convective areas etc.) to the operation crews. Thanks to the system, we reinforced the safety of customers on the airplanes by avoiding the areas where bad weather can be expected. 51 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Asiana Crisis Management System(ACMS) Asiana Airlines has been operating a Crisis Management System. When crisis arise, we take quick and effective measures through integrated management of related information. We offer accurate information to customers through an exclusive accident-related site(Dark Site) and the operation of inquiry calls. The system carries out quick transmissions of information and emergency call-up through emergency communication feature. Thus, the system embodies quick and precise information exchange between situation room in the headquarters and the site. Since May, 2015, Asiana Airlines has been promoting an additional development of the system in response to the proliferation of mobile devices. by supporting the access through mobile devices, we are able to make quick and accurate decision through faster initial measures and crisis management. Asiana Airlines increases the satisfaction of passengers and their families by coping with crisis dedicatedly. Flight Planning System lido is a flight planning system which contributes to the safe and economical operations of Asiana Airlines. It helps flight dispatchers make flight plans by checking weather conditions of airports where airplanes depart and arrive and alternate airports and identifying any operational restrictions. Furthermore, it ensure safer flight operation by offering graphic data indicating severe weather conditions on routes such as turbulence and icing to cockpit crews. such as turbulence and icing. The graphic output also contains information about the altitude, the temperature and the airspace and therefore enables a clearer understanding about the air route. In addition, lIDO contributes greatly to an economical flight operation. It enables us to compare multiple routes at a time and helps selecting the optimum routes based on quantitative comparisons over fuel consumption, flight time and overflying charge. The system also makes possible to compose optimum air routes in advance by analyzing data of new routes. As of the year 2014, new short routes(entry/exit point of Russia and Mongolia) was added and we have discovered 10 economic routes in all. by utilizing those routes, we save the fuel and realize cost-effective flight. C U S TO M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 52 Service Care Service ◦ Hansarang Lounge Hansarang lounge which has been built in Incheon International Airport in 2011 is an exclusive lounge reserved for the passengers with disabilities. The lounge provides not only the resting space but also the services and it is the first of its kind made available in the aviation industry. With the internal facilities designed with lower heights, and all instructions presented in braille, the lounge has barrier-free interior for physically challenged passengers, so they can enjoy a variety of entertainment activities with ease. ◦ Care Service for the Challenged For the passengers with disabilities in need of active and careful help to enjoy comfortable travel with Asiana Airlines, we have conducted a set of trainings for our service employees on customized catering method for the challenged passengers, by inviting experts from the groups representing the people with disabilities. In addition, by applying a special wheel chair tag on their luggage, we’re helping the challenged passengers collect their belongings quickly and correctly. We have also prepared the service infrastructure specifically designed for the challenged (e.g. special vehicles–low floor bus, Hansarang service car, invalid car) to assist their movement about the airport complex. Airport Automation Service ◦ Internet/Mobile Check-in SVC Asiana Airlines provides One-pass Service for domestic flight that allows the passengers to board the plane right away with the ticket printed at home. There is also an on-line and mobile check-in service available by which individual passengers can assign seats and complete the check-in via the Internet or smart phone, and later be fast serviced at a designated counter at the airport. ◦ My Flights Asiana Airlines developed a mobile application named ‘My Flights’ in 2012 that provides various tips for traveling required on the run via centralized single channel. by simply registering a preferred flight in My Flights menu of the application, the customer can get the necessary information specified by time range. The system sends off a push alarm for useful tips regarding automated service, passport and visa, and final boarding instructions while enabling the customer to easily find such information as luggage rate of the selected route, weather condition and exchange rate at the destination, and more information about flight and airport. ◦ Self Check-in SVC The Self Check-in Service of Asiana allows passengers to complete the check-in quickly and easily through the self check-in kiosks at airports both at home and abroad with no need for waiting. ◦ Real Time Information for Waiting Customers Asiana Airlines has put in place a system for waiting passengers that informs domestic flight 53 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 passengers waiting at the airport for ticketing without reservation, of their wait numbers real time. This service is available in GMP/CJu domestic airports. Differentiated Service ◦ Weihai Point Golf Express Service Weihai Point Golf Express Service is Asiana’s one-stop service provided in alignment with a golf club to meet ◦ Service Catering to Women Our Happy Mom service is for the moms traveling with their infants whereby they can receive various supports to minimize the discomfort they might feel during the long flight hours along with priority boarding services. Also, pregnant women can use our ‘PreMom’ service that cares for the expecting mothers from the departing airport to the destination with enhanced services and detailed attention to reduce any potential inconvenience. ◦ In-Flight Food & Beverage Service As part of our efforts to promote Korean culinary to domestic and overseas passengers, we added ten royal dinner menus based on the advice from the Institute of Korean Royal Cuisine and offer them through first class preorder on long flights departing from Incheon. We have introduced Kimchi as an in-flight food for the first time in Korea and have also developed new fusion menus such as Steak with White Kimchi, Kimchi bacon Wrap and Kimchi Frittata to make Korean food more accessible and familiar to foreign passengers, letting Korean food known to the broader global community. Healthy and wholesome rice snacks have also been introduced to please the palate of passengers and contribute to farming communities by promoting consumption of Korean agricultural products. We are also serving a variety of luxurious western foods in collaboration with the leading Italian restaurant, la Cucina. In addition, premium wines carefully selected by Asiana wine consultant group of renowned sommeliers go very well with the dishes, making the air travel with Asiana all the more enjoyable. The excellency of our in-flight food and wine is proved by world’s major research agencies and travel magazines. In 2014, Asiana Airlines won the third prize in ‘world’s best economy class in-flight food’ category presented by Skytrax, a prestigious british research agency. We also won the third prize in ‘first class best champagne’, second prize in ‘first class best white wine’ and first prize in ‘first class wine’ presented by Global Traveler, a business travel specialty magazine. Other Activities ◦ Cung Nhau Library of Hope The word “Cung nhau” means “together” in Vietnamese. ‘Cung nhau library of Hope’ is a joint project of Asiana Airlines and Viet-Korea Cooperation Center to construct libraries in middle schools on rural areas of Vietnam. The project consists of programs such as painting murals on library walls, donating books and properties, meetings with students and opening C U S TO M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 54 ceremonies. We hope the students will show better academic performance by this project. Major achievements of this project are as follows. 2013 : Cu Khe Middle School, Thanh Oai prefecture, June 2014 : Thanh binh Middle School, Thanh Oai prefecture, June 2015 My yen Middle School, Dai Tu prefecture. Marketing K-POP Marketing Asiana Airlines started supporting K-POP from 2012 to help the zeal for Korean culture spread across the world with an aim to increase communication with customers. It entered into a business partnership with ‘M-live,’ the global concert brand of CJ E&M in February 2012, with yG Entertainment in January 2013, and with JyP Entertainment in October 2014. The partnerships offer various benefits such as discounts for artists and relevant persons on overseas concerts, excess baggage allowance and convenient booking/ticketing/boarding services. Student Sponsorship Program ◦ Dream Wings Asiana Dream Wings is a ‘Dreams Come True’ program designed to give a chance to turn dreams into reality and sponsor overseas activities of college youths. Starting from the first recruitment in 2011 up until the fourth selection in 2014, the program drew attention of many with a total of 7,928 students applied for participation. until now, 112 students have been selected as members and have visited Asiana Airlines' foreign destinations. In 2015, especially for the fifth year of the program, we are going to hold ‘a marketing strategy contest’. ◦ Asiana Flying Marketer From the first recruitment in February 2014, we have been running 'Asiana Flying Marketer' as a college students' marketer program. Twelve students who are selected as a marketer ought to perform their tasks each month individually or as a member of a team for a given period. They also perform online marketing utilizing blogs and SnSs. The department in charge selects a winning work and use it as real marketing contents. Outstanding marketers are given an international trip and two of the best marketers are given scholarships. In the first half of the year 2015, students of the 3rd selection were given a trip to the major destinations of A380. SNS Communication We utilize SnSs as mutual communication methods to set up channels with the customers. SnSs are also used as our promotion channels to propagate our major issues. Asiana Airlines, 55 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 who has the largest number of SnS friends in domestic aviation industry, offers information about travel and other aviation-related news through Twitter, Facebook, Cacao Story and Instagram. We also offer real time answer, reception of customers' praises & complaints and events for customers through SnSs. Magic Boarding Pass ‘Magic boarding Pass’, which has been launched in January 2009, is a differentiated service program for our customers. When a customer shows Asiana Airlines’ boarding pass within seven days from the boarding, our partner companies provide discounts or special benefits for money changing, transportation, travel, shopping and so on. In 2014, 11 partners have been newly registered, and we have 41 partners in all. Especially, we have secured partners in Japan and Hong Kong to enlarge our customers' benefits. In Japan, we set up a partnership with ‘Tokyo Monorail’ and launched Asiana-Monorail Discount Ticket. In Hong Kong, we set up partnerships with ‘Cotai Water Jet’(Ferries operating between Hong Kong and Macau) and ‘Hong Kong Ocean Park’(leading theme park in Hong Kong). We will enlarge our partnership to major destinations for customers’ global benefits. Customer Asiana Airlines strives to improve service quality and innovation so as to achieve the management Satisfaction philosophy of ‘customer satisfaction through the safest flight and superior services’ while living up to expectations as the ‘global airline that offers the best service.’ Especially since 2007, Asiana Management Airlines has been rated with five stars by Skytrax, the uK airline service rating agency for nine System consecutive years. We are recognized for excellent services by world's major aviation service rating agencies and travel magazines. In 2015, we are trying our best to be a reliable and beautiful company under the new motto “Strengthen Self without Stopping”. We will strive tirelessly to make a strong and beautiful company and to get customers’ trust in our efforts for safety operation and services. Customer Satisfaction Management System Asiana Airlines’ customer satisfaction management system is intended to identify issues requiring improvement through varied assessment and analyses of its service quality, and to increase the service quality. The identifying process is performed actively by departments in charge. Especially for issues for which corrective actions were taken, we continuously monitor the outcome and customer feedback so as to incorporate customer viewpoint into service quality improvement. C U S TO M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 56 Service Quality Management System • VOC Analysis ↘ Voice of Customer(VOC) Improvement of • Service Quality Field Inspection & Service Quality from Audit(Domestic & External) Customer Viewpoint • Service Inspection by Employees upon their business Trip ↗ ↗ Sophistication of Service Quality • CFI(Customer Feedback Index) Feedback of Service Quality Inspection & Audit Control Inappropriate Service Procedures • Service Quality Survey by Three local Agencies • Customer Satisfaction Survey on Asiana Club Members ↗ * CFI : On-Time Performance, Delay due to Maintenance, • Star Alliance On-line * CFI : Call Center Waiting Time, baggage Accident Rate Index Satisfaction Survey Customer Survey VOC Management System Asiana Airlines has introduced a new VOC system in 2013 to receive, analyze and monitor customer feedback in real time and deal with the cause of the complaints in proactive manners. Especially, we took intensive measures against VOCs which were frequently received in a specific route or season and improved VOC management system to forecast the factors in advance. We also will extend the scope of VOC collection to VOCs received through external channels and develop optimized data analysis logic and utilize it strategically on customer's opinion analysis, risk management and concept creation of new products. Efforts to Improve Customer Satisfaction Asiana Airlines is running a ‘Service Quality Inspection Program’. Service quality experts with abundant flight experience or employees upon their business trips get aboard an airplane to inspect and manage the service quality effectively. Also, Asiana Airlines regularly conducts customer satisfaction survey with Asiana Club to identify overall service quality level and customer needs and the results are used as the basis for the establishment of service quality differentiation strategy. Asiana Airlines set up the ‘Customer Satisfaction Improvement Committee’ consisting of the top management, relevant executives and department heads. The committee members meet on a periodic basis to establish and implement customer satisfaction policies, determine how to operate customer service teams, govern the organizations, and plan and take actions to prevent recurrence of customer complaints. Furthermore, when there are issues requiring coordination of different opinions between departments on customer service criteria/procedure or immediate development of policies, the committee holds a sub-committee meeting where the department heads promptly make decisions to create a momentum for service quality improvement. Asiana Airlines discloses violations of standard or procedure on weekly basis to improve the service quality. For a service quality issue that needs to be improved in the long run, we promote a cooperation with related sections. 57 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Awards Asiana History of Airline of the Year 2009 Airline of the Year 2011 Airline of the Year 2012 Best Overall Airline ATW(Air Transport World)誌 Global Traveler (USA) In the World Business Traveler (USA) Five-Time Winner 2010 Airline of the Year 2012 Airline of the Year 5 Star Airline Skytrax (UK) Premier Traveler (USA) for 9 consecutive years Skytrax (UK) Awards Record(2014~2015) Award Name Date Awarder • World’s best Economy Class 2015.6.16 SKyTRAX • World’s best Economy Class Onboard Catering • best Overall Inflight Experience in the World (8 times) business 2015.1.8 • best Overall Customer Service Airline Ground/Call Center (6 times) Travel Award • best Airline On board Service (11 consecutive years) • best Flight Attendants (11 consecutive years) Global 2014.12.15 • best First Class Seat Design Traveler • best Wines on the Wing (Int'l F/ClS) (2 times) • best Flight Attendants in the World (3 consecutive years) Int’l • best In-Flight Services in the World (2 consecutive years) Premier • best Airline Service to Asia 2014.12.4 Traveler • best business-Class Service in the World • best Airline Advertising Campaign • World’s best Airline Economy Class 2014.7.15 SKyTRAX • World’s best Aircraft Cabin Cleanliness • The top International Airlines (World’s best Airlines) 2014.6 Travel & leisure • best Overall Customer Service Airline Ground/Call Center 2014.1.13 business Traveler • best Service Airline 2014.1.7 Shanghai Morning Post • best International Airline 2014.1.9 Oriental Morning Post • 2015 best companies to work for in Korea(K-GWPI) 1st in Aviation Industry 2015.8.27 • 2015 Korea Well-being Consumer Index(KS-WCI) 1st in Airline 2015.8.20 Korean Standards • 2015 Premium brands Index(KS-PbI) 2015.7.22 Association • 2015 Korean Standard-Service Quality Index(KS-SQI) 1st in Aviation Industry 2015.6.25 • 2015 4th best loyalty In Korea selected by customers, brand Grand 2015.4.22 Korea CEO Association Local • Prize in Aviation Industry • 2015 national Customer Satisfaction Index(nCSI) 1st in International Airline Korea Productivity 2015.3.30 • 2015 national Customer Satisfaction Index(nCSI) 1st in Domestic Airline Center • 2014 KCSI 1st in Aviation Industry 2014.10.7 KMAC • 2014 KS-CQI 1st in Aviation Industry 2014.6.26 Korean Standards Association • 2014 national Customer Satisfaction Index(nCSI) 1st in Domestic Airline 2014.3.25 KMAC ENVIRONMENT 60 Environment Management 61 Climate Change Response & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y 66 Environment Control 69 Environmentally-Friendly Activities 70 Social Responsibility Asiana Airlines will fulfill the social responsibility with Environment Management and Social Contribution. ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 60 Asiana Airlines has introduced sustainable management into all areas of business in order to take into account economical environmental and social aspects when conducting business activities. In this day and age, not only financial factors but also non-financial factors such as environmentally sound and socially responsible behaviors can influence and impact a Company’s valuation both directly and indirectly. Asiana Airlines recognizes such implications and importance and as such pursues various activities that contribute to the betterment of the society. An aircraft needs steady supply of energy in order to be able to provide safe and comfortable flight to the passengers on board. Given how fuel is the primary source of energy for airliners, it is especially crucial for airliners to increase fuel efficiency and reduce the fuel consumption. And that is what we had thought about before the importance of natural environment was highlighted. All Employees of the Company is made aware of the importance of environmentally friendly management on all front, which is closely related to use of energy for flights from the preparation stage on the ground to actual flights in the air. Environment Asiana Airlines has placed environment management as one of the core element for the Management Company’s sustainable growth factor. For the quality of water and air which impacts the environment, the Company has set up and managing standards that are stricter and higher than the legal requirements. Also, we are trying to reduce waste. When it comes to responding to the various Climate Change related regulations and strengthening demands both at home and abroad regarding matters such as reduction of green house gas(GHG), Asiana Airlines is proactively making effort to reduce use of fuel in every stage of Aircraft operation and GHG. Asiana Airlines aspires to become a green airline and is committed to preserving the environment without hampering the self-purification cycle. As such, the Company has defined key strategies to implement environment policies and initiatives to minimize carbon footprints in air and water and energy in its Environment Vision. In addition, by creating an Environment Emblem of ‘The one and only Earth, as precious as our customers’, Asiana Airlines promotes awareness about the environment to all employees and customers. Environment Policy Key Strategy ― ― • Minimize consumption of energy • Introduce the latest high efficiency aircraft and engines • and resources • On-going Fuel Saving Policy • Continue to improve environmental • On-going Environmentally-friendly Campaigns • impact • Reinforce Green Company Activities • Proactive compliance • Find Improved Case through Environment • Win-Win management and information (Practical Affairs) Council • -sharing with stakeholders • Emission within 50% of Regulation Standards • Establish Voluntary Means to reduce GHG Vision • Publish Sustainability Report ― • Green Campaign by Engaging Customers Environmentally-friendly Airline in Harmony with nature Corporate Support HQ ▶ Corporate Support ▶ General Administration ▶ Manager for each HQ Team 61 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Environment Management Organization For the efficiency of Environment management, Asiana Airlines has reorganized the environment management organization to be directly under the Management Administration Division. by appointing Environment managers per Division and per Sector, any and all environment related business are monitored frequently onsite, and in case of any emergency or unusual activities, immediate action is taken and reported quickly to General Administration team to facilitate the report. Environment Management System Asiana Airlines has established company-side environment standards in order to consistently pursue targeted direction, using ISO14001(Environment Management System, ’96.9.1) accredited to an airliner for the first time. Every year, environment impact potentials and outcome are evaluated to control and minimize impact on environment, and on a yearly basis plan and actual of environment impact are compared. In addition, the Company is conducting internal review on overall environment management and furthermore, it is receiving evaluation from an accredited institute outside of the Company at least once a year to identify and receive appropriate consultation for further improvement. Environment Education Asiana Airlines is conducting environment related education and training as a mandatory course for its incumbents as well as new recruits. The course focuses on environment management system and vision, mid to long term plans of Asiana Airlines as well as on past endeavors. In 2014, 350 newly recruited(general, sales, airport, maintenance, etc) and 100 incumbents were given lectures on environment related courses. Climate Change Local and International Response Response ◦ GHG/Energy Target Management System Since Asiana Airlines was included into GHG/Energy Target Management system in 2010, we are subjected to GHG regulations for CO2 emissions generated by domestic flights and from its worksites (the headquarters, Domestic airport and sales branches in local areas) starting from 2012. Asiana Airlines has conducted multiple fuel-reduction activities and have done our best to satisfy all required target. ◦ Emission Trading System Asiana Airlines is designated as Emission Trading System-administrated company in 2014 and has to observe the system since 2015. At the present time, 525 Korean companies participate in ETS. The Government assigns the legal limit on the quantity of GHG to companies and allows them to trade surpluses or shortages. Asiana Airlines is conducting various fuel reduction activities consistently to reduce GHG. ◦ EU-ETS Since 2012, global commercial/non-commercial airlines operation flights in Eu member countries all joined the Eu ETS. Asiana Airlines also joined this scheme to be assigned the ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 62 emissions quotas for 2012-2020. When assigned emission right remains, we sell it and when we are short of emission right we buy it to secure the same emission right as the emission quantity of the last year. On november 2012, the ICAO(International Civil Aviation Organization) general assembly concluded to set up International standards on GHG emission and as such the system was to be applicable only for intra-European flights. As of April 3rd, 2014, upon the voting result of Eu Commission, the system is to be extended to 2016. However, regardless of the suspension, Asiana Airlines manages procedures such as GHG emission monitoring, report and verification. ◦ Voluntary Agreement for GHG Reduction In July 2010, Asiana Airlines signed a voluntary GHG reduction agreement with the Ministry of land, Infrastructure and Transport to set the GHG reduction target by renewing the agreement regularly and works to reach the target. For 2012, the year for the 2nd voluntary agreement renewal, the company was required to improve its fuel efficiency and exceeded the target far above to have the honor of being selected as the airline with the highest fuel efficiency. In 2014, Asiana Airlines signed 5the agreement and set its target to improve its international line fuel efficiency by 2.0% against the baseline year. because the method of target setting in international treaty is expected to change from fuel efficiency to quantity of emission, we prolonged the period of agreement from one year to two years.(January 1, 2015~December 31, 2016) The quantity of GHG Emission and Reduction Activities ◦ GHG Emission Control Asiana Airlines’ annual GHG emission is based on the volume of fuel used in both domestic and international flights and Data of overall emission has been verified by external auditing bodies for Data credibility. GHG Emission Trend Classification 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Aircraft Emission(tco2) 5,020,748 5,371,480 5,604,703 5,995,446 6,180,346 ◦ GHG Reduction Activities Asiana Airlines has set up ‘Fuel Management Committee’ as a way to concentrate its fuelmanaging capability and to coordinate and promote inter-team opinions and information exchange to optimize communication for better business decisions. The committee opens a meeting more than once a month. In 2014, Asiana Airlines launched a campaign which was named ‘Green Flight 3’(Activation of Short-Cut, Green Taxi, Minimum APu usage) and is carrying out the fuel reduction activities from the steps of preparation before takeoff to the maintenance after landing. 63 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Aircraft GHG Reduction Trend < unit : 1,000 ton > Classification 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Amount of CO2 Reduction 79 83 105 120 125 Activities for GHG Reduction Economic Flight, ● ● Optimal Fuel load Procedure Improvement Management 19% 19% ● Payload Weight Accuracy 7% Engine Washing ● 13% ● Center of Gravity Activities for GHG Reduction 2% Placed in the Aircraft Rear 1% ● Minimum Over-fueling 10% 10% Weight Management ● ● Minimum APu usage 19% ● Fuel-Saving Flight Procedure We are implementing a series of fuel conservation activities such as optimized flight planning and operation procedure for fuel saving and economical flight. Optimal flight planning includes reasonable fuel load based on statistical analysis of flight history data, and selection of most economical route from various possible routes in the planning phase. Flight procedures for fuel saving and economical operations refer to keeping economical altitude, and short-cut flight whereby the shortest airways are taken as a route depending on flight conditions. ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 64 ◦ Engine Water Wash Asiana Airlines has been doing engine water washes. We introduced a state-of-theart engine washing equipment manufactured by lufthansa. Engine cleaning increases the engine compressor efficiency, improves air flow, reduces green house gas (GHG) emissions, and enhances fuel efficiency. Engine water wash is being conducted in consideration of the aircraft operation plans and it was performed 374 times in 2014 and 392 times are planned in 2015. Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 number of Times 267 290 327 350 374 Reduced Cost(KRW 1 million) 3,850 3,503 4,324 4,347 4,928 ◦ Weight Management Weight management activities to improve fuel efficiency include application of lightweight carts, center of gravity placed in the aircraft rear, usage of lightweight containers and weight reduction of tax-free books in the airplanes. Optimal weight management is being conducted by placing the center of gravity in the rear part of the aircraft, in a way that reduces fuel consumption and ensures flight safety. ◦ Electric Car Operation To reduce the amount of GHG generated in the process of support operations such as ground aircraft maintenance, Asiana Airlines has introduced electric vehicles for maintenance support in the airport area. At the present time, a total of 10 electric cars are in service. Number of Units Vehicle Model Operating Places/Teams in Service Change 7 6 at Incheon Airport 1 at Gimpo Airport (Introduced in October, 2011) 1 for Incheon Safety Management Team, 1 for Gimpo Safety Electric Car Management Team, 1 for Incheon Cargo Service branch (Renault Samsung) 3 (Incheon Passenger Terminal, Gimpo Passenger Terminal, Incheon (Introduced in January, 2014) Cargo Terminal) * Charging Stations: Three Places Environmentally-friendly Flight Asiana Airlines is running an organization consisted of experts to concentrate on fuel reduction and fuel efficiency improvement, and have established management items for monthly based performance management. Asiana Airlines has set up ‘Corporate Fuel Management Committee’ to encourage the participation of all the employees. The committee shares the team(or division) performance and draws improvement methods or study new reduction methods through monthly meetings. 'Economic Route Creation Task Force' in the committee searches for a new economic route consistently. We also share information about in-flight route distance reduction for a quick application to the field. In 2014, we focused on three types of eco-friendly operation. The first is Observing one Engine Taxi-in procedure when moving on the ground after the landing. Secondly, inducing the use of Ground Power unit(GPu) instead of shortening the time to use Auxiliary Power unit(APu) on the ground. Thirdly, And lastly, using a route shorter than the designated one in-flight by requesting to air-traffic control agencies. In 2015, we will put in two additional 65 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 items which are setting up an optimized flight plan and drag reduction and will start applying them from September. In 2014, Asiana Airlines has introduced a policy to provide three percent of operation flight fuel as compensated fuel which is a international standard. The policy includes advanced flight monitoring and safety operation scheme to select an alternative airport in the route. We have our aircraft engines water washed twice a year to get rid of fine dust and stickum. That helps improve engine performance and save fuel. In 2015, Asiana Airlines is also going to have its aircrafts' body washed. As for A321-200, which will be introduced in 2015, we will reduce between three to four percent of fuel by installing Sharklet, which reduces drag. In 2014, for the effective management of weight, we reduced the number of unused seats for crews in cargo airplanes. We also installed removable foot rests in A330 and removable oven on domestic routes. In 2015, we will change the material of tax free magazines to reduce weight and will carry out placing the center of gravity on the rear of the airplanes on Incheon-Europe route to improve fuel efficiency. ◦ Fuel Reduction Activities In 2014 • Reduce route distance, Reduce the time • Minimize weight gaps between flight • spent using auxiliary power unit • plan and final loading(passenger+cargo) • to save fuel • Select and reward superior • pilots and proposers Flight • Select the type of airplane and route Flight P een n Load lan t and Recheck two hours before departure r Am o M t G aig en mp ou n Imp a ize lem im 3C in Gaps t p rou Fuel Reduction W • Operate Corporate Fuel Activities ate nG • Management Committee • Adjust opinions with rW Operate Discussio • head office/division monthly, Get rid of fine dust and ash E • take charge of stickum in the engine to ngine • decision-making improve engine performance and save fuel • Operate Economic Route Task Force s Effi licy • Analyze and search optimized cien • economic routes t Fuel Loading Po • Introduce a new international standard policy to • provide three percent of operation flight • fuel as compensated fuel • Select optimized short distance alternative airport ◦ 2015 Plan Introduce place the Additional center of gravity Hold Green Flight Fuel Reduction New Fuel-efficient on the rear of an 5 Campaign Reduce Drag (September~ Target Aircraft airplane November, 2015) Water wash engines and bodies. Install Sharklet which Introduce additional Develop optimized flight plan Reduces drag by vortex 3rd and 4th A380 Fuel saving gets easier Reinforce the for route distance occurred at the edge of when placing the center of management of existing reduction, Green Taxi, reduction items & Develop wings to the A321-200 to gravity on the rear of an airplane Reduce APu usage time new reduction plan save 3~4% of fuel Applied preferentially on Europe routes ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 66 Environment To minimize environmental impact unavoidably arising out of its business operation, Asiana Control Airlines has set the target of keeping its pollutant emissions within 50% of the legal limit. To meet the target, the company is applying optimal green technology best suited for each process, and its actual pollutant density remains lower than 25% of the legal limit. Recognized for its strenuous pursuit of green management including minimization of impact on environment through efforts to improve environment, Asiana Airlines has been designated as ‘green company’ by the Ministry of Environment. As for controlling environmental issues, we apply more stringent standards of our own, apart from regulatory requirements. Thanks to the efforts, Asiana Airlines has had no environment accidents for 15 years in a row from 2000 to 2014. Energy Consumption Control Asiana Airlines’ energy consumption slightly rose year-on-year in 2014 due to the growth of our business. Electric power is usually used for working activities in buildings. lnG is primarily used for heating and cooling but it is also consumed for boilers and cooking. The Incheon worksite(youngjong Island) uses steam and electric power supplied by Incheon Airport Energy(a combined heat and power generation plant) nearby because of geographical proximity. Water Usage < unit : ton > Incheon District Asiana Town Classification 2012 2013 2014 Asiana Town 99,236 98,057 99,707 Gimpo District 22,990 22,897 16,064 Gimpo District Incheon District 76,481 88,871 106,569 2012 2013 2014 Power Usage < unit : kwh > Asiana Town Classification 2012 2013 2014 Incheon District Asiana Town 20,566,732 20,953,062 20,117,541 Gimpo District 4,472,010 4,112,382 3,711,734 Gimpo District Incheon District 11,320,805 13,470,018 14,914,237 2012 2013 2014 LNG Usage < unit : m3 > Asiana Town Classification 2012 2013 2014 Asiana Town 684,239 679,980 629,079 Gimpo District Gimpo District 402,101 422,034 333,629 2012 2013 2014 Steam Usage < unit : Gcal > Incheon District Classification 2012 2013 2014 Incheon District 3,868 4,279 4,103 2012 2013 2014 67 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Water Most of the wastewater generated from business activities goes to wastewater treatment facility. Through strict treatment process, Asiana Airlines observes regulations required by law. We entrust all the high density wastewater to the specialized company to ascertain whether the specific harmful materials are treated properly. We provide active investment plan for treatment operation equipment and reflect it in our operation. Inflow and outflow in the wastewater treatment facility is monitored everyday. besides the regular measurement, we check the wastewater treatment by installing the TMS in the 1st and 2nd hangar in Incheon. Water Pollutants < Density : mg/l > Classification Legal Limit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 COD 130 13.61 13.46 8.57 12.73 14.4 Gimpo SS 120 11.57 20.06 11.55 13.8 9.28 Hangar Water Flow(㎥) 1,052 1,324 1,270 959 783 COD 20 2.78 2.55 3.38 2.17 2.11 1st Hangar SS 20 1.46 1.59 1.29 1.49 2.04 in Incheon Water Flow(㎥) 1,566 1,203 1,028 807 599 ※ 2nd Hangar in Incheon(as of 2014) *COD: 1.89 mg/l, SS: 1.79 mg/l Air Air Pollutants are mainly generated from aircraft maintenance. Asiana Airlines established pollution control facilities in each maintenance site for the efficient control of pollutants and the improvement of site environment. We monitor emission control system daily(also monthly and ad hoc) to manage the legal limit of pollutants. Aiana Airlines confirms whether the facilities work properly through the regular measurement to minimize the emission of pollutants at the site. Air Pollutant Emissions < unit : Kg > Classification 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gimpo Hangar 161.76 127.31 202.78 81.40 84.14 1st Hangar in Incheon 389.05 408.1 355.10 307.73 603.97 2nd Hangar in Incheon 181.32 note) increased pollutant emissions at the 1st Hangar in Incheon in 2014 was due to the increase of heavy maintenance of aircrafts(sanding, painting etc.) Waste Asiana Airlines makes sure that different kinds of wastes are not mixed. We sort them out according to related teams and each team is responsible for observing the waste management law and internal regulation of waste treatment process. To minimize the waste generated in workplaces, each department set an annual target and performs monitoring consistently according to the reduction plan. Maintenance process generates certain kinds of wastes by nature. We examine whether they are recyclable and if they are deemed safe, ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 68 advise employees to recycle them. Asiana Airlines is raising its recycling rate gradually. Recyclable wastes are sorted again so as to reduce the incineration and the cost incurred. Waste Amount and Recycling Rate Classification 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Waste(tons) 4,913 5,464 5,601 6,152 6,227 Recycling (tons) 3,350 3,644 3,819 4,989 5,024 Recycling Rate(%) 68.2 66.7 68.2 81.1 80.68 Noise Asiana Airlines applies nADP of ICAO(International Civil Aviation Organization) for the airports which have noise reduction regulations. Airbuses and boeings that we possess(50, 34 airplanes each) meet the standards of ICAO AnnEX 16 Volume 1, which prescribe the grades of aircraft noise. * nADP: noise Abatement Departure Prodedure Chemical Materials Asiana Airlines has built an inventory of chemicals it handles and keeps to improve chemical material handling standard according to the 'Chemical Material Control Act' and 'Chemical Material Registration and Evaluation Act', which have newly been applied since 2015. We offer regular educations for the departments that handle chemical materials to raise awareness of related laws. As for Explosive or inflammable materials, we perform active examinations to find alternative ones. We have introduced AMIGOS-II system that keeps the record of chemical materials for the strict management of the 'special material' prescribed by Industrial Safety and Health law. For the sites which handle chemical materials, Asiana Airlines has established emergency training guideline. We confirm whether there are disaster protection equipments in workplaces to prevent secondary environmental incident. When discarding chemical materials that are past their expiration date, we let the related team examine the Material Safety Data Sheet(MSDS) about the materials because there are possible dangers (a fire etc). Green Purchase As the interests on environmentally-friendly goods gradually rise, Asiana Airlines tries to use them evenly in applicable areas. We plan to purchase green products to the extent of not hurting safety flight. < unit : Item Items, Spend KRW 1 million > 2012 2013 2014 3,668 Classification 3,539 Item Spend Item Spend Item Spend 3,153 Green Products etc. 32 3,153 31 3,539 27 3,668 < unit : KRW 1 million > Spend 2012 2013 2014 69 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 EnvironmentallyGreen Campaigns Friendly Activities Asiana Airlines runs a range of programs to engage customers as well as its employees in Green-Friendly Campaigns. The company waged a campaign to promote green flight and conducted corporate fuel reduction campaigns that was appealed to the general public. ◦ Participation in Creation of Eco-Park Since 2012, Asiana Airlines has been planting trees at an eco-park built on a reclaimed land near metropolitan areas which takes place in Arbor Day every year. Following 2013, its employees took part in the event organized by Metropolitan Area landfill Site Management Corporation in 2014. It will endorse creation of the eco-park as well as environmental preservation based on ongoing participation. ◦ Greenhouse Gas Reduction Program and Carbon Labelling 출 량 135㎏ 출 량 147㎏ 출 량 858㎏ 출 량 951㎏ 화 대응 60㎏ 탄소배 탄소배 탄소배 탄소배 기후변 김포 ⇨ 하네다 김포 ⇨ 북경 인천 ⇨ 파리 인천 ⇨ LA 김포 ⇨ 제주 All employees in Asiana Airlines should identify the volume of carbon offset as a way to offset greenhouse gas generated by Asiana flights for their business trip. In 2014, 3,157 tons of greenhouse gases were offset and a total of 18,048 tons of the gas has been offset from May 2008 through the end of 2013. based on its commitment to greenhouse gas reduction and building of greenhouse gas database, the company started to disclose information on emissions of greenhouse gas generated in its production process, earning carbon labelling on flight routes from Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute(KEITI). The Gimpo-Haneda route was the first to be accredited in 2009 and up until 2013, a number of routes including the Incheon-los Angeles route have been accredited. Gimpo-Jeju route accreditation was renewed In 2014. ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 70 Social Asiana Airlines will fulfill its social responsibility consistently engaging customers and Responsibility employees to create a beautiful world where all of us across the globe can lead a happy and fulfilling life. beautiful Corporation ▲ Beautiful Sharing Social Responsibility • Distribution + Genuine Commitment • Genuine Contribution, Spread Beautiful Culture of Sharing Classroom Beautiful Environment Donation for Education • Dream + Knowledge beautiful People Environment Management • Children & youth • Environment + Future • Investment for the Future • lead Environmental Protection Develop Culture • Sensitivity + Spirit Beautiful • Preserve Cultural Properties, Culture Mecenat Sponsorship Beautiful Sharing Asiana Airlines is reaching out to our neighbors in need with compassionate ‘beautiful love’ through a range of social responsibility initiatives such as unICEF spare coin collection, Asiana bazaar, 1 Company 1 Village, Meal of love, Salary round-off donation in combination with overseas campaigns such as support for the Aeta tribe of the Philippines, love House project in Vietnamese communities suffering from extreme poverty. ◦ UNICEF Spare Coin Collection Asiana Airlines has been working with the Korean Committee for unICEF (united nations Children’s Fund) to jointly carry out the ‘Change for Good’ campaign. The campaign was launched to prevent spare notes and coins in foreign currencies at the end of customers' journey from not being spent and discarded. The campaign was started on international flights in 1994 and has grown into the most representative social campaign waged by Asiana Airlines. In 2014, the accumulated amount of money exceeded KRW 10 billion. < unit :100 million KRW > Accumulated 1994 1998 2002 2006 2010 2012 2014 Amount of Money 1.6 10 20 30 50 70 100 71 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 ◦ Asiana Bazaar Asiana Airlines holds a bazaar where all employees donate one item per person and participate by selling food and goods collected during the campaign. The bazaar has grown beyond a corporate event to become an inclusive community festival that invites the underprivileged and entertains participants to help them enjoy their time together. The money was spent to support children in troubled families, the physically or mentally challenged, and the campaign to preserve the world’s cultural heritages. ◦ 1 Company 1 Village The senior executives and employees of Asiana Airlines have been visiting Sanchoeul village in Hongcheon, Gangwon Province, the sister village of Asiana Airlines, twice a year with their family members for volunteering works since 2006. Asiana has also signed an agreement with the village to buy germinated brown rice for the first-class in-flight meals, promoting the specialty product of the community and developing its economy, and to grant scholarship to students from troubled families in Hongcheon every year. Thanks to Asiana Airlines bringing much benefit to Sanchoeul village, the 1 Company 1 Village campaign has been named as the best practice receiving the ‘Rural Community Contribution Certification’ award and ‘The Order of Industrial Service Merit’ from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs in 2014. ◦ Meal of Love(愛) Since 2007, Asiana people have donated a portion of their salary to support a campaign that provides lunch for low-income family children living in Gangseo district. Since 2011, Asiana Airlines delivered breakfast to the children in need. Meal of love was organized jointly with Seoul Gangseo District Office of Education and Community Chest of Korea with the aim to provide breakfast to low-income family students. Asiana Airlines is actively making a contribution to this drive as the one and only private corporate sponsor. ◦ Moneybox of Love The Moneybox of love campaign was originally launched by airport service staffs in 2008. Starting from 2011, the campaign has grown to an enterprise-wide scale that encompasses all of Asiana offices both home and abroad. The money collected by our employees during a year is spent for various social outreach activities. ◦ Salary Donation Employees of Asiana Airlines have participated in the donation campaign called ‘Salary Round-off’ since 2006. They set aside money less than KRW 1,000 from their salaries and donated the money to the fund for neighbors in needs. Since 2014 the campaign has revised to raise money from employees( KRW 1.000 each, from their Salaries). Asiana also provides 100% matching grants to support the employees’ charity efforts. The fund is spent helping out more disadvantaged people in our communities, that includes providing breakfasts to low-income family children and giving scholarships for the grandparentgrandchildren families. in order. ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 72 ◦ Social Work Volunteering in Relay Asiana people participate in social volunteering campaigns in relay. We visit Pinetree Home, Gangseo Children’s Center, boocheon Hyerimwon and yangcheon Migrant Workers’ Center to spread the culture of ‘beautiful Sharing’ across our communities. Since 2014, we added 'Home Repairing of Hope' campaign to help improving the residential environment of lower economic class. ◦ On Board Outreach Initiative Starting with Save the Children’s ‘Knit One, Save One’ campaign that had been well received by passengers in 2011, Asiana Airlines has launched a series of monthly campaigns to involve more customers. Asiana Airlines formed Onboard Outreach Team in charge of designing onboard social contribution programs to invite long-haul passengers to a good cause. ◦ Supporting for Aeta Tribe in the Philippines As part of the 1 Company 1 Village campaign, Asiana Airlines established partnership in 2011 with the Aeta village and has been supporting them consistently with KOICA. Asiana people visited the village to build water pumping facilities, improved houses, public safety facilities and offered education about advanced agriculture and stockbreeding to help them to become more self-sufficient. ◦ Love House in Vietnam The corporate volunteering club for flight attendants, OZ-unICEF, has built houses for extremely poor families in ben Tre Province under the partnership that goes back to 2004. In 2013, the 42nd love House was successfully completed and donated to the community with money raised by club members. To show Asiana fully backs the good cause, it offers monetary support and also flight tickets to Vietnam once a year to let club members see the impact they’ve created for the community in person. Beautiful Classroom Asiana Airlines is working hard to open a brighter future for our youths. ‘ Saekdong-narae Class ’ has been opened with the company club ‘Asiana Dream Catchers’ (education donation) visiting schools and giving lectures on career in the aviation industry. ‘Dream Festival’ is, especially, the largest educational event in Korea that combines cultural performances with career lectures. Asiana has also designed other educational programs to find the right career path for students interested in the aviation industry. ‘beautiful Class’ of Asiana Airlines is an initiative to help youths home and abroad unlock their potential and achieve their dreams. 73 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 ◦ Saekdong-narae Class Asiana Airlines has formed a education donation group consists of lecturers who are experienced in their career fields to visit schools and give career lectures to students interested in aviation professions. In recognition of our hard work, we were awarded 'Education Donation Grand Prize' by the Ministry of Education in 2014. ◦ Dream Festival ‘Dream Festival’ is the largest educational event in Korea that combines culture and art performances with a career class to help relieve stress of students pressured to maintain good academic performance all the time, and fulfill their curiosity about their potential careers. Sponsored by Seoul Foundation for Arts and Culture, ‘Dream Festival’ first took place in the yeongdongpo Art Hall in February 2013. The second festival was held in Guro-Art Valley in December 2013. In December 2014, the third festival was held at the national Theater. ◦ Beautiful Class for China Asiana Airlines, as the airline that has the widest Korea-China flight network, set off to Beautiful Classroom Project in China No. School Name Donation 1 The 5th junior high school in Tumen city, yanji 40 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 1 beam 2 Ethnic Korean school in Jiutai city, projector, etc Changchun ● 11 3 banyuewan primary school in Wei Hai 50 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 9 beam projectors, school bags/stationery items, etc laotunhuyzhen central primary school in 42 educational computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 1 4 Dalian beam projector, 1 photocopier 5 Mupingqu Dayao junior high school in 51 educational computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano yantai city ●2 ● 1 yongfeng primary school in Pukouqu 36 educational computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 15 6 (浦口區), nangjin city Guzhengs(Chinese Zither) ● 18 7 Fengdong Xincheng Cheliang primary school in Xishensinqu, Shaanxi province 61 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, etc ● 15 yueyahe primary school in Hebeiqu, 5 multimedia sets, 12 computers, 1 piano, 1,000 8 Tianjin city ●7 books and soccer team uniforms ●4 9 Xiangganglu primary school, Qingdao city 49 computers, 1 piano, 1,000 books ●8 63 computers, 1 piano, 1 beam projector, basketball 10 Dahu secondary school, Changsha city 5 ● team uniforms ●3 ● Ethnic Korean primary school, Wuhan 30 computers, 1 lED display, 120 desk-chair sets, 1 9 11 city, Harbin educational entertainment set 12 Ruixing primary school in Shenzhen city 50 computers, 20 electronic organs, 1,000 books Shiyang primary school, Dujiangyan, Construction of 3 volleyball courts, 1 basketball ●6 13 Chengdu city court, nets, goal posts, 1 piano, 500 books, 20 volleyballs, 43 volleyball uniforms 14 yucai primary school, Qixing district, 11 computers, 2 pianos, 4 multimedia sets, 500 books ● 19 Guilin city Chen Jingrun middle school Dijing branch, ● 20 15 beijing 49 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano ● 21 16 Quianfeng primary school, Guangzhou 20 computers, 1 beam projector, 1 air conditioner ● 17 17 Ertang primary school, Chongqing 30 computers, 2 lED displays, electronic book system ● 13 18 Xuesongru primary school, Shenyang 60 computers, 1 piano 19 Sanyang school, Huangshan 5 computers, 1 piano ● 10 20 Wanping school Shanghai 1 piano, 10 sets of multimedia system, 10 blackboards ● 12 21 Caihe experimental primary school, 45 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 200 model airplanes ● 16 Hangzhou ● 14 ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 74 establish a sister network of schools to implement the ‘beautiful Class’ project across China in 2012. The project is about forming partnership with Chinese schools in need to donate necessary educational materials and supplies. Raising the fund with KOICA, Asiana Airlines donated computers, pianos and other learning equipment to schools in seven Chinese cities including , beijing, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Shenyang, Huangshan, Shanghai, Hangzhou , and gave lectures when flight attendants of Asiana visited the schools themselves in 2014. From 2012 to 2014, Asiana gave support to 21 Chinese schools. The campaign will be continued in 2015 to cover more students in China. ◦ Flight Attendant Class & Global Manner School Asiana Airlines offers a flight attendant class to high school students who wish to become flight attendants in the future. Participating students can experience what it’s like to be a flight attendant in the Asiana Training Center. For high school students wishing to get a job instead of going to college after graduation, Global Manner School has been opened to teach good manners for job interviews and image making. Beautiful Earth We engage ourselves in a wide range of environment improvement initiatives such as installing eco-friendly solar street lamps in the cultural heritage sites all over the world, cleaning river across the country (‘Forriver Forever’) and etc. ◦ Eco Solar Light One solar energy street lamp installed by Asiana Airlines can reduce 203kg of CO2 per year compared to an incandescent light bulb. The impact is equivalent to planting 82 pine trees. In partnership with KOICA, Asiana Airlines has installed 51, 41 and 26 solar-powered street lamps in Cambodia, Vietnam and Jakarta respectively. We build solar-powered street lamps near the world’s cultural heritage sites of these countries to safeguard both invaluable culture and environment. ◦ Forriver Forever Asiana Airlines clean the areas along major rivers (Han River, Keum River, yeongsan River, Kumho River, nakdong River) and riverbeds of Korea. Championed by Asiana people working at domestic offices and airports, the green initiative organizes activities such as picking up garbage, pulling out weeds and planting flower to make our rivers cleaner. Beautiful Culture ◦ AISFF Asiana Airlines has organized AISFF(Asiana International Short Film Festival) since 2003, which marks its 12th anniversary in 2014. The festival was launched to encourage production of short films and independent films, and give more chance to talented movie directors who get relatively less attention from the public. AISFF is the first and one of the biggest international short film competition festival in Korea. AISFF has become stable and 75 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 fruitful by consistent hosting and support. ◦ Asiana Carole In 2014, Asiana Airlines selected physically challenged musicians with talents and produced first Asiana Carole entitled 'Christmas with you' to share the music with all its employees. ◦ Guardian of Cultural Heritage Asiana people and their families visit four royal palaces of Korea(Deoksu, Gyeongbok, Changdeok, Changgyeong) and Jongmyo(a Confucian shrine for the Joseon Dynasty) on a regular basis having a tour guided by cultural heritage experts and cleaning the areas to better the environment. ◦ Nurturing Music Prodigies Asiana Airlines sponsors a musical instrument bank which rents out instruments to music talents to find and develop prodigies of Korea. ◦ Culture and Art Sponsorship Asiana Airlines offers sponsorship to those who have made great contribution to development of culture, art and sports of Korea and raise the country’s standing on the global stage. We are trying to carry out our social responsibility through various Mecenat activities. 76 APPENDIX 77 Financial statements 86 GRI G3.1 Index & Alignment with 86 ISO 26000 90 Organization Chart 91 Third-Party Assurance Report 77 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Consolidated Financial Statement The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Assets Current assets 1,328,336,817,242 1,466,671,685,608 1,064,537,579,653 Cash and cash equivalents 262,869,886,514 498,919,161,282 162,787,126,531 Short-term financial instruments 306,681,020,000 204,166,780,000 73,633,960,000 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 16,074,709,900 Trade receivable 388,085,788,016 383,522,272,645 424,959,115,021 Other receivables 29,441,044,713 32,299,738,477 27,609,992,058 Accrued income 19,265,792,347 20,582,520,140 23,036,290,392 Short-term loans receivable 792,616,817 23,637,085,863 22,407,504,350 Advance payments 46,701,171,670 58,387,141,441 106,317,989,043 Prepaid expenses 69,892,777,670 61,478,468,446 59,061,088,052 Liquidity available-for-sale financial instruments 1,822,908,411 Prepaid taxes 2,505,729,470 2,040,195,087 2,416,539,879 Current tax assets 1,162,530,006 1,780,827,381 287,861,217 Inventories 182,764,794,508 178,755,248,735 161,225,835,022 Other current assets 276,047,200 1,102,246,111 794,278,088 Non-current assets 6,883,260,955,580 5,545,335,886,411 5,021,824,272,891 Long-term financial instruments 227,500,000 34,500,000 34,500,000 Available-for-sale financial assets 320,637,663,502 278,234,247,559 254,256,905,361 Investments in jointly controlled entities 382,871,764,053 396,926,308,229 141,855,755,959 and associates Long-term loans receivable 1,824,844,731 39,980,000 53,850,079,443 Guarantee deposits 449,461,397,501 452,593,085,830 420,005,795,046 Long-term prepaid expenses 160,217,328,737 190,972,115,072 221,777,052,133 Deferred income tax assets 169,984,873,660 129,557,247,022 45,750,633,145 Property, aircraft and equipment 5,061,892,428,127 3,757,361,448,117 3,554,271,658,779 Investment property 125,801,906,672 128,225,842,074 130,481,669,012 Intangible assets 209,372,285,189 209,881,151,625 197,786,708,327 Other non-current assets 968,963,408 1,509,960,883 1,753,515,686 Total assets 8,211,597,772,822 7,012,007,572,019 6,086,361,852,544 APPENDIX 78 Consolidated Financial Statement < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Liabilities Current liabilities 2,366,458,304,526 2,048,713,145,130 2,028,486,896,102 Trade accounts payable 156,358,158,393 167,170,456,482 267,036,272,591 Short-term borrowings 68,813,552,380 50,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 Advance receipts 294,579,205,404 255,122,301,435 265,260,956,577 Unearned income 16,761,100,401 12,951,703,332 2,287,731,407 Withholdings 46,439,232,387 33,461,769,488 29,603,442,295 Other payables 361,683,773,098 287,448,769,278 308,589,373,905 Accrued expenses 99,001,166,184 85,915,169,929 96,348,713,964 Income tax liabilities for the year 6,850,912,340 6,041,173,684 5,179,618,718 Taxes withheld 132,424,968,313 130,447,617,012 118,187,311,175 Current portion of debentures issued 703,789,669,073 493,469,791,406 526,379,839,295 Current portion of long-term borrowings 321,497,696,732 405,859,012,947 286,064,859,052 Current portion of obligations under financing leases 158,258,869,821 116,666,455,209 122,548,777,123 Current portion of financial derivative liabilities 4,158,924,928 Non-current liabilities 4,726,016,690,431 4,059,982,949,503 3,052,984,973,500 Debentures issued 1,229,092,955,241 1,410,970,336,764 923,550,579,485 Long-term borrowings 719,096,611,165 672,759,157,271 795,916,828,448 Obligations under financing leases 989,653,180,461 623,504,749,965 608,287,244,705 Defined benefit liability 278,348,150,338 215,695,408,667 202,035,941,066 Long-term advance receipts 468,793,381,381 432,833,708,208 385,656,940,586 Long-term unearned income 265,083,576,294 255,482,811,552 3,728,487,038 Long-term other payables 76,606,615 9,686,343,182 18,815,340,587 Deferred income tax credits 143,500,352,959 53,293,721,386 Provisions 99,979,796,340 104,744,100,576 63,484,898,907 Other long-term liabilities 532,392,079,637 281,012,611,932 51,508,712,678 Total liabilities 7,092,474,994,957 6,108,696,094,633 5,081,471,869,602 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company Capital stock 975,506,825,000 975,506,825,000 975,506,825,000 Capital surplus 1,148,869,102 1,148,869,102 1,148,869,102 Other structural elements of capital (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 76,620,305,356 17,672,942,979 22,917,028,208 Retained earnings(Accumulated deficit) (18,918,277,946) (65,905,628,767) 29,449,881,616 Non-controlling interest 113,253,326,840 3,376,739,559 4,355,649,503 Total equity 1,119,122,777,865 903,311,477,386 1,004,889,982,942 Total liabilities and equity 8,211,597,772,822 7,012,007,572,019 6,086,361,852,544 79 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Consolidated Comprehensive The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 Income Statement < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Sales 5,836,234,761,575 5,723,506,384,082 5,887,872,743,115 Cost of sales 5,186,770,205,133 5,159,649,585,880 5,109,055,196,392 Gross profit 649,464,556,442 563,856,798,202 778,817,546,723 Selling, general and administrative expenses 551,378,544,061 575,091,840,092 599,449,801,304 Operating (loss) income 98,086,012,381 (11,235,041,890) 179,367,745,419 Other operating income 316,837,451,480 359,169,751,542 229,230,561,023 Other operating expenses 264,492,512,193 380,574,222,674 197,053,459,542 Financial income 17,790,738,344 22,640,762,295 27,129,457,329 Financial expenses 152,716,036,287 149,284,939,847 161,600,313,360 Increased interest in the profit or loss of associates 31,791,237,208 26,291,720,460 14,004,879,773 Equity decreased for the profit or loss of associates 6,184,391,890 7,569,996,987 4,545,648,302 Profit (loss) before income tax 41,112,499,043 (140,561,967,101) 86,533,222,340 Income tax expense (income) 22,185,373,555 25,897,062,002 (24,059,906,513) Profit (loss) for the year 63,297,872,598 (114,664,905,099) 62,473,315,827 Equity holders of the Parent Company 62,181,138,535 (115,658,055,999) 61,382,051,563 Non-controlling interest 1,116,734,063 993,150,900 1,091,264,264 Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year 43,717,419,351 15,106,259,743 22,349,627,839 Subsequently in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 83,876,790,955 1,670,529,592 45,407,065,325 Stake in the other comprehensive income of associates (24,964,057,886) (6,904,089,675) (752,555,095) Profit/loss on overseas operation 34,629,308 (10,525,146) (176,858,915) Subsequently reclassified to profit or loss unless other comprehensive income Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities (15,229,943,026) 20,753,165,890 (21,961,516,810) Equity stake in remeasurements of net defined benefit (402,820,918) (166,506,666) liabilities of associates Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year 107,015,291,949 (99,558,645,356) 84,822,943,666 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 105,934,713,198 (100,599,595,612) 83,733,636,062 Non-controlling interest 1,080,578,751 1,040,950,256 1,089,307,604 Per share data Basic earnings (loss) per share 319 (593) 317 Diluted earnings (loss) per share 319 (593) 316 APPENDIX 80 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Consolidated Statement of Changes in The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 Shareholders’ Equity < Unit : KRW > Equity Shareholders of Parent Company Accumulated Retained Non-controlling Total Capital Other Components of Other ComEarnings Interest Equity Capital Stock Total Surplus prehensive (Accumulated Equity Income Deficit) Balance at January 1, 2012 916,536,240,000 1,119,928,066 (28,488,270,487) (21,560,623,107) (9,806,103,131) 857,801,171,341 3,486,241,899 861,287,413,240 Profit (loss) for the year 61,382,051,563 61,382,051,563 1,091,264,264 62,473,315,827 Loss on valuation of available-for-sale 45,407,065,325 45,407,065,325 45,407,065,325 financial assets Related company’s stake in other profit (752,555,095) (752,555,095) (752,555,095) Comor loss ChangpreExchange differences es in hensive on translation in (176,858,915) (176,858,915) (176,858,915) Equity income foreign operations (loss) Remeasurements of net defined benefit (21,959,560,150) (21,959,560,150) (1,956,660) (21,961,516,810) liabilities Related company’s stake in Remeasure(166,506,666) (166,506,666) (166,506,666) ments of net defined benefit liabilities TransacBond with warrants exercised 58,970,585,000 28,941,036 58,999,526,036 58,999,526,036 tions with Acquisition and liquidation of equity subsidiaries (19,900,000) (19,900,000) holders Dividends (200,000,000) (200,000,000) Balance at December 31, 2012 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 22,917,028,208 29,449,881,616 1,000,534,333,439 4,355,649,503 1,004,889,982,942 Balance at January 1, 2013 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 22,917,028,208 29,449,881,616 1,000,534,333,439 4,355,649,503 1,004,889,982,942 Profit (loss) for the year (115,658,055,999) (115,658,055,999) 993,150,900 (114,664,905,099) Loss on valuation of available-for-sale 1,670,529,592 1,670,529,592 1,670,529,592 financial assets Related company’s stake in other profit (6,904,089,675) (6,904,089,675) (6,904,089,675) Comor loss ChangpreExchange differences es in hensive on translation in (10,525,146) (10,525,146) (10,525,146) Equity income foreign operations (loss) Remeasurements of net defined 20,705,366,534 20,705,366,534 47,799,356 20,753,165,890 benefit liabilities Related company’s stake in Remeasure(402,820,918) (402,820,918) (402,820,918) ments of net defined benefit liabilities TransacBond with warrants exercised tions with Acquisition and liquidation of equity subsidiaries (19,860,200) (19,860,200) holders Dividends (2,000,000,000) (2,000,000,000) Balance at December 31, 2013 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 17,672,942,979 (65,905,628,767) 899,934,737,827 3,376,739,559 903,311,477,386 Balance at January 1, 2014 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 17,672,942,979 (65,905,628,767) 899,934,737,827 3,376,739,559 903,311,477,386 Profit (loss) for the year 62,181,138,535 62,181,138,535 1,116,734,063 63,297,872,598 Loss on valuation of available-for-sale 83,876,790,955 83,876,790,955 83,876,790,955 financial assets Related company’s stake in other profit (24,964,057,886) (24,964,057,886) (24,964,057,886) Comor loss ChangpreExchange differences es in hensive on translation in 34,629,308 34,629,308 34,629,308 Equity income foreign operations (loss) Remeasurements of net defined (15,193,787,714) (15,193,787,714) (36,155,312) (15,229,943,026) benefit liabilities Related company’s stake in Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities TransacBond with warrants exercised tions with Acquisition and liquidation of equity subsidiaries 108,996,008,530 108,996,008,530 holders Dividends (200,000,000) (200,000,000) Balance at December 31, 2014 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 76,620,305,356 (18,918,277,946) 1,005,869,451,025 113,253,326,840 1,119,122,777,865 81 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Net cash generated from operating activities 373,360,980,922 739,045,604,566 345,691,616,180 Cash generated from operations 488,673,169,066 852,099,170,430 470,390,483,903 Interest received 19,713,138,849 20,474,135,554 16,074,932,653 Interest paid (137,053,936,901) (130,905,295,678) (125,042,358,459) Dividends received 10,991,569,456 9,746,989,571 10,201,019,094 Income tax paid (8,962,959,548) (12,369,395,311) (25,932,461,011) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (390,470,802,010) (810,775,118,203) (620,770,739,639) Decrease (increase) in short-term financial instruments, net (102,400,000,000) (130,440,000,000) (37,503,883,117) Proceeds from sales of fair value financial asset 3,364,381,681 Others (derivatives) (92,505,744,964) Long/Short-term loans granted (49,373,807) (15,885,860) (9,214,945,000) Increase in Long/Short-term loans granted 2,288,757,200 17,400 3,842,532,976 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (3,009,985,620) (41,975,677,201) Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 55,242,090,914 51,223,008,000 Acquisition of investments in jointly controlled (76,271,758,714) (260,602,084,600) entities and associates Disposition of investments in jointly controlled 50,000 15,664,649,056 109,440,000 entities and associates Purchases of property, aircraft and equipment (332,694,804,781) (384,966,290,360) (388,126,708,986) Disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 87,664,672,975 7,448,891,822 6,629,447,639 Purchases of intangible assets (4,356,730,398) (18,779,742,108) (1,952,818,380) Disposal of intangible assets 128,932,000 576,000 Increase in guarantee deposits (145,054,271,780) (113,392,083,259) (152,929,346,182) Decrease in guarantee deposits 124,677,238,320 74,322,409,706 41,653,279,576 Acquisition of other investment assets (15,000,000) Acquisition and liquidation of subsidiaries (19,900,000) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (217,863,436,173) 409,172,098,439 242,828,052,606 Net increase/decrease of short-term borrowings (14,000,000,000) 49,000,000,000 (2,294,336,365) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 93,095,940,000 104,215,212,578 172,684,530,329 Repayment of long-term borrowings (212,473,496,288) (81,818,242,392) (68,417,037,809) Issuance of debentures 498,119,636,030 820,854,279,022 1,208,110,063,760 Redemption of debentures (452,499,822,322) (301,399,409,350) (1,012,926,504,069) Payments of finance lease liabilities (129,905,693,593) (179,679,741,419) (112,807,448,240) Payment of dividends (200,000,000) (2,000,000,000) (200,000,000) Bond with warrants exercised 58,678,785,000 Net increase/decrease of cash and cash equivalents (234,973,257,261) 337,442,584,802 (32,251,070,853) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 498,919,161,282 162,787,126,531 197,773,237,915 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents (1,076,017,507) (1,310,550,051) (2,735,040,531) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 262,869,886,514 498,919,161,282 162,787,126,531 APPENDIX 82 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Statement of Financial Position The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Assets Current assets 856,948,770,852 944,905,100,720 841,188,516,318 Cash and cash equivalents 146,168,186,575 245,511,127,872 109,144,616,284 Short-term financial instruments 7,426,020,000 7,311,780,000 7,218,960,000 Sales of fair value financial asset 16,074,709,900 Sales of current available-for-sale financial assets 1,822,908,411 Trade receivables 328,005,677,219 325,176,822,953 339,130,767,888 Other receivables 27,681,567,805 31,980,961,404 27,410,620,350 Accrued income 18,446,961,630 19,598,351,949 21,726,616,727 Short-term loans receivable 13,268,240,000 13,171,660,000 13,206,420,000 Advance payments 44,980,162,852 55,966,524,754 100,765,455,093 Prepaid expenses 69,827,286,541 64,880,488,107 59,844,238,613 Prepaid taxes 2,035,650,365 1,661,414,515 2,120,238,518 Current tax assets 1,162,530,006 1,741,356,807 287,861,217 Inventories 180,048,869,548 177,904,612,359 160,332,721,628 Non-current assets 5,623,368,897,846 5,109,325,947,265 4,828,299,119,140 Long-term financial instruments 22,000,000 22,000,000 22,000,000 Available-for-sale financial assets 310,351,917,330 269,898,378,439 244,958,956,611 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and 603,924,208,656 603,924,258,556 531,824,358,356 jointly controlled entities Long-term loans receivable 51,628,975,739 Guarantee deposits 459,191,226,879 469,518,555,156 439,338,248,873 Long-term prepaid expense 160,167,178,013 190,972,115,072 221,777,052,133 Deferred income tax assets 163,648,328,251 150,188,761,540 120,229,955,238 Property, aircraft and equipment 3,854,454,413,497 3,355,718,973,565 3,153,414,132,054 Investment property 42,397,329,058 43,168,055,134 43,938,781,210 Intangible assets 28,336,884,462 24,669,053,691 19,486,145,842 Other non-current assets 875,411,700 1,245,796,112 1,680,513,084 Total assets 6,480,317,668,698 6,054,231,047,985 5,669,487,635,458 83 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 Statement of Financial Position < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Liabilities Current liabilities 2,009,388,516,618 1,747,810,460,513 1,806,649,135,018 Trade accounts payable 109,785,512,257 128,937,173,414 190,478,439,584 Short-term borrowings 35,000,000,000 50,000,000,000 Advance receipts 282,803,064,393 250,658,851,799 260,801,136,613 Unearned income 2,390,651,144 1,692,942,049 2,150,394,649 Withholdings 43,163,295,206 31,274,267,556 27,490,974,773 Other payables 366,341,664,479 301,228,407,648 318,397,817,136 Accrued expenses 81,881,839,629 76,546,011,948 85,265,123,725 Taxes withheld 127,537,930,753 126,774,052,300 114,571,773,068 Current portion of debentures issued 370,215,721,281 199,867,158,513 376,575,253,388 Current portion of long-term borrowings 95,747,696,732 233,514,012,947 158,564,859,052 Current portion of obligations under financing leases 158,258,869,821 116,666,455,209 122,548,777,123 Current portion of long-term borrowings with asset336,262,270,923 226,492,202,202 149,804,585,907 backed securitization Current portion of financial derivative liabilities 4,158,924,928 Non-current liabilities 3,676,199,516,106 3,491,025,963,051 2,927,209,724,912 Debentures issued 413,229,062,944 693,269,985,898 685,764,564,123 Long-term borrowings 703,985,927,512 670,384,157,271 740,291,828,448 Obligations under financing leases 989,653,180,461 623,504,749,965 608,287,244,705 Long-term borrowings with asset-backed securitization 762,766,948,124 755,312,115,021 231,363,799,335 Other long-term employee benefits 231,901,123,213 195,612,615,214 186,168,182,369 Long-term advance receipts 468,793,381,381 432,833,708,208 385,656,940,586 Long-term unearned income 1,736,587,407 2,040,023,367 2,342,630,269 Long-term other payables 9,659,759,878 18,777,747,174 Provisions 99,688,294,183 104,470,727,224 63,228,523,258 Other long-term liabilities 4,445,010,881 3,938,121,005 5,328,264,645 Total liabilities 5,685,588,032,724 5,238,836,423,564 4,733,858,859,930 Equity Capital stock 975,506,825,000 975,506,825,000 975,506,825,000 Capital surplus 1,148,869,102 1,148,869,102 1,148,869,102 Other components of equity (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 104,806,657,303 21,180,210,078 17,455,256,732 Accumulated deficit (258,244,444,944) (153,953,009,272) (29,993,904,819) Total equity 794,729,635,974 815,394,624,421 935,628,775,528 Total liabilities and equity 6,480,317,668,698 6,054,231,047,985 5,669,487,635,458 APPENDIX 84 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Comprehensive Income Statement The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Sales 5,552,678,452,328 5,463,294,738,859 5,638,068,843,903 Cost of sales 4,974,194,328,838 4,999,098,214,281 4,963,954,409,845 Gross profit 578,484,123,490 464,196,524,578 674,114,434,058 Selling, general and administrative expenses 536,256,012,907 525,785,560,145 541,577,919,938 Operating (loss) income 42,228,110,583 (61,589,035,567) 132,536,514,120 Other operating income 201,296,988,113 364,009,913,004 238,662,962,787 Other operating expenses 253,469,987,893 361,801,055,071 175,809,287,287 Financial income 9,185,549,987 14,269,522,521 24,165,002,126 Finance costs 134,684,228,845 135,167,639,018 149,524,390,346 Profit before income tax (benefit) (135,443,568,055) (180,278,294,131) 70,030,801,400 Income tax expense (benefit) 40,209,023,041 37,179,287,115 (19,418,551,583) Profit(loss) for the year (95,234,545,014) (143,099,007,016) 50,612,249,817 Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 74,569,556,567 22,864,855,909 15,509,727,143 Other comprehensive profit/loss after tax that will reclassified to profit/loss Valuation income (profit/loss) on available-for-sale 83,626,447,225 3,724,953,346 33,245,674,659 financial assets Other comprehensive profit/loss after tax that will not be reclassified to profit/loss Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities (9,056,890,658) 19,139,902,563 (17,735,947,516) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year (20,664,988,447) (120,234,151,107) 66,121,976,960 Per share data Basic earnings per share (488) (733) 261 Diluted earnings per share (488) (733) 261 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 < Unit : KRW > Equity Capital Stock Capital Surplus Other Accumulated Other ComAccumulated Deficit Total Equity Components of Equity prehensive Income (loss) balance at January 1, 2012 916,536,240,000 1,119,928,066 (28,488,270,487) (15,790,417,927) (62,870,207,120) 810,507,272,532 Profit for the year 50,612,249,817 50,612,249,817 ComprehenChangsive income lossfor-sale on valuation of availablefinancial assets 33,245,674,659 33,245,674,659 es in (loss) Remeasurements of net defined Equity benefit liabilities (17,735,947,516) (17,735,947,516) Transactions with bond with warrants exercised 58,970,585,000 28,941,036 58,999,526,036 equity holders balance at December 31, 2012 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 17,455,256,732 (29,993,904,819) 935,628,775,528 balance at January 1, 2013 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 17,455,256,732 (29,993,904,819) 935,628,775,528 Profit for the year (143,099,007,016) (143,099,007,016) ComprehenChangsive income lossfor-sale on valuation of availablefinancial assets 3,724,953,346 3,724,953,346 es in (loss) Remeasurements of net defined Equity benefit liabilities 19,139,902,563 19,139,902,563 Transactions with bond with warrants exercised equity holders balance at December 31, 2013 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 21,180,210,078 (153,953,009,272) 815,394,624,421 balance at January 1, 2014 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 21,180,210,078 (153,953,009,272) 815,394,624,421 Profit for the year (95,234,545,014) (95,234,545,014) ComprehenChangsive income lossfor-sale on valuation of availablefinancial assets 83,626,447,225 83,626,447,225 es in (loss) Remeasurements of net defined Equity benefit liabilities (9,056,890,658) (9,056,890,658) Transactions with bond with warrants exercised equity holders balance at December 31, 2014 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 (28,488,270,487) 104,806,657,303 (258,244,444,944) 794,729,635,974 85 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 The 27th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2014 The 26th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2013 Cash Flow Statement The 25th business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 < Unit : KRW > 27th Period 26th Period 25th Period Net cash generated from operating activities 326,932,434,441 222,827,653,721 287,104,452,490 Cash generated from operations 425,225,325,124 303,906,206,169 390,612,775,602 Interest received 10,346,609,339 11,901,069,566 13,826,612,796 Interest paid (134,211,071,595) (122,322,804,185) (114,905,884,364) Dividends received 21,791,569,456 30,796,677,761 14,207,619,094 Income tax paid 3,780,002,117 (1,453,495,590) (16,636,670,638) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (192,145,775,829) (482,739,648,239) (588,667,037,494) Decrease (increase) in short-term financial instruments, net (7,295,005,200) Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (41,885,677,200) Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 55,242,090,914 51,223,008,000 Proceeds from sales of fair value financial asset 3,364,381,681 Acquisition of investments in jointly controlled (100) (82,402,084,700) (383,357,771) entities and associates Disposition of investments in jointly controlled 50,000 15,684,609,156 109,590,000 entities and associates Decrease in long-term loans 17,400 Purchases of property, aircraft and equipment (318,541,410,201) (374,764,751,285) (379,655,691,308) Disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 86,417,457,913 606,756,874 6,059,690,747 Purchases of intangible assets (3,418,313,414) (5,215,164,137) (1,860,281,260) Disposal of intangible assets 128,932,000 Increase in guarantee deposits (144,792,485,880) (110,908,801,249) (175,153,574,699) Decrease in guarantee deposits 129,453,521,258 74,259,769,702 52,680,006,161 Disposal of financial derivative trade (92,505,744,964) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (233,103,390,678) 397,500,647,930 299,703,892,454 Net increase/decrease of short-term borrowings (15,000,000,000) 50,000,000,000 (1,294,336,365) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 93,095,940,000 104,215,212,578 172,684,530,329 Repayment of long-term borrowings (206,003,496,288) (73,413,242,392) (59,917,037,809) Issuance of debentures 99,552,850,000 233,594,902,022 493,692,791,348 Redemption of debentures (200,000,000,000) (381,382,659,949) (408,227,790,794) Payments of finance lease liabilities (129,905,693,593) (179,679,741,419) (112,807,448,240) Proceeds from long-term borrowings with assets398,566,786,030 895,559,377,000 400,163,906,733 backed securitization Repayment of long-term borrowings with assets(273,409,776,827) (251,393,199,910) (243,269,507,748) backed securitization Bond with warrants exercised 58,678,785,000 Net increase/decrease of cash and cash equivalents (98,316,732,066) 137,588,653,412 (1,858,692,550) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 245,511,127,872 109,144,616,284 113,562,499,488 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents (1,026,209,231) (1,222,141,824) (2,559,190,654) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 146,168,186,575 245,511,127,872 109,144,616,284 APPENDIX 86 GRI G3.1 Index & Alignment with ISO 26000 Reporting level : ● Report, ◐ Partial Report, ○ no Report, n/A GRI Index Description Reporting Reporting Section Level Participation by Stakeholders ● 18, 19, 21, 28 Boundary Protocol ● Cover Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior 1.1 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy ● 5, 22 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 36~40, 42, 43 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● Cover, 5, 12 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 5~7, 52~56 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, 2.3 and joint ventures ● 22, 25, 26, 28, 47, 60, 90 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters ● Cover, 12 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major opera2.5 ● 6, 7, 14,15, 72~74 tions or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 12, 26 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 14, 15, 36~40, 55, 56 Scale of the reporting organization (number of employees, net sales/net revenues, total capitalization 2.8 broken down in terms of debt and equity, and quantity of products or services provided) ● 12~15, 28, 36~40, Appendix 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● 6~9, 12~15, 26~28, 36~41 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 9, 21, 55, 57, 69 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● Cover 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● Cover 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● Cover 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● Cover 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 18, 19 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures) ● Cover 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● Cover Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations ○ Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report ● 61~69 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons 3.10 for such re-statement Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● Cover, 43 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Explain the scope 3.13 and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting ● Cover, 91 organization and the assurance provider(s) Governance, Commitments & Engagement Economic value generated and distributed (e.g. revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations 4.1 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments) ● 26, 27 4.2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 26, 27 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the 4.3 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members ● 26, 27 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body ● 26~28 87 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Description Reporting Reporting Section Level Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and ◐ 27 environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 26, 27  rocess for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest P 4.7 governance body and its committees (gender and other indicators of diversity ● 26 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation ● 12, 20, 21, 23, 46, 55, 56, 60, 70 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and 12, 20, 21, 23, 42, 43, 4.9 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, ● and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 46, 55, 56, 60, 70 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect 4.10 to economic, environmental, and social performance ● 26, 27 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 26 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses ● 9, 22, 46, 61, 66, 70 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations ● 7, 9, 15, 22, 24, 46 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 21, 22, 26~28 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ◐ 21, 26, 27 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 21, 26~28, 56, 70~75 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization 4.17 has responded to those key topics and concerns ● 18, 19, 22, 24, 27, 28, 56 Economic Economic value generated and distributed (e.g. revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and 9, 12, 30, 37~41, 70, 71, EC1 other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments) ● Appendix EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 61~65 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ○ EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ○ EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 23, 24, 36~40 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations EC7 of significant operation ● 28 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC8 through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement ● 6~9, 49~56 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 6~8, 15, 36~41 En1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 41, 66 En2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● 68 En3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 62 En4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ● 66 En5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 62~65 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, En6 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives ● 62~65 En7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 62~64 En8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 66 En9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water En10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused En11 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused APPENDIX 88 GRI G3.1 Index & Alignment with ISO 26000 Reporting level : ● Report, ◐ Partial Report, ○ no Report, n/A GRI Index Description Reporting Reporting Section Level Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas En12 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas En13 Habitats protected or restored En14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by En15 operations, by level of extinction risk En16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 62 En17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 67 En18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 62~65 En19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight En20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ○ En21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 67 En22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 67, 68 En23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 66 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel En24 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly En25 affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff ○ En26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ● 60~69 En27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with En28 environmental laws and regulations no violations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for En29 the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce ● 60, 65 En30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ○ Social : Labor Practices & Decent Work lA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender ● 28 lA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 28 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by lA3 significant locations of operation ● 29~32 lA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 31 lA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements ○ lA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees ● 31, 32 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, lA7 by region and by gender ○ Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, lA8 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases ● 32, 33 lA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 32, 33, 47, 48 lA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category ● 30, 48, 49 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of lA11 employees and assist them in managing career endings ● 29, 30 lA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender ● 28 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to lA13 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity ● 26, 28 lA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation ◐ 30, 31 lA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 31 89 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Index Description Reporting Reporting Section Level Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses HR1 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening ● 30, 31 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that HR2 have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken ● 23, 24 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR3 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained ● 25 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken no discrimination Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and HR5 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights ● 31, 32 O  perations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of HR8 human rights that are relevant to operations ○ HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments ○ HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ● 28, 30, 55, 56 Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 and development programs ● 70~75 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 25 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 25 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ○ Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws SO8 and regulations ○ SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative SO10 impacts on local communities ● 70~75, Product & Service Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR1 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures ● 46, 49, 55, 56 T otal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products PR3 and services subject to such information requirements ● 6, 14, 15 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product PR4 and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes no violations PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 18, 19, 55, 56 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ● 54, 55 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes no violations PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ◐ 55, 56 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision PR9 and use of products and services no violations APPENDIX 90 Organization Chart (As of July. 1, 2015) President & CEO Safety & Security business Ethics Management & Audit Passenger Strategic Planning Corporate Support Cargo Business Business Regional Headquarters Commercial Affairs, Cargo Sales Strategy & Planning Human Resources Reservations & Ticketing & Planning Japan Regulatory Affairs Corporate Support Revenue Cargo Services Management Sales Planning China Public Relations Finance & Alliances Purchasing Marketing & legal Affairs The Americas Airport Services Europe Maintenance & Flight Operations Cabin Service Engineering Maintenance Quality Operations Control Flight Operations Cabin Service Planning Planning Maintenance Flight Crew Cabin Crew Engineering Operations Operations Maintenance Operations 91 Third-party Assurance Statement Dear Asiana Airlines Management and Stakeholders Asiana Airlines has commissioned Korea Productivity Center(hereinafter them actively. Especially, the internal channels to communicate with executives “ KPC ” ) to provide third-party assurance on the 2015 Sustainability such as ‘Fortune comes to a merry home’ and ‘Positive Communication Process’, Report(hereinafter “the report”) of Asiana Airlines. KPC offers the following and external channels such as SnS(Twitters etc.) and ‘Voice of Customers’ were assurance accordingly. considered to be very excellent. ■ Responsibility and Independence • Materiality : Selection and Report of Material Issues Responsibility for the information and opinions found in the report fully rests on Asiana Materiality principle is a principle which prescribes that an organization has to Airlines. KPC is responsible for the opinions about the report. As an independent make decisions on material issues related to the organization and the surrounding assurance agency, KPC did not participate in writing the report and does not have any stakeholders. KPC has confirmed that Asiana Airlines had selected material issues kind of interest in Asiana Airlines which may hinder its independency. by materiality evaluation paying attention to the organization and major stakeholders of the organization. Asiana Airlines has done its best to draw material issues from ■ Assurance Standards its aspect of sustainability through various methods such as global initiatives, media KPC has validated the report based on the Type 1 assurance engagement and analysis, conversations with stakeholders, management policies and benchmarking Moderate assurance level in AA1000AS(2008) assurance standards, and confirmed the companies of the same kind. As for the material issues which has been drawn, the areas subjected to the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in Asiana Airlines is considered to show the efforts of consistent management and accordance with the AA1000APS(2008). KPC also applied the GRI G3.1 Guideline and improvement about the issues by presenting operation organizations, activities and ISO26000. performances of 2014, and future plans concretely. KPC also has confirmed that the items that had been drawn as material issues were reflected and reported on each ■ Limited Areas page of the report in balanced manners. KPC has verified the performance of 2014 by the assurance standards above. Validation of credibility on some data such as financial performance, environmental • Responsiveness : Response of Organization on Issues data(e.g. the amount of greenhouse gas emission)and, information about internal Responsiveness principle is a principle which prescribes that an organization has to system linkage are not included. As on the spot inspection is restricted to the respond to the issues that might be able to impact stakeholders’ achievements. KPC headquarters in Seoul, the results can be changed when additional validation process has confirmed that Asiana Airlines grasped major expected items which had an impact is performed. on stakeholders' achievements and performed activities to cope with them, and the contents were described in the report properly. Especially, Asiana Airlines’ efforts to ■ Assurance Methodology reinforce the safety management in accordance with the increase of stakeholders' KPC has validated the report using the following methodologies interest about safety issues, such as running a safety management system to ensure safety operations, offering specialty trainings, investment report on training facilities • Confirming the observance of principles in contents and quality based on the GRI G3.1 were considered to be a superior example of sustainability management compared to Guideline. other companies. • Examining stakeholders’ interest and sustainability issues • Inspecting the appropriateness in material issue selection and conformity of described ■ Recommendation • contents by media research and benchmarking analysis KPC has a high opinion of Asiana Airlines’ various efforts and performance on the • Examining the appropriateness and error of contents described in the report by the reinforcement of sustainability. KPC recommends the following schemes for future • comparison and analysis of the other sources reports and improvement of sustainability management. • On the spot inspection: Confirming the validity of important data and information • through the interview with the person in charge, confirming the internal process and system • Control of Sustainability Management Target : KPC recommends that Asiana Airlines set its goal to achieve sustainability management visions and strategy, ■ Assurance Results establish implementation plans to fulfill the goal, and report the performance KPC had reviewed the contents in the report and expressed its opinions on it, and regularly. KPC also recommends that Asiana Airlines reinforce the connectivity corrected the report if necessary. KPC has confirmed that the report reflects Asiana between non-financial performance(environmental and social activities etc.) and Airlines’ sustainability management activities and the performance sincerely and financial performance for the transition to an integrated management system that is fairly. KPC could not find any significant error or inappropriate description in this report able to create a synergy of management. during validation activities. • Reinforcing the Quantitative Data Management : KPC recommends that Asiana • Inclusivity : Participation of Stakeholders Airlines reinforce the quality of data and information by collecting and examining them Inclusivity principle is a principle which prescribes that an organization let the regularly and resetting the estimation and reporting standard of each index through stakeholders participate in the process of developing strategic measures for the introduction of a process for improving the quality of data and information. KPC sustainability. KPC has confirmed that Asiana Airlines had continued various efforts especially recommends that Asiana Airlines make an explicit report about activities, to observe and improve the inclusivity principle. Asiana Airlines has integrated changes in data and future plans for qualitative improvement and consistent relationships with six major stakeholder groups(customer, shareholder/investor, management of environmental performance to take measures for emission trading government/related agencies, employees, partners, environment/society) and is which has great influence on aviation industry. running communication channels for each stakeholder group to communicate with September , 2015 KPC Chairman & CEO Hong, Soon-Jik Korea Productivity Center Sustainability Management Center is an assurance agency which is officially certified by Accountability, who has established AA1000, the global standards on stakeholder participation and assurance. KPC is qualified for performing its own assurance activities. As for the assurance members, they are well experienced experts in the field of sustainability management consultation and validation who have received specialized educations. Reservation & Inquiry 1588-8000 • flyasiana.com Address(Asiana Town) 443-83, Ojeong-ro, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea Publisher President & CEO Soo Cheon, Kim E-mail green@flyasiana.com
