COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for Amesto CUSTOMER: Global Compact and stakeholders SUPPLIER: Amesto Group YEAR: 2015 2 INNHOLD BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS 4 OUR MAIN SERVICES 5 THE VALUES OF SIMPLIFYING 6 WHAT DO WE DO IN AMESTO? 6 THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING DIVERSITY 6 THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING SHARED VALUE PARTNERSHIP 7 8 THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING THE ENVIRONMENT 8 THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING VALUE BASED LEADERSHIP 9 GLOBAL COMPACT 9 HUMAN RIGHTS 10 LABOUR 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION 13 3 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS We established Amesto in 2002. We are a Global group with approximately 1,000 employees. The Group expects a turnover of around $11,6 million in 2015. Amesto has offices in the Scandinavian countries Norway, Denmark, Sweden and in London. We started our global business in 2012. Today we are represented in 60 countries with our strategic partners. Amesto Global offers a single point of contact – whether you are looking into expanding your business into new international markets or need help with existing international operations. Amesto is part of Spabogruppen, a Norwegian owned family business with over 40 companies. The Spandow family owns Spabogruppen. In 2015, Spabogruppen had a turnover of approximately $140 million and the plan is a continued strong development through minor acquisitions and organic growth. 4 OUR MAIN SERVICES Amesto AccountHouse Outsourcing of accounting and payroll We have accounting services that match all types of companies and company sizes. Amesto AccoountHouse also give access to expert advice. We combine expertise in accounting and payroll with financial specialists and we also supply specialists within company investments. Our teams know the industry requirements and challenges and can offer effective and flexible solutions. We provide web-based solutions that ensure detailed insight, current accounts and give complete control. AccountHouse also provide Nordic Payroll. This divition consists of specialists with senior expertise in payroll services in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. As a customer, you get a dedicated team who monitor across borders with only one Payroll Manager to relate to. Amesto Top Temp Recruitment and consultancy rental Top Temp is a company within the Amesto Group. We are one of the largest recruitment and staffing companies in Norway. We have found thousands of employees and managers for our customers in both the private and public sector. All of our consultants have extensive experience in the staffing industry and we have the DNV certification for recruitment personnel. Top Temp is a knowledge-driven organization, where our employees' professional expertise and experience enable us to give expert advise and we take pride in being a prefered dialog partner. Amesto Solutions Software and solutions Amesto Solutions is a supplier of CRM, ERP and HRM solutions. We mainly supply SuperOffice CRM. We are Scandinavia's largest provider of financial systems from Visma Software. The business systems include a wide functionality within accounting and ledger, scanning of documents, remittance, bank reconciliation and reporting. The logistics systems we sell suit different business sizes, ranging from small to large businesses, and the practical areas they provide are within: tracking, lifecycle and service management, rental, alternative management and production. The strengths are the variations of standard functionality and the close interaction with the systems for financials, CRM, payroll, electronic document management and online stores. Amesto Translations og Tolk Translation and interpreting services Amesto is an internationally recognized provider of multilingual translations and interpretation services with the ability to translate in over 200 languages. We are a full-service multilingual translation service provider, certified in accordance with International Standards: ISO 9001:2008 and EN 15038:2006. Amesto has a proven track record of handling translation projects of all sizes and is a one-stop solution for any organisation seeking superior and specialised translations at highly competitive rates. Amesto undertake all types of interpreting assignments. We have vast experience of interpreting for the police and prosecution service, the courts, municipal and county councils and industry, to name a few. 5 THE VALUES OF SIMPLIFYING Working as a responsible business means good business for Amesto. We always endeavor good methods to contribute to society, whether it be through vacant premises for our intrapreneurs, cooperation with social entrepreneurs, internships for people who need it, strategic pro bono projects and trying our best to work environmental friendly. The aim is for social responsibility to be a natural part of the workday at Amesto. The Values of Simplifying shall have a strong standing in the companies under the Amesto brand. Simplifying business is our mission, but we must also seek to simplify everything we do, whether it being the way to take environmental responsibility or our way of working sustainably. Every day there are at least 150,000 people using any of Amestos’ services. We have over 1,000 employees in Scandinavia and many 100 suppliers. Amesto wants to, and has the opportunity to be a longterm partner for a sustainable society. WHAT DO WE DO IN AMESTO? In Amesto we focus on three areas of sustainability.  The Value of Simplifying diversity  The Value of Simplifying shared value partnership  The Value of Simplifying the environment  The value of Simplifying Value based leadership The values of simplifying were the outcome of collecting all the bits and pieces that the company already do and giving them a framework, so that it is easier to communicate and measure the effects they can bring to the company and to the different projects we enter into that match these values. THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING DIVERSITY With the situation being as it is in Europe today, it is imperative that the business world step up and contribute any way they can. For Amesto, giving a job opportunity is a strategic way of contributing. We do not only look at what people have done, but what they have the possibility to achieve. We want to support people's potential. Intrapreneurs, a social entrepreneur with a dream or, a person who has challenges getting into the labor market. We like to see the potential of opportunities. A prerequisite to meeting market and customer needs is that Amesto Group has the best skills to make the right decisions. If corporate governance and controls are homogeneous, this increases the risk that business decisions stay the same. By incorporating sustainability considerations into our business decisions, we create value for the company. At the same time, we show our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the ten principles. Beyond that, we create innovation with tangible benefits for society. We hosted a social entrepreneurial firm for 3 months in our offices. Moving Mamas mission is to get all the women (nonethnic Norwegian women) they have working for them out into new jobs. Through providing a network in the offices they are guest hosting, they hope to illustrate that the women have the skills and the capability of working within different sectors. These women have difficulties getting jobs because of lower Norwegian language skills, or 6 lower education. A spin off from having Moving Mamas in our work space was that they catered our Christmas party, for 150 people, with food from 10 different countries. Within the Swedish Translations business, we have throughout 2015/2016 been working with a Swedish social entrepreneur, named Mitt Liv. The mission to Mitt Liv is working for an inclusive society and a labor market that values diversity. Through mentoring, training, and expanded network of contacts, they want to open doors for people with a foreign background. THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING SHARED VALUE PARTNERSHIP Cooperation between enterprises is more common now. With circular economy in the wind, the business world too, has come to understand that partnerships can have its advantages. The time when it was considered risky to cooperate with other enterprises is in the past. Cooperation means increased range and ability to modernize and / or reach new audiences. Along with Visma and Médicine sans Frontiers, Amesto wants to show that partnerships can be the key to efficient, sustainable solutions. By helping the aid organization becoming more efficient in its way of administrating its organization, throughout the Scandinavian offices they have, more money will be directed to what Médicine Sans Frontiers purpose is; saving lives. All businesses have unique reasons for working towards a sustainable and equitable outcome. We find that a good way to achieve the best solution is by creating new ways of working together. Employees in Amesto show that they are proud to work in a company, which is future-oriented and conscious of its environmental and social responsibilities. For Amesto it is also important that customer know that we are thinking environment in our everyday work. 7 THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING THE ENVIRONMENT We are proud to contribute to a better environment on an individual base, a business level and yet more importantly in respect to national and global perspectives. Arild Spandow, our CEO, wrote in an article in Kapital (A Norwegian business review) Good environmental solutions require unpopular decisions that few in politics are willing to take. We therefore have a personal responsibility. For business executives assigned it is a distinct responsibility, and an opportunity, to contribute to environmental awareness and to put this on the agenda. We are part of the UN Global Compact and we have pledged to work towards improvement within 10 principles regarding human rights, labor rights, environment and corruption. It is required from more and more companies and municipalities that we think and work for environmental requirements. Amesto is and has, during the course of 2015 continued to dedicate time and methods to get offices to become Eco lighthouse certified. Every year we report to the Eco lighthouse foundation on several objectives that we have to fulfill within the environmental aspects of work environment, procurement, waste, energy and transport. 8 Our vision with Amesto as Eco lighthouse is: Employees in Amesto will be proud to work in a company that is future-oriented and conscious of its environmental and social responsibilities. We will get our clients to promote Amesto as a pioneering partner due to our focus. The aim is for employees and contractors to be honored to contribute to Amesto achieving its goals for environmental and social responsibility. THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING VALUE BASED LEADERSHIP The vision for Amesto is “Life is short, work somewhere awesome”. This vision is based on getting everyone working for Amesto to recognise that we are all responsible for making the vision becoming true. We all have to act on it by thinking positive, acting pleasantly; we can all make Amesto an awesome place to work. Our mission is “Simplifying business”. This is something we endeavour to achieve every day, in all that we do, whether it be for our customers, or for our colleagues. In essence, this means that one of the key performance indicators of a leader in Amesto is to manage the personnel in the very best way, in order to extract the very best in all employees. GLOBAL COMPACT Amesto is committed to deliver to the UN's Global Compact. We try to deliver on all the ten principles related to human rights, labor standards, environmental awareness and anti-corruption. Through this affiliation, we have committed to doing our best to conduct our business in keeping with these ten principles.  The group's employees have acceptable HSE, pay and working conditions.  There is not any form of forced labor in our activities (incl. making sure that employment contracts are legal and that employees are not required to make any kind of financial deposit).  There is no discrimination against or discriminatory treatment of employees.  The group does not, directly or indirectly contribute to the violation of human rights.  We take the Norwegian authorities' general and specific advice and assessments about investments in, and trade with various countries and regimes into account. In addition, we monitor and evaluate performance through our yearly employee survey. The satisfaction of the employees, in all the countries in which we have offices, is increasingly positive. We conduct yearly performance appraisals with every employee on a one to one basis to ensure that everyone gets the possibility to speak their mind, and that the right measures are set to each and everyone individually. 9 HUMAN RIGHTS It is necessary for Amesto to win the confidence of the world around us and develop a good reputation among our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners, banking and insurance connections and the public authorities. Competitors as well as the company’s own employees must have confidence in the Groups professionalism and integrity at all times. This demands that the Group behave with caution, honesty and objectivity. We focus on value-based organizational philosophy and try to create a strong winning culture. We need not necessarily be the largest, but we want to be the prominent within our fields of work. Our values and norms must saturate everything we are as a company. What we stand for, what and how we do and say things in our daily work. We focus on what is important, and we place great emphasis on ensuring that our employees are with us. Our daily great challenge is that our values are not just going to be nice words, but that we identify them in everyday business. Our guidelines must necessarily be rather general in a multifarious group such as Amesto. Nevertheless, we have tried to be as specific as possible without expecting the guidelines to give specific answers to every conceivable question. In the Nordic countries, the laws are rigid enough that human rights violations not becomes an issue in our segment. Through the audit that is undertaken each year, we make sure that business is conducted in a good and proper way. We have also created a code of conduct towards our partners and suppliers, where we outline the business conduct we expect our suppliers and partners to act on. LABOUR The overall objectives of the HSE work in Amesto Group AS is to work to prevent that our operations do not cause accidents, damage or loss off; • Employees or others' lives and health • The external environment • Knowledge and information We will achieve our objectives through: • Qualified staff who inhabit continuous training • Implementation of internal control • Management and employee involvement at all levels • Through good cooperation in AMU / SAMU (Working and Councils) and safety representatives • Monitoring of absence because of sickness and occupational injury statistics 10 • Preventive measures through sporting activities and a good work environment The work environment is of great importance. We see that in creating a positive work environment, we achieve our goals. We try to manage employees to flourish at work, in their own work environment and in their own work settings. It is Amesto Group AS philosophy that a good, active and creative environment is essential for success and for good results today and in the future. We evaluate the above-mentioned factors and document them prior to entering into any commercial investment. In addition, Amesto, through the Eco lighthouse program, also try to follow up and attempt to ensure that our suppliers and partners meet equivalent standards. These factors are be regularly revised as long as the business relationship lasts, preferably at least once a year. Amesto administers revision of the complete HSE system. The management of the individual company is responsible for following up. We conduct our yearly safety inspection cross all offices, where each employee speak their mind about what they find satisfactory, and what they find unsatisfying. We also try to promote Global Compact and our other corporate responsibilities through our sales channels and through our corporate procurement. 11 We take notice that in more and more sales processes other companies want to get documentation of our CSR profile.  All managers and managing directors undertake HSE training courses to keep track of new laws and legislations that continuously are being implemented.  All employees are asked to give feedback on their view of the workplace, the working condition and the management.  The feedback that is given, is registered and each issue that is addressed by the employee is considered and handled as best can. These employee feedback rounds are conducted yearly.  Amesto is continually thriving to address the issues of diversity when it comes to ethnicity, educational background, age and gender and believe that a good blend of all factors bring us closer to an innovating team. 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption includes bribery and improper influence peddling. Corruption undermines legal business activity, distorts competition, destroys the business's reputation and exposes companies and individuals to risk. Bribery occurs when an attempt is made to influence someone in the execution of his/her duties by giving them an illegal personal benefit. Improper influence peddling occurs when an illegal benefit is given to someone in order to influence the execution of a third-party's duties. This kind of illegal benefit may take many forms; e.g. cash, objects, credit, discounts, travel, accommodations or services. Amesto is against all forms of corruption and will work actively to ensure that this does not occur in the Group's business activities. However, should it occur, we do have measures to implement. The prohibition against bribery and improper influence peddling applies to both the party who gives or offers an illegal benefit and the party who solicits, receives or accepts this kind of benefit. It is sufficient that an inquiry or offer of an illegal benefit is submitted in order for the case to be illegal. It is not a necessary condition that the illegal benefit be received by the person on whom an attempt is made to exert influence. Facilitation payments are payments aimed at expediting or securing the provision of products or services to which the company is legally entitled. Amesto opposes the use of this type of payment, even in cases where it may be legal, and will actively work to prevent such payments. If a deviation from this general rule is under consideration, the matter must be documented in writing, and the management is responsible for informing the Board of Directors about this. Amesto is being audited by Deloitte every year. Deloitte has thereby had a sound run through the corporate governance of Amesto. 13
