Today Top Star Vocational Training Center United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress (COP) From May 2015 to April 2016 2 May 2016 “ Right Man with Right Place” by TTSVTC 1 ISO Document Control Details The following tables are included as part of our ISO accreditation of the following standard;  ISO 9001 : Quality Assurance Description Detail Template name : UN Global Compact Template original creation date: 2015 06 01 Template last updated : 2016 04 01 Template original author: Su Yee Aung Template last update author: Su Yee Aung Template last update reviewer: Kyaw Banyar The issue status is indicated by the Document Version number below when any part of this Document is amended, a record is made in the following Amendment Log; Issue Number Amendment Date Author Name 1 2015 05 01 Su Yee Aung 2 2015 10 05 Su Yee Aung 3 2016 03 15 Su Yee Aung Please note that this COP can be fully revised and re-issued at the discretion of the Management Team. Contents 1. ISO Document Control Details…………………………………………........ 1 2. Statement of continued support for the CEO………………………………. 3 3. Human Right Principles………………………………………………….…… 4 3.1 Commitment………………………………………………………… 4 3.2 Implementation……………………………………………………… 4 3.3 Whistleblowing……………………………………………………… 4. Labor…………………………….……………………………………………… 5 4.1 Commitment………………………………………………………… 5 5 Environmental………………………….…………………………………… 6 5.1 Commitment………………………………………………………… 6 6 Corruption…...…………………………….…………………………………… 6 6.1 Commitment………………………………………………………… 6 2. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE CEO I am pleased to confirm that TTS Vocational Center reaffirms for the third year and fully supports the ten principals of the Global Compact with the respects to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Regarding on this annual communication on progress (COP), we express our actions for continuous improvement by integration of the Global Compact and its ten principel’s into our business strategy, organization culture and day to day operations within our company and the employees. We ensure to engage by cooperating the projects that may advance the broader development goal of the UN Global Compact. TTSVC will make a statement of this commitment to our stakeholders. TTS Vocational Center is recognized for our professional expertise, large networks led approach to our services and proven track record internationally, as part of our service we provide Human Resources and HR solutions that enable our clients to manage and mitigate their business risks, with growing numbers of reputative clients we are closely monitored internally and externally by accredited auditors. As part of our procedures we monitor our company subagents’, supplier’s social performance, ethics, labour issues, human trafficking , forced labour and environmental practices as well as human rights concerns in our quest to ensure a holistic and engaging approach to client services. We are strongly promise to comply with UN Global Compact ten principles to make a safe migration for people in Myanmar to create better job opportunities with happy workplace to build a professional career for better life. Your Sincerely, WAH WAH SEIN Senior Managing Director 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3.1 Commitment We have adopted all aspects of the principles in our business conduct, both with clients who are signatories and with other clients and entities who face similar challenges. 3.2 Implementation TTS’s clients, customers and subagents are expected to adhere to the policies and procedures ,which are the TTS’s systems and policy’s in place to assist and manage the companies approach to Human Rights, throughout their operations with TTS. TTS has linked the UN Global Compact’s principals and ISO 9001:2008 Quality Assurance Manual. New policies and procedures such as Overseas employments contract between employee and foreign employers , migrant regulations , human trafficking regulations are continually monitored and updated by giving the awareness to all stakeholders to comply with those procedures. Additionally equality and dignity at work, corporate and social responsibility, company handbook are also updated in time according to the policy changes. Those all procedures are internally audited monthly with reports back to the Management Team and externally audited annually to recertify for ISO Accreditation . Moreover, TTS also receive to have some international audit from the side of clients or customers as most of overseas clients has regular chain process audit with international audition. All staffs are issued with an employment contract and company handbook with KPI, outlining of company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Regarding on the training requirements purpose, annual appraisals are carried out every year along each one meetings in monthly to access the staff needs. 3.3 Whistleblowing Internal HR person access the personnel to report management team or an external HR consultant without fear of any bias, If any staff felt uncomfortable with internal HR person or if they feel their issue cannot reach the point through their line manager , the staff can contact directly to the external HR consultant . According to the ISO guidance , we recognize our collective accountability as a company for our actions and the consequences of our actions, the need for an effective investigations process for third party complaints. 4 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should abolish child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4.1 Commitment The implementation of the effective management of equality , ethical code and code of conduct. TTSVC throughout its ISO Accreditation has produced minimum expected standards for contractors, suppliers and all staff; this is monitored by the internal auditor and the external HR consultant. While TTSVC prepare for the employment contract for the overseas employment such as Thailand , Malaysia and Japan , TTSVC commits to comply with local and national legislations with regards to employment laws. TTSVC strictly prohibited that condones forced and child labour issue and the clients who want TTS HR resource need to adhere all the legislation and if some of their own legislation does not meet our own standards, we will apply our own ethical standards. We have a very strict process while we recruit new HR resources from villages , all those processes procedures must adapt when engaging sub-agents, representatives, partners and suppliers are recruiting with new employees. TTS recognizes the value of well trained and motivated employees, indeed this is paramount to a success factor and the result quality to satisfied our clients. TTS fully endorse appropriate internal and external training and motivation talks to develop the opportunities for all staff including part time and sub-agents to assist them achieving their full potential. TTS will promote gender equality throughout any recruitment process, there will be no discrimination regarding on the race, age, religion, sex or disability making sure no unconscious bias is evident in the recruitment and decision process. 5 Environmental Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake intiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5.1 Commitment TTS is a small company engaging with international corporation while our organizational footprint has a minimal impact on the environment. TTS recognizes its responsibility to do everything possible to make a positive contribution to the environment, and takes steps whatever it is small . TTS gives the environmental awareness to the employees and motivate with some gifts to engage with green practices , such as to switch off the electricity after used ,to use effectively on water consumption , to understand the recycle process and it’s great consequences, etc. Most of green practices are made aware of our environmental aspirations thourgh the above initiatives training, we actively encourage all staff to pursue . Current performance monitoring is carried out by the company’s internal auditor and reported back to the Management Team monthly. We do a good recycling programme for the office environment where every team contributes, TTS has recently monitor on usage of document papers and trying to re-use on error paper as internal office notebooks. 6 Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6.1 Commitment code of conduct TTSVC Equality and Dignity at Work policy and Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy addresses the issue of bribery and corruption. All staff and sub-agents are made aware of our ethical conduct and business integrity expectations, this is in order to safeguard our reputation and the interests of our clients. We also ensure all our clients are aware throught heir contractual agreements of that commitment, and we encourage to cooperate in its implementation. All employees are reminded of their responsibilities and the company’s expectations regarding on ethical business conduct through the company’s orientation program for new and it’s annual performance appraisal management process.
