COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 21/12/16 To: 20/12/17 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 22 Novmber 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that A&M EDM Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mark Wingfield Managing Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include:  We have invested heavily in ensuring the facilities available to all employees are of the highest quality.  We have a policy on bullying and discrimination in the work place. People who fail to comply are subject to a process which can result in sanctions, including dismissal, being applied.  7KHKHalth and safty of everyone connected to our business is of the highest concern for the company. Our H&S policy is robust but is constantly reviewed. Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include:  We enusre all our workers have the right to work in the UK and are employed under UK law.  We ensure all our employees are paid above the living wage which is set above the national minimum wage.  Employment, remuneration, training and promotion are all based on objective criteria. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include:  We are actively working towards a quality award, ISO 14001 which is presciptive about our environmental responsibilities.  We have a robust Health and Safety policy in place. In addition we ensure all our staff have approriate training. Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include:  We do not enage in business which is unethical. We have a policy shaped by the UN's guiding principles  Suppliers and customers have sight of our policy  Contracts are signed off by a director who has oversight of the process. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include:  We maintain relevant demographic information at every level of the organisation  $VDPDWWHURIJRRGSUDFWLFHZHUHFRUGDEVHQWHHLVPLQGXVWULDODFFLGHQWVDQGLQMXULHV We have an active policy on recycling and measure the quantity of materials recycled
